International Standard Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2015 Serial Number 2015-10302-002 Rail, Hope toward Tomorrow Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2015 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon T +82-42-607-3156 / F +82-42-607-3169 http://www.kr.or.kr This report was printed with soybean oil ink on paper certified by the international environmental NGO, FSC, using elemental chorine free bleaching pulp. About This Report Contents Characteristics of the Report 04 CEO Message Korea Rail Network Authority (hereinafter “KR”) published its first sustainability report 06 2014 Sustainability Highlights in 2008 and has published reports annually since 2010 to transparently share activities and accomplishments of KR’s sustainability management with our stakeholders. This is KR’s seventh sustainability report, and it contains all the company’s activities and SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH results in the areas of economy, environment, and society. 10 KR Overview 12 Vision and Strategy Reporting Principles and Standards 14 Corporate Governance This report is written in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines G4 16 Stakeholder Engagement Core Option. As such, the report focuses on the material aspects identified through the materiality assessment, and the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) provides 18 Materiality Assessment the material aspects in greater detail. Reporting Period and Scope OUR PRIORITY This report is based on data from January 1 to December 31, 2014. The report covers 22 Clean KR sustainable management activities of the KR headquarters and local headquarters 26 Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network and partially includes partner company activities. Depending on the significance of 32 Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads the issues, data from first half of 2015 is also included. The currency unit used in this 38 Mutual Growth with SME Partners report is Korean won. 42 Talent Management Verification of the Report The credibility and accuracy of the data and content of the report were assured by third GENERAL ISSUES party verification. The independent assurance provider confirmed that the report meets 48 Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets the G4 Core Option guidelines. 50 Strengthening Financial Soundness 52 Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction 54 Social Contribution 56 Performance Data APPENDIX 63 GRI G4 Content Index 66 Independent Assurance Statement 68 Recognitions and Affiliations 69 Sustainability Report Organization Website http://www.kr.or.kr Address (300-731) 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City E-mail csr@kr.or.kr Phone 1588-7270 Fax 042-607-3629 Department Management Strategy Department, Management Performance Office, Planning and Financial HQ KR Sustainability Report 2015 CEO Message 04 + 05 KR is committed to fulfilling our basic duty and pursuing continued growth to realize the “continent of unity, continent of creation, continent of peace”. Dear Stakeholders, With your love and support, and the support of all our employees, we are happy to release the seventh Sustainability Report. Since we became a member of the UN Global Compact (UNCG) in 2007, we have continued to focus on socially responsible activities by communicating and cooperating with stakeholders in various areas including expansion of railway networks, management and operation of railway, regulation reform, and mutual growth with SMEs. As a result, KR won the Sustainability Report Award for four consecutive years since 2011. In 2015, we were awarded the Management Innovation Award and the National Quality Management Presidential Award. KR will use our railways as a medium for connection and continue to make railways more convenient for the public and contribute to the development of the economy. As a public institution, we will do our utmost to continue development and fulfill our duty and contribute to the unification of Korea and make Eurasia into a “continent of unity, continent of creation, continent of peace”. We will fulfill our basic duty of expanding the railway network in a timely manner and enable access to all areas of the country and realize “a half-day life zone” objective. In addition to Phase 1 of Gyeongbu High-speed Railway that went into operation and the Honam High-speed Railway that became operational in April 2015, we will construct and complete all the railroad projects we promised to the public in a timely manner, including the KTX Pohang direct line, Daejeon and Daegu city center zone, and Seoul Metropolitan area high-speed railway. We will aim to complete the 4,980km of railway extension by 2020, so that users will be able to conveniently reach anywhere in the country in 90 minutes, thus realizing the “half-day life zone” where return business trips can be achieved in half a day, and daily commuting to the capital becomes possible. We will make improvements to outdated rail facilities to ensure public safety and continue to improve the surrounding environment. We will improve facilities, install screen doors, and continue to modernize railway facilities to prevent accidents and make the facilities safe for the public. At the same time, we will continue to make efforts to upgrade facilities for people who have challenges accessing public transportation, installing soundproof walls along the tracks and public amenities on the train platforms for a more convenient experience. We will establish an organization of integrity, creativity, and fearlessness in the face of challenges, based on autonomous innovation. We will enable our employees to focus on their work by introducing autonomous innovative activity and encouraging them to “increase the quality of work and reduce unnecessary work”. We will instill a culture of integrity into our organization to gain public trust and become an efficient well-oiled organization that is appreciated by the public. We will share and communicate with partners and customers, and create a culture of happiness. We will actively work to rectify unfair practices, reform regulations to help our subcontractors and protect the socially weak, reform any inconveniences for the public, and engage in social contribution activities that are connected with our core business. We will continue to grow with the local community and create a culture of happiness for the public. We ask for your continued support and encouragement for KR as we draw upon our ten years of experience and accomplishments and develop into a leader of sustainable management. Korea Rail Network Authority Thank you. CEO Kang Yeong Il KR Sustainability Report 2015 2014 Sustainability Highlights 06 + 07 Honam High-speed Railway becomes operational, realizing half-day commute zone Family Day for Company Culture Experience In April 1, 2015, with the operation of Honam High-speed Railway, it will only take one hour and 33 minutes to travel from Yongsan, Seoul to Songjeong, Gwangju, realizing a truly half-day As part of the “work-life balance” program, KR invited 40 family members of employees for a commute zone. Honam High-speed Railway is not only an innovation in transportation, but it company culture experience day. The event included Future CEO Experience, KR PR exhibition will also have a significant influence on the economy, industry, and culture. In addition, Honam visit, Daecheon Rail Bike experience, Coal Museum visit, and Ceramics Class in Gongju Ceramic High-speed Railway will act as a catalyst for the development of the Chungcheong and Honam Art Village for a fun family experience. We plan to develop and hold more family friendly regions. programs for our employees, so that they may grow with the organization. Government 3.0 Mutual Growth Forum Best Consultant of Gyeongshim Line Project in China KR held the “Government 3.0 Mutual Growth Forum” with 150 partner companies to discuss The third work zone alliance, of which KR was part, for the construction of Liaoning zone on eradicating corruption in the railroad industry, paying construction worker wages and making the Gyeongshim Line (length: 407km) connecting Beijing and Shenyang, was selected as the payments on time, stopping any unfair practices with contractors and subcontractors, and Best Consultant by a Chinese client in the 2014 2H Quality Safety Evaluation. Starting with creating a clean, anti-corruption railroad construction environment. This event, based on the consulting on the Suning~Chongqing line project in 2005, KR has continued to win contracts in “Government 3.0” vision of transparency, information sharing, communication, and cooperation, thirteen projects and will continue to work on generating revenues in overseas business. was held to instill a new mutual growth culture and to discuss ways to enact ethical management and prevention of corruption. “Shintong Bangtong” Communications Event with New Employees and Management Provision of scholarships to 112 students living in railroad adjacent neighborhoods KR held an event under the theme of “You are the Future of KR” for new employees in KR selected 112 students from disadvantaged households who live in the areas near railroads December 2014. The event, organized to provide a venue for young employees to communicate (hereinafter KR Youth Group) for scholarships. In 2015, we have donated 90 million KRW. With with senior management, featured executives sharing personal experiences and tips on working the cooperation of children’s foundations, KR created an annual Youth Group with 100~120 in a public institution. KR plans to continue creating similar events such as discussions with students. The KR Youth Group Hope Project activities include scholarships, donations of school the CEO and empathy concerts that are focused on communications between employees and uniforms and supplies, sharing activities during public holidays, and cultural events. management. Establishment of cooperative structure with rail, land and property, roads, and water resources organizations Human Rights Management Declaration for Culture of Respecting Human Rights KR, with Korea Expressway Corporation, Korea Water Resources Corporation, Korea Land and At the Human Rights Management Declaration Ceremony, KR resolved to respect people’s Housing Corporation (hereinafter four major owners), entered into a cooperative agreement to rights, fight to protect and advance human rights, and work to instill human rights management ensure transparent and fair practices for contracts. This agreement is focused on strengthening in the entire industry. We plan to work with our partner companies and other institutions to help communications to improve transparency in agreements with contractors, creating a spread human rights management throughout the entire railroad industry. comprehensive selection framework in bidding, holding joint workshops, and cooperating to change unfair contract structures. We expect that this agreement will be a watershed in creating a transparent and fair contract framework. MOU for “Pilot track construction” with train operator in Paraguay Public Sector Award at the Korean Innovation Frontier Award KR entered into an MOU with Paraguayan train operator to construct a 5.5km pilot light rail KR won the Public Sector Award at the “2015 Korean Innovation Frontier Award”. KR was highly transit track. Paraguay railroad institutions have recognized KR’s technological capabilities commended for vitalizing the local economy with the expansion of rail networks and Gyeongbu through KR’s work in the Asuncion transcontinental light rail feasibility studies since 2012. With and Honam high-speed railways, engaging in knowledge innovation, and strengthening this MOU, KR will cooperate with the Paraguayan officials on all tasks relating to the pilot track, cooperative relationships with partner companies through the CEO’s site focused management. including design, construction, test runs, and operations. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 10 KR Overview 12 Vision and Strategy 14 Corporate Governance 16 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Materiality Assessment KR Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview | Vision and Strategy | Corporate Governance | Stakeholder Engagement | Materiality Assessment 10 + 11 KR Overview Introduction of KR KR was established to efficiently construct railroad networks and systematically manage and operate rail facilities, thus Major Businesses and Role KR business is not limited to just railway construction. We are expanding the scope of our business to developing and providing a convenient mode of transportation for the public and contributing to grow economically. In line with the Second maintaining surrounding areas adjacent to railway stations. In addition, we are leading the effort in the development National Rail Network Plan, KR aims to provide safe and convenient railway services for the public. We aim to connect of the railway industry by expanding outside of Korea, participating in overseas railway construction projects, and the railways to make it possible to reach any place in Korea in 90 minutes, and metropolitan areas in 30 minutes. From linking the Inter-Korean Railway and connecting with the Eurasia rail network. KR will continue to focus on pursuing the first opening of the Gyeongbu high-speed Railway in 2004 to the recently completed Honam high-speed Railway, KR transparent, responsible businesses in our role as a trusted public corporation. has continued with various projects including building mainline and metro rail network, and entering into overseas railway projects to lead the transportation industry in the 21st century and contribute to the national economy. Structure of Railway Industry Business Construction of next-generation transportation networks such as high-speed railways, Railway functions conventional railways, metro rails, and tilting and magnetic levitation railways General Status (As of June 30, 2015) construction Objective Construct rail networks to make any place in the country accessible in 90 minutes, and MOLIT metropolitan areas accessible in 30 minutes Name of Organization Korea Rail Network Authority Railway policy-making Date of Establishment January 1, 2004 Business Safety review and maintenance of railway facilities, improvement and modernization Safety Framework Act on the Development of Railway Industry (No. 9772), management functions of railway facilities including screen doors, multi-level crossing, continuous welded rail Legal Basis of Establishment tracks and soundproof walls Korea Rail Network Authority Act (No. 9391) of railroad Chairman & CEO Kang Yeong Il facilities Objective Modernize rail facilities for safety and convenience for users Formation Quasi-Governmental Agency Korea Rail Business Develop station adjacent areas and station complexes, build eco parks and bike paths, Current Status of Budget 10,671,349 Million KRW Korea Railroad Network Authority Railway asset functions maintain and lease government-owned property, utilize unused land by closed lines Government’s Investment Operation & management 50,32.2 Billion KRW Construction & Managepassenger Objective Efficient management of government-owned property and balancing public interest and (2014) ment of Rail Network services profitability Number of Employees 1,330 employees Location 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City Business Identify overseas business opportunities, win contracts for foreign railway projects Overseas functions including construction planning, project management, construction planning supervirailroad sion, participate in Official Development Assistance (ODA) projects, establish public business and private collaborative networks, cultivate talent Status of Organization KR consists of its headquarters (five divisions and one office), one research institute and five regional offices. The regional Objective Strengthen competitiveness in the global railway industry, increase profits offices are located in Seoul, Wonju, Daejeon, Busan, and Suncheon, to efficiently supervise the rail network construction projects and manage facilities located across the country. The China office is successfully carrying out the contracts obtained in China. KR operates under three main organizational principles: building a small yet strong organization, an innovative Development Business Develop and commercialize future rail network technology, localize railway products organization for future value creation, and a competitive organization specializing in technology. Honam High-speed Railway Gyeongbu High-speed Railway of Rail functions Seoul Metropolitan Area Network Pohang Connecting Line Technology Objective Develop and advance future rail network technology Number of Employees Organizational Structure Chairman & CEO Seoul Status of High-speed railroad 1,363 Auditor General Yongsan Suseo (Maximum Gwangmyeong 1,347 No. of Project Speed (km/hr.) Extension (km) Construction ratio (%) employees) Auditor & Inspection Office Dongtan 1,333 Jije Cheonan Gyeongbu high-speed phase 1 (Seoul ~Daegu) 300 281.6 Operational 1,330 Labor Management Joint Committee Osong Secretary’s Office Working Group Task Force Gyeongbu high-speed phase 2 (Daegu ~ Busan) 300 124.2 Operational Public Relations Safety & Quality Gongju Daejeon Gimcheon Gumi Shinpohang Gyeongbu high-speed Daejeon-Daegu city center 300 45.3 96.2% (completed) Vice Chairman Iksan Dongdaegu Samnangjin ~ Masan 200 42.2 Operational Shingyeongju Gyeongbu Jeongeup connecting Masan ~ Jinju 200 53.3 Operational 2012 2013 2014 Management Strategy & Finance Construction Engineering Overseas Business Ulsan line Facility Division Support Office Division Division Division Division Shingyeongju ~ Pohang direct line 200 38.7 Operational Gwangju Songjeong Busan Muan Airport Honam High-speed Railway (Osong ~Gwangju) 300 182.3 Operational Seoul Metropolitan Area connection Jeolla Line (Iksan ~Yeosu) 200 180.3 Operational KR Research Yeongnam Honam Chungcheong Gangwon Mokpo Metropolitan High-speed Railway Institute Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Seoul Metropolitan Area High-speed Railway 300 61.08 85% Headquarters Construction T/F •Achieved 36.5 billion won from overseas business (Supervision of Lanxin Province/ Yunnan, Guizhou and other projects) •Opening of Yongsan-Chuncheon high-speed •Opening of CheonanOnyang Hot Spring -Sinchang Double•Opening of Phase 2 of Gyeongbu High-speed Railway railway on Gyeongchun Line •Awarded prize for outstanding consulting •Establishment of Korea Rail Network •Electrification of the entire Gyeongbu Line track electrified Railways and Janghang Line •Opening of Sinsangbong-Chuncheon Double-track electrified •Opening of Iksan-Yeosu high-speed railway work for Chinese railway project (Stopover Authority •Opening of Rail Traffic Control Center •Opening of Paldang-Guksu Double-Track electrified Railways Railways in Gyeongchun Line on Jeolla Line line project) •Opening of Gyeongbu High-speed •Opening of Uijeongbu-Dongducheon Doubletrack in Jungang Line •Opening of Samrangjin-Masan Double-track electrified •Opening of Yongmum-Seowonju double•Supervision of Beijing-Shenyang high2004 Railway (Phase 1) 2006 electrified Railways in Gyeongwon Line 2008 •Achieved 10 billion won from overseas business 2010 Railways in Gyeongjeon Line 2012 track electric railways on Jungang Line 2014 speed railway in China Beginning of 300km/hr. high-speed railway era Reached 350km/hr. Preparing for 400km/hr. 2005 •Won first contract for supervision of Chinese railway project 2007 •Selected as top supervising organization of Chinese Railways 2009 •track Opening of Seongsan-Munsan Doubleelectrified Railways on Gyeongui 2011 •Opening of Iksan-Yeosu Double-Track electrified Railways in Jeolla Line 2013 •due Opening of Railway for the area submerged to the construction of Yeongju Dam 2015 •Opening of Shingyeongju-Pohang on Donghae Line •Test run of Trans-Korea railway connecting Lines between •Opening of Cheongrangri-Deokso Double-track South and North Korea Line •Opening of Jecheon-Dodam Double-track •Opening of Jecheon-Ssangyong double-track •Opening of Honam High-speed electrified Railways in Jungang Line •Wangsimri-Seonleung on Bundang Line passes through Han •Opening of Guksu-Yongmum Double-track electrified Railways in Jungang Line electric railway on Taebaek Line Railway Phase 1 (Osong~Gwwangju River underwater tunnel electrified Railways on Jungang Line •Opening of Ori-Suwon double-track electric Songjeong) railway electric railway on Bundang Line KR Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview | Vision and Strategy | Corporate Governance | Stakeholder Engagement | Materiality Assessment 12 + 13 Vision and Strategy KR 2020 Sustainability KR established the “KR 2020 Sustainability Management Strategy” in July 2014, reflecting the changing environment KR Core Values Based on the three core values of sustainable management, mutual trust, and professionalism, we are promoting Management Strategy in the global railway industry where the focus is high-speed railroads, and the future value of railroads as an core value focused management strategy to realize our vision and achieve our strategic objectives. We have environmentally friendly and energy efficient mode of transportation. We redefined our mission by incorporating our internalized our core values and incorporated them in our organizational culture and systems for employees to objective, and reflected our nation’s future values in 2020 to establish a new vision of “Realize a Faster, Safer, and understand and encourage continuous results. We have also detailed the core values into action plans for senior More Convenient Rail Network”. We created our five key management objectives to focus on both public interest and Internalizing Core Values management/manager level/working level staff, and reflected them in personnel management and training, thus profitability, including retaining the public interest nature of the railway industry, such as building railway networks ensuring implementation. During a company-wide organizational culture workshop, we developed 12 core value and improving safety, and enhancing operational efficiency by removing waste from construction processes and Recruitment Evaluate acceptance of core implementation programs, and we are carrying out core-value internalizing activities such as empathy concerts and increasing revenues. values young leaders programs. KR 2020 Sustainability Management Strategy was created with the participation of all our employees, as well as inputs from external experts, public idea contest, and other stakeholders. The strategy was shared company-wide Education Develop change manager through a Vision Announcement Ceremony and presentation for employees. Completion of core values Sustainable Promotion Mutual Trust Professionalism • KR 2020 Sustainability Management Strategy System training Management Pursue sustainable growth Respect and care for each Constantly strive to be the Action plans Implement tasks by position and development, fulfilling other and seeking common best in the railway sector social responsibility prosperity based on mutual Objective trust Efficiently construct and operate railway facilities and related businesses Organizational Internalization program to enhance convenience of public transportation and contribute to national economy Cultue Mission Create Happiness for the Public by Connection the World with Rail Vision Faster! Safer! and More Convenient! Realize Rail Network Sustainability The KR’s Sustainability Management system is overseen by the Department of Business Performance of Planning Management System and Finance Division, and each business department is promoting various activities to fulfill its economic, social, and environmental responsibilities. In addition, the Social Services Committee, Future Development Advisory Committee, and other committees are assisting the sustainability efforts. To strengthen social responsibility activities, we newly established a Human Rights Committee in June 2015 to not Total length of Facility Accident ratio Interest only protect and promote the rights of KR employees, but also to expand human rights management to our partner Total profits coverage ratio companies. Goals (2020) railway improvement rate 0.05 % 1.4 trillion won 1.05 times 4,980 km 80 % or more or below or more Key Performance Index (KPI) Sector KPI Unit 2012 2013 2014 Railroad Construction Facilities Management Assets/Overseas Planning/Support Strategy Direction Total Rail Extension km 3,650 3,666 3,670 Construction of conveImprovement of the Maximization of revenues Establishment of a nience-oriented railroad railway facilities for the from KR's own assets and sustainable management Electric Railway Ratio % 69.1 68.9 69.11 network sake of public safety overseas business system Hundred Economy Budget Savings thousand 7,769 10,064 11,885 •Timely construction of •Expansion of railway •Asset development •Financial structure KRW new railway safety facilities diversification normalization Hundred •Raise speed of existing •Improvement of living •Utilization and commer•Strengthen implementaAssets and overseas business profits thousand 994 1,039 1,106 railways environment cialization of state-owned tion of government 3.0 Human Rights Declaration Ceremony KRW •Electrification of existing •Facility modernization property •Strengthen railways’ core railways •Strategic expansion of competencies Environmental Management Index Points 158.1 212.0 226.6 Strategic plans (18 items) •Recovery of construction •Systemization of cost and optimization overseas business •Realize communication, construction safety, maintenance manage•Enhancement of organicoexistence, and social Environment Greenhouse gas reduction ratio % 16.6 24.4 27.5 quality, environmental ment zational and workforce responsibilities management productivity Ratio of facilities using renewable •Promote Clean KR to all % 18.16 24.96 30.60 energy •Efficient construction areas investment National customer satisfaction index Points 93.98 94.10 94.25 Action Plan National integrity index Points 8.22 8.36 7.60 59 Action Plans including establish plan for Trans-Korea Railway, 138 sub-action plans, 168 KPI Society Employee satisfaction index Points 76.4 78.5 80.65 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Rate % 0.082 0.102 0.087 KR Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview | Vision and Strategy | Corporate Governance | Stakeholder Engagement | Materiality Assessment 14 + 15 Corporate Governance Structure of Board of KR maintains a board of directors with experts to enhance governance transparency and ensure efficient management Directors (BOD) through prompt policy decisions. Non-executive directors account for more than half of the board of directors to ensure checks and balances and maintain independence. As of June 2015, there are six executive directors and seven non-executive directors on the BOD. Strengthen Non-Executive When making decisions on major issues, KR actively utilizes the expertise of non-executive directors, who are In order to strengthen the review function of the BOD, we have established non-executive committee meetings, subDirectors’ Participation in experts in finance, budgeting, construction, and auditing. We aim to create an inclusive, participatory environment, thus minimizing management risk by providing dedicated space for the BOD by providing BOD offices, a dedicated committees, and expert committees to efficiently put sustainability management into practice. Management meeting room, and computers on the internal network. We have increased management consulting activities with the participation of non-executive directors such as the Executive Recommendation Committee and budget meetings for Members of the Board of Directors strategic management advice, and we are encouraging non-executive director participation by requiring the chairman Persons with Appointive Powers at KR (As of June 2015) to request a minimum of two opinions on agenda items. Non-executive directors’ Executive Directors Non-executive directors recommendations on management issues Status of non-executive director opinions on management issues CEO & Chairman President Name Current position Name Key Experience Number of cases where 21 Strategy direction Action taken opinions are reflected Kang Yeong-il Chairman& CEO Lee Seong-min Chairman of Jungang-gu Council •Organization established under Future Business Planning Division 18 18 Auditor President Senior research fellow at Budget and ▶Korea-Czech, Korea -Poland Railway Cooperative Council Kim Young-woo Vice Chairman Ju Yeong-jin Settlement of National Assembly Build railroad •Need to emphasize KR’s key function in Meeting (Jun. ‘14) Park In-seo Head of Planning and Finance Division focused on Public the Eurasia railway project •Joint onsite due diligence of Baengma-goji on Gyeongwon Secretary General of the Korea Institute of •C onstruct infrastructure to enhance Line, where the Trans-Korea rail is not linked (Ministry of Land Oh Yeong-chan Convenience Executive director CEO & Chairman Peace convenience to Gongju station and Transport, KR, KORAIL) (Nov. ‘14) Kim Gye-woong Head of Construction Division Im Eung-soon Professor at Ansan University •Establish connected transportation system by operating a Kim Sang-tae Head of Engineering Division Management consultative group with Chungcheongnamdo (Dec. ‘14) Chairman of External Affairs at Dokdo advice Kim Tae-gu (number •Joint inspection (Aug.-Sept. 14, 28 locations) Non-executive Minister of Land, Lee Soo-hyung Head of Facility Division Network Modernize railway •Safety concerns on railway facilities ▶As a result of the inspection by independent experts, there Transport and Mariof times) facilities to ensure director Professor of Economics at Hanseong where there are sinkholes was no location that required in-depth review or that showed time Affairs (MOLIT) Kim Sang-bong public safety any undesirable signs University 2012 2013 2014 Director of Elevator Safety at Korea •Prepare reasoning for issuance of asset •At the 160th BOD meeting, complete discussion on issuance of Kim Ildo Maximize asset / backed short term bond to diversify Elevator Safety Technology Institute asset backed short term bond and prepared detailed plan for overseas business fundraising methods, review issue of issuing bonds in 2015, before the interest rate increases 105 bond prior to interest rate increase 99 •Responses to corruption issues in •Establish task force for recovery of confidence in railway 94 railroad industry Realize sustainable •Review decision to abolish policy to industry and conduct integrity training management system reflect completion of mandatory training •Maintain policy to reflect completion of mandatory training Director Appointment Process KR operates the Executives Recommendation Committee (ERC) to ensure the independent and transparent course in promotion consideration course in promotion consideration, and revise HR policy. appointment of executives. The ERC determines the evaluation criteria of executive candidates and screens Management applications and conducts in-depth interviews of the applicants, received through an open application process. The opinions Committees in 2014 ERC recommends the final candidates to the person with the authority to appointing, who then makes the final (cases) decision and selects the most suitable candidate. In order to maintain objectivity in the process, the number of nonClassification Key objectives executive directors on the ERC has increased from three to seven directors. In addition, the transparency of the 2012 2013 2014 Executive Recommendation Transparent appointment process and operation of executive recommendation committee process has been strengthened by conducting an employee perception evaluation when a private sector director is Committee (ERC) recommended. Financial Risk Management Financial risk assessment for financial soundness 79 Committee * Companywide employee perception evaluation: From twocandidates selected from a pool of 27 private sector executive candidates through a 73 Self-audit activities, Stronger fairness and professionalism, ranking representative meeting and two candidates recommended by the labor union, one person is selected from each group through a vote Audit Advisory Committee Mid to long-term audit strategy, review adequacy of audit results by all employees. The final appointment is made by the BOD. Budget Execution and Advisory Management advisory on key budgeting issues including planning / settlement / execution 43 Committee Planning and Management Number of cases 2014 The Second Construction Planning and Budget Revisions (Proposal) Review Subcommittee Operation of BOD The BOD is the highest decision-making body on key issues and policies. KR holds a monthly regular BOD meeting to where opinions are reflected Construction Progress in Honam high-speed railway, Shingyeongju~Pohang, Wonju~Gangneung railway discuss and provide updates on current issues, thus effectively strengthening the decision-making role. (number of Subcommittee projects, and review quality management status times) In order to encourage active participation, KR holds a regular meeting with the head in attendance, and enables real-time communication through mobile channels. We have also made it obligatory for the board of non-executive 2012 2013 2014 Operation of BOD directors to meet seven days before the BOD meeting to hold preliminary discussions for items on the agenda to strengthen communication and enhance efficiency of the BOD. Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of BOD meetings Number 15 13 14 Voting agenda Cases 34 33 37 Reported agenda Cases 32 22 28 BOD activities (5 Step) Ratio of Preliminary Deliberation % 100 100 100 Revised Agenda for Deliberation Cases 3 15 4 Attendance Rate of Non-executive Directors % 96.2 96.7 89.7 Share of Non-executive Directors’ Statements % 54.1 67.9 73.1 Preliminary review by subPreliminary Prepare agenda Chairperson of Chairperson of Evaluation and Compensation The CEO enters into an incentive agreement with the executive directors in accordance with the Act on the Management committee deliberation of (Department/ BOD BOD BOD meeting of Public Institutions, and incentives are paid depending on job performance. Executive directors are evaluated on (Executive/ non-executive Division) (Review by head) (Finalize agenda) directors’ performance indicators (60%) and CEO’s assessment (40%). The CEO is evaluated by the government Non-executive directors director) management evaluation criteria. The annual salaries of each member are decided on their performance evaluation. The annual compensation for CEO, auditor, and executive directors are provided in the 2014 management disclosures. KR Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview | Vision and Strategy | Corporate Governance | Stakeholder Engagement | Materiality Assessment 16 + 17 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Definition of stakeholders reflecting the characteristics of railway business Issue Resolution Through Case 1. Reformed structure of track usage fee with train operator KR understands that our stakeholders are very important to the activities that we conduct. We categorized the Stakeholder Engagement KR is a quasi-government organization that constructs and operates railroads and related facilities on behalf of the stakeholders into the following groups—in line with the railroad business processes—for effective communication government. 50~60% of construction cost is funded by bond issuance. KR enters into a track access agreement with and collaboration: value influencing customers (National Assembly, government, media), value collaboration the train operator, and railway usage fees are used to fund the maintenance costs and repay construction costs. customers (partners, KORAIL, local community), value producing customers (employees, labor union), and value However, after the Gyeongbu High-speed railway became operational in 2004, the net track usage income, excluding purchasing customers (general public). maintenance fees, only covered 25.8% of total interest costs. The need to adjust the low track usage fee schedule, which was too insufficient to cover the cost of interest, was continuously raised, but due to the lack of communication • Stakeholder communication channels and teams in charge with KORAIL and MOLIT and the fact that no solutions were raised, KR’s debt continued to accumulate over the last ten years. Value cooperation We have since actively communicated with KORAIL on the need to repay the construction debt and make general Value Impact Value production Value purchase (Design/construction/ railroad maintenance costs more cost effective, persuading MOLIT(Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport) and (Business planning) (Project management) (operations) test operation) other relevant institutions. As a result, we were able to unlink the track usage fee and maintenance fee, and obtain Stakeholder higher share of government subsidies, thus establishing a foundation to ensure the safety of railways and achieve Government/ Media Partners/KORAIL/ Employees Labor union General public the cost efficiency of general railroad maintenance costs. In addition, we resolved the unnecessary conflict structure local community between KR and our train operators and reduced administrative burdens. Needs Mutual growth, CollaboraImprovement of Expand railroad network, Open organizational Railway safety, conflict tive structure, Development employee welfare and Eradicate corruption culture management of local community benefits •Recommend improvements in •(’15~’16) KR high-speed railway track usage fee and charging Efforts to operating income 31% → 34% process reduce Achievements •(From 2017) Restructur unit track financial Communication Achieve mutual Realize autonomous •Review at the Railroad Industry risk usage fee scheme to charging on strategy Solidify trust based Achieve Responsible growth with manageand creative organizaEnhance brand value Committee (Sept. 2014) travelled distance relationship through growth by establishing ment focused on tional culture through through conflict communication and collaborative network Social responsibility conversation and resolution and PR cooperation and mutual benefit communication •Strategy session/public •Unfair Subcontract •Young Executives1) •Labor-management dis•Public idea contest Case 2. Collaboration with local government to provide to local community and generate profits hearing Resolution Center •KR Mailbox2) cussion forum/ council •Customer suggestion/ The construction of the underground Yongsan~Gajwa double-track electric project on the Gyeongui Line created Key Communication •National transportation/ •Railway policy mediation •Labor-management Joint management disclosure •Empathy Concert3) channels railroad industry associacouncil Committee for Organizasystem land for railroad facilities near Hongik University and Gongdeok stations. The city planning approvals were obtained, •Knowledge Golden Bell4) tions •Mutual growth Forum tional Development •KR Supporters5) and construction has gone underway since June 2014. KR concluded a mutual growth agreement with the local •Head’s Wish note •Press meetings •Disaster management •Conflict Mediation (Monthly) government, and for the past six years, we have already made pre-agreements on transportation impact plans, size, •Integrity Ombudsman app/Fair management app Council meetings and façade of buildings through community town halls and consultations with city and construction joint committee. The local government’s park project along the Gyeongui Line will create an open space ideal for pedestrians, and during the construction of Hongik University and Gongdeok Stations on the Gyeongui line, the project will create Team in charge Planning and Budget Planning and Budget Performance Management Labor Construction Planning an estimated 500 thousand jobs. Once completed, the hotel operations will create an annual 4,000 jobs in the local Office, Public relations Office, Safety and Quality Management Office Office Office, Public Relations community. Going forward, KR plans to continue to pursue development projects with the railway stations to obtain 1) For people younger than 40 years of age, a communication messenger with management is used. 2) Anonymous suggestion box Gongdeok Station railway construction resources, develop local communities, and provide convenient facilities to the public. 3) Discussion event for internal and external people to share know-how 4) Employee quiz event for integrity and railway related topics 5) KR PR and experience group consisting of members of the general public Case 3. Obtained increased funding for facility improvement projects by strengthening external fundraising activities Communication for stakeholder engagement KR conducts improvement projects for outdated railway facilities to increase durability of facilities and safe operation Every year, KR utilizes stakeholder surveys, external expert advice, a public idea contest, company-wide workshop, and other channels to gather opinions from key of our trains. After the Sewol ferry accident, the public’s interest in safety has heightened significantly. This led to stakeholder groups including government, customers, partners, local community, and employees, and identifies the aims and needs of the public and our employees. increased requests for facility improvements, but there have been difficulties in obtaining funding. Meanwhile, KR’s The results are reflected in KR’s management activities, and appropriate communication channels are established for each group. We will continue to work on building debt burden has increased due to bond issuance. We thus conducted a detailed execution plan and a joint inspection cooperative relationships based on trust and be Open KR. with the MOLIT and other institutions, and worked closely with our partners to obtain funding of 469.4 billion KRW (Dec. 2014), an increase of 54% compared to the previous year. In 2015, we will deploy 309 billion KRW, or 65% Key Needs of our total budget, during the first half, which we expect will have the effect of creating 4,100 jobs and vitalizing •Expand railway netthe local economy from the participation of local small businesses. KR will continue to prioritize the safety of our •Enhance railroad •Open organizational •Expand high-speed competitiveness work, enhance safety culture (increase comrailway services (excustomers and increase investments in safe railway operations so that our customers may have a safe and convenient of railway facilities Hongik University Station •Expand overseas munication between tend railway network) railroad travel experience. business •Reduce debt, all position levels) Value Value Value Value •Enhance connectivity eradicate corruption, Impact •Raise employees cooperation production •Reduce unnecessary purchase with other transportamutual growth, reform integrity workload tion methods regulations KR Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH KR Overview | Vision and Strategy | Corporate Governance | Stakeholder Engagement | Materiality Assessment 18 + 19 Materiality Assessment Materiality KR collated and analyzed issues through multiple sources to hear and collect opinions of stakeholders for the STEP 2 We conducted an online survey to prioritize the sustainable management aspects that we identified. Based on Assessment Process Sustainability Report. We conducted internal and external environmental analysis to identify core issues which need Prioritization the results of the survey, we identified issues which had a large influence on stakeholders’ decision-making. We to be prioritized in sustainable management activities, and we investigated interests of our stakeholders in economic, considered our mission and strategy, sustainability trends, and business impact to decide issues of economic, social, environmental, and social areas through a questionnaire. environment significance and created a materiality test matrix. The results from the questionnaire analyses were used as key data for the materiality test. The materiality test Materiality Assessment Matrix followed the GRI guidelines to identify Core Aspects and boundary decision process, and each Aspect was considered Significance for its business, economic, environment, and social Significance, its importance to stakeholders, and its Influence •Promoting indust rial safety and health •Safety and quality in railway in decision-making for stakeholders. Key issues were identified according to the significance of each Aspect and •Support for partners and SMEs construction projects used as key criteria in selecting the report content. KR has faithfully included the information on key issues in the •Indirect economic effect •Eco-friendly design and construction Sustainability Report to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. •Social contribution •Fix noise and vibration issues •Talent development •Managing CSR activities of partner companies •Increasing railroad safety •Modernization of outdated facilities facilities •Managing •Timely construction of new stakeholder conflicts railroads •Support local community near railway construction sites •Fair trade practices Identifying Material Issues The materiality test process was conducted in three stages: identify management related issues, prioritize, and verify Minimizing damage to ecological system• Strengthen integrity awareness • and ethical management Reducing waste and •Efforts to enhance Efforts in reducing and review validity following the principle of completeness of reporting. resource waste • customer satisfaction environmental pollution • •Upgrading existing Eco-friendly facilities near railway construction sites• Construction of Trans-Korea Railway (TKR) railroads to high-speed Energy usage and greenhouse gases • • and Trans-Continental Railway (TCR) and electrification •Railroad infrastructure for 1 2 3 •Strengthening work-life Identify sustainability balance logistics Prioritization Validation and Review management issues •Manage and develop KR’s assets •Review vision and strategy of the business •Assess and prioritize materiality of the •Confirm selected core aspects provide a balAdvance labor and •Financial stability and • management relations following the G4 Aspect list defined in the issues in pool, based on business Signifianced reflection of economic environmental profitability •Research and develop future rail technology •Respect diversity and prevent discrimination •Establish next-generation traffic network GRI guidelines to create materiality issue cance and Influence on stakeholders social influences •Enter into strategic overseas businesses pool of 34 aspects •Review key issues from prior reports and •Fair performance evaluation and compensation •Conduct stakeholder survey including the gather feedback from stakeholders for incluAspects defined in the GRI G4 guidelines sion in the first step of next report Influence STEP 3 Aspects identified from the materiality test process was structured in the key contents for the 2015 Sustainability Report in consideration of definition, scope, boundary, reporting period, and limitations. We have published our report Validation and Review Core STEP 1 KR identified aspects and related topics of KR’s services and activities, based on assessment and impact on the to provide transparent, logical, and objective information to our stakeholders. Identify Sustainability decision-making of stakeholders Key stakeholder Table of Management Issues Core Aspects Value Value Value Value contents in Key reporting content GRI Aspect Impact cooperation production purchase report Strengthen Integrity and ethical •Eradicate people related and institutional causes Analysis of global management ● ● ● Clean KR of corruption Anti-corruption Media analysis •Efforts for fair contract benchmarking results Fair trade practices •Internalize integrity ethics mindset Timely construction of new railroads •Find new railroad project opportunities We analyzed 2,788 articles from Jan We analyzed important sustainable •Timely completion and operation of projects 2014 to March 2015 to identify internal management issues in the global High speed and electrification of Expand Railroads •Establish network to enhance speed existing railways Focused on Public competitiveness Economic performance, Indirect and external perceptions of KR’s railroad industry ● ● ● Expand railroad safety facilities Convenience and •Electrification project to upgrade existing lines economic effect sustainable management issues Safety •Establish investment plan for renovation projects to ensure public safety Upgrade outdated facilities •Expand railroad safety and convenient facilities Railroad construction safety and •Improve disaster and safety management system quality •Strengthen preventative inspections Customer Health and Safety, Strengthen industry safety and •Enhance level of safety , quality, environment Construct Safe, Occupational health and safety, welfare management ● ● ● High-quality, EcoEnergy, Effluents and waste, •Enhance train operational safety by Strengthen Eco-friendly design and construction friendly railroad Materials, Water, Environmental quality management Internal/external grievance mechanisms Review internal data Improve noise and vibration •Construct eco-friendly railroad and minimize stakeholder survey environmental impact Mutual growth •Establish fair trade guidelines We conducted a survey for employees We collected and analyzed the CEO Support partner companies and Supplier Assessment for Labor ● with SME •Strengthen SME competitiveness SMEs Practices, Anti-competitive Behavior and external stakeholders to identify management policy, 2014 management partners •Spread culture of mutual development important issues that were impacting objectives, and business plan and •Identify key roles and strengthen key competencies •Flexible working system and family friendly Employment, Training and education, KR, or that KR was impacting reviews, to identify KR’s sustainable Talent Talent development ● management Diversity and equal opportunity, management management issues •Socially equitable hiring policy and competency Non-discrimination focused recruitment * Value impact (Business planning): National Assembly, media, government * value cooperation (Design/construction/test operation): Partners, KORAIL, local community * Value production (Project management): Employees, Labor union * Value purchase (operation): General public OUR PRIORITY 22 Clean KR 26 Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network 32 Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads 38 Mutual Growth with SME Partners 42 Talent Management KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 22 + 23 Clean KR Issue Background and The keyword in society today is “integrity”. The significance and impact of integrity extends to Eradication of institutional causes of corruption the growth and survival of an individual, organization, and even nations. As a quasi-government • Abolition of “1 company, 1 work zone” policy and development of collusion checklist Impact In addition to measures to prevent human corruption, KR operates procedures to prevent institutional corruption organization in charge of public railroad network construction, KR has many external counterparts such as improving the contract system, corrupt supply practices, and preventing preferential treatment for retired such as construction companies and railroad-related manufacturers, and when there is an integrity public officers. To improve the contract system, we abolished the “1 company, 1 work zone” policy, which had raised related issue, it impacts not only the companies themselves, but all of society and the safety of the questions about collusion in the bidding process. We also developed a collusion detection checklist to prevent such public. Therefore, KR holds integrity as our most important value and strives to keep our principles happenings, and put in place guidelines for identifying and handling cases of wrongful collusion. Our process was and promise to keep our public safe. selected as the best example in collusion prevention for the construction industry, and is used as a benchmark for institutions under MOLIT. • Prevention of corrupt supply practices Key Activities [Strategy] System of anti-corruption, clean culture KR currently has 20 action items, including standardizing materials and improving procurement procedures, to Establishment of organizational and review systems prevent corrupt supply practices. We strengthened standards for materials to prevent collusion and over competition, KR installed a dedicated anti-corruption organization and review system for the purpose of eradicating corruption. and opened the competition for supply of wood ties and rail fasteners from limited to general competition. We KR created the T/F for Trust Recovery and Future Development in Railroad Industry, consisting of 32 people in five have pursued ways for materials dependent on foreign production to be made domestically to increase the market teams covering the contract system, corruption in supply, preferential treatment for retired public officers, ethics and base and prevent monopoly and oligopoly. For monopolistic products in the domestic market such as high-speed integrity, and external oversight. This task force carries out activities for integrity awareness to prevent deep rooted railroad turnouts, we have expanded the bidding to international markets to prevent monopoly, maintain a market of corruption and wrongdoing. Furthermore, we worked to strengthen a culture of integrity by identifying the causes of competition, and reduce pricing bubbles. We have also standardized 41 types of materials and improved procurement corruption rooted in HR system and institutions and improving them. The Future Development Advisory Committee procedures to ensure uniform quality, fair supply practices, and standardizations of materials procured with works to realize objectivity, expertise, and fairness, and reviewed progress in the improvement of our systems. We specifications. We are preventing price markups by creating a database of prices calculated at the time of order and also held an Integrity Ombudsmen meeting every month to hear recommendations and advice regarding unreasonable calculating production costs. regulations and procedures in the course of KR’s operations (20 cases in 2014) for transparent oversight and assessment of the business. • Prevention of preferential treatment for retired public officers KR carried out three action items to prevent preferential treatment for retired public officers, including making Anti-corruption Organizational and Review Structures changes to the current practice of railroad related associations monopolizing KR work. First, we changed the preoperation railway construction quality inspection from association to KR, and revised the engineering contractor T/F for Trust Recovery and Future development PQ (pre-qualification) criteria. We also reduced the number of acceptable institutions that can certify electrical Organization Future Development in Integrity Ombudsman advisory group engineering qualifications from three associations to the Korea Electric Engineers Association. In order to minimize Railroad Industry causes of corruption in relation to technical assessment, we also revised the framework to achieve fairness in assessing the technical skills of the construction engineering contractor, and any irregularities found in the selection Management Integrity External process by the evaluator are dealt with very strictly by dismissal or point reductions. In addition, we have reduced the Workshop Comprehensive plan for Discussion Ombudsman advisory meeting scope of SOQ/TP (engineering assessment) and will only conduct the SOQ/TP assessment for more difficult services. Review restoring trust in railroad Structure industry Comprehensive Improvement Plan in Implementation of strict verification and fair system Collect opinions and identify areas for improvement Advisory bodyfor Trust Recovery and Future Development Four Areas As part of realizing a Clean KR, we verified the adequacy of action items identified by the Task Force for Trust Recovery and Future Development of Railroad Industry at the External Advisory Meeting (Sept. 30) and Integrity Ombudsman (two occasions/ August 21 and Sept. 19), and created the Comprehensive Improvement Plan (33 action Eradicate causes of items in four areas including preferential treatment for retired officials) for trust recovery and future development of Improve unreasoncorruption such as [Activities 1] Eradicating human resources and institutional causes of corruption able items of the preferential treatment the railroad industry. In addition, we employed Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission Institutional Improvement contract system of retired public Consulting (Aug. 2014~Mar. 2015) to identify and make improvements on issues across KR from an objective Human related causes of corruption officials perspective. We are focused on causes of HR related and institutional corruption to restore trust in us among the • Internalization of integrity mindset public. KR employs diverse measures to eradicate HR related causes for corruption, such as instilling a mindset of integrity into our employees. We conduct various employee ethics training programs to spread our culture of integrity, and all members of senior management participated in the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission (ACRC) Integrity Comprehensive Strengthened reporting and audit practices Improvement Plan Training Institute’s customized training programs on two occasions. At the KR Integrity Event, we introduced We established a linked system between ethical management and audit activities by integrating the Corruption measures to raise the level of integrity and declared promises to our clients. This was a firm show of our commitment Report Center run by the Ethics Division into the Corruption Act Reporting System run by the Audit Department, and to restore the public’s trust in the railroad industry. We also created events such as the Employee Integrity Quiz that any reported cases are strictly investigated without fail. The reporter’s identity is kept confidential, which helped Declaration of Promise to Client combined fun and integrity awareness among our employees. increase the number of cases reported to 14 cases (increased by 13 compared to the previous year). After we Spread organizational Remove structural culture of ethics and conducted special investigations for the case, the involved personnel were punished depending on the severity of the contradictions in • Efforts of external communication and innovative reorganization for integrity integrity, and corrupt supply offense (1 reprimand, 1 warning, and 2 cautions). strengthen integrity For effective internal supervision, we devised an annual audit plan following our mid to long-term audit strategy. We held an Anti-corruption and Integrity Commitment Event with 152 participants from partner companies to obligations practices encourage external partners to join in integrity awareness. KR encouraged corruption prevention by committing We strengthened the audit function, and created an action plan to enhance efficiency and transparency for public with our partners to participate in anti-corruption and integrity activities. In addition, we established public-private institutions. To enhance the expertise of the audit department, we increased advanced training, set up the Audit and cooperative anti-corruption integrity hub with like-minded institutions such as Korean Network on Anti-corruption & Advisory Committee, and carried out action items identified in a survey of the internal quality committee. Through Transparency and Yunkyung SM Forum, so that our activities are not just limited to KR, and we communicate with these efforts, we earned an A ranking (86.1 points) in the audit quality assessment. other institutions to share information and benchmark them when possible. In particular, as a part of our HR related Our audit procedure policy has been revised to define the scope of routine audit and escalation stages, and we corruption prevention efforts, we conducted a two-phase reorganization so that people from the same schools are revised our corruption report guidelines to include retirees as offenders of preferential treatment. In addition, we not concentrated in a direct managerial line, and we conducted innovative promotions by putting administrative have upgraded our audit system by standardizing our audit process, and sharing identified issues on our website and employees in construction and engineering lines to minimize corruption from school relationships. . our audit casebook to prevent recurrences. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 24 + 25 Clean KR [Activities 2] Efforts for fair agreement [Activities 3] Internalizing integrity ethical mindset 100% Electronic Bidding Employee integrity education KR operates an electronic bidding system for 100% of our contracts, and we enhanced counterparty satisfaction KR runs various ethical education programs to spread a culture of integrity. Instead of a one-sided lecture, we were scores by resolving counterparty VOC through ensuring fair contracts. We ran 39 more bidding processes compared able to reach our employees by putting on a play about an ethical dilemma in a public institution, holding a special to the previous year, but all 648 cases were completed electronically. From the satisfaction survey of 149 companies, class on Dasan philosophy, and other interactive activities regularly held over seven sessions to naturally instill a we obtained 94.07 points, an increase of 1.55 points from the previous year, showing that we are getting good mindset of integrity among our employees. We created and announced “KR’s 10 Lessons on Being Clean”, an ethical responses. Along with the bidding process, we have also moved our entire administrative tasks, including request for code of conduct in an easy-to-understand illustration form, so that employees understand how to act with integrity in bids and payment to an electronic format to maintain transparency in our processes. possible scenarios in the workplace. We have also prepared integrity guidelines to eradicate corruption by preparing employee guidelines on conduct and revising the employee code of conduct. Institutional improvements to prevent collusion KR analyzed orders over the past five years, reviewed legal principles, and collected opinions to completely abolish Ethical Management Monitoring and Evaluation 10 Lessons on Being Clean Electronic Procurement System the “One company, one work zone policy”, as we concluded that there was a possibility that the policy restricted KR operates the Shinbaram Ethical Management System for monitoring and evaluating ethical management. The (http://ebid.kr.or.kr/eprocm01/main.jsp) competition between construction companies, which may encourage collusion. We also developed a collusion system measures the levels of integrity from internal and external customers in real-time and details about antidetection checklist, a first for a public institution, to establish a process for timely response to collusion in the wake corruption efforts and the Clean Report Center are disclosed on the website. These are undertaken as part of our of the case of the Honam high-speed railway, which occurred in 2009 but was only uncovered in 2015. The checklist corruption prevention efforts. will act as a preventive tool, rather than a response after the fact. For companies that qualify under the lowest bid system, we analyzed the distribution and pattern of the bidding amount to identify companies that may be guilty of Ethical Management Activities in 2014 collusion, and conduct quantitative and qualitative comparisons with bids of other companies to investigate signs of collusion. In regard to bidding for technical services, we conduct a qualitative assessment of the selection process, Integrity Happy Call Center (all year), Code of conduct Anonymous reporting (April), Integrity Ethical Management Ombudsman (monthly), Anti-corruption/ Ethical Management Committee (Every other month), bidding ratio, and bid price, prior to signing the agreement. We also survey the evaluators and the department that System Integrity workshop (March, July), Anti-corruption policy evaluation by department (December) oversees the technical assessment to detect signs of collusion. These efforts by KR have been selected as the best ACRD Integrity survey, Internal survey on level of integrity (Corruption risk detection for senior case by the Fair Trade Commission and best practice by Ministry of Strategy and Finance (MOSF). Evaluation/Follow-up management has been extended to head of offices), awards for employees contributing to enhancing level of integrity, Shinbaram Integrity system message board Integrity Survey and Anti-corruption Policy Review Results Institutional improvements to prevent collusion Category 2012 2013 2014 Total number of bids (case) Total number of electronic bids (case) Electronic bidding ratio (%) AntiTotal integrity Score 8.22 8.36 7.6 2012 618 100% Evaluation and KR was faced with a serious integrity crisis in 2014, brought to our attention by in-depth investigations by inspection corruption & agencies. In categories relating to integrity awareness, improvements in culture of public office, and corrupt public Civil Rights External integrity Future Direction officials, KR received the first or second rank in 2012, but fell to the fifth rank in 2014, and received the lowest rank Commission 8.31 8.47 7.72 609 Score 2013 100% (ACRC) in integrity and trust. As a result, KR has set the recovery of integrity as our first priority and established a dedicated Integrity Internal integrity Score 8.72 8.28 8.75 anti-corruption organization, the Task Force for Trust Recovery and Future Development of Railroad Industry. We also Survey 2014 648 100% results organized various efforts for corruption eradication, company-wide integrity education, communications with external Policy client 6.89 parties, and ethical management monitoring. KR will use this crisis as an opportunity to firmly establish ethical Establish anticorruption related 3rd 3rd 1st management as part of our corporate culture, and continue to strive to lead a culture of integrity in public institutions rank rank rank infrastructure by ensuring transparent work processes. Institutional improvement for fair play in the bidding process Enhance policy transparency and 2nd 3rd 3rd • Encouraging fair bidding by imposing stricter penalties rank rank rank reliability KR has worked extensively to make institutional improvements for a fair and transparent bidding and contracting Eradicate/ process. First, we are imposing stricter penalties for companies that have employed people that have violated the 3rd 2nd 1st rectify causes of retiree re-employment limit policy. The offending company will be prohibited from bidding for two years. For design/ rank rank rank corruption supervision contracts, companies that have hired KR retirees will be penalized with a three-point reduction on Improve awareness and 1st 3rd 5th project capability evaluation. For electric/communications contracts, we abolished the policy of counting one year ACRC Anticulture of integrity rank rank rank at KR as one year of related experience in the field. In addition, we impose stricter penalties for companies with corruption policy in public office INTERVIEW integrity agreement violations (increase to five point reduction from three points) to emphasize the importance of assessment Prevention results implementing our integrity contract with the participating companies. of corruption 3rd 3rd 1st Seoul National University of Science and Technology, Department of Electrical Information ㅣ Professor Lee Young-il (KR Integrity Ombudsman) and promotion rank rank rank of corruption • Test result forging prevention system reporting KR’s Integrity Ombudsman group consists of independent experts related to different areas in the railroad industry. The Ombudsmen’s task is to provide transparent monitoring and KR installed a system to prevent counterfeit or forged test results so as to reduce faulty materials. Falsified test assessment of KR’s business and to improve unfair systems and procedures. We have made multiple recommendations for improvements, and I can confidently say that KR’s Ombudsmen Improve level of 3rd 3rd 4th integrity rank rank rank reports made it difficult to discern whether low-grade ingredients were used in the supplied materials. This are more practical and effective than those in any other institution. Integrity Ombudsmen advised improvements in the evaluation system for design revisions, so that the cause and reason for revisions are clearly defined, and we encouraged publishing the “Onsite Design Revision White Paper”, which analyzed oft-occurring cases of design revision at railway construction undermined the fairness of the procurement process and increased risk of accidents. Therefore, KR, as the first Occurrence of sites, to minimize such occurrences. We reviewed the policy for compensation for land, and recommended improvement measures to reduce cases of complaints, and supplemented the 2nd 1st 5th institution under MOLIT, introduced anti-counterfeit technology used in currency and inserted holograms and code of ethics, thus contributing to enhancing KR’s integrity and ethical practices, as well as enhancing efficiency. Going forward, the Integrity Ombudsmen will focus on rooting out corruption in rank rank rank structural relationships ingrained in the railroad industry, finding measures for bid and procurement procedures and quality management, and actively carry out our monitoring and advising office anti-copy patterns for our test results and certificates, making it easy to judge their authenticity. In addition, we role to create a transparent, clean organization. Internal integrity have newly instituted a policy to permanently prohibit companies that have provided counterfeit test results from 9.14 9.41 survey results submitting bids, thus ensuring train safety and fair contract procedures. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 26 + 27 Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network Issue Background and Railroads are more advantageous than cars as they are safer, environmentally cleaner, and do not [Activities 2] Timely construction and opening of projects Impact incur the social costs of traffic congestion. As such, countries all over the world are increasing Timely construction of new projects investments into railroads for a greener mode of transportation. For example, EU plans to expand In 2014, we started construction in six stations for a total extension of 279.6km (8.6 times increase compared to the previous its railroad network to 21,180km by 2020, and China has plans to construct a railroad network year) and developed a foundation for railroad expansion and more convenient transportation services to the public. consisting of four vertical and four horizontal lines (over 12,000km in length). In line with the global trend, KR plans to expand the railroad network by 4,980km by 2020 to improve the convenience of New Railroad Project Details our railroads for the public. Total project Extension Construction Project name cost (hundred Expected outcome from project (km) starting date million KRW) Key Activities [Strategy] National railroad network construction plan Dodam ~ Youngcheon 36,474 41.4 ’14. 1 Promote development and more convenient transportation to central inland region KR’s second national railroad network plan includes constructing X-shaped high-speed rail network and squarePromote regional development by establishing shaped network, which was developed after analyzing the nation’s spatial structure and travelling patterns, and metro Ulsan New Port 1,745 9.3 ’14. 7 transporting system for goods at new port Analysis of the nation’s spatial structure trains will be reorganized to be mostly express trains that can reach Seoul in only 30 minutes. Additionally, we will Provide electric train service in the northern and travelling patterns Dongducheon ~ upgrade existing railroads and make them into high-speed trains to enhance our level of service and competitiveness. Yeoncheon 3,386 20.8 ’14. 9 Gyeonggi region, connect with Continental In order to shift the current road-focused transportation system to a railroad-focused system, KR plans to complete Railway Population Trip generation distribution analysis analysis construction of the railway extension by 2020 and complete 85% of electrification. Our plan is to connect the country Improved convenience to users of Janghang Line Improvements to 9,106 32.4 ’14.11 and establish transportation network linked to so that any part of the country can be accessed from any other part within 90 minutes. Our target is to increase Janghang Line Devise national Trip pattern high-speed railroad railroad transportation users from 60% of the population in 2010 to 83%, and increase the transport share ratio from railroad network analysis Yeongdeok ~ Share traffic demand in East coast region and 15.8% in 2010 to 27.3%. Samcheok 33,786 121.8 ’14.11 establish national railroad network Number of new railroad projects (Unit: case) Improved convenience to users of Janghang Line [Activities 1] Efforts to develop new railroad projects Icheon ~ Chungju 19,248 53.9 ’14.12 and establish transportation network linked to 2012 2 high-speed railroad Develop new economically viable projects 2013 2 KR is carrying out efforts to find new economically viable railroad projects by conducting due diligence and optimizing 2014 4 the size of the facilities. New railroad project procedures include pre-planning and investigation, preliminary feasibility study, feasibility study and planning. In 2014, due to our in-depth pre-investigation and prioritizing in Trans-Manchurian Railway Trans-Siberian Railway consideration of the wider national railroad network plan, six projects out of the seven we requested for preliminary Timely opening of Honam High-speed Line TMR TSR feasibility study were accepted (acceptance rate of 85.7%). We also prepared plans for enhancing the project’s In order to ensure the opening of the Honam High-speed Line on time, we newly established the Honam/Gyeongbu Harbin economic efficiency, and we were thus able to identify four new railroad projects (6.2 trillion KRW), up 100% from High-speed Railway Phase 2 Opening Management Group Task Force in April 2014 to manage process control, make the previous year. comprehensive test runs (inspect facilities, test run), and manage issues related to the opening of the line. We held Trans-Chinese Railway Najin Northern Sea Route weekly meetings (from April 2014 to opening) chaired by the CEO to discuss key issues and reviewed progress and TCR Shenyang Establish strategies for Trans-Korea Railroad and Trans-Continental Railroad network processes that were behind schedule. We also devised responses for issues and provided support on site to enhance Dalian Sinuiju Trans-Asian Railway(TAR) Asian Highway Network(A-H) KR is planning the foundation for unification in Korea and economic cooperation with countries in Eurasia with the the safety of the railroad facilities. When the Honam High-speed Railway became operational on April 1, 2015, the Qingdao Incheon Seoul Asian Highway Network (planned) construction of the Trans-Korea Railroad (TKR) and Transcontinental Railroad (TSR, TCR). We established a mid to travel time between Seoul and Gwangju was shortened by 66 minutes, thus realizing the half-day life zone. Yokohama long-term plan for the construction of the TKR and TCR and engaged in activities including due diligence of TKR, Okayama Busan joint studies, and inclusion of the project in our national plans. We have established the Master Plan for Trans-Korea Timely Opening of KTX Airport Line and Yongsan-Munsan Honam High-speed Line Opening ceremony Railroad and Trans-Continental Railroad Connection in Preparation for Unification to define and carry out KR’s role in KR built a connecting facility to the KTX airport line to enable direct connection from major cities including Daejeon, Shanghai the construction of the TKR. Daegu, Busan, and Gwangju to Incheon International Airport and enhance accessibility to the airport. In fact, the total Establish TKR and TCR networks number of users on the line has exceeded 30,000 in five months, which was 147% of expectations. In addition, when the Gyeongui Line (Yongsan-Munsan) became fully operational, the time to transverse the Seoul Metropolitan Area, Mid to long-term plan for TKR and TCR Master Plan for Trans-Korea Railroad (TKR) and Trans-Continental Railroad (TCR) Connection in from northwest Gyeonggido (Musan) to southeast Gyeonggido (Yangpyeong), was reduced by 30 minutes (from 185 network construction Preparation for Unification to 155 minutes). As accessibility to the Seoul Metropolitan Area from regions northwest of Seoul (Munsan, Ilsan) improved, Gyeongui and Central line users have increased compared to the previous year. •Restore unconnected zones on Plan Key details TKR, restore and renovate North Short-term Korea railroad Timely construction of Wonju-Gangneung Project for the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Connect unlinked zones such as Gyeongui Line, Gyeongwon Line, and Donghae Line on (Foundation •Establish South Korean railroad ① Devise plans for TKR connection the TSR line and start electrification • Conflict resolution through cooperative structure period) network to connect TCR → KR suggested preliminary feasibility study to the government (Dec. 2014) Yongsan-Munsan Line Opening ceremony KR is putting a lot of effort into the Wonju-Gangneung project to support the success of Pyeongchang Winter •Develop interoperable technology for TCR Olympics and enhance transportation convenience to the Gangwon region. We have established close cooperative Start preliminary work on North-South Axis (3 lines) and East-West Axis (one line) for TCR ② Devise plans for South Korea → Included in the Third National Railroad Network Plan currently under planning relationships with stakeholders to resolve all conflicts relating to the construction project prior to starting the •Modernize North Korea Railroad Railroad to link with TCR Mid-term ✽ 3 lines of North-South Axis: West Sea Gyeongbu Axis, Center Axis, East Sea Axis project. Residents in Daehwamyeon, Jinbumyeon in Pyeongchang demanded underground construction of the -Increase 150km/h. in speed (Expansion Wonju-Gangneung transmission tower (which would require an increase of 24 hundred million KRW for the project •Improve railroad system for period) Since the standard gauge is different for each country, there is a need for standardization interoperability with TCR ③ Prepare plans for railroad system budget) or to move the project to pass through another region. KR, the Olympic Organizing Committee, KORAIL, → Consulted on study of the Eurasian Railway interoperability and connectivity •Upgrade North Korea Railroad to improvements Gangwon Provincial Government, and Gangneung City Government created a consultative group, and through active technology development research high-speed railroad negotiations, agreed to move the location of the substation (from Jinbumyeon to the entrance to the underlay shaft) Long term Analyze demand for North Korean railroads and Prioritize upgrades and carry out in -230~250km/hr. (Growth •Strengthen railroad system ④ Prepare plans for modernization stages and devised a method to construct the entire zone underground without increases in the project budget. In addition, period) of North Korean railroads → Suggest the government to raise funds through Inter-Korean Cooperation conflicts from moving the folk flea market from the city center, and line change of Wolho-Pyeongdong zone, were interface to connect with Eurasian Railway Fund and International Cooperation Fund smoothly resolved through this consultative group. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 28 + 29 Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network • Change in construction method and reduced construction period [Activities 5] Enhancing investment efficiency by improving design quality When a cultural artifact (Old Palace of Yeguk) was discovered at the construction site in Gangneung, the site Improved design standards for economic design and construction investigation would have delayed completion of the project by ten months. KR decided to change our construction KR has made timely revisions and improvements to design standards, standard plans, and standard specifications process (from Open-Cut BOX to Shield TBM method) and adjusted the vertical alignment (from -12% to -20%). In this for railroad products, quantity and unit cost calculation standards and used the improved standards into the design way we were able to offset the delay without increases in the budget. In order to create synergies within the project, which enhanced the design quality and reduced project cost. We conducted expert reviews, engaged with technology KR agreed with the Gangneung City Government that KR will focus on underground construction while Gangneung consultants, and held a review committee meeting to revise and amend 70 cases of design standards. City will take responsibility for above ground work, including removing the Yeongdong Line. This cooperation led to reduced construction period. In addition, we developed a mobile-based process control smart app which enables realEngineering/ Construction/ Signal/ time monitoring of the construction progress, and reinforced our project management system. Electricity Area Railroad track Equipment Communications [Activities 3] Construction of railroad network to strengthen competitiveness in speed Lateral load standard for 21 cases of installation 24 improvements including 18 improvements including Speeding up the trunk lines Key revisions derailment protection wall standards for Air condiimproved aluminum relocating video monitorand six other cases tioning /air circulation/ grounding methods in ing facilities at stations KR will invest 5% of the project cost to speeding up our existing trunk lines, which are around 100km/hr. per hour, to firefighting grounding construction with weak visibility 200km/hr., up to the speed of the Shinkansen in Japan. Strengthened safety in Strengthened safety Cost reduction and better Can monitor high-speed Expected The Gyeongchun Line (Yongsan~Chuncheon) and three other projects are already fully operational (2012). In 2014, we outcome case train goes off tracks measures construction of earth (control tower), and completed the Shingyeongju~Pohang project on the Donghae Line and reduced the travel time from Seoul to Pohang by general (closest station) 83 minutes (KTX + bus 3 hours 35 minutes → 2 hours 12 minutes). The Shingyeongju~Pohang project was undertaken concurrently with the construction of the Donghae Line, which saved 98 hundred million KRW in the project budget (more In addition, we have revised 28 items of safety related designs for accident prevention. Under civil engineering and construction, there were 12 items including air circulator cover installing standards. Under signaling, there were 16 money was saved when the line was upgraded to high-speed than when its construction was first completed). The items including adding all-in stop function of signal devices in stations. We are working diligently to create a safe economic effect that this railroad infrastructure project brought to Pohang area amounts to 1.175 trillion KRW. railroad network. Three other projects including the Cheonan~Gunsanon Janghang Line are currently underway. The high-speed Pohang KTX Opening Ceremony Yongsan~Seowonju project to support the Pyeongchang Olympics obtained a total 1,539 hundred million KRW in Optimization of project cost and enhance quality of design funding (in Dec. 2014), and projects include speed enhancements as well as improvements in signaling facilities to KR continues to enhance design quality and optimize size of facilities with low project costs. We reduced the expand the line capacity. project cost by 2,742 hundred million KRW by optimizing the facility size of five projects including Yeongcheon ~ Shhingyeongju, and reduced the project cost by 3,937 hundred million for 24 projects by improving construction methods for high-speed and general railroads. In addition, we have published and shared “Onsite Design Revision White Paper” (Nov. 2014), which analyzes cases of design revision at railway construction sites by construction type and causes in the last five years, and led providing feedback on examples of cost reduction. [Activities 4] Electrification projects to upgrade existing lines Eco-friendly, highly efficient electrification for existing lines Cost reduction and value enhancement through Value Engineering KR reduced the project cost by 4,695 hundred million KRW through design VE and review to identify areas of KR completed the electrification of three projects including the connecting facilities for the Airport Line, which improvement, including enhancing constructability. We created a VE team of 718 academics, researchers, technicians, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and operating costs. Eight projects including the Seoul Metropolitan High-speed and other relevant experts, and followed the process of 「site research → analyze function → generate ideas → Line are currently underway, and electrification designs are being made for twelve additional projects including the evaluate ideas → prepare proposal → reflect in design」. With the Pohang~Samcheok Railroad Construction Design VE, Wonju~Gangneung, Hongseong~Songsan zone on the Seohae Line. Through our efforts to shift from diesel to the KR won its fourth consecutive MOLIT Minister Award in the National VE contest out of 19 participating teams. eco-friendly and highly efficient railway electrification system, we are targeting to achieve 85% of all our lines to be electric, which will make us the third most electric railway system in the world. Project costs 2014 planned 2014 actual Category Compared to plan (hundred million KRW) reductions (ratio) reductions (ratio) Design VE(76 68,600 2,750 (4.0%) 2,801 (4.1%) 102% cases) Review 72,181 1,800 (2.5%) 1,894 (2.6%) 105% (106 cases) Total 140,781 4,550 (3.2%) 4,695 (3.3%) 103% INTERVIEW Yeongcheon~Shingyeongju Project Improvement Case Study Korea Transport Institute, Railroad Policy/ Technology ㅣ Jae Hoon Lee Department Head ) Geumno Tunnellast Geumno11Tunnel laststop stop Geumno 1 Tunnel last stop box t C ( .0x 1 nt Yeongju starting point box ) Yeongju starting point Poin umno 2 ing poi 0 (Current):3km800.00 t C ( .0x 1 nt KR has the goal to establish a national railroad network to enable access to major cities and locations all over the country within 90 minutes travel. By providing railroads to previously 220 Soil (Current):3km920.00 G e t star m960.0 L = 120m Poin umno 2 ing poi 0 220 t ngju k Soil G e star m960.0 unconnected areas, KR is helping to increase regional interaction and leading social integration and economic development. In order to continue to strengthen our competitiveness in the Weathered rock Yeo rrent):3 ngju k Yeo rrent):3 Weathered rock railroad industry, we need to obtain the feasibility of railroad projects and R&D to enhance the safety and convenience of our trains. It is imperative that we conduct in-depth research into 200 Soft rock (Cu NATM Tunnel 200 Soft rock (Cu the issues that the current railroad projects are facing and devise solutions to those issues, as well as secure feasibility of electrification projects. There is a need to develop measures NATM Tunnel open-cut Hard rock to prevent railroad related deaths and to ensure safety for waiting passengers. Information systems for immediate response to emergencies or accidents must be developed and made 180 180 Hard rock Yeongcheon Singyeongju available. For KR to expand its reach to global markets, all stakeholders—government, public institutions, private companies—need to cooperate and first collect information from different direction direction Yeongcheon direction Singyeongju direction 160 160 channels. Furthermore, we need to establish a framework to evaluate and verify the data and in the mid to long-term, and develop a system to collect and manage such information. 3km 760 800 900 3km 760 800 900 (Original plan) Designed as tunnel, 36 hundred million KRW (Improved plan) low depth open-cut method, 14 hundred million KRW KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 30 + 31 Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network [Activities 6] Establishment of investment plan for improvement projects to ensure public [Activities 7] Expansion of railroad safety and convenient facilities safety Timely improvements to outdated safety facilities Decided direction for investment in improvement projects Following the 2014 Project Plan, KR prioritized projects in consideration of the nature of railroad project areas such With 27% of bridges and tunnels over 50 years old and 55% of electrical facilities which have exceeded its life, the as structure, track, and electrical facilities, and made timely improvements to outdated and safety facilities including number of outdated railroad facilities continues to increase. However in 2013, the ratio of investment in improvement installing 323 protective walls, 844 emergency power systems, and 10 landslide prevention facilities. was at a low 18.5%. KR garnered support for increasing investments in improvement projects to ensure public safety, and prioritized projects for maximum investment efficiency. We have decided to increase improvements in outdated Improvements Improvements and performance facilities such as electrical facilities that are nearing the end of their life. Improvements in •Usage of heavier rails (50kg→60kg) for 12.8km, 15.6km of continuous welded rail, 66 thousand Before the reformation of passage box outdated track concrete sleepers, 1.2km concrete trackbed, 31 turnouts Calculated volume of facilities needing improvements through total inspection survey of facilities facilities and structure •14 bridge performance improvements, 18 tunnels, 22 bridges, 3 platforms, 323 protective walls and prioritized investment •17 railway substations, 34 overhead lines, 72 power distribution lines, 844 emergency power systems Improvements in •Point switch at 510 locations, interlocking devices at 7 locations, track circuit at 587 locations, axle We conducted a total inspection survey by inspecting status of railroad facilities, life, and breakdowns, and outdated electrical detecting device at 6 locations calculated that there are improvements needed at 25,149 locations. We put safe train operation as the first priority facilities •Communications networks at 36 locations, wireless devices at 9 locations, communications devices at and allocated investment into four stages depending on the level of risk of the facilities. We decided on the priority of 31 locations projects by a selection and focus strategy, thus enhancing investment efficiency. Expand disaster •Retaining wall at 14 locations, landslide prevention facilities at 10 locations, wastewater facility prevention facilities installations at 6 locations, reinforced roadbed at 2 locations Established investment priority Expand safety facilities at railway crossing to reduce crosswalk accidents After the reformation of passage box We turned existing level crosswalks into multi-level crosswalks to prevent accidents at the source (two stations at First Second Third Gangwon and Yongseong), expanded crosswalk safety facilities (36 crosswalk protection facilities and 55 signal priority priority priority analyzers) for areas that were difficult to turn into multi-level crossings, and allotted 700 people at 189 crossings 57% 36% 7% where visible distance is insufficient. Due to these efforts, accidents at crosswalks decreased by 36%, from 11 cases last year to seven this year. Enhance convenience of railroad facilities by continuous improvement of station facilities and Renovate key facilities Strengthen earthquake Improve living environments noise issues impacting safe operation resistant function, renovate near railroad and renovate KR continues to make improvements to station facilities to make it more convenient for disabled, old, weak, and other of trains safety facilities including community facilities for user crosswalks convenience people with difficulties using public transportation. We constructed Braille block and bathrooms for disabled people in the stations, installed screen doors for user convenience and safety. We also constructed noise proof walls near railroads that exceeded the noise standards from trains, and expanded the passageway for the residents to pass Established mid-term investment plan for improvements and created foundation for implementation through more comfortably. In order to make timely improvements to outdated railroad facilities, KR prioritized projects and created a mid-term Improvement items Improvements and performance Five Year (2015~2019) Investment Plan. This plan will fund 2.29919 trillion KRW of improvement projects, 2.5 times Facility improvements the size of historical projects. The plan is to make improvements at 20,959 locations out of 25,149 facilities requiring •Construct Braille block, staircase handrail, disabled bathrooms, restroom for pregnant women, for people who have and other facilities in stations (improvements in 28 stations including Wondang Station) upgrades (83.3%), by 2020. difficulty accessing public •Install three lifts (E/V, E/S) in Bumgye Station on Gwacheon Line Moreover, KR will strengthen PR activities to the public with opinions and materials to achieve a consensus on transportation Before the installment of escalators the need for improvement projects. We increased external fund raising facilities and raised 4,694 hundred million •Install 9 roofs on platforms at nine stations including Dobong Station on Gyeongwon Line KRW for improvement projects, a 54% increase compared to previous years, and established a mid-term human •Replace three asbestos buildings including buildings in Guro Station on Gyeongbu Line Improvement of amenities on •Installed screen doors at eight stations including Taepyeong Station on Bundang Line (plan to resources plan to carry out the increased load of improvement projects. In addition, we are looking into introducing platforms expand to 116 installments from 2015~2019) private investment into improvement projects to lessen the burden on the government budget. In pursuing railroad •Install trial MAGIBANG (waiting room) at Hongseong and Yeasan stations on Janghang Line improvement projects, we focus first and foremost on public safety. (plan to expand to 114 installments from 2015~2017) •Reduce noise level with soundproof wall near railroad (27 installments including Osan~Jineui Installation of soundproof zone on Gyeongbu Line) walls •Improve soundproof walls to harmonize with the surroundings (Oct. 2014) Improvement projects (improvement) achromatic color → vines, colors Expansion of tunnels under •Expand two tunnels under elevated railroad (Sangdong-gu Bridge in Milyang City, Already implemented ('09~'14) (A) Mid-term investment plan (B) Expansion ratio (B/A) After the installment of escalators railroads Hanggeoricheon Bridge in Okcheon-gun) for improved pass through for local residents Improve train tracks, disaster 7,082 Hundred million 1 prevention facilities 17,185 Hundred million 243% Improve industrial safety facilities, crosswalk safety 3,400 Hundred million 2 facilities, platform and firefighting safety facilities 10,660 Hundred million 314% Evaluation and Future KR started construction on six new projects totaling 279.6km in 2014, and the KTX airport railroad connecting the facility and Yongsan~Munsan zone on the Gyeongui Line became fully operational. On April 2015, after six years Direction and spending 8.3529 hundred million KRW, the Honam High-speed Railroad became operational. The ripple effect Improve station facilities, Improve 1,190 Hundred million 3 174% of the Honam High-speed Railroad amounts to 24.9 trillion KRW, and the railroad reduced travel time from Seoul to environmental facilities, etc. 2,074 Hundred million Gwangju by 66 minutes to 93 minutes. This realized the half-day life zone, increased train travel convenience, and contributed to the balanced development of the nation. We are also continuing to make timely improvements to 11,672 Hundred million Total 256% existing, outdated facilities and actively increasing safety related public facilities so that our users may enjoy a safe 29,919 Hundred million and convenient railroad experience. KR is committed to creating a faster, more convenient, and safer rail network and take a center role in the public’s happiness. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 32 + 33 Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads Issue Background and Since the Sewol ferry accident, Techno Valley vent collapse, the sinkhole incident, and other Continuous institutional improvement to prevent accidents at the source accidents that impacted public safety, the safety paradigm is shifting to focus on accident KR continues to pursue institutional improvement by analyzing the three major issues relating to accidents – cost, Impact personnel, and system to prevent onsite accidents. Taking the Daegu Station train accident in August 2013 as a prevention. In addition, with the public’s expectations on railroad transportation service becoming lesson, we prepared standards for train safety facilities and defined the safety analysis standards of signaling higher, we need to maintain preventive safety management and strict quality control, especially in facilities, which is directly related to train operation, from the design stage (Dec. 2014). We analyzed the risks consideration of faster train speeds and shortened construction periods for the timely completion such as possibility of conductor error, braking distance by speeds, and obligated response measures for each risk. of projects. We also revised our internal regulations on railroad construction safety and guidelines on handling failures for completed facilities, focusing on safety. After the Sewol Ferry accident, we have developed a disaster alert app to ensure efficient response to accidents in the initial stages (golden time), In addition, we have established a one-stop reporting structure to ensure efficient immediate reporting and maximized the practicality of emergency response. Key Activities [Strategy] No accident, High Quality, Eco-friendly KR strives to minimize environmental impact from railroad construction activities such as noise, vibration, and Built “KR Disaster Alert App” (July 2014) Institutional improvements environmental conflicts and provide railroad services focused on public convenience. We conduct systematic management from planning, building, operating, and renewal to enhance the safety, environment, and quality Category Problem Improvements of our railroads. We have revised our safety standards to strengthen the functions of the control tower which includes the preventive inspection and recovery system, and strengthened our organization and installed a Safety •Improved system to reflect construction cost minus Lack of funds •Practice to bid low by cutting safety management safety management costs in bidding Project Department (Dedicated team) in our regional locations. In addition, as we are seeing increases in railroad (safety costs to win orders •Pohang~Samcheok roadbed construction and 18 management •Lack of safety management cost leads to lack of construction processes, we adopted a safety management system to reduce human error, prevent re-occurrence of cost) safety equipment other projects, increased cost of 76 hundred million similar accidents, and ensure a safe construction environment. We are also focused on building high quality railroads KRW by improving our quality management system in design and construction to realize zero train operational failures. •Supervisor with safety expert qualifications onsite is mandatory (adopted in 9 projects including •Inspection is focused on quality of construction, • Strategic objective Lack of work force Wonju~Gangneung) but if there is a lack of safety experts on site, then (safety supervisor) •Reside onsite:Construction Safety Engineer; Reside accident prevention is insufficient part-time:Professional Engineer Construction Safety Strategy direction Build Railroad Network Focused on Public Convenience • Average accident rate at construction site Lack of system •Falling is the most frequently occurring accident •Plan to install system scaffolding which is effective of the top 1,000 domestic construction (falling accident in domestic construction industry in preventing falling (steel pipe → system (system account for 33.1%, deaths from falling account for scaffolding) companies is 0.46% scaffolding) Performance Objectives 51%) ✽ Expect 35% decrease in falling accidents Action items Quantitative indicators • QMS ratings Achieve best quality through continuous No accident safety construction innovation and differentiated core performance Railway construction site accident rate [Activities 2] Strengthened preventive inspections •Strengthen preventive measures for improvement of •Accident rate at construction site (Unit: %) • Failure rate of completed facilities: Preventive safety management activities safety management systems Operational failures occurring within two years 0.102 In order to create a no-accident railway construction site, KR analyzed the type, age, length of period, weather, and of becoming operational due to construction High-quality railroad 0.087 other factors in the last 11 years (2004~2014) and established reoccurrence prevention measures and customized construction •Upgrade integrated management of safety, •Quality management system rating errors 0.082 environment, and quality failure rate of completed facilities review plans. We then identified 1,717 cases of dangerous factors such as cracks in the infrastructure at 1,684 •Environmental Management Indicator: construction sites and rectified the issues. We are conducting trend analysis of site inspection results and sharing •Strengthen quality of eco-friendly design and construction Total of 11 environment related indicators, results, and at the same time, strengthening feedback activity by following up. We are also focusing on managing Eco-friendly railroad such as reusing/recycling construction waste, weak locations and identifying and removing construction risk factors. These efforts have resulted in an accident rate construction •Eco-friendly construction ofrailroad and minimize •Environmental Management installing soundproof facilities, reducing GHG, of 0.087%, down by over 15% compared to the previous year. environmental impact Indicator using LED lights 2012 2013 2014 Prevention of human error and promotion of safety culture KR conducts customized preventive activities for construction workers to create a safe working environment and to reduce accidents on site. For regular workers on site, we target completion of one safety training session a year, and require refresher training at least once a year so that the workers will be more safety aware and internalize Disaster/Safety Management [Activities 1] Improvement of disaster and safety management system safety awareness. Of all workers in accidents in 2013, 43% were new workers. Therefore, since June 2014, we Comprehensive Plan hold mandatory safety training sessions for new workers before starting work on site, and workers who have not Strengthened disaster management system completed training are prohibited from working on high altitude and tunnel face projects. Through these efforts, the Category Key activities KR identified twenty-two action items for four major themes and created a disaster and safety management plan 2014 construction site safety training has achieved 120% of the planned training goal, and systematic safety activity Establish efficient reporting system and held a total of 200 emergency drills across the organization. In addition, to ensure efficient and standardized such as focused management of weak processes, inspection team resulted in reducing the rates of death in industrial Efficient reporting for concise reporting and dispatch in responses to real life emergencies, we strengthened organizational system in the disaster situation room. In May accidents from 2.41% the previous year to 1.53% this year, down 36%. Going forward, to prevent occurrence of the shortest period of time similar accidents, we plan to hold site focused special training to subcontractors and strengthen supervision in all 2014, we published and distributed the disaster and accident initial response handbook manual detailing scenarios Improve emergency response system Disaster to strengthen initial response of and appropriate responses to ensure effective responses in the initial stage immediately after an accident (golden local headquarters to enhance safety awareness. response disasters and accidents and to unify time). In addition, we increased safety training designed for construction sites and developed a mobile app for party in command Travelling Safety Training for Foreign Workers! (May 2015) Strengthen safety management at disaster management, and we continue to work to enhance safety awareness. Disaster construction sites for preventive * Disaster Response Safe Korea: Joint government simulations under the same conditions as an actual disaster site (Oct. 2014) KR conducted the Travelling Safety Training for Foreign Workers program for foreign workers in Zones 1 and 2 at the safety training room at Sosa~Wonsi Double Electrification Zone 2 site. This response activity against serious accidents * Joint drills with related institutions: Emergency drills held jointly with KORAIL and fire department (23 times) training was customized for foreign workers. We gave an explanation of accident risk factors in the current projects and provided examples of accidents that have happened to foreign workers. Conduct training for employees and We had the support of four translators from Human Resources Development Service of Korea and focused on providing an effective training session. A total of 122 workers from Vietnam (50 Strengthen * Onsite drills: Define individual roles in case of accidents, heavy rain, or other disasters (167 sites) partners to instill safety awareness capability people), Myanmar (29 people), Cambodia 16 (people), and Thailand (28 people) participated in this training. and develop expert capabilities KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 34 + 35 Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads [Activities 3] Enhancing safety, quality, environmental management [Activities 4] Enhancing train operational safety with strengthened quality management Strengthening Quality, Environmental, and Workplace Safety Management (QESM) Efforts to enhance quality of construction projects with institutional improvements by stage KR implements Quality, Environmental, and Workplace Safety Management (QESM) in all the stages of railroad KR is strengthening the quality management processes of railroad construction through institutional improvements in facility construction and operation to provide safe, convenient, and high quality railroad transportation services to all stages, design, materials, and construction. the public. We integrated the safety and quality functions which were separate functions in the headquarters into one Safety and Quality Division and newly established a dedicated safety department in the local headquarters to • (System) Eliminating sources of fake test results with system improvements of material management strengthen construction site focus. In addition, we conduct QESPI of 154 construction sites on an annual basis, and expanded our existing quality evaluation to quantitative evaluation of QESM. To that end, we conducted a feedback KR as the first test certification institution under MOLIT, introduced test result certificates with “anti-counterfeit activity for the participating companies’ construction evaluation scores, such as awards for outstanding sites currency technology” used by Korea Minting, Security Printing & ID Card Operating Corporation (KOMSCO). Of and special management for underperforming sites. In addition, through annual ISO/OHSAS internal and external 840 test results issued by public certification corporations, we asked the 22 testing institutions for assistance in assessment, we improved on the identified 76 items for improvement in the design, construction, and operation identifying fakes, and found one case of a fake test certificate including Korea Railroad Research Institute. Therefore, stages, thus we have obtained and maintained our ISO9001 (quality), ISO14001 (environment), OHSAS18001 (safety) by introducing the anti-counterfeit technology for paper certificates, we can prevent attempts to fake results, even certifications, and we continue to work on improving our quality standards. during the period certificates are registered into the construction support information system (CALSPIA). KR will Quality Management System (QMS) ratings continue to make inspections on materials for railroad construction to ensure the supply of high quality materials. Category Key activities • (Design) Establishment of position as Rule-maker by enhancing design standards Evaluate construction accidents, operational failures, penalties for weak construction, and other key weak items by each regional KR identified and made improvements to unreasonable items such as conventional designs to upgrade railroad design Establish management system with office standards. (69 items in 2013, 98 items in 2014) signal lights (New) Results will be posted on internal network with lights (red, yellow, blue) to share with all employees Establish Shinmungo for reporting and collection of opinions from general public and all construction participants Area Improvements Expected outcome Safety and quality Shinmungo (New) Improved regular safety inspection and other diagnosis Institution VOC (strengthen review of client, implement experience management system) •Strengthen safety with newly Hold two-way safety forum for communications and cooperation under the theme of 「The answer is at the site」 •Clarify Lateral load standard for bridge derailment protection wall established standards Roadbed/railroad Local headquarters (8.19) → site manager/contractor (8.24) → partner executive forum (10.28) •Unify culvert and bridge load factor •Encourage standardization of design Lively Safety Forum (New) product Identify the best safety examples and institutional improvements such as installation of toxic gas detectors in the tunnel, Safety Watch-Man system (safety supervisor on site at all times at high-risk locations) (64 cases) •Minimize installation of signs by using roof columns Construction/ •Create more convenience for users KR, KORAIL, and Korea Transportation Safety Authority signed an agreement and increase cooperation on safety issues and to spread •Suggest clear ventilated air volume, and newly establish equipment •Clarify design standards Safety First Cooperation agreement a “safety first” culture, which is a part of the government policy standards for renewable energy facilities by head of institutions (New) Promote safety culture, strengthen safety management in construction sites near operating lines, enhance safety features of •Establish calculation standards for span formulation of •Encourage standardization of product railroad facilities underwater channel inside the tunnel design Train electricity Derive improvement measures to resolve site issues and shared safety management technology with public institution clients •Prepare minimum power requirement (17.5kv, 2 minutes) for train •Obtain safety and enhance level of Equipment sticker and accident line as emergency power quality (12 institutions) prevention poster Obtained appropriate construction time, increased safety management costs, increased safety training for new workers Derive improvement measures to resolve site issues and shared safety management technology with Public institution clients Public institution construction safety consultative group (12 institutions) Samyul Tunnel Design VE Example • (Construction) VE activities for high-quality, low-cost construction method Obtain appropriate construction time, increased safety management costs, increased safety training for new workers VE (Value Engineering) refers to the effort to maximize the value with the least cost by using an examination of function of the project, at the 60% stage of design. KR identified 77 improvement measures including using the Soft rock Establishment of railroad safety management system and safety quality assurance system semi-cut and cover method on the middle open-cut for the Samyul tunnel on Pohang~Samcheok line. For the Samyul KR established the railroad safety management system (SMS) to provide safe and efficient railroad facilities to Tunnel, we were using the temporary facility construction method at the shallow depth zone, but changed to the the public through clear and systematic preventive safety management activities. The SMS, which received final semi-cut and cover method. This minimized faults in the structure and made it easier to maintain, which reduced approval from MOLIT in February 2015, consists of railroad safety management system, train operation program, construction cost by 2.4 hundred million KRW. This achievement was acknowledged by MOLIT, and we won the Top and maintenance program. In order to remove all risk factors at construction sites, we documented and managed (Original) temporary facility method at shallow Excellence Award at the National Design VE Competition. guidelines by topic such as railroad facility safety inspection and safe operation of trains, thus making risk analysisdepth zone based safety verification obligatory. In addition, we eradicated the contradictory structure of the supply process for • (Materials) Strengthening management of Railroad materials standards (KRSA) and standardizing key stricter quality management and strengthened the supply process for materials with special specifications. We have identified 20 task items including a review of materials to be supplied internally, making institutional improvements Soft rock materials for accident prevention and focusing on managing weak construction processes. These extensive innovation activities KR newly designated KR Standard (KRSA) for 44 items used in construction to ensure the quality and transparency helped us earn 900 points (Level 7) at the Quality Management System Assessment by KSA (Sept. 2014), the highest of materials received. The same materials previously had different prices, which made it difficult to discern the score for a public institution. In addition, KR was awarded the Presidential Award for Environment Safety Quality at quality of the materials and transparency of the procurement process. With the new KRSA standards, we will be Won Presidential Award at the National Quality the National Quality Management Convention, and recognized for our railroad quality internally as well as externally. (Improvement) changed to semi-cut and cover able to maintain the same quality for our products. The R-Bar was previously dominated by Switzerland, France, and Management Convention KR is committed to continue to provide safe, convenient high-quality railroads to the public. method Spain in the Korean market, but with the new standards designated by KR in 2014, it is possible to produce them Quality Management System (QMS) Ratings Railway Safety Management System with domestic technology. Going forward, KR will continue to improve standards for railroad materials in line with global technology advancements and international standards to enhance the quality of our materials and ensure transparency of the supply process. Level7 Safety Train 900points Management Maintenance operation Level6+ System system system INTERVIEW Level5+ 852points (SMS) 772points Korea Rail Network Authority, Safety & Quality Office ㅣ Hyun Il Shin Deputy General Manager Emergency Safety Safety policy Risk Operational Maintenance KR strengthened our safety management system to prevent major accidents such as the Sewol Ferry and ventilator falling in Pangyo. In regard to quality, we introduced a systematic response advancement and target management management verification framework to eradicate the structural contradictions in our supply system. In addition, we conducted activities to reduce vibrations and noise and prevent environmental conflicts •Comply with •Training and •Document •Risk management •Personnel/facili•Personnel/facilifrom our construction sites. We not only try to enact improvements in the areas of safety, quality, and environment, but we are also working diligently to strengthen our integrated safety, requirements education railway safety ties/ equipment ties/equipment •Investigate and •Safety information management •Operational process •Maintenance quality, and environment management framework. To this end, we have obtained and continue to maintain our ISO/OHSAS certifications, and continue to improve with a stage-based 2012 2013 2014 report accident •Safety culture •Emergency program system of trend analysis/internal analysis/external analysis. Our efforts led us to obtain the highest level of quality of a public institution in the Quality Management System evaluations. •Internal review response plan •Operational process Going forward, KR will continue to uphold safety, quality, and environment as our most important values and become a company that people can trust. ※ Most public institutions are around Level 5~5+, Level7 •Emergency response is the highest for public institutions KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 36 + 37 Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads Enhancing safety and achieving zero train operating failure by strengthening quality management Environmental management index (Unit: points) Systematic response to environmental conflicts KR is focusing on enhancing quality management at each stage of construction to minimize operating failures and In conducting railway construction projects, there can be many conflicts with environmental groups if there is a lack ensure safety. We have conducted regular reviews of operating failures and analyzed causes of failures (16 signal of communication and early awareness. KR is preventing environmental conflicts by increasing communications with 226.6 errors, 2 emergency power issues) in the last three years (total of 21 cases) to prevent reoccurrence of errors, and such groups at the design stage of a new project in areas where we expect conflicts and try to reflect their opinions 212.6 on the environmental impact assessment to minimize damages and respond systematically to conflicts. we have strengthened inspections during construction with regular safety checks and initial inspections. After completion, we work with railroad safety organizations and conduct a comprehensive pilot test of all facilities 158.1 and test runs to verify safety and suitability to minimize operating failures and ensure public safety. Nine projects Case study including the Airport Railroad connecting facility expansion and Honam High-speed Railway, Yongsan~Munsan We discovered that the Railroad Test Track zone was inhabited by a protected species (narrow-mouthed toad double-track electric railways (Yongsan~Gongdoek) have completed verification, and we plan to continue facility and Korean golden frog – Class II endangered wild fauna), and conducted a joint investigation with environimprovements to enhance safety of our train operations. 2012 2013 2014 mental groups and amphibian experts at the environmental impact assessment stage and reflected the results Failure rate of completed facilities (Unit: %) in the assessment report and completed agreement (Oct. 2014) Category Activity Details 0.162 Strengthened •Strengthen earthquake-proof design in operating facilities earthquake(Gyeongbu High-speed) 5.4km at 10 locations including Gutan Bridge, (Test Line) Promotion of construction waste recycling Minimizing and recycling construction waste proof design 4.9km at 5 locations including Baebang Bridge KR recycles wood and other waste to minimize generation of waste in the course of our railroad construction and Category Activity details improvement activities, and we redevelop land from disused railroads to increase the utilization of resources. Wood 0.004 Upgraded disaster •Upgrade facilities to protect against from damages by wind, water and natural disasters Disaster prevention E xpanded bridge at 21 locations, installed protective wall at 14 locations, •Reduce 19 hundred million KRW by waste is typically used for landscaping or broken down to be used as wood chips, compost, firewood, and sawdust facilities 10 landslide prevention measures, buffered roadbed at 12 locations Recycle prevention recycling 21,936 PC ties and 4,349 litter, but in the Wonju~Gangeung project, instead of treating the wood, we supplied the wood waste generated to disused and increased wood ties •Improve disaster prevention in tunnels: 3 locations including Gwacheon Line and Ilsan Line railway Continued recycling railway wood ties the local community free of charge, thus saving waste treatment cost and reducing GHG emissions from recycling safety Upgraded fire wood ties safety facilities •Improve facilities for convenient transportation including elevator: 3 stations including by using material management system forest wood. In addition, to effectively treat the increasing amounts of construction waste, we recycled waste Gyeongui Line (Bumgye station, Hangshin station, Bupyeong station) into cyclic aggregate, which was used for smoothing foundation for hume pipe and temporary roads and covering 0 •Recycle 16,703 tons of forest wood 2012 2013 2014 •Install screen doors to prevent passenger accidents (8 stations) waste and saved 7 hundred million purposes, thus increasing our recycling rate to 98.1%. At the 40th National Quality Management Convention, in the Platform safety Forest KRW in waste treatment costs facility Gwacheon Line (Seonbawi,Seoul Racecourse Park), Gyeongin Line (Bugae, Guil), Environment Safety Quality category, we won the Presidential Bronze Award for “reducing construction waste by Bundang Line (Taepyeong, Jukjeon, Ori), Gyeongwon Line (Uijeongbu) wood waste Use for landscaping or crush and recycle for compost, wood chips, improving treatment of waste gravel from disused railroad”. Upgrade outdated operating •Upgrade outdated facilities such as railway infrastructure, station facilities, electric railway firewood, and sawdust litter facilities facilities, signaling, and communications facilities •Increase recycling of construction Establishing railroad system of resource recycling Management waste by using 62,849 tons of cyclic Due to the increase in disused railroads and land as railroads are constructed and moved, KR is focusing on ways •Pre-investigation of railroad safety when constructing or excavating within 30m of railway aggregate (97.3%→98.1%) of railroad (In 2014, handled 1,036 reported cases and conducted 839 special safety inspection) Construction to transform these sites for other uses, such as ecological restoration sites, rail bike, and solar energy generation Safety protection area Recycled construction waste for waste facilities, thus realizing a virtuous cycle of resources through construction projects. We completed four projects Management smoothing foundation, back filling, Management of •Inspect 2,086 locations following the disaster risk evaluation standards for areas with steep covering for hume pipe, and temporary including ecological restoration on the Ilsan Line in 2013, and we are currently conducting a restoration project in steep areas inclines (National Emergency Management Agency) road Boryung on the Janghang Line. When the project is complete, it will connect with nearby cultural and ecological resources such as Boryung Culture Center, Daecheon-cheon Stream Waterside Park, and Daecheon-cheon Stream Eco Bridge and improve the living environment of the local community. In addition, we have installed solar energy Increased Barrier Free Living Environment generation facilities on roofs of unused stations and closed lines in 17 locations, which is producing approximately 43 certifications thousand MW, which we expect will reduce 19 thousand tCO2. [Activities 5] Building eco-friendly railroads and minimizing environmental impact Enhancing energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gases in train stations Minimization of environmental impact at design and construction stages Jinju, Pohang, Gwangju 2013 Songjeong Stations KR is planning to construct an eco-friendly railroad station by enhancing energy efficiency and recycling resources. KR aims to engage in eco-friendly railroad construction activities by conducting an environmental impact assessment We established standards appropriate for stations to enable efficiency in energy consumption and CO2 reduction. prior to starting the project and investigate, estimate, evaluate and reflect the results in the designing stage. In In designing the station, we limited windows to less than 50% of the façade to minimize loss of heat. In addition, addition, we aim to minimize environmental impact and damage to the ecological environment during our construction we added LED, ventilation equipment, and other high efficiency certified products into the design and increased projects by implementing an environmental impact minimization plan at the design and construction stages. renewables energy facilities such as solar energy to over 15%. Design guideline for energy efficiency will be applied 14 stations certified 2014 (13 preliminary, 1 permanent) to 13 stations including Wonju~Gangneung double electric line’s Pyeongchang Station, which is currently being (BF Certification Center) designed. We will also conduct monitoring activities including room temperatures and facility improvement (LED, etc.) Category Activity Details Expected outcome and continue to work to reduce energy and GHG emissions. •Non-Point pollution reduction Facilities in design (125 locations including Non-point pollution facilities Reduce water pollution level Dongducheon~Yeoncheon) •Designed ecological corridor for minimal environmental impact to small animals Design Ecology focused design Reduce ecological damage (mammals, amphibians, reptiles) (48 locations) •Increase renewable energy facilities including solar energy, thermal heat (14 stations Renewable facilities Reduce energy use including Suseo) Environmental pollution •648 water pollution prevention facilities and 661 air pollution prevention facilities Reduce environmental pollution during Evaluation and Future In 2014, while continuing with construction on major projects such as the Honam High-speed Railway, KR was able to vastly improve safety related indicators such as train operation failure rate, accident rate, and death rate. The Construction reduction facilities •355 waste storage facilities, 305 temporary soundproof wall (54,936m) construction Direction accident rate for 2014 was 0.087%, 15% lower than the previous year, and due to our continued innovative activities, •14 locations including wildlife crossing (bridge type/ box type), trespassing prevention we were able to generate key results, which led us to a record 900 points in the QMS assessment, the highest score Ecological corridor Reduce ecological damage fence for public institutions. This is the result of company-wide efforts to create high quality railroads, which is also in •Conduct special investigation into environment (improved 44 cases including scattered our new 2020 vision to create “Safer railroads” announced in May 2014. KR will continue to try our best to enhance Monitoring/feedback Reduce environmental impact dust reduction facilities) safety quality environmental areas to build safer, more convenient railroads. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 38 + 39 Mutual Growth with SME Partners Issue Background and Due to the continued slump and lagging performance in the domestic construction industry, there [Activities 1] Establishment of fair trade order Impact have been increased calls for fair trade and assisting SMEs for mutual growth. KR has strived to Strengthening supervision on payments promote a culture of mutual growth and fair trade all the way to secondary and tertiary partners to We used the Unfair Subcontract Conflict Resolution Center to continuously communicate with subcontractors and end prevent the domino effect of damages from late payment and other unfair practices in construction. users (equipment/material suppliers, construction workers), and conducted a special inspection into subcontractor management and resolved 51 cases of overdue construction fees and wages in 2014. In addition, for the prevention of overdue wages for construction workers, we are constantly monitoring payment of construction fees flowing through a computer system to verify that fees are paid on time. We have also conducted unfair trade prevention activities Key Activities [Strategy] Mutual growth strategy and organization including a review of the status of subcontractor management, where we found and rectified 39 violations. Under the vision, “Fulfilling social responsibility through management for mutual growth”, KR aims to maintain Two-way communication with partners fair cooperative relationships with partners through concluding fair trade agreements, improving contract systems, Mutual Growth Forum KR has conducted 48 mutual growth forums, discussions, and interactive communication programs to hear the and other efforts to achieve mutual growth. Mutual growth related issues are undertaken by the Creative Economy grievances of SME partner companies. At the Mutual Growth Forum with partners, we were able to come to an Department, which establishes mutual growth, oversees execution of mutual growth promotion plans, and works to agreement on eliminating unfair trade practices such as the use of standardized subcontract agreements. At the promote a culture of mutual growth. Regulation Reform Forum, we were able to rectify 27 issues, including shifting responsibility of complaints to subcontractors and issuing double penalties for poor construction. • Mutual growth promotion strategy Improved support for SME partners KR, after discussions and opinions with SMEs, implemented a bold institutional improvement project regarding factors that were hindering mutual growth. We strengthened our procedures on areas of concern that may undermine Vision Fulfilling social responsibility through mutual growth’ safe construction, such as permanently prohibiting companies that submit fake or counterfeited test results in a bid. We revised five bid qualification criteria including extending the validity period of a company’s past experience from One Heart Discussion three years to five years, and abolished the double sanctions clause in the credibility assessment, thus expanding Slogan opportunities for SMEs to participate in bidding. In addition, we purchased 1.7033 billon KRW of products from SMEs, 「Go」 Mutual Growth, 「STOP」 Unfair practice an increase of 24.7% compared to the previous year, to support SMEs competitiveness and financial stability. SME products purchased Institutional Improvements for Enhanced Level of Safety and Quality 1Trillion Revision items Key details Customized Promote culture 7,033 Strategy direction Establish fair support for of mutual Permanently prohibit companies that have 1Trillion hundred Prohibit corrupt companies that have submitted counterfeit test results from trade order SME cooperation million provided counterfeit test results from participating in bids run by KR (new) 1,516 submitting bids (5.28) hundred 1Trillion million 3,660 Limit bidding by companiesthat have According to Article 17, Clause 1 of the Ethics in Government Act, if a company hundred violated Retiree (executives) rehires a retiree who is restricted from re-employment, the offending company will be million employment restrictions (5.28) prohibited from participating in bids for two years •Establish fair trade through special •Increase purchase from SMEs and •Hold Mutual Growth Forum for KR Stricter criteria related to Increase point deduction penalties for violation of KR integrity contract (-3 points → Purchased Integrity contract (10.29) -5 points) investigation into status of managing support SMEs and partners amount subcontractors •Promote technology development •Find and award best example for New regulation on companies that have Newly establish regulation on companies that have not concluded or executed on not executed contractual obligations •Operate online and offline channels projects such as development mutual growth promotion 2012 2013 2014 contractual obligations without justifiable reasons (average penalty: -3 points) (10.29) such as unfair subcontract resolution on condition of purchase and •Identify and rectify unfair agreecenter and mutual growth website localization ments 28.77% Institutional Improvements to Lower Entry Barrier •Stop delay of payments at construc•Protect core technology •Continue to find ways for perfortion sites and strengthen mutual •Support capability development mance sharing 26.77% Revised items Issue Revision growth training for partners •Conclude fair practices and mutual By having evaluation criteria not used by Public •Promote use of standard contracts •Promote joint prime contractor growth agreements 24.71% Removed double restriction in the Procurement Service or other institutions, it Remove point deduction on the person system credibility criteria can be misconstrued as payback for disciplinary that caused disciplinary action action against KR employees •Joint expansion into overseas Purchase Relaxed criteria for evaluating Relative weaker party, the subcontractor markets Due to relaxed criteria, expand ratio subcontractor’s management (construction specialists), are unable to opportunities for bidding by •Support for PMS and strengthen status under the prime contractor’s participate in public procurement bidding as not construction specialists quality competitiveness management methods meeting requirements 2012 2013 2014 Expand opportunities to SMEs by •Allow partner use of research Lengthened the validity period of SME construction companies were unable to extending the validity period of facilities construction experience (experience participate in public procurement bidding as not companies’ experience from 3 to 5 per industry) meeting requirements years •Promote preferential purchase of SME products Excluded from evaluation project For small companies whose estimated For new companies without little project experience undertaken to make value is less than the listed amount •Share achievement by establishing experience, technical evaluation scores will be inroads into market at the start of (2.3 hundred million KRW), exclude too low to be selected SPC for developing government business project experience from evaluation owned assets with KR and private Increased upper limit amount for Low standard amount for private contract businesses private contracts for preferential Increase private contract standard creates small amount of preferential purchase purchase and service, which is amount to 50 thousand KRW for (companies with female CEOs, social enterprise, a recommended policy by the preferential purchase products green products) government KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 40 + 41 Mutual Growth with SME Partners [Activities 2] Strengthening SME competitiveness Partner Satisfaction (Unit: points) Supporting partner capability development KR -established six new training programs to help improve partner’s technological capabilities and strengthen their Supporting SMEs to enter global markets autonomy. 143 employees from partner companies took part in the training programs. We also held an introductory KR supports SMEs’ expansion into global markets by using our project management capabilities and international 94.10 94.25 session on Productivity Management System (PMS) certification to small subcontractors, and we are supporting their recognition and forming a consortium with SME partners. We share overseas procurement bidding information on the 93.98 PMS certification a hundred percent, with evaluation cost and technological assistance. For partners lacking facilities, railway industry information center. In 2014, we submitted twelve proposals and letters of intent for projects in nine we allow them to use our metal testing equipment and automatic freezing and thawing apparatus, thus contributing countries, including India and Saudi Arabia, in cooperation with SME partners. We received an order for a consulting to their cost savings. project on LRT-2 Eastern section extension in Manila in the Philippines. (62 hundred million KRW). We are working with SME partners and building our network when railway industry officials visit from Oman, India, Thailand and other overseas countries. We continue to provide support to advertise and build networks for SMEs, such as listing [Activities 3] Fostering a culture of mutual growth SME partners on e-newsletters we send to overseas clients. 2012 2013 2014 Based on the CEO’s commitment to mutual growth, KR has strived to spread mutual cooperation to internal and external partners. In February 2014 the CEO emphasized cooperation for mutual growth with partners in his Localization of railroad materials and promotion of product development on condition of purchase inauguration speech and incorporated “mutual growth” in the management strategy. We established the “Railway ① Suspension clamp for catenary cable Local companies’ construction Industry Mutual Growth Plan” that fits KR’s characteristics (in May 2014) and held the “Mutual Growth Forum ② Horizontal pipe support clamp KR entered into a localization agreement with five local SMEs, with the condition of purchase of electric railroad participation rate (Unit: %) ⑧ ⑧ ③ Steady arm support pipe suspension for Shared Growth and Fair Trade Culture”, where we made improvements on 56 regulations that were causing ⑦ fitting materials (153 parts) which are dependent on imports. We have been able to localize the materials a hundred percent, ① ⑦ ④ Steady arm support movable inefficiency. In addition, we established the Unfair Subcontract Conflict Resolution Center and regularly conducted ② connection and KR purchased 129 hundred million KRW of such materials from SME partners. As part of the new product ③ ⑤ Horizontal pipe movable ring 100 reviews of subcontract arrangements, which enabled us to resolve 51 cases of unfair practices. We also established ⑤ development with the condition of purchase program, we bought 193 hundred million KRW worth of materials from 98.83 ④ ⑥ Movable bracket movable ring / suspension fitting 4 96.47 the Subcontractor Review Mentoring Committee, with both site workers and experts serving as mentoring committee ⑥ ⑦ Lower pipe support clamp SMEs, and as part of the material localization on condition of purchase program, we bought a total of 332 hundred members, and conducted joint reviews and other activities to prevent unfair trade. ⑧ Higher pipe support clamp million KRW of materials from SMEs. Subcontractor Review Mentoring Committee ① ② ③ ④ Active efforts for shared growth KR has in place a performance sharing system to support SMEs and to achieve our mutual goals of reducing cost, improving quality, and enhancing productivity. In particular, in addition to the existing technology development Regular review 2012 2013 2014 ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ ⑧ projects (public private joint investment, on condition of purchase, localization), we have developed a new service quality agreement model (maintenance service) and expanded areas of performance sharing and incentives to Request when SMEs for facility management, upgrades, and improvement projects. In addition, we have created a public private Recommendation needed Conduct joint joint cooperation fund of 25 hundred million KRW and support technology development by SMEs, such as when we Mentoring Committee review Jumper clamp jointly supported with the SMBA (Small and Medium Business Administration) the development of 29kv load breaker Trolley wire A type of wire Cu-Sn 150mm2 (messenger dead-end clamp (trolley wire, (messenger wire 65mm2 -> switch for electric railroads, and strengthened cooperation by holding the Public-Private Performance Sharing Joint •Employees from subcontractor with lots of site experience (10 people) wire Bz 116mm2) messenger wire) 116mm2) Academy with eleven organizations including the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation and SME partners •Employee from KOSCA subcontractor conflict department (1 person) Products developed with localization in attendance. •Employee from KSFB subcontractor conflict department (1person) Ad hoc reviews KR’s shared growth activity in the media Evaluation and Future We strengthened communication channels, online and offline, with partner companies such as the Mutual Growth forum, discussions, and online help desk, and continued to provide customized support for SMEs. We revised 56 Direction practices and procedures we found to be unfair to provide equal opportunities to partners and create an environment for fair competition. In addition, we expanded investment into railroads in 2014 and created 65,823 jobs for the private sector, up 28% from the previous year. We purchased 1.7033trillion KRW of products from SMEs, further supporting SMEs mutual growth. KR will continue to find new businesses to create private sector jobs and make institutional improvements to establish fair trade practices. “Let’s make the holidays warm and cheerful by paying on time” With the nation’s biggest holiday Chuseok coming up, KR decided to pay construction payment of 1,457 hundred million KRW before the holidays to support partner companies’ liquidity situation and help the local economy. To ensure efficient payment, KR created a special support team of employees in payment system help desk, electronic procurement, budget, accounting, and INTERVIEW construction projects for nine days starting from August 28. KR conducted a special inspection at 281 sites across the country to discover cases of late wages, unpaid equipment rental fees, and Seoul Metropolitan High-speed Railway Zone 2 Roadbed Supervisor ㅣ Yongdae Lee Team Leader subcontractor payments. My company provides to KR the people needed in construction, quality, safety, and environmental management functions for the smooth operation of the metropolitan high-speed railroad construction project. From among KR’s various activities for shared growth with partners, I found the safety training, which includes case studies on safety and quality control, very helpful to my work. I believe that there need to be incentives for railroad construction projects with a program which enables more sharing of performance in new technology, new products, construction, quality, safety, environment, process management and other areas. In addition, KR and partner companies share information through KR’s ERP system, and I hope that there will be a communication channel to provide and collect opinions from people from all walks of life in the railroad construction industry. KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 42 + 43 Talent Management Issue Background and The starting point in building competitiveness is having talented people, and therefore talent Capacity and Needs based Customized Talent Development focused management is an important issue for global companies. There is recently more focus on Based on the results of the GAP analysis of our core business in railroad construction, railroad asset management, Impact facility management, and overseas business, we linked the required competencies in those business segments with creative problem solving rather than promotions based on seniority and years of service, and it our training programs to strengthen capabilities for our core businesses. We are also systematically verifying the has become important to find and develop creative, talented individuals to strengthen corporate effectiveness and applicability in work process of the internal and external training programs to enhance the efficacy competitiveness. In addition, in line with the global efforts to protect not only the socially of training. We have expanded engineering and masters and PhD programs for employees to achieve our mid-term marginalized but to protect and respect the rights of all people, KR has adopted human rights management target of developing core talent up to 50% by 2020. In 2014, the percentage of core talent has increased management in our operations. by 1.5% from the previous year to 35.6%. We conducted internal and external leadership training for all positions, managers, promoted employees, female employees, and new employees. In addition, we have established a culture of continuous education for capacity development with information sharing and communication on job performance and mentoring programs. In-house clubs Key Activities [Activities 1] Socially equitable recruitment and Skill based hiring Improving training feedback framework and enhancing quality of training Equitable hiring policies and competency-focused hiring KR’s core competency course undergoes education training assessment and evaluation every six months, where KR, under the hiring target system, has exceeded the government guidelines for socially equitable hiring. We also the results are analyzed and feedback is adopted. In 2014, we analyzed 172 courses (internal 37 courses, external hired interns with a possibility of becoming permanent employees, and of our 52 interns, 73% (38 people) were hired 135 courses) of the level of satisfaction of our training programs and applicability to jobs, and we implemented four as full-time employees. Of these, there were 18 gender equality hires (37.5% of total new employees in 2014) and 21 alternatives to training courses, four operational improvements, and applied external best cases to internal courses. As a hires from non-metropolitan area (43.8% of total new employees in 2014). We also adopted the National Competency result, we saw the quality of our programs enhanced with employee satisfaction rising from 78.9 in 2013 to 81.5 in 2014. Standard (NCS) for skill-based hires rather than academic record based hiring, and we also analyzed functions and required competencies (Dec. 2014). We continued to develop NCS based competency based recruitment system, and in 1H 2015, we conducted a written test (personality test) and interviews based on basic competencies, and we plan [Activities 3] Flexible working system and Family-friendly management to incorporate functional competency in the entire hiring process from 1H 2017. Promotion of flexible working hours appropriate to the characteristics of the organization KR adopted flexible working hours that is suitable to KR’s characteristics to improve the quality of the lives of our The goal of cultivating female managers Increasing number of in female employees and female managers employees. In 2014, 157 employees have opted for flexible working hours (11.95% of employees in 2014), 153 has (unit : %) As KR is an organization in the construction industry, KR has had a relatively lower percentage of female employees. flex-time work arrangements, and 4 employees are part-time employees (15 to 35 hours a week). Childcare leave Employee cultural experience was extended from six to eight years of age to promote flexible working systems, reduced working hours in the child We have adopted female hiring targets (20% of all hires), and we are working to increase the ratio of females caring stage (15 to 30 hours a week), and developed 18 positions in seven functions suited for flexible working hours. 2013 2.2% in the organization. In 2014, females accounted for 159 out of 1,330 employees, which is 11.95%, an increase of For part-time employees, we instituted HR guidelines to ensure equal opportunity with full-time employees in terms 10.75% from the previous year. In 2014, of 48 new hires, 18 employees were female, accounting for 37.5%. We have 2014 2.8% of welfare, promotion, evaluation, and training, and for flexible working employees, we are providing benefits such as established female manager development targets to increase the percentage of females in managerial roles, and 2015 2.9% preferential selection for external training (once a year), additional points for department evaluation (0.05→5 points provided female mid-level managers at public institution training with programs for female employees who were per person), preferential placement in region and position, reflect annual holiday usage (1 point), to encourage the 2016 2.9% deputy managers and above. Of the 22 employees who qualified for the training, 20 employees (91%) completed the flexible working system to take root in the organization. 2017 3.2% training program. KR plans to increase the ratio of female managers and reflect gender equal perspectives to KR’s decision making, and to establish a work-life balance culture. Promotion of family-friendly management for work-life balance • Family-friendly policy and childcare support Number of male and female employees by position (As of April 2015) As part of our family-friendly management policy, KR has a “family day” every Wednesday, requiring all employees to leave on time when the “Family Song” plays so they can spend time with their family. We also hold bring-yourHead of Head of Deputy Special Position Executive Senior Manager Staff Technical Professional family-to-work day twice a year under the theme of “healthy workplace, happy household’ (2011~current). This helps division department manager service Total increase loyalty to the company and forges closer relationships with colleagues for employees, and gives children a Special Role Executive General General General General General General Technical Professional KR Electronic library better understanding of their parents’ work and increases understanding and cooperation from families. To support service Male 7 5 43 161 537 295.75 82 3 25 5 1163.75 our employees with childcare, we have increased day care facilities (capacity of 30 kids) in addition to our existing childcare facility (capacity of 40 kids), reduced working hours for pregnant employees without decrease in pay (two Number of Female 0 0 0 2 21 32 44 0 53.5 0 152.5 hours a day), and increased maternity leave from 90 days to 120 days for mothers with many babies. employees Percentage of 0% 0% 0% 1.23% 3.76% 9.76% 34.90% 0% 68.20% 0% 11.60% • Support for self-development and leisure activities female KR provides electronic library service for easy borrowing and return of books, and an academic paper service for employees who seek knowledge for self-development. We have also introduced continuous learning programs as Education and training status [Activities 2] Enhancing and developing Employee capacity development well as home coffee making, dance sports, online and phone English tutoring programs, and have held bread making courses for employees planning the next phase of their lives in retirement. In addition, we are supporting clubs 1,234 Capability development and CDP based talent management (39 groups) which employees have voluntarily created for activities outside of work. In addition, we are working to Total training KR has identified core competencies and skills based on analysis of KR’s objectives and functions, and diagnosing enhance benefits including promoting annual holidays, yearly physicals, and group insurance for employees. We 1,153 1,168 costs (Unit: million and strengthening weak areas. In addition, we have established the CDP talent management process based on our provide welfare manuals for employees with all the related information so that employees can take advantage of our KRW) management strategy, thus connecting the education and training and HR functions. various welfare programs. 92 INTERVIEW Personnel management 88 Talent POOL Capacity development Analyze capacity 86 (Example) Korea Rail Network Authority, Management Support Department Human Resources Division ㅣ Hak-ryeol Kim, deputy general manager • Candidates for • Experience in related • Review career path • Capacity was analyzed The biggest issue in 2014 is the peak wage system, which has been implemented in positions of department head and above under the Public Institution Advancement Policy, but it may be promotion (Relocation) role • Confirm completion of and place accordingly extended to all employees pending review by the Labor Management Joint Council. KR has established the top three talent profiles to realize the 2020 management strategy reflecting the Training costs per • Complete competency mandatory training at time of promotion CEO’s philosophy of “Talent First”, and have shared the idea that talent management is at the center of sustainable development. Going forward, we will continue to strive to hire people person training for Department head of based on equality and competency, to operate welfare programs focused on employee health, leisure, and self-development, and to run family friendly welfare programs. asset function 2012 2013 2014 KR Sustainability Report 2015 OUR PRIORITY Clean KR | Construction of Convenience and Safety-Oriented Railroad Network | Construction of Safe, High-Quality, Eco-Friendly Railroads | Mutual Growth with SME Partners | Talent Management 44 + 45 Talent Management Human rights implementation framework [Activities 4] Introduction and Promotion of Human Rights Management Human Rights Declaration Introduction of Human Rights Management Since KR joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in February 2007, we have followed UNGC’s ten principles in four Human rights management guidelines areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and strived to create an organizational culture where diversity is respected with no discrimination due to gender and academics, based on the CEO’s philosophy of “Talent Team in charge of Human rights First” and “win-win management”. We continue to improve the treatment of subcontractors and other socially human rights issues committee marginalized groups on which we have been focusing, and we have also introduced human rights management to •Management strategy •Five internal and spread our ethics culture and to advance human rights for more stakeholders. department external experts •Policy review, recommendations on Korea Rail Network Authority improvement measures Promotion of Human Rights management Human rights impact Human rights training KR instituted the Human Rights Implementation Guideline in June 2015, which details the organization in charge Human Rights Declaration assessment of human rights, structure of Human Rights Committee, and human rights training, to set a system to implement •Implement in case of •For employees once a year our Human Rights Declaration. Human rights functions are managed by the Management Strategy Department of significant impact on •Support for human human rights rights training of partner Management Performance Division at Planning and Finance Division, and the team establishes and implements companies annual human rights advancement plans, yearly human rights training, and spread human rights management We declare, as stated below, that we will follow the Global Human Rights Declaration and to partner companies. The function of the Human Rights Commission includes review of annual plans for the respect our own as well as other people’s rights, and with the participation of our employees’ Employee advancement, promotion, and protection of human rights of stakeholders and employees, and recommendations on Labor management communication as well as our stakeholders, we will work to protect and advance human rights and champion System channels for employee complaints human rights issues. To ensure the neutrality of the committee, we have structured the committee to have an equal number of internal and external committee members. In addition, we have put in place prevention measures for human rights across our industry. •HR policy enforcement rules Detailed •Sexual harassment prevention human rights violations to implement human rights impact assessments in case our regulations and policies impact basis and guidelines First, We support and respect the international standards and regulations to support the values of human tools for •Discussion with CEO the rights of our stakeholders resolution •Labor management committee, labor rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. management discussion Human Rights Declaration Second, We do not discriminate between stakeholders on the basis of race, religion, disability, gender, External stakeholders KR held the “Human Rights Declaration Ceremony’ on July 3, 2015 to advance the human rights of stakeholders and to develop into a sustainable institution by spreading our culture of respecting human rights. The Declaration birthplace, and political views. Customer service system System Partner complaint handling procedure reflects the opinions of various stakeholders collected through two advisory meetings with human rights experts, Third, We guarantee the right of association and collective bargaining for the protection of our employee •Customer service regulations partners, and labor unions, and from public opinion gathered through public announcements on our website. The human rights. Detailed •Public misconduct reporting basis and Declaration consists of nine items, expressing the will of our employees to protect and advance the human rights of •Unfair Subcontract Conflict Resolution tools for Center our stakeholders, including employees as well as partners and the local community. Fourth, We do not permit any forms of forced labor and child labor. resolution •Discussion of mutual growth with partners Fifth, We create safe and sanitary work environment and guarantee industrial safety. Enhance accessibility to relief measures KR has worked to protect and advance human rights of our employees by eradicating discriminatory hiring practices, Sixth, We support and cooperate with partner companies to enable all partners to implement human creating a safe working environment, and promoting mutual growth with partner companies. In addition, we have rights management. established relief measures for human rights violations including employee grievance and customer complaint systems. We also conduct human rights training and partner discussion sessions to increase access to remedies for Seventh, We respect and protect human rights of the local community in areas where we conduct our human rights violations and to enhance awareness of human rights. KR created the Human Rights Declaration, under business operations. a democratic process, with the participation of various stakeholders including human rights experts, partners, and Eighth, We strive to protect the environment for healthy happy lives for our nation and future generations. labor unions. In addition, we have prepared a foundation for the systematic promotion of human rights management by instituting “Human Rights Implementation Guideline” for the implementation of the human rights declaration, Ninth, We commit ourselves to not endanger the safety of public and to protect the confidentiality of the installing a dedicated body in charge of human rights and the Human Rights Committee, and conducting human rights personal information collected in the course of our operations. Human Rights Declaration Ceremony training for employees and partners. To fulfill these promises, we declare our commitment to guaranteeing universal freedom and rights and human integrity for all our stakeholders, including our employees, and that we will work together to ensure sustainable development. Korea Rail Network Authority Evaluation and Future Despite the decreasing number of new hires in general, KR has continued to increase the number of new hires: there By all employees were 15 new hires in 2012, 21 in 2013, and 48 hires in 2014. We continue to create a supportive corporate culture Direction for our employees who are our future with our family friendly policies, childcare support for work life balance, and competency development for our employees. KR will continue to systematically implement human rights management for employees and partners, and expand human rights development and investment to secure catalysts for future growth. GENERAL ISSUES 48 Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets 50 Strengthening Financial Soundness 52 Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction 54 Social Contribution 56 Performance Data KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 48 + 49 Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets Competitiveness in Overseas Setting objectives and strategies for entering new markets Strengthening Competitiveness Establishing international railroad design standards Business The main markets for KR’s overseas business in the past ten years were mainly China and the Asian region, and we and Capabilities for Overseas At times, we have had conflicts with overseas companies as we did not have international design standards that have a high business dependency on that region. Therefore, we are pursuing sustainable overseas business rather Business can be adapted to overseas markets. KR, with the cooperation of Korea University of Technology and Education’s than short-term profits and establishing mid to long-term strategies to enter new target markets. We are focusing on Industry-University Cooperation Foundation and the Korea Railroad Research Institute, has prepared international Current status of overseas training projects diversification of overseas markets to emerging markets such as South America and Africa. design standards. We then coded and translated the standards into English to strengthen our competitiveness in Amount global markets. Contract Category Name (million Establishing foundation for sustainable orders date KRW) To establish a stable foundation for our overseas business, we are building a potential customer base and expanding Continued Strengthening Competitiveness and Capabilities for Overseas Business (Indonesia) Training program Jun.16, our reach through ODA (Official Development Assistance) projects. We have received ODA projects such as KOICA KR continues to strengthen our competitiveness by systematically training experts for overseas business. We continue 1 20 for Railroad2014 (Korea International Cooperation Agency) sponsored training programs from emerging countries that may not have to hire business management and engineering experts to maintain a pool of talent in project analysis, engineering, Related Officials short term construction projects due to lack of funds but have long term growth potential. We have been able to and contract management for overseas projects, and train them so they may be ready to support or work on overseas (Nepal) Training program for Agu.11, establish networks, interact with counterparties, and obtain potential customers, thus establishing a foundation for projects. In addition, we are running a customized training program for experts in overseas business. Our target is to 2 35 Railroad-Related 2014 sustainable orders. In addition, we have strategically focused on areas with high potential of large orders (Middle train 100 experts in business management and technical areas over the next three years. We continue to train people Officials East, India, Southeast Asia) and invited key personnel, held seminars and railroad training schools to increase in weak areas such as overseas construction, finance, foreign exchange, claims, and risk management. We are also (Sudan) Training program for Oct. 2, cooperation between Korea and the target regions. Based on KR brand recognition on the international stage, we are Egypt railroad technology transfer program conducting language programs for personnel to get involved in overseas projects. 3 30 Railroad-Related 2014 helping establish cooperative relationships between Korean private companies and high potential local companies Officials and contributing to job creation by helping private companies enter overseas markets. Overseas business achievements China 2005 Construction supervision on Sootu line Overseas railroad project orders 2006 Construction supervision on (2004~2014) Muhan~Guangzhou line 2008 Construction supervision on 14 Muhan~Guangzhou line 2010 Engineering consulting on countries Mongolia Panjin~Yingkou passenger line 2013 Invitation Training for Railroad-Related Officials Engineering consulting on 37 Xian~Baogi passenger line Engineering consulting on projects Bangladesh Tianjin~Qinhuangdao passenger line 2013 Dongbu Signal Modernization project design Engineering consulting on 890 and supervision consulting Lanzhou~Xinjiang passenger line hundred million Engineering consulting on United States KRW Harbin~Qiqihar passenger line 2013 Technical consulting on Nepal Engineering consulting on high-speed railroad 2011 Kathmandu City Railroad Feasibility Study Changsha~Kunming high-speed railway Electric Railroad Working Plan (Selected as best consulting institution Sudan 2012 Electric Railroad Working Plan Phase 2 for two consecutive years) 2014 Invitation Training for Railroad(Package 1, 2) 2012 Construction supervision on Related Officials 2014 Training for Railroad-Related public Officials Zhengzhou-Xuzhou passenger line 2014 Won best supervision service for Cameroon Harbin~Qiqihar passenger line 2009 Railroad Master Plan Establishment Construction supervision on Consulting Beijing~Shenyang passenger line 2011 Railroad Construction Project Won best supervision service for Feasibility Study India Harbin~Qiqihar passenger line Construction supervision on 2012 Technical Consulting on Working Beijing~Shenyang passenger line Design for a High-speed railroad Beijing~Shenyang construction supervision service contract Cambodia Paraguay 2011 Railroad Master Planning consulting 2011 PMC in Paraguayan railroad construction The Philippines feasibility study 2013 Manila LRT-2 Eastern section extension 2014 Training project for Public officials in consulting railroad industry Vietnam 2012 Consulting & Education for Chinese Supervisors on Railroad Improvement Indonesia 2011 Railway Master Plan Project Malaysia Management Consulting (PMC) 2012 PM Consulting of MRT (line 1) communication system 2014 Training for Railroad-Related Officials KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 50 + 51 Strengthening Financial Soundness Causes of Increase in Debt KR is a quasi-government agency founded to provide transportation to people on behalf of the government. KR Step utilization in the segment accounting Introduction of separate accounting system constructs railroads across the country with capital from the government budget and funds raised by KR. We issue system KR categorized our financial debt from high-speed railroad construction by Gyeongbu, Honam, Metropolitan lines, bonds according to the funding ratio decided in the railroad plan (Gyeongbu Phase 1: 65%, Gyeongbu Phase 2/ Honam and implemented the separate accounting system in May 2015, to easily see the financial status and management High-speed Railway: 50%, Seoul Metropolitan Area High-speed Railway: 60%) to raise funds for construction costs. 1 STEP Debt causes classification performance by separating income profit by project and train line. In particular the main business of debt accrual, While the plan is structured to recover the investment costs and repay construction debt by imposing track usage fees high-speed railway construction is broken down into detailed subcategories by train line. The system, which to train operators, the track usage fees were set too low, making it difficult for us to recoup our investment costs. 2 STEP Division by budget reflected the nature of KR’s financial status and internal and external opinions, was designed with a mid to long-term Causes of increase in debt perspective to provide information that can be easily understood by the public, as well as enable management of data 3 STEP Fiscal Responsibility internally. In addition, the separate accounting system enables KR to manage project financial information down to * Debt causes divisions by focusing on identifying 190 subcategories, thus creating a foundation for responsible accounting. KR characteristics Nature of projects Revenue structure •Non-capital special corporation •SOC projects – Requires large •Over 85% of revenues generated Restructuring track usage fee calculation scheme initial investments are track usage fees Track usage fee revision (proposal) •Commissioned quasi-government KR constructs high-speed railroads and provides the track for use by train operators, and charges track usage fees agency •Part of high-speed railroad •Insufficient funds to recover under an agreement. However, the low track usage fee schedule has caused KR to continue to accumulate debt. construction cost required to be construction cost – use of track< Therefore, we have continuously raised the need for a more reasonable track usage fee calculation scheme. As a raised by KR cost of interest Traditional 31% of operating profit result of continuous negotiations and persuading of MOLIT and other relevant institutions to devise a reasonable mutually beneficial plan for KR and train operators, from 2017, the unit track usage fee will be calculated on travelled Main activities are government Funds for construction costs Funds for debt repayment distance (km), which is similar to the scheme in advanced countries, and we adjusted the fees higher, from 31% to projects are borrowed insufficient 34% of the operating income of train operator. With these changes, we expect our operating income will increase by (2015~2016) 34% of operating profit •Public interest > Profitability •Cause of debt •Cause of 「increase」 in debt Improving (After 2017) Track usage fee 441 hundred million KRW. ROIC < WACC -Government plan is to repay -Track usage fees only 26% of charging on travelled distance debt with track usage fees cost of interest Enhancing budget transparency KR established a budget plan with the goal of reducing and executing the budget early. We have enhanced the Budget reduction targets and performance transparency of our budget by making institutional improvements such as review and analysis of the budget, installing (Unit: hundred million KRW) the Budget Execution Working Subcommittee, and ongoing audit and monitoring of the budget. Debt Reduction Efforts Short and long term strategy to reduce debt KR has implemented debt reduction strategies to strengthen financial soundness. We have established a Category 2012 2013 2014 Establish reduction Establish operating Operate filtering Incorporated in management innovation group with the CEO as the head, and installed an organization focused on reducing debt Plan target plan system department evaluation consisting of four teams in charge of business reorganization, cost savings, profit generation, and asset sales. We Budget size 1,599 1,637 1,601 Reduction Current •Reduction target 77 •Establish •Review. Analyze are also working towards financial soundness by analyzing the causes and characteristics of debt, project statuses, 31 68 77 expenses hundred million KRW management plan budget execution Debt reduction efforts Costs target and other KR characteristics to create short-term strategies for immediate implementation and long-term strategies (per item of for each item of •Budget Execution Reduction expenditure expenditure requiring government support. performance 97 114 108 Working Management Reform Promotion 2.4~15.0%) •Establish reserve Subcommittee Group (Head: CEO) Mid to long term ** Budget size 65,483 76,200 72,061 amount •Revise budget Groups Short term* (Initial KR effort) (Latter stage government support) Reduction •Strengthened revenue execution guidelines •Review reduction in •Reduce investment cost Capital 3,260 3,033 2,733 •Resolve lax management oversight target and expenditure and execution charge Restructure track usage fee budget Cost reduction Adjustment in projects Reduction allocation performance monthly, •Generate revenue schedule 3,575 4,914 4,023 and evaluate at performance •Eradicate corruption •Reduce non-essential management costs •Optimize timing of operational high•2015: KR 34% (주)SR 50% Budget •Reduction target •Establish budget •Budget execution year end •Reduce strategic procurement and speed railway •2017: Restructure track usage fee 2,733 hundred early, and devise special review Normalization plan (Roadmap) management financial costs •Identify measures to reduce investmillion KRW (total execution plan by committee Review Meeting (Monthly) ment costs amount targeted for project •Ongoing audit reduction: 10%) monitoring Activities •Make adjustments in projects •Early budget Debt recovery with asset sale •Budget-saving •Reduce costs Profit generation Asset sales execution 59.7% incentive system proceeds •Dispose of assets •Increase profits from increased over•Sale of Honam High-speed KTX train cars •Made institutional changes to use •Generate revenue seas business proceeds from sales of assets bought •Sale of Honam High-speed KTX •Asset development, rental income, etc transport depot with KR funds for debt recovery Identify and prepare measures Budget reduction ratio Budget Reduction Performance (Unit: hundred million KRW) KR optimized high-speed railroad projects (Gyeongbu, Honam, Seoul Metropolitan), reduced cost, generated revenue, for management issues needing * Short-term, aggressive effort by KR to generate revenues by reducing construction costs and using assets improvement ** Mid to long term, Restructure track usage fee scheme to recover high-speed railroad construction costs in mid to long-term, and improve and reduced 1.2806 trillion KRW of debt, up by 23.3% from the previous year. institutional policy to enable usage of asset sale proceeds for debt recovery Plan 9,802 23.3% Internal efforts Key activities 2014 Performance Results Ongoing Performance Monitoring Establishing asset sales plans Performance 12,086 •Adjust optimal timing to start operation of high-speed railway, In accordance with the Framework Act on Railroad Industry Development, assets which KR obtains through our railroad Reduce 11,657 hundred million Adjust project optimize size of facilities such as train station and main and sublines KRW Review construction site construction business become the property of the nation, thus,unlike other public institutions, KR does not own any to reduce total construction cost and size of debt issuance CEO chaired meeting and presentation saleable assets. Therefore, KR established our own asset sales plan according to the debt reduction plan and pursued •(Expenditures) Control budget, review and analyze execution, and institutional revisions to enable the use of proceeds from asset sales to repay debt. We have identified two assets from minimize unnecessary expenses Group Finance Review Management of asset/ Reduce cost Reduce 425 hundred million KRW team construction targets these efforts. KR, KORAIL, and MOLIT have held eighteen discussions to reach an agreement on sale schedule, asset •(Financial cost) Issue low interest bond, reduced debt issuance by cost and debt calculation, method of proceeds. As a result, we expect to achieve early repayment of debt. reducing project costs Generate •Enhance value and development of assets by systematic Review and analysis of management of government owned assets Budget reduction team revenue budget execution •The 22 Honam High-speed KTX train cars and Gwangju train depot are operating facilities, as such, it was judged that these Reduce 4 hundred million KRW (enhance •Realize overseas projects and realized profit of Suseo Station assets should be sold to a train operator to reduce KR’s debt, rather than remain in government ownership. competitiveness) adjacent area Operation of budget •Car sales in 2015 (4,283 hundred million KRW), establish and execute transportation depot sales plan in 2016 Weekly Report (1,989 hundred million KRW) Reduce 12,086 hundred million reduction center Total KRW KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 52 + 53 Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction CS Activities for Customer Operating Customer VOC Collection System Resolving Conflicts with Conflict Prevention System Satisfaction With a stronger focus on customer satisfaction, KR implemented a customer VOC system to listen to the opinions Increased Communication Increase in the need to prevent conflicts arising from railroad construction projects requires continuous and of our customers and make improvements where necessary. We have multiple channels for customer engagement, systematic conflict management. As such, we established a comprehensive conflict resolution plan and procedures Customer Satisfaction (Unit: points) including the Customer Management Center (Sorisaem), which receives and manages customer VOC, Customer and changed from conflict resolution system to a conflict prevention system. Our Conflict Mediation Committee Suggestion Center, which collects opinions and ideas from customers, and the Complaint Management System, prevents social conflicts that can arise from construction projects. When conflicts do occur, we aim to resolve them through which stakeholders can file recommendations and complaints that do arise in the course of railway quickly through conflict assessment, which involves analysis of causes, diagnosis, collecting opinions from experts, 94.1 94.2 construction business. There is also an offline channel for communication in person. We adopt customer VOC, and investigation of the facts and stakeholder analysis. 94.0 which was instituted to resolve customer complaints, to compile a list of items for improvement. The complaints we receive are categorized into nine sections including response attitude, facilities, expertise, efficiency, and handled as Conflict management process efficiently as possible and incorporated into our operations at the first possible opportunity. Improvements on Performance Record System based on Customer VOC Key VOC complaints (Before improvement) Key VOC complaints (After improvement) Conflict Mediation Monitoring Identify and Timely launch of Committee Conflict (Business project for conflict 2012 2013 2014 select conflicts in Deliberation Management resolution Limited application Can apply anytime, anywhere (possible on multiple railroad industry (Upload Korean document application on PC) devices, on webpage) Committee System) Efficient issuance (reduced steps, automatic reissuComplex application/issuance process (4 Stages) ance by linking with DB) No FAQ list Installed FAQ, efficient handling of requests Promotion of conflict resolution prevention mechanism KR revised the guidelines for conflict prevention and resolution for railroad construction projects to prevent and Improved CS Capacity and execution systematically manage conflicts, and signed MOUs with specialized public and private conflict management KR has implemented a company-wide CS plan with appropriate CS activities for each department. In addition, we institutions to cooperate and share conflict management resources. We also held a contest for best examples of strengthen CS activities through VOC improvements, and train CS baristas*, who are departmental CS activity conflict management for all the employees to contribute to spreading a culture of conflict management. experts. We also hold regular workshops to present the direction of our CS and compare activities of each department for fair and objective evaluation of our activities. We are strengthening our CS capacity and execution by holding internal satisfaction surveys each month and providing customized mentoring to departments with low monitoring results. Activities Key details * CS experts that provide customized service based on customer requirements and preference (started in 2011, one person per office, currently •Change department oversight for conflict management, newly installed Conflict operating 11th class) Concluded MOU with Presidential Committee for Revise guidelines for conflict prevention Mediation Committee, and revised structure in consideration of operational efficiency National Cohesion and resolution (Nov. 2014) → Effort to systemize conflict management system in the mid to long term Special training for CS Progress on CS management Conclude MOU with Presidential •Conclude MOU with Presidential Committee for National Cohesion to devise effective KR has strived to communicate with our customers, and adopted customer opinions in various institutional Committee for National Cohesion for conflict management and resolution measures → Establish and utilize public conflict conflict management (Jun. 2014) management infrastructure, and find and share examples of conflict mediation improvements and customer support activities. These efforts resulted in five consecutive excellent rankings in customer satisfaction survey conducted by the government. The customer satisfaction survey results showed an •Find and reward best examples of conflict management to promote Government 3.0 Evaluate best examples of conflict increase from the previous year, validating our CS management performance internally and externally. KR will based culture of conflict management. → Strengthen feedback by sharing cases of management (Dec. 2014) conflict resolution continue to work to become the one of the best public institutions in CS management. Key cases of conflict resolution Information disclosure for the public’s right to know KR established the Conflict Prevention Management System to resolve social conflicts, and identified tasks for each KR discloses management information on our website and other channels to increase management transparency, department. As a result, we resolved five cases, including the opposition to Wonju to Gangneung transmission tower. expand opportunities for public participation, and increase the quality of our service to the public. We have renovated our website to make it more user friendly, revised our information disclosure guidelines to enable more information to be shared and disclosed, and posted the entire list of the documents we produce. We have also contributed to Conflicts Efforts for resolution fulfilling the public’s right to know by disclosing the information on 218 cases of KR specific tasks. •Opposition to construction of transmission tower in •Adjust the electricity supply system and moved location of Wonju~Gangneung Pyeongchang Province area transmission tower to outskirts and moved it underground •Opposition to construction of Wonju~Gangneung Electric •Continue to provide basis of understanding for selection of Railway Substation substation location Conflict prevention management system Website Management •Complaint of noise and vibration from explosions in •Resolve complaint by paying Dongmak Village damages for their Open Management Renovation Disclosure Dongmak Village of the Seoul Metropolitan Area inconvenience Increase accessibility to Select 8 popular items Linked to ALIO (All Public •Request of change in track layout at Bonoh Apartment on •Decide track layout after negotiations with neighborhood fulfill the public’s right to and added icons for quick Information System Suin Line (Cost of track layout change will be paid by local representative and Ansan City Government government) knowledge access In One) to enhance comparability •Conflict with environmental organization due to •Joint visit and discussion with environmental organization resulted Dodam~Yeongcheon Line passing through Sobaeksan in change in location of incline shaft and reviewed other requests Top 8 popular items mountain range KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 54 + 55 Social Contribution Establishing strategy for social contribution Construction of public facilities with unused land Since KR’s establishment in 2004, all KR employees have been involved in heartwarming social contribution In order to improve the quality of life in improving the living environment of the local community, KR has taken activities to realize the firm’s vision of becoming a “Railroad leading to a Brighter World”. Rather than making simple unused land near railroads, such as under elevated railroads, and created trekking paths, exercise areas, and other donations, we established three action items to give back to the community through customized activities using facilities for public use to give back to the local community. Through these activities, we are fulfilling both our social our core capabilities and railroad infrastructure. To this end, we find and engage in appropriate social contribution responsibility and conducting environmental management. activities that will be beneficial to both the receiving and the giving parties. Category Activities •Create 11,889㎡ park in Jungwhadong Jungnanggu Mangwoo Line and 12,615㎡ park at lower part Strategy Park, trek path, and Railroad leading to a Brighter World Constructed Exercise Park at lower Mangwoo Line of Heogi elevated road on Jungang Line → Six projects including parks and walking paths with a total leisure park area of 88,041㎡ Objective Realize socially responsible management by utilizing core Exercise and parking •Bicycle path from Banseong Station to Sumokgwon Station on Gyeongjeon Line → Eight projects railroad engineering capabilities facilities including bicycle paths, exercise facilities, and public parking lots 153,008㎡ Social Contribution Activities in 2014 Social contribution activities customized for beneficiaries Four major strategies Public Local Share Protect KR is engaged in sharing activities with disadvantaged classes living in neighborhoods near railroads to fulfill our Blood Drive of Love social responsibility as a public institution and promote a culture of sharing. Our KR Youth Hope Project activities cooperation community knowledge environment Bazaar of Love include visits to welfare facilities, blood drives, and KR Youth Group, a group with 120 disadvantaged youths Financial assistance providing scholarships, school uniforms, and cultural experience events. In addition, through the “One Company, One Village Cooperation Program”, we help people in rural villages plant chilli seedlings and harvest potatoes and sweet •Create nature-friendly facilities through cooperation and utilization of railroad Coal Briquettes of Love construction capabilities potatoes. The Sharing Kimchi of Love program, one of our representative social contribution activities at KR, involves Action items Assisting the socially marginalized •Created public facilities with unused land, and give back to the community employees in the entire kimchi making process from planting cabbage seedlings to harvesting cabbage and gimchang •User-centered social contribution activities through sharing activities customized Support for underprivileged living near railroad (making a big batch of kimchi for the winter), and sharing the kimchi with the disadvantaged. We have also been on beneficiaries Sharing food and supplies in poor slum village providing warmth to marginalized classes living near railroads, and a sense of reward to our employees, with Our One company, One village volunteer work for rural Sharing Coal Briquettes of Love program since 2006. KR plans to continue sharing activities with local communities Execution town Run by KR Volunteer Group* and Social Contribution Committee** that need a warm helping hand. One group, One facility Regular volunteer work KR Youth Hope Project * Established KR Volunteer Group consisting of groups from headquarters and regional offices Support for scholarships, school uniforms, and ** Joint participation by labor union. Reporting and decision making on future plans and use of funds supplies Railroad camp of love and cultural experience Railroad construction site visit and cultural experience KR Green Forest clean-up Construction of nature-friendly facilities through cooperation and utilization of railroad construction capabilities Hours of participation (Unit: hour) KR uses railroad construction capabilities to transform disused line locations left from railroad improvement projects into nature-friendly facilities. This project has enabled us to revitalize local communities that are lagging behind 2012 15,463 KR Green Forest Clean-up Bazaar of Love economically. With the cooperation of public and private parties, we created railroad culture experiences, such as 2013 15,297 rail bikes on closed lines, and also installed eco-friendly spaces for environmental pollution reduction facilities, public 2014 16,386 safety, recovery of ecological environment, and solar power generation, to enhance the interest of the public. This activity helps us effectively manage disused land, creates jobs, and contributes positively to everyday life. We plan to continue such development projects and contribute to the local communities. Fund Accumulation (Unit: KRW million) Category Key activities 2012 201 High1 Choochoo Park 2013 230 •High1 Choochoo Park (opened October 2014) – Co-funded with KR and Gangwon Land. Built train Rail bike experience resort around Shimpori~Tongri in Dogye-eup 2014 280 •1.5km long Ajung Station to Ajung 2 tunnel on Jeolla Line •Utilization of disused railways in two areas – Youngju and Gyeongsan in Gyeongbuk (total area 24,915㎡) Solar power generation Sharing Coal Briquettes of Love Nazareth House – Sharing Kimchi of Love •Utilization of roofs of five locations Gongju station, Jeongeup station, Gwangju Songjeong station, facilities Sharing with the underprivileged Gwangju transportation depot, Pohang station – Total of 16,845㎡ Environmental •Wastewater treatment and water pollution prevention (262 locations), air pollution prevent ion (216 pollutionreduction facilities locations), waste treatment (120 locations), soundproof wall installations (124 locations, 15,381m) CSR performance •86 safety facilities for the community including 40 wells for groundwater depletion control, ramp, KR convenes a CSR Committee to decide on management of funds, activity, and future plans. We are using our Safety facilities Sharing Fund, Spare Wage Fund, and other voluntary donations to carry out our CSR activities. Our company’s pedestrian walk, new road for railway crossing, multi-level crossing •City forest under the Gu-am elevated railroad on Gyeongjeon Line, six buffer green zones by railroads capabilities and regionally customized/specialized activities were recognized when we received the honor of winning Ecological restoration in Ilsan and other places, seventeen ecological corridor and water channel, 135 fences to prevent the Korea Corporate Social Responsibility Award (December 5, 2014). We will continue to work actively to fulfill our Rail bike trespassing Corporate Social Responsibility Award social responsibility as a public institution and win the trust and support of the local community. KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 56 + 57 Performance Data Economic Performance Summary Receipt of Government’s Contributions (Unit: hundred million KRW) Summary Financial statements 2012 2013 2014 Summary Statement of Financial Position 41,590 46,834 50,322 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Hundred Current assets 2,521 7,365 5,786 million Hundred Assets Non-current assets 194,760 156,169 165,028 Economic Value Distribution million Hundred Total assets 197,280 163,534 170,814 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 million Hundred Economic Current liabilities 47,207 25,602 26,283 Sales, government Hundred million Value 87,792 101,538 103,639 contributions, bond issuance million Creation Hundred Liabilities Non-current liabilities 126,199 156,381 163,509 million Partners (investment business Hundred 62,042 70,972 79,424 orders) million Hundred Total liabilities 173,406 181,983 189,792 Finance costs (including Hundred million 24,850 33,804 23,848 principal and interest) million Hundred Economic Basic property 42,834 Hundred million Value Employees (labor cost) 1,013 998 1,139 million Distribution Hundred Hundred Loss (18,838) (18,438) (18,728) Government (taxes and dues) 26 513 76 million million Capital Hundred Operating expenses Hundred Other capital components (122) (12) (251) 26,608 24,860 25,357 million (overhead, etc.) million Hundred Total shareholders’ equity 23,874 (18,450) (18,980) million Indirect economic effects (Job creation) (Unit: person) Summary Income Statement 1) Railway business promotion: The results are different compared to last year’s reports due to 62,143 2,516 the change in calculation methodology Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 2013: Survey of workers at construction sites overseen by five local headquarters (Dec. 19, Hundred 2013~Jan. 29, 2014) Sales 7,806 8,105 10,704 million 2014: Used 2012 Bank of Korea’s employment Railway Partnership inducement coefficient by industry (10.56 people per 18,003 19,543 business 891 Hundred with private Cost of sales 4,688 4,877 7,023 10 hundred million KRW) promotion 1) firms million 148 2014 project funds from national budget 48,323 hundred million KRW; project funds from private 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Hundred Gross profit 3,118 3,228 3,681 capital 11,114 hundred million KRW4; created million 62,143 jobs Hundred Operating profit 3,118 3,228 3,681 The outsourcing of non-core, non-specialized 603 561 million 2)  600 543 581 functions (building management, outsourcing Hundred and management of call center, IT systems Non-operating income 499 515 441 477 million maintenance, etc.) created 603 jobs. Hundred 3) Provided employment for basic livelihood security Non-operating expenses 4,549 4,701 4,412 Dismillion Outrecipients, the disabled, women, and other sourcing 2) advantaged socially disadvantaged classes in areas such as classes 3) Hundred Net loss for the period 932 958 290 administrative support, security, and cleaning, million 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 creating 561 jobs. KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 58 + 59 Performance Data Social Performance Summary Support for SMEs Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Percentage of SME product purchases % 24.71 26.77 29.12 Employee status by roles Employment status Applications for joint R&D projects/ participating Application/ 6/7 10/13 6/7 company company Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Administrative person 412 410 421 Total employees person 1,363 1,363 1,363 Regular worker person 1,347 1,333 1,330 Transactions with partners Civil engineering person 410 417 415 By employment Indefinite contract workers person 21 21 19 Construction person 80 77 78 type Non-regular worker person 20 27 23 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Electrical person 228 225 219 20~29 person 33 29 56 Hundred Purchased materials (supplied materials) million 1,199 635 468 Communications person 55 52 48 30~39 person 297 218 224 KRW Machinery person 104 99 96 By age 40~49 person 712 696 687 50~59 person 304 380 354 Over 60 person 8 2 Training hours and investment person Female 154(11.43) 144(10.75%) 159(11.95) (%) Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Minority Females who are deputy person 17(1.26) 17(1.27) 22(1.65) employees managers and above (%) Hours of training per person hour 126 132 120 person Ten Disabled 47(3.49) 46(3.43) 44(3.31) (%) Investment on education per person thousand 96 92 88 Total Person 15 21 48 KRW person Core talent recruitment rate % 33.38 36.67 35.60 Disabled (%) Female person 6 10 18 New employees High school graduates person 2 4 8 Employee Welfare and Workplace Safety From specialized high schools person Majors in science and person 6 11 19 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 engineering Local talent person 9 9 21 Employee Satisfaction Point 76.4 78.5 81.6 Retired persons person 2 11 6 Accidents case 1 1 Retired persons Early retired persons person 23 29 27 Average years year person 17.7 18.9 18.5 of service Disabled (percentage) person 47(3.49) 46(3.43) 44(3.31) Customer satisfaction Labor union Overview Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Name of labor union Recruitment of Non-regular workers Customer Satisfaction Index point 74.6 74.9 Korea Rail Network Authority National Shinmungo Customer Satisfaction Index point 46.55 Labor Union Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Young internship program person 79 99 52 Partner satisfaction point 93.25 94.85 93.10 Establishment date of labor union Contract-based professionals person 5 8 3 Public institution Customer satisfaction Index (PCSI) point 93.98 94.1 94.2 2005.05.25 Contract-based workers with high school diplomas person *Since complaint filing (and handling) process has changed to be filed through ACRC Shinmungo System from August 2013, Customer Number of union members Part-timers person Satisfaction Index is no longer in use and National Shimungo Customer Satisfaction Index is newly used. (eligible employees) 1,235 Industrial Safety Number of full-time union members Other (admission rate) Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 5 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Construction accident rate* % 0.142 0.102 0.087 Average in construction industry % 0.43 0.46 0.45 Ethical ACRC comprehensive integrity Umbrella labor union Point 8.22 8.36 7.60 Management score Korean Confederation of Trade Railroad facility related accident case Case 34 32 Local community Volunteer hours per employee hour 11.4 5.8 6.3 (train, crossroad, platform) Unions/Korean Public Service and Transport Workers’ Union *Adjusted average accident rate of top 1,000 construction companies Society Violation of laws Case KR Sustainability Report 2015 GENERAL ISSUES Expansion of Presence in Overseas Markets | Strengthening Financial Soundness | Customer and Stakeholder Satisfaction | Social Contribution | Performance Data 60 + 61 Performance Data Environmental Performance Summary Data from KR headquarters and Railroad construction site (Partner companies) local headquarters Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Unit: tC02eq) Greenhouse gas emissions Data from KR headquarters and Railway Construction Site (partner) 779.23 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 local headquarters 680.10 653.53 Indirect tC02eq 27,984.27 23,354.82 24,031.30 Energy Usage Building Energy Usage (Unit: TJ) Direct tC02eq 3,012.67 1,900.90 1,921.18 Building (direct) Vehicle Direct tC02eq 12,834.84 13,257.74 13,103.05 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 80.96 2012 2013 2014 Indirect tC02eq 7,329.35 Building TJ 584.83 478.61 161.78 construction machinery 73.51 71.92 Direct tC02eq 217,728.38 Vehicle TJ 184.92 190.70 160.89 3,411.39 3,432.30 Construction machinery TJ 3,233.69 3,114.80 Building Air Pollutant Emissions Building (indirect) 2012 2013 2014 Material Usage Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Annual dust emissions kg 2,049 2,526 2,942 8.6 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of places with facilities that emit air Number of 8.14 24 22 16 7.87 Steel bars ton 710,336 880,432 1,045,654 595.43 pollutants places 561.20 539.74 New material ton 32,659 33,431 22,373 Rail Reuse ton 1,360 1,329 354 Vehicle Vehicle Water Pollutant Emissions New material Number 130,824 176,635 221,371 PC sleepers 2012 2013 2014 Reuse Number 17,344 23,046 21,936 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 New material Number 621 4,404 5,023 Annual discharged wastewater Ton 4,697,721.0 7,176,449.0 10,944,822 Neck sleepers Number of places with wastewater discharge Number Reuse Number 377 4,283 4,349 103.0 92.0 156.0 facilities of places General ton 5,149,954 3,452,853 2,804,024 Aggregates Circulation ton 309,033 331,811 62,849 Generated Waste Wood m2 3,398,301 3,031,012 2,067,901 Mold Alternative m2 3,015,981 1,951,122 2,026,688 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Generated Waste (Unit: ton) *Unit of usage of PC tie and wooden ties have change from ton to piece Generation amount ton 889,831.40 1,402,839.00 986,354.00 Construction waste Recycled amount ton 865,108.58 1,390,682.00 967,835.00 28.00 28.00 Total Generation amount ton 389,709.79 464,812.70 261,775.60 generated Industrial waste Water Usage (Unit: ton) Water Usage 27.00 waste Recycled amount ton 229,515.13 276,992.80 232,914.70 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Generation amount ton 1,129.15 5,646.50 12,697.50 53,297 Designated waste Recycled amount ton 15.53 876.00 2,840.30 47,043 Total ton 2,673,165 2,507,456 5,155,088 17.00 Recycled water ton 37,736 28,135 37,524 38,738 11.00 11.00 Key Environmental Indicators Water usage Recycled amount Performance indicator Unit 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Environmental management index points 158.1 212.6 226.6 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse gas reduction rate % 16.6 24.8 27.5 Violations of Environmental laws Case 4 Recycling rate of construction waste % 97.2 99.1 98.1 GRI G4 Content Index KR Sustainability Report 2015 62 + 63 General Standard Disclosure APPENDIX Externally GRI Description Page assured Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO’s Message 4~5 ● Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 12~13 ● G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 12~13 ● 63 GRI G4 Content Index G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 48~49 ● 66 Independent Assurance Statement G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 12~13 ● significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 68 Recognitions and Affiliations G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12~13 ● 69 Sustainability Report Organization G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 12~13, 50~51 ● G4-9 Scale of reporting organization 12~13 ● G4-10 Employment information, by type of employment, type of contract and by region 60 ● G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 ● G4-12 Key characteristics of the supply chain relating to key activities, products and services of the reporting organization 8~9 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, and ownership 12~13 ● G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 14~15 ● List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 70 ● organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations to G4-16 70 ● which the organization is affiliated Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Operational Structure of the reporting organization including key business departments, operating companies, affiliate G4-17 12 ● companies, and joint venture companies G4-18 Process for defining report content 20~21 ● G4-19 All material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 20~21 ● G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 20~21 ● G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 20~21 ● Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22 59 ● restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 2 ● Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 18, 21 ● G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 18, 21 ● G4-26 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 18~19 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded G4-27 18~19 ● to those key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 2 ● G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 ● G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 ● G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● G4-32 GRI Content Index 65~67 ● G4-33 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 68~69 ● Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 16~17 ● Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 24~27 ● GRI G4 Content Index KR Sustainability Report 2015 64 + 65 Externally Specific Standard Disclosures GRI Description Page assured CATEGORY : ECONOMIC Occupational Health and Safety Externally Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 ● GRI Description Page assured Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of work-related Economic Performance G4-LA6 35, 60 ● fatalities (by region, gender) G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk or diseases related to their occupation 35 ● Generic DMA 12~13 ● Training and Education G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 59 ● Generic DMA 44~45 ● G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 39 ● G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee (by gender and employee category) 61 ● Indirect Economic Impacts Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist G4-LA10 44~45 ● them in managing career endings Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 28 ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 59 ● Generic DMA 44~45 ● G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 29~31 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category (gender, age group, minority G4-LA12 44~45 ● group membership, and other indicators of diversity) G4-EC7 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 59 ● Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-EC9 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 29~31 ● Generic DMA 44~45 ● CATEGORY : ENVIRONMENTAL G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 42 ● Materials SOCIETY Generic DMA 34 ● Anti-corruption G4-EN1 Materials use by weight or volume 62 ● Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 24 ● G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 62 ● G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 25~26 ● Energy G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 27 ● Anti-competitive Behavior Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 ● Generic DMA 40 ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 62 ● G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 41 ● G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 62 ● PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Water Customer Health and Safety Generic DMA 34 ● Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 ● G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 62 ● Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for G4-PR1 33~38 ● improvement G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 62 ● Emissions Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 ● G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 63 Ten Principles of UNGC 10 ● G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 63 ● G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 63 ● UN Global Compact Classification Principles Effluents and Waste 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human rights Generic DMA 34 ● 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 63 ● 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Environmental Grievance Mechanisms 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 34 ● Labor 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 33 ● 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CATEGORY : SOCIAL 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Employment KR joined the UN Global Compact, an international agreement on corporate social responsibility, and Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 44 ● abides by the ten principles in the four major sectors G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover (by age group, gender, region) 44, 60 ● of human rights, labor, environment, and anti9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. corruption. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-LA2 45 ● locations of operations Independent Assurance Statement KR Sustainability Report 2015 66 + 67 To: The Stakeholders of Korea Rail Network Authority Introduction and objectives of work Materiality IMCSR (the ‘assurance provider’ hereafter) has been engaged by Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) to conduct an independent assurance of its Korea Rail The Report addresses the range of environmental, social and economic issues of concern that KR has identified as being of highest material importance. Network Authority Sustainability Report 2015 (the ‘Report’ hereafter). This assurance statement applies to the related information included within the The identification of material issues has considered both internal assessments of risks and opportunities to the business, as well as stakeholders’ views scope of work described below. The information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of KR. The assurance and concerns. provider was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. Responsiveness Scope of work The assurance process was conducted in line with the requirements of the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008) Type1 assurance. The scope of work The Report properly reflects the organization’s response to the material issues which are defined through process for identifying material issues.The included: Report presents related performances in its Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) sections. • Data and information included in the Report for the reporting period; • B ased on our work, it is our opinion that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Further detail is provided below; • Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze and review the information reported; • E valuation of the Report against the main principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008); Inclusivity General Standard Disclosures Materiality The assurance provider reviewed General Standard Disclosures, and believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of General Standard Responsiveness Disclosures. • Evaluation against GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ Criteria; The moderate level of assurance has been applied. Specific Standard Disclosures The assurance provider reviewed Material Aspects, DMAs and Indicators, and believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of Specific Methodology Standard Disclosures. As part of its independent assurance, the assurance provider undertook the following activities: • Interviews with relevant personnel of KR; Key areas for ongoing development • Review of documentary evidence produced by KR; Based on the work conducted, we recommend KR to consider the following: • Audit of performance data; • K R is advised to consider development of Key Performance Indicators against areas and issues of concern where they do not already exist and • Site visits; monitoring the progress; • Review of data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and review; • In order to integrate the material issues recognized from the stakeholders engagement into the sustainability strategy, it is recommended to organize • Review of stakeholder engagement activities; and operate a highest organization system such as a sustainability management committee; Our work was conducted against standard procedures and guidelines for external assurance of sustainability reports. Statement of independence, impartiality and competence Our findings No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with KR. We have conducted this assurance independently, and there has been no conflict On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that: of interest. The assurance team consists of the best experts equipped with sufficient knowledge and expertise in the relevant areas. • K R has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information. The information and data included in the Report are accurate, reliable and free from material mistake or misstatement; • T he Report properly reflects the organization’s alignment to and implementation of the AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) principles of Inclusivity, July. 2015 Materiality and Responsiveness in its operations. Further detail is provided below; CEO&Founder, IMCSR Alignment with the principles of AA1000AS (2008) Hyun Lee AA1000AS (2008) Principle Application Inclusivity KR has gathered major concerns and opinions from key stakeholders including government, media, business partner, local community, employee and union through stakeholder engagement programs. Recognitions and Affiliations Sustainability Report Organization KR Sustainability Report 2015 68 + 69 2014 Awards and recognitions Korea Rail Network Authority Framework of Sustainability Management Implementation Achievement Significance Sponsor The KR Sustainability Management is supervised by the Management Performance Division of the Strategy & Finance Department, and eleven teams cooperated to produce the Sustainability Report. Recognized for achievements in economic, environmental, social management for sustainable development (Sept. Korean Sustainability Report Award ‘14) Top Excellence Award in National Yeong Il Kang, Chairman & CEO Recognized as best example of training and achieving results through CoP activities (May '14) Quality Working Group Competition Outstanding and Participation Awards in Daejeon Quality Working Group Recognized as best example of resolving onsite issues by improving processes in safety/environment/quality Young Woo Kim, Vice Chairman (Jun. '14) Competition Award for Development of Idle In Seo Park, Executive Director of Recognized for contribution and active cooperation in city development project (Oct. '14) Railway Land Strategy & Finance Division National Quality Convention Presidential Award (One Silver, One Recognized for creative and innovative activities and promoting CoP and process improvement (Nov. '14) Jae Woo Lee, Director of Bronze) Management Performance Division Recognized for contribution to economy and strengthening competitiveness by promoting large and SME Contribution to Mutual Growth Award cooperative activities (Nov. '14) Management Strategy Department Young Kyun Kim General Manager, Contribution to Mutual Growth Award Recognized for contribution to development of local welfare programs (Nov. '14) Sang Hyun Park Deputy General Manager, Jong Ho Park Assistant Manager, Social Responsibility Award Grand Jung Bo Kim Assistant Manager, Recognized for customized social contribution activities including rail bike and solar energy projects, and “One Korea Social Responsibility Award Prize (Local community development Seon Hee Koh Staff company, One village” volunteer program (Dec. '14) Organizational Committee category) Fourth consecutive Minister of Land, Recognized for project cost reduction through design VE of trackbed for Pohang~Samcheok railway construction Transport and Maritime Affairs Award project (Dec. '14) Sustainability Approach Our Priority General Issue in National Design VE Competition Obtained 7 Grade in 7 Pl (QMS) Raised level of QMS operation through continuous improvement activities (Dec. ‘14) Planning & Budget Division Audit Department Overseas Business Planning Division Oh Na Kwon, Deputy General Manager Hee Yeon Yang, Manager Man Ho Park Deputy General Manager, Min Eun Lee DB Retirement Pension Grand Prize Recognized excellence in profitability, stability, portfolio, education, and pension management committee sponsored by Korea Economic Daily organization (Dec. '14) Assistant Manager, JiYeon Kim Staff Social Contribution Award Recognized for active participation in local community contributions (Dec. '14) Management Performance Division Management Performance Division Financial Strategy Division Minister of Land, Transport and Jong Ho Park Assistant Manager, Jung Bo Kim Jong Ho Park Assistant Manager, Jong Hoon Ahn Deputy General Manager, Recognized as outstanding example of information disclosure, by analyzing items which have had repeated Assistant Manager, Seon Hee Koh Staff Jung Bo Kim Assistant Manager Eun-Young Lee Manager, Maritime Affairs Award for Public requests and disclosing such information prior to receiving request (Dec. '14) Eon Jun Ahn Assistant Manager Jung Min Jeon Staff Information Disclosure Assessment Top Excellence Award, Korea Idea Recognized for achievements in enhancements in quality and productivity, cost reduction, process improvements Management Conference (Dec. '14) Human Resources Development Division Management Labor Division Hak Ryeol Kim Deputy General Manager, Se Hyun Lim Deputy General Manager, Ji Bin Kim Assistant Manager Jin Kyung Park Manager Planning & Budget Division Planning & Budget Division Affiliated Organizations Sang Hyun Lee Deputy General Manager, Sung-woo Jo Assistant Manager Sung-woo Jo Assistant Manager UIC (International Union of International Association for Korea Railway Construction Korea Association of Korea Industrial Technology Construction Planning Division KR Research Institute Railways) Construction Association Management Projects Promotion Association Yong Ho Shin Assistant Manager Jae-min Ahn Staff Korea Association for Korean Society of Civil Architectural Institute of Korea Institute of Traffic Institute of Korea Railway Engineers Korea Electrical Engineers Construction Standards Division Korea Association for Korea Association for Korean Society of Korea Society of Archives and Jin Sik Min General Manager UN Global Compact Korea Disaster Prevention Tunnel Underground Environment Education Records Management Safety & Quality Office Korean Korea Society of Yunkyung SM Forum Korea Association of Record Hyun Il Shin Deputy General Manager, Association for Audit Management Information Il Kwon Yoo Assistant Manager
