Sustainability Report 2014–2015 This is SMEC’s fifth annual Sustainability Report. The report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. Contents The CEO’s Message. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 The Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 The Executive Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Scope of Content. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Company Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Global Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Stakeholders & Objectives . . . . . . . . . . 18 Vision & Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Sustainability & Environment. . . . . . . . . 38 Global Reporting Initiative Index. . . . . . 46 Appendix A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Appendix B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 2 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 This is SMEC’s fifth annual Sustainability Report. The report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected international operations. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies and procedures have been implemented in Australia over the last year, and have been rolled out across selected pilot sites internationally. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to a self‑declared Level B. The GRI guidelines are the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting guidelines, and encourage greater organisational transparency. The data in this report has been gathered using standard measurement techniques which conform to national or international guidelines or regulatory requirements. Specific calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary figures are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. For further information, please contact: sustainabilityreport@smec.com. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 3 The CEO’s Message This is SMEC’s fifth annual Sustainability Report for submission to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and my first as Managing Director and CEO of SMEC. The purpose of this report is to measure our progress towards the five-year sustainability objectives outlined in SMEC’s 2014-2016 Strategic Plan. These objectives formalise SMEC’s water stewardship, through a better commitment to each of its three understanding of the risks and Corporate Social Responsibility opportunities associated with water categories: People; Community; and resource management. SMEC will pilot Sustainability and Environment. Under the Program in its Melbourne office these objectives, SMEC aims to: create in 2015, and will look to progressively a rewarding, inclusive workplace for implement the Program in all our people by encouraging personal Australian and New Zealand offices development, fostering equal over the coming years. opportunity and ensuring employee health, safety and wellbeing; support SMEC launched a companywide community and charitable programs; Employee Survey in March 2014, and eliminate or minimise adverse with the objective of identifying the impacts that SMEC’s activities have on Company’s strengths and areas for the environment. improvement through honest and Andy Goodwin open employee feedback. Employees Managing Director and SMEC is committed to improving participating in the survey helped to Chief Executive Officer the energy efficiency of our offices, identify key areas of strength in the and reducing the greenhouse business, including: strategy, goals and gas emissions generated by the objectives; corporate responsibility; Company’s operations. In October sense of accomplishment; and 2014, SMEC completed a CitySwitch engagement with work tasks. Areas Annual Progress Report for each for improvement were also identified, Australian office to assess the impact including: change management; of energy‑saving initiatives over the brand promise; career opportunities; last year and measure progress and recognition. In 2015, SMEC will towards the target four-star energy continue to develop and implement rating. These reports have provided a focused Action Plans to address each baseline assessment of current green of these areas. office initiatives implemented in each office, and have helped to identify new The promotion of gender diversity sustainability and engagement activities will remain a key priority for SMEC in for implementation over the next year. 2015. SMEC is currently reviewing the Company’s gender diversity practices, I am pleased to announce that SMEC in line with the criteria outlined by the has joined the Carbon Disclosure Australian Workplace Gender Equality Project’s (CDP) Water Management Agency. This companywide review Program. This Program forms part of will include the establishment of new CDP’s global standardised climate strategies in recruitment, retention and change reporting framework, and is succession planning. These strategies currently the world’s leading platform will support gender diversity at SMEC for corporate water disclosure. The and increase the representation of Program will assist SMEC in taking females at management and senior a proactive approach to sustainable management levels across all Divisions. 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 About SMEC In 2014, SMEC continued its the Top International Design Firms commitment to supporting people in across nine regional markets and SMEC is a professional services firm need through the small-scale grant eight major industry sectors. SMEC with a global footprint, recognised support of the SMEC Foundation. ranked at number three in the Dams around the world for providing fully During the reporting period, SMEC and Reservoirs sector; number 11 in integrated engineering solutions for donated more than A$90,250 to the Highways sector; number 12 in physical and social infrastructure 20 projects throughout SMEC’s Water Supply; and number 13 in projects. SMEC is consistently geographic areas of operation. The Transmission Lines and Aqueducts. ranked among the world’s top majority of funds went towards I am pleased with the progress SMEC engineering design firms, and has Community Development projects has made towards achieving the contributed to national development (65%), followed by Education (28%), Health (6%) and Emergency Relief Company’s sustainability objectives, in some of the world’s fastest (1%). The SMEC Foundation was and am confident that we are well on growing and emerging economies. recognised at the 2014 Australian track to meet the sustainability targets Charity Awards, receiving an outlined in the 2014-2016 Strategic Outstanding Achievement for its Plan. SMEC will maintain investment results-driven charitable work. in sustainable business practices to achieve long-term prosperity, SMEC has been highly successful on the awards front in the last year. In and will continue its commitment to embedding a culture of sustainability 5,400+ South Africa, SMEC won awards at the Consulting Engineers South Africa and environmental awareness in all functional, operational and regional people (CESA) awards, and the South African areas of the business. Institution of Civil Engineers awards for the Isando Pedestrian Bridge. I would like to thank all employees In Australia, SMEC was awarded for their ongoing support in creating Gold in the Client Focus category a sustainably-sensitive work at the Consult Australia Awards for environment, and look forward to Excellence with the Mid West Ports driving the implementation of SMEC’s 75+ Authority Asset Condition Assessment, Corporate Social Responsibility and received the Minerals, Energy Program over the coming year. and Related Services Award at the Governor of Victoria Export Awards. offices We have maintained our position in Engineering News Record’s (ENR) 2014 design lists, ranking at number 57 in the ‘Top 225 International Design Firms’ list, and number 76 in the ‘Top 150 Global Design Firms’ list. Andy Goodwin SMEC also secured strong rankings in ENR’s Global Sourcebook. This annual edition provides rankings of Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 40+ SMEC Holdings Limited countries SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 5 The Board SMEC’s Board of Directors is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining good corporate governance. Acting on behalf of shareholders, the Board is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational performance. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am 25 years’ engineering experience, with pleased to report that SMEC has made an emphasis on large infrastructure significant progress towards achieving projects in developing countries. John the Company’s sustainability objectives Stocco joined SMEC in September this reporting period, and I am confident 2014, and has more than 30 years’ that SMEC is well placed to achieve experience in the mining and minerals the sustainability targets set out in processing sector, with an emphasis on SMEC’s 2014-2016 Strategic Plan. planning, developing and implementing business strategy. Kalai Arumugam During the reporting period, there joined SMEC in 1993, and has over were a number of changes to 25 years’ engineering experience in SMEC’s company size, structure and both the public and private sectors, leadership. Foremost, I would like to and a strong background in business acknowledge the retirement of Ross development and project management. Hitt on 2 July 2014, after 34 years Peter Busbridge with the Company. Appointed as CEO In November 2014, SMEC completed Chairman and Managing Director in January the acquisition of Leadrail Infra 2009, Ross championed SMEC’s Solutions Pvt Ltd. Leadrail is a unique Localisation Strategy in the Bangalore-based specialist rail international business, and played a company that provides detailed pivotal role in bringing to life SMEC’s engineering services for track, vision of delivering outstanding alignment, bridges and structures. The infrastructure services for clients and skills of the Leadrail team, combined communities around the world. with SMEC’s expertise, will strengthen the Company’s rail and metro The Board of Directors would like to business in India and internationally. acknowledge the very sad loss of Manoli Loukas, Chief Operating Officer In December 2014, wholly owned Asia Pacific, who tragically passed subsidiary GMC Global fully rebranded away on 1 August 2014 at the age to SMEC, forming a new Asset of 50. Manoli joined SMEC in 2005, Management function. This will enable and was an excellent manager who us to build stronger partnerships with was fondly regarded by all those who our clients around the world, and worked with him. Manoli will long be deliver seamless engineering and remembered as an inspirational leader, ‘whole of life’ asset management a supportive manager and the genuine services under the one SMEC brand. person he was. In 2014, we welcomed three new Executive Committee members: Peter Rundle, Chief Operating Officer South Asia & Middle East; John Stocco, Chief Operating Officer Resources; Peter Busbridge and Kalai Arumugam, Chief Operating Officer Asia Pacific. Peter Rundle joined Chairman SMEC in July 2014, and has over SMEC Holdings Limited 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 PETER BUSBRIDGE ANDY GOODWIN ALASTAIR MCKENDRICK Chairman Managing Director and CEO Director and Group Finance Director Peter joined SMEC in 1974, and was Andy was appointed Managing Alastair was appointed Group appointed Chairman of the Board Director and Chief Executive Officer Finance Director in 2009, having in 2009. Peter holds a Bachelor of of SMEC in 2014, after serving as previously held the positions of Engineering (Civil) from Melbourne Chief Operating Officer South Asia Financial Controller and Chief Financial University and has completed the and Middle East since joining SMEC Officer since joining SMEC in 1999. Advanced Management Program at in 2012. Andy holds a Bachelor of Alastair was elected to the Board Harvard University. Peter is a Fellow of Science (Mechanical Engineering) as an Executive Director in 2001. the Institution of Engineers Australia, from the University of Witwatersrand, Alastair holds a Bachelor of Business and a member of the Australian South Africa, a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting) from Monash University, Institute of Company Directors and (Hons) from the University of South is a Fellow of Certified Public the Road Engineering Association of Africa, and is a member of the Accountants Australia and a member Asia and Australasia. BE(Civil), AMP Engineering Council of South Africa. of the Australian Institute of Company Harvard, FIEAust, MAICD BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) Directors. BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD KATE SPARGO MAX FINDLAY ROGER BAYLISS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Kate was appointed as a Non‑Executive Max was appointed as a Roger is a Non-Executive Director Director of SMEC in 2010 and is Chair Non‑Executive Director of the SMEC of SMEC, is Chairman of the of the Audit and Risk Committee. Kate Board in 2010. Max is Chairman of Remuneration and Nominations is currently Chairman of the Boards of the Board of EVZ Ltd and serves on Committee and Chairman of the Suncorp Portfolio Services and UGL the Boards of several organisations, SMEC Foundation Board. Roger was Ltd, and a Non-Executive Director on including the Royal Children’s Hospital appointed to the SMEC Board in the Boards of Sonic Healthcare Ltd, and Skilled Group. Max holds a 2002. Roger is a Chartered Chemist, Fletcher Building Ltd and CoInvest Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from a member of the Royal Australian Ltd. Kate holds a Bachelor of Law Monash University, a postgraduate Chemical Institute and a Fellow of (Hons) and a Bachelor of Arts from qualification in Accounting from the Australian Institute of Company Adelaide University, and is a Fellow Swinburne University, and is a Fellow Directors. Roger holds a Bachelor of of the Australian Institute of Company of the Australian Institute of Company Science from Sydney University. Directors. BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD Directors. BEc, FAICD BSc, MRACI, FAICD SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 7 The Executive Committee The Executive Committee (EC) has primary authority for the management and monitoring of the Company’s operations, and the implementation of the Company Strategy subject to policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors. The EC is comprised of nine senior individuals with extensive experience in strategic and operational planning. ANDY GOODWIN ALASTAIR MCKENDRICK NEIL EVANS Managing Director and CEO Director and Group Finance Director Director Strategy and New Business Andy was appointed Managing Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Neil joined SMEC in 1993 and was Director and Chief Executive Officer of Financial Controller, was appointed appointed Director Strategy and SMEC in 2014, and has over 30 years’ Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and New Business in 2012. Neil has more engineering experience in the energy Group Finance Director in 2009. than 45 years’ experience in the and infrastructure sectors. Andy has Alastair has over 35 years’ experience development, design and delivery of led multidisciplinary teams in technical across various industries ranging large infrastructure projects, and has and complex environments, and has from the management of major been a member of project boards developed and implemented business organisations to consulting for and review groups worldwide. Neil strategies leading to strong growth. small‑to-medium sized businesses. holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil Andy holds a Bachelor of Science Alastair has worked extensively in Engineering) from the University (Mechanical Engineering), a Bachelor Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong of NSW and has completed the of Commerce (Hons), and is a member and the UK, and holds a Bachelor of Advanced Management Program of the Engineering Council of South Business (Accounting) from Monash at Harvard University. BSc(Eng), Africa. BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) University. BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD AMP Harvard 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 ANGUS MACPHERSON JOHN STOCCO HARI POOLOGASUNDRAM Director Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Corporate Affairs Resources Australia and New Zealand Angus joined SMEC in 1993, was John joined SMEC in 2014 as Chief Hari joined SMEC in 1994, and was appointed Director Corporate Affairs Operating Officer Resources, and appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2010, and elected to the SMEC has over 30 years’ experience in the Australia and New Zealand in 2012. Foundation Board in 2015. Angus has mining and minerals processing sector. Hari has been a member of the SMEC over 15 years’ experience in business John holds a Bachelor of Engineering Australia Board since 2004, and management systems, project (Mechanical) from the University of has over 28 years’ experience in the management of large multidisciplinary Western Australia, is a Fellow of the planning, design and management projects and all aspects of civil Institution of Engineers Australia, and of large infrastructure projects. Hari engineering for the public and private member of the Australian Institute of holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil sectors. Angus holds a Bachelor of Project Management, the College of Engineering) and a Master of Science Engineering (Civil) from the University Mechanical Engineers Australia and (Civil Engineering) from City University, of Technology, Sydney. BE(Civil), the Australian Society of Bulk Solids London. BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, CPEng, MIEAust Handling. BEng(Mech), CPEng, FIEAust MIEAust, MICE, MIHT PETER RUNDLE TOM MARSHALL KALAI ARUMUGAM Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer South Asia and Middle East Africa Asia Pacific Peter was appointed Chief Operating Tom joined SMEC in 2012, and has over Kalai joined SMEC in 1993 and was Officer South Asia and Middle East in 30 years’ experience in civil engineering appointed Chief Operating Officer Asia 2014, and has over 35 years’ experience design, construction supervision Pacific in 2014. Kalai has over 25 years’ in engineering project management and management of multidisciplinary engineering experience in both the across the transport, infrastructure, teams throughout southern Africa. public and private sectors, and a strong mining and building industries. Peter Tom holds a Bachelor of Engineering background in business development is a Chartered Civil Engineer, and a (Civil) and a Master of Engineering and project management. Kalai holds a member of the Institution of Engineers (Geotechnics and Transportation) from Bachelor of Civil Engineering from the Australia and the American Society of the University of Stellenbosch, and University of Technology, Malaysia and Civil Engineers. Peter holds a Masters of a Doctor of Engineering (Engineering a Diploma in Financial Management Business Administration and a Diploma Management) from the University of from the Association of Chartered of Civil Engineering. MBA, DEng (Civil), Johannesburg. PrEng, BEng, MEng, Certified Accountants (ACCA). MIEAust, MASCE DEng, MSAICE, FIOD BEng(Civil), PE, DipFM, MIEM SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 9 Scope of Content The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected international operations only. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. For a complete list of SMEC’s controlled entities, please refer to Appendix A. Material Aspects Defining Report Content Figure 1: Material Aspects contained within this report and Boundaries In compiling this report, SMEC has To determine the material aspects, adhered to the Reporting Principles ECONOMIC boundaries and content of this report, for Defining Report Content. These SMEC completed a four step process principles are: Economic Performance of identification, prioritisation, validation • stakeholder inclusiveness Indirect Economic Impacts and review. This process ensured all • sustainability context aspects identified were material to ENVIRONMENTAL • materiality SMEC, and provided a structured • completeness Materials approach for implementation of the Reporting Principles for Defining Energy Implementation of these principles Report Content. ensures the content contained within Water Material aspects defined in this report this report is relevant, accurate, Biodiversity are those aspects which reflect meaningful and complete. SMEC’s significant economic, social Emissions Stakeholder inclusiveness and environmental impacts, or which Information in this report pertains Effluents and Waste have a substantial influence on the to SMEC’s stakeholders and has Compliance decisions of company stakeholders. been compiled with reference to the To determine the boundaries of each expectations, needs, interests and SOCIAL material aspect, consideration was information requirements of these made into the impacts of each, both Labour Practices and Decent Work stakeholders. within and externally to SMEC. Employment Sustainability context Material aspects contained within This report presents SMEC’s company Labour/Management Relations this report are displayed in Figure 1. performance within the wider context All material aspects identified have Occupational Health and Safety of sustainability, and explores the an impact both inside and outside ways in which SMEC contributes Training and Education of SMEC, and are relevant for all to the improvement of economic, Diversity and Equal Opportunity stakeholders outlined in Stakeholder environmental and social conditions Engagement on page 18. on a local, regional and global level. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Materiality Human Rights All material aspects identified in this report are relevant and sufficiently Non-discrimination important in reflecting SMEC’s Freedom of Association and economic, social and environmental Collective Bargaining impacts. Aspects identified as Child Labour non‑material have not been reported. Forced or Compulsory Labour Completeness Material aspects, scope, time and Indigenous Rights boundaries contained within this Society report enable stakeholders to assess SMEC’s performance during the Anti-corruption reporting period. Compliance 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Company Overview SMEC is a multidisciplinary consultancy that delivers infrastructure services to clients and communities around the world. SMEC operates in all key areas of SMEC provides clients with SMEC aligns technical expertise physical and social infrastructure, consulting services for the lifecycle with local knowledge to address the including: of an infrastructure project, including: needs of its diverse client base, and • Transport prefeasibility and feasibility studies; has delivered thousands of projects field investigations, laboratory testing in more than 100 countries. SMEC is • Hydropower and Energy and computer modelling; preliminary consistently recognised for technical • Water and Environment through to detailed design (structural, excellence, design innovation • Urban and Social Development civil, architectural, mechanical and and environmental and social risk • Resources (Mining, Oil & Gas) electrical); tender and contract management by the world’s leading management; quality assurance and • Industrial and Manufacturing engineering bodies. control; construction supervision; SMEC has operated for more than commissioning, operation and 40 years (in its current form), with maintenance; training and project the Company’s origins dating back management; and whole-of-life asset to the iconic Snowy Mountains management services. Scheme in 1949. As Australia’s largest infrastructure project, this scheme SMEC is consistently ranked amongst # 57 brought together over 100,000 people the world’s top engineering design ENR’s Top 225 from 30 countries to construct 16 firms. In 2014, SMEC was ranked International at Number 57 in Engineering News dams, seven power stations, one Record’s (ENR) Top 225 International Design Firms pumping station, 145 km of tunnels, 80 km of aqueducts and 2,000 km Design Firms and Number 76 in the of roads. The aim of the Scheme Top Global Design Firms. was to provide water for irrigation In 2014, SMEC continued to win and generate peak load electricity. industry awards for excellence, Managed by the Snowy Mountains including: the Client Focus Gold # 76 Authority (SMA), this A$820 million Award at the Consult Australia Awards project became an iconic symbol of for Excellence; the Minerals, Energy nation building in Australia. and Related Services Award at the ENR’s Top 150 Global Governor of Victoria Export Awards; SMEC has delivered thousands of Design Firms projects throughout Australia and and an Outstanding Achievement in New Zealand, Asia Pacific, South the 2014 Australian Charity Awards for Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the SMEC Foundation. North and South America, and works SMEC’s values of Teamwork & with clients to provide cost‑effective, Trust, Diversity & Delivery, Integrity & practical and sustainable project Innovation, and Safety & Sustainability outcomes. Clients include local underpin the way SMEC operates and and multi-national contractors, government departments, statutory defines the way in which the Company works. By adopting these values in a #3 bodies, private sector organisations, meaningful way, SMEC will continue ENR’s Dams & utility providers and International to grow as a business and strengthen Reservoirs Sector Financial Institutions (IFIs) responsible our reputation as a leading provider of for funding and coordinating major high quality consultancy services. infrastructure projects. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 11 Global Network NORTH AMERICA North & South America Established 2004 6 offices SOUTH AMERICA 150+ people 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 South Asia & Middle East Established 1968 17 offices 2,150+ people SOUTH ASIA & MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC Asia Pacific Established 1962 AFRICA 9 offices 730+ people Africa Established 1974 28 offices 1,330+ people AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND Australia & New Zealand Established 1949 17 offices 1,120+ people SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 13 Corporate Governance Company Structure Independence of diversity and size to adequately perform its responsibilities. The SMEC operates using a Non‑Executive Directors Committee aims to ensure that divisional‑functional, cross-matrix An independent Director is SMEC secures, motivates and retains structure. This structure consists separate from management, free highly skilled and diverse senior of: a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of relationships that could interfere executives and employees in order reporting to a Board of Directors; one with the exercise of independent to guarantee SMEC’s long-term global functional division (Resources); judgement, and meets the criteria for success. The Remuneration and four geographic divisions (Australia independence in the ASX Standards. Nominations Committee must have and New Zealand, Asia Pacific, SMEC’s Board has three independent at least three members, consist only South Asia and the Middle East, Non-Executive Directors. of Non‑Executive Directors, have a and Africa); and six industry sectors majority of independent Directors, and (Transport; Hydropower and Energy; have an independent Chair. Water and Environment; Urban and Board Committees Social Development; Resources; and The Board has two permanent Executive Committee Industrial and Manufacturing). committees which provide direction The Executive Committee (EC) has on specific areas. Each committee primary authority for the management SMEC’s structure makes use of a has written terms of reference and and monitoring of the Company’s number of subsidiary companies, is subject to annual review by the operations, and the implementation which meet operational (predominantly Board. These committees are: the of the Company Strategy subject to regional and functional) business needs. Audit and Risk Committee; and the policies and procedures approved Remuneration and Nominations by the Board of Directors. The EC is Board of Directors Committee. The Executive Committee comprised of nine senior managers, (EC) is not considered to be a Board all of whom have extensive experience SMEC’s Board of Directors is committee. The EC consists of senior in strategic and operational planning responsible for formulating SMEC’s executives appointed by the CEO. The in the engineering industry. SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining EC assists in the performance of the CEO is the Chair of the Committee, good corporate governance. Acting CEO’s duties to the Board and in their and is responsible for all matters not on behalf of shareholders, the Board role as an officer of the Company. reserved for the Board or individual is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational performance. The Directors (generally described as Audit and Risk Committee Board has a written charter which the day-to-day operations and The Audit and Risk Committee assists management of the SMEC Group). outlines its responsibilities and the Board with financial reporting, The EC’s terms of reference and governance framework. managing SMEC’s material risks and authority are approved by the Board. SMEC’s Board is composed of ensuring that financial information two Executive Directors, three (provided to investors and the Board) Non‑Executive Directors (all of whom is accurate and timely. The Audit Remuneration are considered to be independent), and and Risk Committee must have at of Directors a Chair elected by the other members least three members, consist only Non-Executive Directors are paid of the Board. Directors are leaders in of Non‑Executive Directors, have a annual fees, which in total fall their field, and their expertise, skills majority of independent Directors, and within the fixed amount approved and experience drive the Company’s have an independent Chair (who is not by shareholders (currently set at sustained long‑term growth and the Chair of the Board). A$1,000,000). During the 2013–2014 ensure transparency of operations. financial year, remuneration of Remuneration and Nominations All Directors are required to retire at Non‑Executive Directors totalled Committee the fourth Annual General Meeting A$454,511. Non-Executive Directors following their appointment, with the The Remuneration and Nominations are not eligible for bonuses or exception of the Managing Director. Committee assists in establishing a incentive schemes, and only statutory Board with an effective composition, retirement benefits are payable. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Code of Conduct Equal Employment Risk Management SMEC’s Code of Conduct establishes Opportunity Procedure The Board of Directors is responsible a common understanding of the In addition to the Code of Conduct, for ensuring there are adequate standards of behaviour expected of all SMEC has an Equal Employment organisational arrangements for SMEC employees in the performance Opportunity Procedure to promote designing, implementing, monitoring, of their duties. SMEC employees are a positive work environment for all reviewing and improving risk expected to comply with this Code, employees and clients. SMEC is management throughout SMEC. along with all other SMEC policies committed to promoting an inclusive and procedures, and any legislation SMEC is committed to maintaining organisational culture, and strives to applicable to their role. an appropriate system of governance provide a safe and flexible workplace and risk management applicable to all where employees and clients are The Code requires that all employees of the Company’s locations, business treated with dignity, respect and act with honesty, integrity and in units and functional groups in order consideration at all times. compliance with the law, perform their to: implement a Risk Management duties to the best of their abilities, be SMEC does not condone any System conforming to International accountable for their performance, behaviour which may be perceived as Standard ISO 31000; clarify the roles and work collaboratively with their bullying, intimidation, discrimination, and responsibilities of management colleagues. The Code encourages or any form of sexual or workplace and Boards; identify, assess and employees to report any unethical, harassment. As such, SMEC manage significant risks and dishonest or unlawful practices and encourages the development of an opportunities; maintain the integrity of ensure the safety of themselves and inclusive and diverse workforce, and SMEC’s assets, people and reporting; those around them. believes that diversity is a strength for and comply with legal obligations in all our people, our clients, our partners jurisdictions in which SMEC operates. In addition to the above responsibilities, and our communities. managers are expected to develop a SMEC seeks to improve risk positive working environment, provide SMEC is committed to attracting the management through: appropriate ongoing support and feedback to best talent, and engages in recruitment charters for the Board and employees, and take appropriate and selection processes that are management groups (including action if a breach of the Code (or based on merit. SMEC’s recruitment their responsibilities to their various breach of any other SMEC policies and activities are undertaken free of bias or stakeholders); a Code of Conduct procedures) may have occurred. discrimination, and in compliance with recognising SMEC’s responsibilities all relevant local legislation. to all stakeholders; promotion of workplace culture, practices and behaviours which value and reflect honesty, integrity and professionalism; the identification and management of risks, issues and opportunities at team, project, business unit, subsidiary and corporate levels; alignment of controls with the SMEC governance and risk management policy and framework; and the application of policies, controls, and review processes to all business units and subsidiaries. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 15 Corporate Governance (continued) Quality Management SMEC is committed to implementing During the reporting period, SMEC’s quality management principles on Design Management Procedure all projects, and has developed a was updated to incorporate the new Quality Management System (QMS) ‘Safety in Design’ system. Employee to comply with the requirements of training in system use was completed ISO 9001:2008. in all Australian offices, and ‘Safety in Design’ workshops are now held SMEC’s QMS provides systematic for clients, contractors and other key control of business activities to stakeholders involved in major projects. ensure that client expectations are being met and, if possible, exceeded. In 2014, SMEC’s Project Management The QMS includes processes for System underwent further review planning, documenting, managing in order to simplify and streamline and controlling everyday business procedures for minor projects. needs and activities, as well as In addition to this, a review of review processes to monitor all processes, systems, tools and measure performance and and templates used in proposal identify improvements. management was completed. As a result, a new Opportunity SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of Management System was launched the project lifecycle, from inception to improve efficiency of proposal through to handover, and provides a management and increase information formalised and structured approach sharing across the business. to project quality management. The QMS ensures: development of project quality objectives incorporating client operability, maintainability and delivery requirements; quantification of project risks through assessment; implementation of design management and review processes to manage critical design quality aspects; communication of risks and responsibilities through planning workshops; and development of risk auditing regimes. During the reporting period, SMEC maintained certification to ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and AS/NZS 4801 (OHS Management) in all major Australian offices from third‑party certifier, Global-Mark. In 2013, SMEC launched a ‘Safety in Design’ procedure and system in compliance with changes to Australian Work, Health and Safety Guidelines. 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 SMEC’s Quality Management System defines the processes for planning, documenting, managing and controlling everyday business needs and activities across the Company. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 17 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement SMEC’s stakeholders are identified Employees Clients as any person, group or organisation SMEC’s management has an Clients remain SMEC’s primary that has an interest or concern in the ‘open door’ philosophy, whereby focus, with the Company continuing Company. all employees may feel comfortable to proactively respond to their SMEC interacts with a wide range of approaching management to requirements. stakeholders, from local community discuss any issue or idea. SMEC encourages two-way communication SMEC works with clients to understand members and contractors to their business objectives, drivers, employees, clients, shareholders, with employees through the Staff Consultative Committee (SCC). The resources and processes in order industry bodies and opinion leaders. to deliver the best possible project SCC is a recognised committee SMEC stays up-to-date with emerging within SMEC’s management chain, outcomes. SMEC is responsive and trends and sensitive issues through comprising both employee-elected and flexible to clients’ changing needs, effective and regular dialogue with management-appointed members. and strives to build sustainable client stakeholders. This dialogue feeds The SCC acts in an advisory capacity relationships through integrity and trust. directly into the ongoing development to address employee issues and SMEC’s Client Relationship of SMEC’s business practices. SMEC management briefs. Management (CRM) system, Client recognises that it is important to Connect, and dedicated CRM engage with local stakeholders Employees receive regular company updates from the CEO and other senior Managers act as the platform for the to develop a Corporate Social Company’s client‑focused initiatives, Responsibility (CSR) framework that management via email announcements and SMEC’s intranet. The SMEC which aim to drive stronger and resonates with employees, clients, more sustainable client relationships. communities and other stakeholders. News, an electronic internal monthly newsletter (edited and produced by During the reporting period, SMEC The diverse nature of stakeholder employees for employees), provides expanded the Client Connect system, groups means a variety of information on SMEC’s projects, incorporating client‑specific Lync Chat methods are used to communicate people, events, achievements, Rooms to encourage knowledge effectively at every level. The types community engagement initiatives and sharing and client-focused discussion. of communication methods used company updates. Shareholders depends on the situation and During the reporting period, SMEC SMEC has a policy of continuous the stakeholder, and may involve introduced Microsoft Lync Chat Rooms disclosure and communication any combination of the following: to improve knowledge networks to shareholders. The Board aims one‑on‑one meetings; industry and information sharing in line with to ensure that shareholders are initiatives; corporate publications; SMEC’s 2014–2016 Strategic Plan. fully informed of all price sensitive company announcements; media The Chat Rooms are topic-based information. SMEC communicates releases; the website (www.smec. discussion rooms that enable instant with its shareholders through a com); the intranet; the internal communication, enabling employees dedicated shareholder website, an company newsletter (SMEC News); or to share functional and business Annual General Meeting, a published Lync Chat Rooms. development information, ask Annual Report and shareholder SMEC’s policies and procedures questions relevant to their functional announcements. The Board is identify and manage issues that groups, and collaborate on solutions responsible for ensuring compliance may impact stakeholders. SMEC’s in a quick and effective manner. with the continuous disclosure three major stakeholder groups are: requirements of the Corporations employees; clients; and shareholders. Act 2001. The Company Secretary is responsible for communicating with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Sustainability Objectives In 2013, SMEC set a number of five year objectives to help deliver on the commitments the Company has made in each of its three Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) categories: People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. SMEC reports on progress against these objectives in the Company’s annual Sustainability Report. People Community Sustainability and Environment Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment Create a rewarding, inclusive Support community and charitable Eliminate or minimise any adverse workplace for our people by programs that provide long-term impacts that SMEC’s office activities encouraging personal development, solutions. and projects have on the environment. recognising good performance, Raise employee, client and community fostering equal opportunity and Five Year Objectives awareness of the importance of ensuring employee health, safety • To deliver the best possible social environmental sustainability. and wellbeing. and development outcomes for people in need through small-scale Five Year Objectives Five Year Objectives grant support provided by the • To operate energy efficient offices • To provide and maintain a satisfying SMEC Foundation and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) and rewarding work environment for • To protect and uphold internationally emissions generated by SMEC’s all employees proclaimed human rights, particularly operations • To achieve and maintain cultural in the areas of child abuse and • To provide long-term and gender balance and increase forced compulsory labour environmentally sustainable project awareness of the importance of • To support and encourage advice to clients diversity employee participation in their local • To implement an Environmental • To provide employees with community, particularly charity work Awareness Program to educate personal and career development employees, clients, partners and opportunities and clear career paths contractors about the importance • To eliminate or manage hazards of environmental sustainability and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 19 Vision & Performance Vision and Values Industry Awards SMEC’s 2014–2016 Strategic Plan SMEC is consistently ranked among Australian Charity Awards was developed with input from the world’s top engineering firms, • Outstanding Achievement in SMEC’s Board of Directors, Executive and in 2014 was highly successful on Australian Charity Awards: SMEC Committee and overall employee the awards front, winning a variety of Foundation base. This companywide plan sets the awards in design, technical excellence, future direction of the Company for client focus and asset management. Consult Australia Awards for the next two years, ensuring SMEC’s Excellence business objectives are clear, realistic SMEC maintained its position in Engineering News Record’s (ENR) • Gold Award (Client Focus category): and relevant to the business. SMEC’s Mid West Ports Authority Asset key priority areas are: Client Focus; 2014 design lists, ranking number 57 Condition Assessment People Development; Organic Growth; in the ‘Top 225 International Design Firms’ list, and number 76 in the ‘Top • High Commendation and Systems and Processes. 150 Global Design Firms’ list. (Collaborations category): Gosford The Strategic Plan has a strong focus Passing Loops Project on SMEC’s clients and people, and SMEC secured strong rankings in • High Commendation (Client of features a Vision and set of core ENR’s Global Sourcebook (released the Year category): Brisbane City Values for the Company. The Vision in December 2014), including: a Council for SMEC is ‘to deliver outstanding number three ranking in the Dams and Reservoirs sector; number 11 in • High Commendation (Future Leader infrastructure services for our clients category): Luke Menefy, Senior and communities’. This Vision aligns the Highways sector; number 12 in Engineer Materials Technology, with the Company’s ethos of ‘Local Water Supply; and number 13 in Gold Coast, Australia People. Global Experience.’ and Transmission Lines and Aqueducts. • High Commendation (Firm of the supports SMEC’s localisation model Year category) of developing local people and being responsive to the needs of local clients. Consulting Engineers South Africa #3 #11 (CESA) SMEC’s Values are: Dams & Highways Reservoirs • Aon Engineering Excellence Awards • Teamwork & Trust (under R50 Million category): The • Diversity & Delivery Isando Pedestrian Bridge ‘The • Integrity & Innovation Walking Wonder’ for SANRAL • Safety & Sustainability Governor of Victoria Export Awards These Values underpin the way SMEC #12 #13 Water Transmission Lines • Minerals, Energy and Related operates, and define the way SMEC Supply & Aqueducts Services Award works. Employees are encouraged to adopt these values in a meaningful Stormwater Industry Association way. This will enable SMEC to of Queensland (SIAQ) Excellence continue to grow as a business Awards and strengthen its reputation in the • Excellence in Asset Management global market as a leading provider of Award: Brisbane’s Natural high‑quality consultancy services. Waterways Asset Management Plan 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Company Memberships • Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia • Association of Consulting Surveyors (Victoria Division) • Association of Land Development Engineers • Australasian Corrosion Association • Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong • Australian Green Infrastructure Council • Australian National Committee on Large Dams (ANCOLD) • Australian Water Association • British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong • Board of Engineers Malaysia • International Conference on Large High Voltage Electric Power Systems (CIGRE) • Consult Australia • Engineers Registration Board Tanzania • International Road Federation • Pakistan Engineering Council • Property Council of Australia (South Australia Division) • Property Council of Australia (Victoria Division) • Roads Australia • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Queensland Division) • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria Division) • Waste Management Association of Australia • Water Industry Alliance SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 21 Vision & Performance (continued) Economic Performance SMEC has policies in place to ensure Economic Value Generated Government Financial Assistance strong economic performance, and Distributed The Australian Government offers a sustained long-term growth and During the reporting period (1 April Research and Development (R&D) tax positive returns for all stakeholders. 2014 to 31 March 2015), revenue incentive (40% tax offset) for activities in Australia remained steady at which are innovative or have high Although SMEC has grown A$178.1 million. SMEC’s net operating levels of technical risk. Under the substantially, primarily through profit after tax in Australia increased to R&D tax incentive, SMEC may claim organic growth, there are still A$14.6 million. SMEC’s operating costs a 40% non-refundable tax offset. At ample opportunities to broaden increased by 1% to A$23.6 million, with the current 30% corporate tax rate, the Company’s product offering employee compensation decreasing this equates to a 10% net benefit. The and supply new markets. Strategic by 14% to A$130.8 million. The 40% tax offset is broadly equivalent to acquisitions may be considered where generation and distribution of SMEC’s a 133% tax concession. there are strong synergies and sound economic value within Australia is financial returns for shareholders. During the reporting period, SMEC displayed in Figures 2 and 3. While SMEC continued to grow in spent A$9.6 million on R&D activities In SMEC’s international operations, and received A$960,000 as a tax 2014, the Company experienced revenue increased by 8% to benefit, as displayed in Figure 6. a number of challenges, including A$288.6 million. SMEC’s net the deterioration of the operating operating profit after tax increased environment for public infrastructure by 33% to A$18.1 million. SMEC’s in Australia. Despite continuing tough operating costs increased by 8% market conditions, SMEC has strong to A$45.5 million, with employee levels of work in hand, and the Board compensation increasing by 8% to is confident that the Company is well A$217.7 million. The generation and placed for growth in the year ahead. distribution of SMEC’s economic value SMEC’s management team has within its international operations is examined the business and is making displayed in Figures 4 and 5. the necessary changes to reshape the Company to meet the challenging, and ever-changing operating environment. 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Generated VIC and SA NSW and ACT QLD and NT AUSTRALIA Revenue 51,574 79,972 46,550 178,096 Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 14,559 Figure 3: Economic value distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Distributed VIC and SA NSW and ACT QLD and NT AUSTRALIA Operating Costs (6,836) (10,599) (6,170) (23,605) Employee Compensation (37,887) (58,749) (34,196) (130,832) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – (5,206) Government (Tax) – – – (3,894) TOTAL (163,536) Figure 4: Economic value generated internationally (all figures are in A$’000) SOUTH ASIA Generated MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL Revenue 87,057 77,457 124,053 288,568 Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 18,149 Figure 5: Economic value distributed internationally (all figures are in A$’000) SOUTH ASIA Distributed MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL Operating Costs (13,728) (12,214) (19,562) (45,503) Employee Compensation (65,683) (58,440) (93,596) (217,720) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – – Government (Tax) – – – (7,195) TOTAL (270,418) Figure 6: Financial assistance received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) Claimed in 2014 Estimate Claim Tax Deduction at 133% Tax Deduction at 133% TOTAL (1/4/14–30/6/14) (1/7/14–31/3/15) (1/4/14–31/3/15) R&D Expenditure $2,394,805 $7,184,414 $9,579,218 Before Tax Cash Benefit $790,285 $2,370,856 $3,161,142 After Tax Cash Benefit $237,086 $711,257 $948,343 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 23 People Employee Demographics Key company strengths identified are: As at 31 December 2014, SMEC had • Strategy: the extent to which employees understand and identify a total of 5,421 employees across 77 global offices. Of these employees, with SMEC’s strategy, goals and 1,124 were based in the Australia and objectives New Zealand (ANZ) Division; a 4% • Corporate Responsibility: The decrease in ANZ employee numbers extent to which SMEC takes its from the previous reporting period. societal responsibilities seriously • Sense of Accomplishment: The majority of employees from The value employees derive from SMEC’s ANZ Division (78%) are their work, including the degree contracted on a full time basis, of challenge, purpose, sense of followed by casual (15%), part time progress and autonomy (6%), and fixed term (1%), as displayed in Figure 7. • Work Tasks: the degree to which employees are engaged SMEC’s ANZ employees are spread and interested in their day-to-day across the following regions: Southern activities (South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia), Central (the Australian Approximately 1,900 employees Capital Territory and New South completed the survey. Areas for Wales), Northern (Queensland and improvement were also identified, the Northern Territory) and New including: change management, Zealand. The majority of employees brand promise, career opportunities work within the Central region (42%), and recognition. SMEC is working to followed by the Southern region develop and implement Action Plans (32%), the Northern region (24%), and to address each of these areas. New Zealand (2%). Remuneration Employee Survey SMEC has four levels of Consulting SMEC launched a companywide Professionals: Principal, Senior, Employee Survey in March 2014, Experienced and Entry Level. with the objective of identifying the Figure 8 provides a comparison Company’s strengths and areas of actual remuneration at each for improvement through honest professional level (with gender and open employee feedback. The breakdown) in comparison with Survey was conducted in partnership the average industry benchmark. with Aon Hewitt, and was designed Remuneration benchmarks are based to enable employee engagement on Aon Hewitt’s Consult Australia benchmarking within SMEC, as well Remuneration Report. During the as benchmarking against broader reporting period, SMEC improved the industry standards. percentage difference in remuneration for both males and females at all professional levels. 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Turnover Figure 7: Employee numbers in Australia & New Zealand The overall turnover for ANZ Region Full Time Part Casual Fixed TOTAL employees in 2014 was 6.2%; Time Term comprised of 4.7% voluntary turnover Southern 275 30 57 3 365 (resignation or retirement) and 1.5% Central 363 31 64 8 466 involuntary turnover (dismissal, redundancy or demise). This is a Northern 217 12 41 1 271 significant decrease on 2013, during New Zealand 20 0 2 0 22 which the average turnover was TOTAL 875 73 164 12 1124 16%. This decrease in turnover may be attributed to fewer redundancies Figure 8: Remuneration at each professional level across the Company. Redundancy in 2014 accounted for 22% of turnover, Engineering % to Female % to Male down from 33% in 2013. Professionals Benchmark Benchmark Principal 99% 96% Senior 90% 92% Experienced 95% 91% Entry Level (0–4 years) 92% 89% Figure 9: Employee turnover by gender and age in Australia & New Zealand 30 MALE 25 Number of Employees FEMALE 20 15 10 5 0 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + Age in Years Figure 10: Reason for employee turnover in Australia & New Zealand 3% 3% 22% Dismissal Redundancy Retirement Resignation 72% SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 25 People (continued) Employee Benefits Flexible Working Arrangements During the reporting period, a total Employee Assistance Program SMEC’s Flexible Working of 28 employees took parental leave, SMEC’s Employee Assistance Arrangements (FWA) procedure was 79% of whom are female. Of the 22 Program (EAP) is provided by introduced in 2012, and includes female employees who took parental Davidson Trahaire Corpsych. Through options to vary work hours, work from leave, 50% returned to work and the EAP, employees can access home and job share. The objective of 50% still remain on parental leave. Of short-term confidential counselling the procedure is to enable employees the 50% of female employees who and financial advice. In 2014, SMEC to balance their work and personal returned to work, 82% returned on had a utilisation rate of 3.3%, showing commitments. During 2014, 23 new a Flexible Working Arrangement. All no change from 2013. SMEC’s rate applications (60% female) for a FWA male employees who took paternity is higher than the engineering and were approved, taking the total leave during the reporting period construction industry average of 3.0%. number of employees on a FWA to 39 returned to work. (69% female). Of the new applications Corporate Health Plan Australian Defence Force Leave received by female employees, more SMEC offers all employees a than half (56%) were aged between 25 SMEC introduced an Australian corporate health plan through BUPA. and 34 years, with 78% of applicants Defence Force (ADF) leave procedure The benefits include discounted health citing caring for a child under school in 2012. Under this procedure, SMEC insurance, waived waiting periods and age as the reason for the arrangement. provides up to 10 days ADF leave access to free health checks. At the annually (comprised of the Defence time of reporting, 209 employees were Purchased Additional Annual Leave Reserve Service’s Payment Scheme BUPA members (an increase of 14% SMEC introduced a Purchased and topped up to the normal salary on the previous year); 34% of whom Additional Annual Leave procedure level by SMEC). The scheme provides are female. in 2012. The procedure enables a weekly payment based on Average employees to salary package an Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings additional four weeks of annual leave (AWOTE). During 2014, one employee per year. In 2014, 174 employees took took ADF leave over two separate advantage of purchased additional periods. 100% of employees who took annual leave; a decrease from the 207 ADF leave were male. employees who purchased additional Tertiary Education Assistance annual leave in 2013. SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance Parental Leave program supports professional SMEC employees who are the primary development, allowing employees care giver of a child can apply for 52 to continue their education and gain weeks of unpaid parental leave, and the skills and knowledge required to are entitled to 18 weeks paid leave excel in their roles. Continuing full-time (comprised of the statutory paid and part-time employees, who have leave and topped up to the normal completed 12 months employment salary level by SMEC), capped at with SMEC, are eligible to apply for A$150,000 per annum. SMEC also Tertiary Education Assistance. SMEC provides employees with one week’s will reimburse participants 50% of paid paternity leave, in addition to their course fees, up to a maximum of annual leave, long service leave and A$10,000 per calendar year. Since the government-funded Dad and Partner program’s inception in 2009, SMEC has Pay entitlements. supported 31 employees (16% of whom were female) to achieve qualifications ranging from Certificate IV to Masters in a broad range of study fields. 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Gender Diversity Figure 11: Employees by gender and age SMEC is committed to promoting 250 MALE gender diversity, establishing an FEMALE Number of Employees inclusive working environment and 200 promoting engineering to women 150 through active industry representation and participation. 100 SMEC encourages a gender diverse 50 workforce by: developing strategies to 0 attract and retain female employees; 15–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + measuring progress in gender Age in Years diverse recruitment; encouraging the development of high-potential Figure 12: Employees by gender and employment type employees to establish a pipeline of female managers and leaders; and 600 MALE providing training to raise internal FEMALE Number of Employees 500 awareness of gender diversity and equal employment opportunity in 400 the workplace. 300 As at 31 December 2014, 20% of 200 SMEC’s employees globally were 100 female (an increase of 1% from 2013). In Australia and New Zealand, 0 Administration Prof Engineer Prof Non Engineer Support Technical this figure was higher, with 27% Employment Type female employees. These figures are significantly higher than the Australian industry standard. According to a report released by Engineers Australia, titled Women in Engineering: A Statistical Update, 10.7% of the total Australian engineering workforce and 16% of engineering graduates are female. As displayed in Figure 11, the majority of SMEC’s female employees in Australia and New Zealand were aged between 25 and 34 years (38%), followed by 35 and 44 years (32%). 65% of female employees were classified as professional (degree qualified engineers, scientists and corporate services), as outlined in Figure 12. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 27 People (continued) Gender Diversity (cont.) In 2014, 27% of new starters in Gender Diversity Initiatives In line with SMEC’s commitment Australia and New Zealand were In 2014, SMEC continued to to promote a gender diverse work female; 72% of which were degree implement a number of programs environment, a range of events were qualified professionals. As displayed to increase awareness of gender held across the Company’s Australian in Figure 13, the majority of female diversity. SMEC believes that in and international offices in recognition new starters were aged between order to achieve gender diversity, the of International Women’s Day. Held 25–34 years (47%), followed by Company must create cultural change on 8 March 2015, International 35–44 years (22%). by aligning work practices, processes Women’s Day is a global celebration and systems with diversity initiatives. of the achievements of women, In Australia, SMEC operates within six and a platform for encouraging technical areas: Transport; Hydropower The first step in creating cultural change is raising awareness of the greater gender equality. In Kenya, and Energy; Water and Environment; employees from SMEC’s Nairobi office Urban and Social Development; importance of gender diversity. participated in the First Lady’s Beyond Resources; and Industrial and SMEC is currently reviewing the Zero Marathon, an event to raise Manufacturing. Of these areas, three Company’s gender diversity practices, funds for mobile healthcare clinics in have a high proportion of female in line with the criteria outlined by the remote and disadvantaged areas. In employees: Water and Environment Australian Workplace Gender Equality Pakistan, presentations were made by (50%); Urban and Social Development Agency. This companywide review local female employees on balancing (24%); and Transport (20%). will include the establishment of new women’s roles in the workplace, the Gender Diversity Steering Committee strategies in recruitment, retention and family and society, while SMEC’s succession planning. These strategies Tanzania office marked the occasion SMEC is committed to increasing the will support gender diversity at SMEC with a celebratory picnic lunch. number of females in senior positions. and increase the representation of To achieve this, a Gender Diversity females at management and senior Steering Committee, chaired by management levels. SMEC’s Chief Executive Officer, was established in 2011. The Committee As in the previous reporting period, monitors the implementation of SMEC prepared an annual public SMEC’s Gender Action Plan to ensure report for submission to the Australian SMEC achieves its gender diversity Workplace Gender Equality Agency. objectives. During the reporting The report responded to a set of period, a review of the Gender predetermined gender equality Diversity Steering Committee was indicators, including: gender undertaken to ensure broader reach, composition; equal remuneration and a more localised approach to between women and men; availability gender diversity initiatives. and uptake of Flexible Working Arrangements; and consultation with employees on gender equality issues. Following submission of the report, SMEC received verification of compliance with the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Career Development Figure 13: New starters by age and gender 60 Career Pathways MALE Number of Employees 50 SMEC provides employees with clear FEMALE career pathways within its global 40 business. SMEC is committed to 30 employee development and workforce sustainability, and provides a workplace 20 with targeted learning and development 10 programs and an equitable reward 0 and recognition framework. SMEC 18–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + is looking to increase its investment Age in Years in training for the year ahead, as part of its overall workforce planning and Figure 14: New starters by gender and employment type management strategy. 100 MALE Succession Planning Program Number of Employees 80 FEMALE In 2014, SMEC completed a review of the Succession Planning Program 60 launched in 2012. The objective of this 40 review was twofold: to identify critical positions in the two management 20 levels below Chief Executive Officer; and to assess the performance and 0 Administration Professional Technical potential in employees suitable for Employment Type these Critical Positions. Succession Plans have been developed for each of the Critical Positions identified across the organisation. Each Succession Plan outlines: the individuals capable of stepping into the role as a temporary caretaker; those who are capable of fulfilling the role immediately; individuals who may be ready for the position in 1–3 years; and potential candidates for the position in 3+ years. In 2015, SMEC will focus on supporting employees and managers to engage in career coaching conversations in line with SMEC’s Career Coaching Guidelines. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 29 People (continued) Career Development (cont.) Project Management Training Training will continue to be rolled-out provide development opportunities, SMEC recognises the importance progressively in international Divisions offer mentoring and guidance, of project management skills for the throughout 2015. and encourage the submission of organisation and its clients. SMEC’s Engineering Competency Claims. Performance and Development During the reporting period, 24 2014–2016 Strategic Plan outlines Review the Company’s commitment to employees were enrolled in the PDP increasing capability in the area of SMEC conducts annual Performance through Engineers Australia; 25% of Project Management. and Development Reviews (PDR) for whom were female. all employees through the in-house In 2012, SMEC commenced a program appraisal system, CareerTrac. The Graduate Development Program focusing on the development of Project objective of CareerTrac is to review In 2014, SMEC launched an Management skills through accredited employee performance and set Australia‑wide Graduate Development training and internal workshops. future objectives by aligning individual Program (GDP) to assist graduates in SMEC partnered with Engineers performance, development needs and achieving their industry accreditation Education Australia and the Moreland aspirations with SMEC’s business plan. or ‘license to work’. The Program Group (with support from the National aims to provide graduates with a Workforce Development Fund) to The training and development diverse range of experience and a offer Certificate IV and Diploma of needs of employees are reviewed solid professional grounding through Project Management courses for annually as part of CareerTrac. This a combination of workshops, Australian‑based employees. review considers the needs of the presentations, hands-on project work employee, their manager and the and mentoring. Since the program’s inception, needs of SMEC as a whole. In 2014, 29 employees have completed the 74% of employees who participated Through the GDP, graduates are training; 41% of whom are female. in CareerTrac were male and 26% provided with a comprehensive 14 employees received a Certificate were female (this aligns with SMEC’s development program designed IV in Project Management and 15 gender workforce composition). The to achieve industry accreditation employees received a Diploma of majority of employees (77%) received within four years. This program Project Management. a ‘Meets Expectations’ rating in includes: rotational opportunities CareerTrac, followed by ‘Exceeds through a range of disciplines; Equal Employment Opportunity Expectations’ (21%). experience across broad technical Training and non‑technical assignments; SMEC introduced an Equal Professional Development Program networking opportunities; and Employment Opportunity (EEO) The Professional Development mentoring and support from local framework in 2012 to promote a safe, Program (PDP) is one of four pathways regional leadership teams. During the inclusive and flexible work environment offered by Engineers Australia to assist reporting period, 72 graduates were for all employees and clients. This members in achieving a Chartered enrolled in the GDP; 21% of whom comprehensive framework covers Engineer status. SMEC supports were female. training, policy development and employees in their professional review, and is designed to encourage development through sponsorship mutual respect in the workplace and of this Program, including funding reinforce SMEC’s company values. the cost of registration and ongoing assessment fees. Implementation of the EEO framework continued in 2014, with 230 employees Managers play a key role in assisting receiving online Equal Employment employees with the completion of Opportunity Training throughout their PDP. Managers are required Australia; 30% of whom were female. to monitor employees’ progress, 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Career Recognition SMEC values its employees’ commitment to the Company and SMEC recognises the believes it is important to acknowledge career milestones. SMEC’s Career outstanding technical Recognition Program formalises excellence of its this process. Each year, employees who achieve a career milestone of employees through the between five and 50 years (at five year annual SMEC Awards. intervals) are acknowledged for their commitment to the Company. In 2014, a review of the Program was undertaken in response to SMEC’s Employee Engagement Survey, whereby employees identified that improved recognition practices were needed. As a result, SMEC introduced a new Global Career Recognition Program in January 2015 to improve the consistency and timeliness of milestone recognition. During the reporting period, 121 employees achieved a career milestone; 21% of whom were female. SMEC recognises the outstanding technical excellence of its employees, as well as their contribution to the Company, the wider industry and the community, through the annual SMEC Awards. There are five SMEC Awards categories: the SMEC Medal, Project of the Year, Young Professional of the Year (male and female categories), Safety and Wellbeing Award and the Community Award. In 2014, a special award commemorating the late Manoli Loukas, former Chief Operating Officer of the Asia Pacific Division, was introduced into the SMEC Awards. The Manoli Loukas Mentoring Award recognises an employee’s outstanding contribution to fostering the development of others, with an emphasis on mentoring. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 31 People (continued) Workplace Health and Safety Health and Safety Commitment SMEC’s Zero Harm objectives are: (WH&S) reporting in 2014, followed SMEC is committed to promoting and • zero incidents that cause a fatality by reactive reporting (16%) and injury maintaining a culture and working reporting (16%). • zero incidents that cause a environment in which risk to health permanent disability Overall, SMEC had a total of 146 and safety is unacceptable. To meet • zero incidents that cause reported incidents in 2014. ‘Drills this commitment, SMEC (in so far as permanent health issues and Inspections’ accounted for the reasonably practicable) provides safe greatest number of reports, with and healthy working conditions for all • zero long-term psychological injury due to the work environment 32 reported. This was followed by people associated with the Company, ‘Safety Talks / Updates / Meetings’ including employees, contractors, • zero long-term detrimental impact (30 reported) and ‘Near Misses’ (21 visitors and the general public. on the environment reported). Figures 15 and 16 display • year-on-year reductions in a breakdown of reported incidents by In order to meet these responsibilities, workplace injuries SMEC: region and activity. In the Australia and Safety in Design New Zealand Division, the Lost Time • Maintains a safe work environment Injury (LTI) frequency rate per million (including work conditions, SMEC invests in its people to enhance hours worked decreased from 2.9 in practices and procedures) their knowledge and encourage the 2013 to 1.9 in 2014. • Ensures full compliance with all implementation of safety principles in applicable statutory and licensing the design and delivery of projects. A suite of online Job Safety and requirements SMEC works closely with clients Environment Analysis (JSEA) and Safe to ensure that the safety needs of Work Method Statements (SWMS) • Undertakes proactive reporting of near misses, hazards, drills their projects are well documented forms were released in 2014 for and inspections to ensure that all within Scope of Works and Project task‑related activities. Improvements incidents are accurately reported, Management Plans. SMEC facilitates to the forms included clearer recorded and lessons learnt Safety in Design training and identification of control measures and are shared awareness programs to educate documentation of risk controls. employees and clients in regards to: • Involves all employees and local legislation requirements; potential Safety and Wellbeing Award management in health and safety cost savings; and the ability to eliminate In 2012, SMEC introduced the management through consultation or reduce hazards. Safety and Wellbeing Award into the • Develops safety awareness annual SMEC Awards. This award throughout the Company via formal 2014 Year in Review – Australia and recognises an initiative (implemented and informal training New Zealand Division within the last year) that has had the • Minimises or eliminates hazards In 2014, SMEC continued to improve greatest positive impact on safety and within the workplace through risk proactive health and safety initiatives, wellbeing at SMEC. identification, assessment, control including regular Safety Talks in all and monitoring Australian and New Zealand offices. Shaun Chamberlain from SMEC’s SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive Johannesburg, South Africa office Zero Harm Culture alerts’ reporting targets for the fourth was awarded the 2014 Safety and SMEC aims to develop a workplace that consecutive year. Proactive alerts Wellbeing Award. Shaun managed eliminates the risk of serious harm to any involve regular and planned testing, the development of a South African person affected by SMEC’s business inspection and identification of potential Environmental Management System activities. To achieve this, SMEC has hazards before an incident occurs. for ISO 14001 certification. Combined implemented policies, procedures, with SMEC South Africa’s ISO 9001 guidelines, work instructions and SMEC’s 2014 target of 60 proactive (Quality) and ISO 1800 (Health and reporting tools to measure progress alerts was surpassed by 61%, with Safety) certification, ISO 14001 towards Zero Harm objectives. SMEC recording 99 proactive alerts. will place SMEC at the forefront of Proactive reporting accounted for 68% required certification in South Africa’s of all Workplace Health and Safety engineering industry. 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Health and Safety in 2015 Figure 15: Reported incidents by region: Australia and New Zealand Division In 2015, SMEC will continue its 20 commitment to safety as a core value of the Company. SMEC will work to Number of Incidents 15 maintain a Zero Harm environment for its employees, contractors, visitors 10 and the general public. To achieve this goal, SMEC has set a number of objectives and targets for 2015, as 5 outlined in ‘Zero Harm Culture’ on page 32. 0 Central Northern Southern New Zealand Reporting: SMEC will encourage all Region international Divisions to proactively report ‘Near Misses’, ‘Hazards’ and Figure 16: Reported incidents by activity: Australia and New Zealand Division ‘Drills and Inspections’. 30 Review of Sub-contractors/ Supplier Register: SMEC will 25 undertake a review of its current Number of Incidents 20 Sub-contractors/Supplier Register and implement a new accreditation 15 process to ensure compliance with regulatory, legislative and standard 10 requirements in the areas of Health and Safety, Environment, Quality, and 5 Risk Management. 0 Tiered Risk Approach to Safety: External Event Office Project Site Travel Activity SMEC will continue working towards a goal of Zero Harm to any person for whom SMEC is responsible during Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection project delivery. This will be aided by: Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss ongoing Safety Talks; regular alerts Hazard External Event First Aid and updates; monthly safety features in the internal company newsletter; Safety Moments during team and management meetings; and office and site-related safety inspections. The SMEC Safety Handbook will be revised to allow the publication to be viewed on multiple platforms and devices. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 33 Community Human Rights Community Involvement SMEC supports and respects the Indigenous Rights SMEC is committed to developing protection of internationally proclaimed SMEC works closely with clients to sustainable communities where human rights. SMEC ensures it is ensure the rights and heritage of its employees live and work by not complicit in human rights abuses Australia’s indigenous population supporting community programs through a broad range of policies and are protected. This includes the that provide long-term social and frameworks. completion of Indigenous Heritage economic improvements. Corruption and Bribery Assessments and Management Plans Community Award as a component of Environmental SMEC’s Code of Conduct prohibits Impact Assessments. SMEC In 2013, SMEC introduced the bribery and corruption by employees, encourages active participation, Community Award as part of the consultants and third parties who skill development and long‑term annual SMEC Awards. This award act on SMEC’s behalf. All of SMEC’s employment opportunities for recognises an individual’s outstanding standard commercial agreement indigenous people wherever possible. contribution to the improvement of templates include anti-corruption and their local community, or the broader anti-bribery protection provisions. In 2014, SMEC was awarded community, with an emphasis on a contract for the design, charity work. Child Protection Policy documentation and construction SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance administration of Stages 3 and 4 of the Balbino Pizarro from SMEC’s policy in relation to child exploitation Zuccoli Residential Development. Chile office was awarded the and abuse. Child abuse includes 2014 Community Award. Balbino unacceptable behaviour directly Located in Darwin in Australia’s contributed his personal time to involving children or observed by Northern Territory, Stages 3 and 4 assist in the organisation of an annual children. Child Protection Policy comprise 133 hectares of land that will Summer Carnival in Tocopilla, a training is a mandatory element in include 1,700 dwellings (for over 4,000 community in the Antofagasta region SMEC’s induction process. residents), a local primary school and of northern Chile. Balbino worked with a shopping hub. underprivileged teenagers as part of SMEC’s Child Protection Policy is a rehabilitation program for substance currently undergoing a review to SMEC worked with the project abuse issues. ensure recruitment practices, training developer, the Costojic Group, and the content and reporting procedures not-for-profit conservation organisation, remain as effective as possible in Greening Australia, to generate 10 preventing any form of unacceptable horticultural traineeships and four behaviour towards children. apprenticeships in civil construction for indigenous students working on Forced and Compulsory Labour the development. These traineeships SMEC’s Code of Conduct ensures will give students valuable experience that ethical employment and labour in landscape maintenance, seed practices are implemented across collection, weed management, park the Company. SMEC complies with planting and creek restoration works. national employment legislation and Upon completion of traineeships, is committed to the elimination of all students will receive certificate level forms of forced and child labour. degrees in Horticulture and Land Management. 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Community Development SMEC engages in community development through the SMEC Foundation, a core part of SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Program. The SMEC Foundation operates with the philosophy that a small amount of money spent wisely can produce far-reaching social and economic benefits. Established in 2001, the SMEC Foundation provides small-scale grant support for people in need. The SMEC Foundation aims to improve the quality of life for people who live in geographic regions where SMEC has a presence, by addressing the causes of poverty and assisting communities (and individuals) to become more self-sufficient. Operating with financial support from SMEC employees, the SMEC Foundation focuses on projects in the areas of health, education, community development, emergency relief and the environment. Since its inception, the SMEC Foundation has donated A$1 million+ to over 200 projects in more than 30 countries. In 2014, the SMEC Foundation was awarded an Outstanding Achievement at the Australian Charity Awards. Part of the Australian Business Awards, the Charity Awards recognise organisations that have achieved outstanding results through initiatives that significantly benefit charitable causes. During this reporting period, SMEC donated over A$90,250 to 20 projects throughout SMEC’s geographic areas of operation. The majority of these donations went towards Community Development projects (65%), followed by Education (28%), Health (6%) and Emergency Relief projects (1%). SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 35 Community (continued) SMEC Community Projects Australian–Himalayan Foundation Medical Screenings Nepal SMEC donated A$5,000 to the Australian–Himalayan Foundation for the provision of doctors, nurses, medical supplies and treatment at mobile education camps in the remote Solo Khumbu region of Nepal. Cervical cancer is the highest cause of cancer death among women in Nepal, and less than 4% of women are currently screened. The Australian–Himalayan Foundation is working to improve screening rates by providing free health education programs and medical screens to Nepalese women in remote communities. In June 2014, four screening camps under a SMEC grant were successful in providing more than 600 women with cervical and breast screens, follow-up tests and treatments. Bright Start Education Support Program South Africa Bright Start is a support program that provides quality education to children and adults in the historically disadvantaged communities of Imizamo Yethu and Hangberg in Hout Bay, South Africa. SMEC donated A$2,150 to support afterschool care facilities for children participating in the program. These facilities ensure children have a safe, secure and supervised environment in which to play after school. In addition to providing financial assistance for school fees, the Program seeks to address the social, physical, emotional and cultural wellbeing of participants by offering a dedicated mentoring program to students and their families. Hoi An Children’s Home Vietnam The Hoi An Children’s Home is facilitated by Children’s Hope in Action (CHIA), a charitable program supporting disadvantaged children, their families and the wider community in the Quang Nam province of Vietnam. The Home provides a safe place of residence and access to local schooling for more than 30 underprivileged children. SMEC donated A$2,700 to CHIA for the provision of recreational and fitness equipment for the Home’s new gymnasium. This equipment will be used to help facilitate fitness classes, stress and relaxation programs, and nutrition and wellbeing courses for the Home’s residents. 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 SMEC Community Projects (continued) Devland Community Centre South Africa SMEC donated A$34,270 towards development of the Devland Community Centre, an education and community facility located in Soweto, South Africa. The Centre includes: two main auditoriums; two classrooms; an office; a washroom and ablution area; and a kitchen and cafeteria. The Centre is sponsored entirely through donations and acts as a multipurpose learning centre for underprivileged local residents. SMEC also provided civil and structural design engineers on a pro bono basis during design and construction. The Centre has dramatically improved the standard of living for Soweto’s local residents, assisting more than 46,000 people each month. Las Araucarias Preschool Chile The Las Araucarias Preschool is operated by the Government of Chile’s National Board of Kindergartens, an agency dedicated to the education and protection of children in preschools throughout Chile. Las Araucarias provides early childhood education and development support for more than 100 underprivileged children (aged between two and four years) from the Huechuraba commune, an impoverished area in the Santiago province. SMEC has supported the Las Araucarias Preschool since 2012, and in 2014 donated A$2,900 for the purchase of educational materials and cleaning equipment at the Preschool. SMEC also provided support in hosting a range of family and community performance events. Girl Guides of Yellow Rock Australia In October 2013, bushfires spread through Winmalee and Yellow Rock in New South Wales, Australia, destroying more than 200 houses. The local Girl Guides’ Hall, outdoor activity area and storage facility were also severely damaged in the fires, with much of the Guides’ outdoor equipment destroyed. SMEC donated A$525 to the Girl Guides of Yellow Rock for the purchase of new tents and camping equipment. Following reconstruction of the storage facility and completion of a new outdoor playing field and recreation area, the Guides will use SMEC’s grant to purchase new camping and outdoor equipment, including tents, camping stoves, tarps, lanterns and water carriers. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 37 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Principles SMEC invests in sustainable business practices to achieve long-term prosperity, and is committed to embedding a culture of sustainability and environmental awareness in all functional, operational and regional areas of the business. SMEC strives to undertake all project and office activities in an environmentally responsible manner, and to identify, manage and mitigate any risks that may impact negatively on the environment. SMEC continues to improve its Environmental Management Policy Environmental Impact Assessment understanding of the sources, scope SMEC operates under a detailed SMEC has controls in place to and extent of its resource use, and is Environmental Management Policy manage and (wherever possible) committed to improving the energy which is reviewed and reaffirmed reduce potential environmental efficiency of its offices, and reducing annually by SMEC’s Chief Executive impacts resulting from project and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Officer. SMEC is committed to office activities. Project Managers and generated by the Company’s operating in an environmentally Regional Managers are responsible operations. responsible manner by: for determining the potential Since 1999, SMEC has operated • Implementing and improving consequences of environmental under a companywide Environmental environmental management impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental Management Policy and an systems, in accordance with Impact Assessment Scale (as Environmental Management System ISO 14001 displayed in Appendix B). (EMS), formalising the Company’s • Complying with legal requirements Where the environmental impact rating commitment to environmental • Implementing environmental is above eight, SMEC employees are responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies management programs to achieve required to develop an Environmental with the requirements of ISO 14001 environmental objectives and Management Plan (EMP), outlining (Environmental Management), targets appropriate risk treatments, targets, and is designed to ensure the objectives, controls and responsibilities. implementation of sustainable • Conducting all activities in an environmentally responsible manner Where a risk rating is identified as business systems, procedures and above 15, the hazard is assigned to to minimise the potential for adverse practices. In 2014, all Australian and senior management for review. Where environmental impacts New Zealand offices maintained a risk rating is identified as 20 or above, certification with ISO 14001. • Enhancing the beneficial the hazard is assigned to executive environmental effects of any SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic management. It is management’s activities to improve the quality of and methodical approach to planning, responsibility to ensure the risk is the environment for current and implementing and reviewing SMEC’s managed in an appropriate manner future generations environmental performance. The across the Company’s operations. • Preventing pollution associated with objective of the EMS is to avoid (or SMEC’s activities Project Managers must develop and minimise) environmental impact, while document environmental objectives contributing lasting environmental • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable and and targets for each project during the benefits to local communities in planning stage. Achievements against practical solutions to clients which SMEC operates. Effective these set objectives and targets are implementation of the EMS has • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing measured annually for long-term assisted SMEC in creating a SMEC’s environmental performance projects, and upon project completion company culture that is focused on for short-term projects. incorporating sustainable practices into everyday business decisions. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Sustainable Offices Environmental Management Plans • Enabling the ‘power saver’ function corporate sustainability policies, All of SMEC’s major Australian on printers and faxes procedures and guidelines; relevant and New Zealand offices have • Defaulting printers to double-sided supplementary publications and Environmental Management Plans printing materials; and a ‘Submit Your Green (EMPs) in place. These plans provide Idea’ suggestion box. • Recycling printer toner cartridges an assessment of environmental • Recycling paper, glass and plastics During the reporting period, SMEC impacts associated with each office extended the ‘Think Green. Take in the areas of procurement, waste • Providing reusable envelopes for inter-office mail Action’ program to incorporate a generation, electricity, transport and monthly sustainability update in water. Objectives, targets, actions Sustainable Procurement the Company’s internal employee and processes are then outlined Procedure newsletter. This update includes for each aspect, with timelines and relevant information for employees In 2014, SMEC continued the responsibilities identified to ensure on new green programs, results and implementation of its Sustainable accountability. progress of existing initiatives, and Procurement Procedure. Employees The objective of these EMPs is: to who undertake procurement of tips on incorporating sustainability into minimise harm to the environment; items valued over A$150,000 (capital their day-to-day activities. ensure compliance with ISO 14001 works, fleet and office supplies) Local induction modules and (Environmental Management) must complete an Environmental orientation booklets were developed requirements; improve environmental Sustainability and Social Equity for each Australian office, to educate performance; increase reporting Questionnaire. This Questionnaire new starters on SMEC’s corporate transparency; and assist in mapping determines whether purchases: sustainability objectives, national SMEC’s progress towards its minimise waste disposal; reduce environmental programs, and localised sustainability objectives. greenhouse gas emissions; maximise green initiatives. These induction resource efficiency; conserve and Office initiatives implemented during materials provide employees who improve biodiversity; incorporate the reporting period via the EMPs, are new to SMEC with: an overview ethical considerations; or have a low include: of the Company’s Corporate Social carbon footprint. Responsibility (CSR) Program; contact • Installing Video Conferencing (VC) details for their local office’s CSR Think Green. Take Action equipment to reduce non-essential Coordinator; locations of recycling travel SMEC’s ‘Think Green. Take Action’ stations; and details on SMEC’s • Implementing online training to program continued in 2014. The dedicated ‘Think Green. Take Action’ reduce travel and training materials objectives of the program are: to intranet site. raise employee awareness about • De-lamping and upgrading lighting the importance of environmental where possible sustainability; encourage proactive • Encouraging public transport use participation in SMEC’s sustainability (by making train, bus or tram tickets initiatives; and communicate the available for employee use) Company’s progress towards its • Purchasing paper from sustainable environmental objectives. forestry operations (with green manufacturing processes) The program includes a dedicated intranet site containing a range • Encouraging the use of cloud‑based of sustainability resources for technology to share information (such employees, including: Corporate as reports, plans and contracts) Social Responsibility (CSR) between external and internal announcements and updates; tips for project teams, in lieu of hardcopies being green in the home and office; SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 39 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainable Offices (continued) Water Management Program During the reporting period, SMEC per annum and current Greenhouse In February 2015, SMEC joined collected 7 kg of mobile phones, Gas (GHG) emissions for each office. the Carbon Disclosure Project’s batteries, chargers and accessories In 2014, SMEC’s Australian offices (CDP) Water Management Program. for recycling. All donated mobile averaged a NABERS energy rating of This Program forms part of CDP’s phone components were dismantled three and a half stars. 40% of SMEC’s global standardised climate change before being safely, securely and offices have already achieved the reporting framework, and is currently ethically recycled in approved facilities. target energy rating of four stars and the world’s leading platform for Plastics recovered from the mobile are now working towards achieving a corporate water disclosure. phone components were reclaimed for five star rating. use in locally-produced fence posts. The CDP Water Management Program In order to complete these audits, will support SMEC’s commitment City Switch SMEC collected data for electricity to eliminate (or minimise) adverse In March 2014, SMEC committed all and GHG emissions across all environmental impacts resulting Australian offices to the CitySwitch Australian offices for the year. from SMEC’s office and project Green Office Program. CitySwitch is During the reporting period, SMEC’s activities. The objective of the a national tenancy energy efficiency offices consumed more than Program is to assist SMEC in taking program that supports organisations 1.4 million kWh of electricity. This a proactive approach to sustainable in improving their National Australian equates to 1,250 kWh per employee, water stewardship, through a better Built Environmental Rating System per annum; 30% less than the understanding of the risks and (NABERS) office energy ratings. industry standard as reported in the opportunities associated with water Australian Government Annual Report resource management. NABERS is an Australian rating system 2013–2014. that measures the environmental As a signatory to the program, SMEC will performance (energy efficiency, In addition to completing Energy complete an annual water assessment water usage, waste management Audits, Individual Green Office for submission to CDP. This assessment and indoor environmental quality) Sustainability Action Plans were will include: water consumption; of buildings, tenancies, offices and developed for each office, establishing recycling and reuse volumes; review and homes. NABERS utilises a zero to a list of prioritised actions to improve management of risks; and identification six star rating scale (with one star energy efficiency. All offices are of strategic, operational and market indicating very poor performance working with local CitySwitch water opportunities. and six stars representing market representatives to progressively leading performance) to measure implement these actions. SMEC will pilot the CDP Water the environmental performance of a Management Program in its In October 2014, SMEC completed a building against other comparable CitySwitch Annual Progress Report for Melbourne office in 2015. Following buildings in a similar location. the successful completion of baseline each Australian office. These progress reporting for Melbourne, SMEC will All of SMEC’s Australian offices reports provide an assessment of look to progressively implement are working towards achieving green office activities completed within the Program in all Australian and an accredited four star NABERS the last year, including a calculation of New Zealand offices. energy rating by reducing energy the lifetime energy and carbon savings consumption, lowering carbon achieved from each activity. As this Mobile Muster impacts, and improving the was SMEC’s first year of reporting, In 2014, SMEC continued to sustainability of operations. these progress reports provided implement the Mobile Muster phone a baseline assessment of current recycling program. Mobile Muster is an During the reporting period, all green office initiatives implemented Australian phone stewardship program Australian offices underwent a in each office, and helped identify designed to ensure mobile phones CitySwitch Energy Audit. These audits new sustainability and engagement (and their associated accessories) identified indicative baseline NABERS activities for the next year. remain out of landfill. energy ratings, total electricity used 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Figure 17: Carbon dioxide (CO2) reductions from computers and monitors reported by office (Australia) Switch-off Campaign To support the CitySwitch Green Improvement Office Program, SMEC launched a Baseline CO2 in CO2 Switch-Off Campaign in 2014 to help emissions emissions % CO2 Office (kg/pa) (kg/pa) reduction improve the NABERS energy star rating for each Australian office. The Adelaide 439 266 39% objective of the campaign was to Brisbane 2,312 902 61% encourage employees to switch-off computers and monitors overnight Canberra 1,611 597 63% to save electricity and reduce carbon Cooma 494 172 65% dioxide emissions. Geelong 904 370 59% Through the campaign, SMEC Gold Coast 1,097 448 59% succeeded in reducing the number of computers left on overnight by 38% Melbourne 5,673 1,405 75% and the number of monitors left on Newcastle 1,006 605 40% by 76%. As a result, SMEC reduced the annual energy consumption Perth 455 165 64% from computers and monitors Sunshine Coast 220 16 93% Australia‑wide by 10,602 kWh, and eliminated 16,270 kg of carbon dioxide Sydney 7,716 2,015 74% emissions per annum. A breakdown Townsville 94 31 67% of these carbon dioxide reductions is displayed in Figure 17. Traralgon 549 118 79% Following the success of the Program Western Sydney 1,235 424 66% in Australia, SMEC launched a Switch-Off Campaign in all major South African offices. The Switch‑Off Figure 18: Carbon dioxide (CO2) reductions from computers and monitors Campaign was successful in reported by office (South Africa) reducing the number of computers left on overnight by 68% and the Improvement number of monitors left on by Baseline CO2 in CO2 emissions emissions % CO2 55%. Annual energy consumption Office (kg/pa) (kg/pa) reduction from computers and monitors was reduced by 5,340 kWh, which has Bloemfontein 308 151 51% eliminated 5,329 kg of carbon dioxide Capetown 1,462 506 65% emissions per annum. A breakdown of South African office carbon dioxide Durban 1,950 670 66% reductions is displayed in Figure 18. Johannesburg 1,942 850 56% The Program will continue to be Port Elizabeth 398 64 84% implemented progressively in all of Pretoria 2,635 1,125 57% SMEC’s major international offices. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 41 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Sustainability Services Natural Resources and Environment SMEC’s services include: climate groundwater and air; human health SMEC has extensive experience risk, vulnerability and adaptation and environmental risk assessments; in the provision of environmentally assessments; land use planning preparation of remediation options sustainable services for infrastructure and management; habitat and designs; technology reviews and projects, balancing the competing connectivity and pest species optimisation; remediation action plans; demands of the community, the management; wetland and waterway and preparation of environmental environment and economic viability. rehabilitation; coastal erosion risk management plans. assessment and management; SMEC’s services include: managing compliance assessment; and Coastal Management environmental resources, impacts, sustainable contamination and SMEC has a thorough understanding risks and liabilities; permit applications waste management. of climate change impacts, including (in accordance with environmental high sea levels, frequency of cyclones planning frameworks); social studies Waste Management and coastal flooding. SMEC’s and resettlement plans; compliance SMEC considers waste a resource, knowledge of coastal processes, monitoring and due diligence and seeks to achieve sustainable and use of broad‑based modelling investigations; strategic planning; development through avoidance, and engineering skills, is the key to ecological and heritage assessments; recovery and reuse. SMEC’s waste designing infrastructure that can contamination and remediation studies; management projects incorporate withstand and adapt to predicted and surface water, ground water and the technical, economic and risk climate changes. water quality management. aspects of waste, and integrate the latest engineering processes and SMEC’s services include: marine Renewable Energy technologies with sustainable and infrastructure development; coastal SMEC works closely with clients to cost-effective outcomes. and estuarine processes analysis; reduce carbon emissions and deliver coastal zone management; beach efficient and cost-effective renewable SMEC’s services include: strategic erosion and water quality studies; energy systems for a broad range of planning and policy development; climate change analysis; design and renewable technologies, including: waste to energy conversion; site contract documentation; community solar photovoltaic, solar thermal rehabilitation and remediation; consultation; and environmental and hybrid systems; wind energy; geotechnical investigations; landfill planning and engineering. geothermal; hydropower; biomass; monitoring; hydrogeological and hydrological investigations; waste Land Use Management landfill gas; and biofuel production. audits; landfill and transfer station SMEC is committed to sustainable SMEC’s services include: sustainable design; and contaminated site land management, the development energy policy and sector planning; assessment and management. of engineering solutions that cause carbon services; site evaluations and minimal damage to ecological feasibility studies; load forecasting Contamination processes, and the maintenance of models; long-term generation planning SMEC is experienced in a range of biodiversity, ecological integrity and using simulation and dynamic contamination projects and recognises natural capital. programming techniques; and that the assessment and management stakeholder communications. of contaminated natural resources SMEC’s services include: requires a thorough understanding of environmental and land capability Climate Change Adaptation land properties, exposure scenarios, assessments; environmental SMEC has undertaken numerous toxicology, carbon footprints, management of land, air and water; sustainability and climate change biodiversity, regulatory compliance, environmental impact assessments; adaptation projects worldwide, and economic costs and community flora and fauna surveys; ecological has assisted both government and perceptions. assessments; water quality monitoring industry clients with the development (ground, surface and drinking water); of frameworks, tools and indicators SMEC’s services include: due acid sulphate soils assessment; and for sustainable and environmentally diligence audits; investigation and investigations into indigenous and sensitive change solutions. assessment of land, sediments, water, non‑indigenous heritage. 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 SMEC invests in sustainable business practices to achieve long-term prosperity, and is committed to embedding a culture of sustainability and environmental awareness in all functional, operational and regional areas of the business. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 43 Sustainability & Environment (cont.) Natural Resources and Environment Projects Indus Basin Environmental and Social Assessment Pakistan SMEC has been engaged by the Pakistan Ministry of Water and Power to prepare a Strategic Sectoral Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (SSESA) for managing hydropower developments in Pakistan’s Indus Basin over the next 30 years. Funded by the World Bank, the SSESA will provide strategic guidance on the most efficient and sustainable development of hydropower, taking into account economic development, social equity and environmental impacts. The SSESA will: promote the inclusion of environmental and social considerations within Pakistan’s Energy Policy; assist in developing a strategy for optimal hydropower investment in the region; and provide a range of institutional and planning recommendations. Tuul River Basin Improvement Mongolia SMEC is delivering the Project Preparation and Technical Assistance (PPTA) for the Tuul River Basin Improvement Project in Mongolia. The Tuul River Basin covers a total area of 50,000 km2, and has the highest water usage in the country. The objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Mongolia in increasing environmentally sustainable water management of the Tuul River Basin, and rehabilitate the Tuul River (in and around Ulaanbaatar). Under the PPTA project, SMEC will develop and prepare project designs suitable for future implementation and financing by the Asian Development Bank. Climate Resilient Road Standards Vanuatu SMEC was engaged by the Government of Vanuatu to develop climate resilient road standards for transport network developments in Vanuatu. Funded by the Australian Government under the Pacific–Australia Climate Change Science Adaptation Program, the objective of this project was to incorporate climate risk analysis into road transport infrastructure. SMEC’s services included: legal and institutional framework review; policy recommendations for mainstreaming climate change adaptation into future road projects; development of climate risk screen methodology; climate risk profiling and adaptation assessments; and establishment of national climate resilient road standards and construction guidelines. 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Renewable Energy Projects Elecnor Moree Solar Farm Australia The Elecnor Moree Solar Farm project involves the design, installation and testing of 70 MW of single axis tracking PhotoVoltaic (PV) in Moree, New South Wales. The plant comprises 232,960 solar panels covering 191 hectares, and uses mechanical trackers to continually orient panels with the sun. Once complete, the solar farm will: produce an annual output of 155,000 MWh; save more than 165,000 million tonnes of water (compared to a coal-fired plant); and avoid 95,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas pollution annually. SMEC provided: geotechnical investigations; pile design verification; detailed design (electrical, civil, geotechnical and hydrological); tender specifications; and project management services. Renewable Energy Project Solomon Islands The Solomon Islands Electricity Authority (SIEA) is the sole supplier of power in the Solomon Islands. SMEC assisted the SIEA with the installation of hydropower plants to: replace diesel generation; extend the power distribution grid to semi-rural households; and increase renewable energy generation and accessibility in Malaita Province. SMEC’s services were divided into two components: the preparation of feasibility studies on five hydropower project sites; and the preparation of a Renewable Energy Investment Plan (REIP). The REIP focussed on solar PhotoVoltaics (PV), geothermal and hydropower projects on Guadalcanal and the outer islands, and was designed to reduce the use of diesel gensets for power supply. Kina Biomass Project Malaysia The Kina Biomass Power Plant utilises empty fruit bunches (a waste product of the palm oil milling process) as the primary biomass fuel for power generation. SMEC was engaged by Kina Biopower to act as Owner’s Engineer during construction of the 11.5 MW power plant and 0.5 km transmission line to the Sabah Main Intake Substation. Four neighbouring palm oil mills will supply the plant with empty fruit bunches. 10 MW of electricity generated (87%) is sold to the Sabah Electricity Sdn. Bhd. grid to partly displace electricity from fossil fuel plants, while the remaining power is used inhouse. SMEC’s services included: planning; basic design; procurement; contract management; supervision of construction; and commissioning of the plant. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 45 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4–5 Strategy 1.2/G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and 4–5, 8–9 opportunities. 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 11 tender and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, training and project management. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 14–16 Organisational Profile 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Level 10, 71 Queens Road, Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia. 2.5/G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation 40+ 11–13 operates. 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14–16 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. Transport, Hydropower and Energy, 11–13 Water and Environment, Urban and Social Development, Resources, Industrial and Manufacturing. 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 11, 22–23 2.9/G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or 4–6 ownership during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 20–21 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 April 2014 – 31 March 2015. 3 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. April 2014. 3 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 3 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 3 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10 Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the 10 report. 3.8/G4-17 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other 10 entities. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 3, 10 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11/G4-23 Significant changes in scope and boundary Nil. during the reporting period. 3.12/G4-32 Table identifying location of Standard GRI Index. 46–48 Disclosures. 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. 46 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 14–16 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 8–9, 14–16 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 8–9, 14–16 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 14–16 Governance, Commitments and Engagements highest governing body. 4.5 Compensation and performance. 14–16 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 14–16 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 14–16 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 15, 20–21 4.9 Processes for management of company 14–16 performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 14–16 highest governing body. 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4–5, 15 4.12/G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental 21 and social charters. 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 21 4.14/G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 18 organisation. 4.15/G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 10, 18 stakeholders. 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 10, 18 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 10, 18 G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 12–13, 24–29 Additional General Disclosures G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by bargaining Nil. agreements. G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 11 G4-18 Explain the process for defining report content 10 and Aspect Boundaries. G4-19 List all Material Aspects identified for defining 10 report content. G4-20 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect 10 Boundary within the organisation. G4-21 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect 10 Boundary outside the organisation. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 22–23 Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 22–23 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 34–37 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 47 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page Description Comments Indicator Number G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 38–41 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 38–41 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 40–41 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 40 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 38, 44–45 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 42–45 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 40–41 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 38–45 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. New hires and turnover by age, gender and G4-LA1 25–29 Labour Practices and Decent Work region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 26 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental 25–26 leave, by gender. G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 32–33 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 26, 29–31 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 29–31 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 24–31 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 24–25 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 34 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Society G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. 48 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Appendix A Controlled Entities Country of Name of entity Incorporation SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia Brisbane City Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia Lean and Hayward Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Pty Ltd Australia SM Urban Pty Ltd Australia STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia ACE Consultants Limited Bangladesh SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc Canada Global Maintenance Consulting Chile Limitada Chile SMEC China Engineering and Management Consultancy Co Ltd China SMEC Beijing Co Ltd China Frontier Energy Ltd Dubai Frontier Hydro Ltd Dubai Engineering Consultants Contracting Ltd 1 Hong Kong SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong SMEC India (Pvt) Ltd India PT SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan SMEC Kenya Limited Kenya SMEC Energy SDN Berhad Malaysia SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 49 Appendix A (continued) Country of Name of entity Incorporation SMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria SMEC Oil and Gas (Private) Limited 2 Pakistan Engineering General Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore GMC Global Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa VKE International Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd South Africa ZMCK Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka ZMCK–Swaziland Property Holdings Pty Ltd Swaziland SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda GMC Global UK Limited United Kingdom Global Maintenance Consulting – America, Inc. United States of America SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam 1. Deregistered 9 May 2014. 2. This entity was previously known as Combined Engineering and Integrated Solutions (Private) Limited. 50 SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Appendix B Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, Insignificant Minor Moderate but reversible Catastrophic 5 Almost Certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above Average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very Rare 1 2 3 4 5 Rating Treatment 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8–12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15–16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20–25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. SMEC Sustainability Report 2014-2015 51 www.smec.com
