DIRECTOR GENERAL’S ADDRESS ...............................................................................................4 CALENDAR OF EVENTS ..............................................................................................................6 ABOUT THE COMPANY............................................................................................................10 Vodokanal history ................................................................................................................12 Mission and values .............................................................................................................16 Corporate management system .........................................................................................18 Vodokanal today .................................................................................................................28 Risk management ..............................................................................................................40 Participation in external initiatives ...................................................................................48 Interaction with stakeholders ...........................................................................................74 RESULTS OF ACTIVITIES IN 2014.........................................................................................102 Water supply ....................................................................................................................104 Wastewater disposal........................................................................................................118 Specialized vehicles and equipment ................................................................................134 Customer service ..............................................................................................................140 City fountains ...................................................................................................................152 Public toilets ....................................................................................................................156 Permanent snow-melting stations ...................................................................................160 INNOVATIONS .......................................................................................................................164 Implementation of new water and wastewater technologies .........................................166 Development of hydraulic simulation ..............................................................................174 Development of the geoinformation system ..................................................................176 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects ..................................................................182 Patents .............................................................................................................................183 Development of information infrastructure.....................................................................184 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY .....................................................................................................186 Awareness-building ..........................................................................................................188 Environment protection ....................................................................................................202 Labour safety ...................................................................................................................208 Personnel...........................................................................................................................212 Social policy ......................................................................................................................220 TARIFF POLICY .......................................................................................................................232 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS .....................................................................................................240 Main financial indicators ..................................................................................................242 Balance sheet ..................................................................................................................244 Income statement ...........................................................................................................248 CONTACT INFORMATION .....................................................................................................250 3 Preservation of the Baltic Sea is an integral part of Vodokanal’s mission. I refer not only to the implementation of new production-related projects aimed to block the ingress of pollutants into the Baltic and to improve the quality of wastewater treatment. Traditionally, Vodokanal focuses its attention Dear All, on environmental awarenessraising and development of responsible and respectful attitude to water in our society. In 2014, the first two-day festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation” was held in Petersburg with Vodokanal as an active participant. At the festival, a joint meeting THE PAST YEAR 2014 WAS of the public councils from Russia, Finland and Estonia, ANNOUNCED THE GULF OF FINLAND was conducted, where schoolchildren from the YEAR IN THREE COUNTRIES: three states presented the Youth Declaration on the RUSSIA, FINLAND AND ESTONIA. Gulf of Finland Protection. The Festival programme also PETERSBURG IS THE BIGGEST CITY included exhibitions, concerts and other events open to all AT THE BALTIC SEA, AND OUR CITY visitors. Throughout the Gulf BEARS A SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITY of Finland Year, Vodokanal continued its work aimed FOR THE CONDITION OF THE BALTIC to stop the discharge of untreated wastewater. AND THE GULF OF FINLAND Thus, in December 2014, the discharge of untreated wastewater from Petrovskiy Stadium was eliminated, prior to that, 19 direct discharges at Petrogradskaya embankment were closed. In autumn 2014, the construction of sewage collector at Admiralteyskaya embankment began: with the collector in place, six direct discharges in the city centre can be closed. In 2014, Vodokanal 4 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Director General’s Address modernized its wastewater treatment plants: the works were of national (including the St. Petersburg) manufacturers will carried out at the plants in Kronstadt, Kolpino, Pushkin and be used for the Main WTP project in the first place. Pontonniy, and at the bigger plants – Northern and Central In 2014, Vodokanal continued to develop its water supply WWTPs. management system for the southern districts of the city Another important activity of Vodokanal St. Petersburg (“the Southern Zone”). The area is about 195 square directly related to the improvement of the Baltic Sea is kilometers, its population is roughly 1.3 Mio. people. The interaction with industrial wastewater producers. As Vodokanal Southern Zone water supply management system will be put has repeatedly mentioned, municipal treatment plants are into a full-scale operation in 2015. With the system in place, not designed to remove specific industrial pollutants from we will be able to cut down our energy costs, improve the wastewater (such pollutants must be removed before reliability of water distribution networks and reduce water the discharge to the centralized sewer system). In 2014, losses. Vodokanal came up with a new approach to the monitoring In 2014, rehabilitation of water networks and sewers using of composition of industrial wastewaters discharged into cutting-edge technical solutions was in full swing. the municipal sewerage. On the one hand, the approach aims to identify the sources of specific pollutants discharged into the sewerage, and on the other hand, to deal with each industrial producer of such specific pollutants. It means, in particular, assistance to industrial companies in the development of action plans for reduction of pollutants, e.g. in selection of optimal local treatment technologies. The “Help the Pinnipeds” project is one of Vodokanal activities for the protection of the Baltic Sea. The objective is to save the seal pups from a tough situation. Vodokanal joined this activity in 2013 by giving its support to the IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT, zoologists Vyacheslav Alexeyev and Elena Andriyevskaya, authors of the unique sea mammals’ rehabilitation method. IN 2014, VODOKANAL Today, specialists are particularly concerned about Baltic ringed seals: the population size is very small now – not more than PREPARED A NEW INVESTMENT two hundred animals remain in the Russian part of the Gulf. In September 2014, the unparalleled-in-Russia Marine PROGRAMME TO BE IMPLEMENTED Mammals Research and Conservation Centre was re-opened after reconstruction at Vodokanal’s treatment plant in Repino. IN 2015 AND NEXT YEARS In the same autumn 2014, the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund was officially registered. Today, everyone interested can join the rescuers of Baltic ringed seals and other marine mammals by transferring a voluntary donation to the Fund account (for details see the website of the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends: www.balticseal.org). One of the most remarkable events in 2014 was the completion of a new water intake facility and a new first-lift pumping station at Main Water Treatment Plant (producing 500,000 m3/day of water).The reliability of water supply Felix V. Karmazinov, greatly depends on proper and fail-safe operation of the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” first-lift pumping station, and today Main WTP supplies Director General approximately 400,000 m3/day of drinking water to Central, Vasileostrovskiy and Petrogradskiy city districts and partly to Admiralteyskiy, Primorskiy, Kalininskiy, Krasnogvardeyskiy and Vyborgskiy districts. Incidentally, unique home-manufactured headwall filters were used for the construction of the new water intake. Construction of the first-lift pumping station is the initial phase of a bigger project: all-around reconstruction of Main WTP. A new, 500,000 m3/day water treatment facility will be built there in the next few years. In future, products 5 January who had worked at Vodokanal during the siege, participated in the awarding ceremony. The Gulf of Finland Year was officially opened in Helsinki The Workers Palace hosted the official awarding ceremony on 21 January. The year 2014 was declared “the Gulf for the prize-winners of the St. Petersburg Workers’ Spartakiad of Finland Year” by the decision of three countries: Russia, 2013. Vodokanal team was a winner in the team event. Finland and Estonia. The initiative was suggested both Moreover, Vodokanalers gained the lead in the ski race, tourist by official persons and by the academic community. jamboree, darts and women’s volleyball; and took second and The curators of the Gulf of Finland Year were: the third place in biathlon, cross-country race, gorodki, five-a-side, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin – soccer and rifle and pistol shooting. on the Russian side, the President of the Republic of Finland Vodokanal participated in the Fifth International Forum Sauli Niinistö – on the Finnish side and the President of the “Ecology” in St. Petersburg. The Forum was Russia’s first official Republic of Estonia Toomas Ilves – on the Estonian side. event in the framework of the international Gulf of Finland Year The Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko 2014. paid a visit to the Da-Voda Portal (da-voda.com) created and functioning with the support of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. Georgiy Poltavchenko summarized the results of the previous Environment Protection Year and told about the plans for 2014. March The first business game “Water and Cities” was organized Vodokanal hosted the plenary session dedicated to the under the Water+ Project at the Youth Environmental Centre. implementation of the St. Petersburg Initiative Project. Among Several teams, including the students of the Technical the participants of the session were the Director of the College of Management and Commerce, played the game. International Cooperation Department at the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment N.R. Inamov, the Chairman of the BSAG Fund Board I. Herlin, the Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” F.V. Karmazinov, and representatives of public authorities and business community. February The first two patients – Baltic grey seal pups, were admitted to the Pinnipeds Rehabilitation Station located at Vodokanal’s The Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko bestowed treatment plant in the town of Repino. Since 2013, Vodokanal the desktop medal “In honour of 70th anniversary of the lifting has supported the efforts of zoologists Vyacheslav Alexeyev of the Nazi blockade in Leningrad” on Vodokanal. The company and Elena Andriyevskaya to save rare animal species of the veterans, Vasiliy I. Bogachenkov and Evdokiya Z. Glyadchenko, Baltic Sea Region: ringed seals and grey seals. 6 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Calendar of Events Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre hosted the round table May “Environmental Education for the Gulf of Finland Year”. The The first “discharge” took place at the Pinnipedian event was organized in the framework of the Baltic Sea Days Rehabilitation Centre. A pup of Baltic grey seal (female seal, International Environmental Forum. Representatives C-1 by name) was released into the Gulf of Finland of the three countries united by the Gulf of Finland Year in Kurgalskiy reserve. participated in the round table. The Environmental Installation Festival was held in the The winners of the Crystal Drop Competition for the title exhibition hall of the Universe of Water museum complex. of the best customer of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” The Festival was the last event under the Russian-Finnish in the nomination “Best Customer among Providers of Municipal project “Awareness-raising of the young as an activity of the Services” were awarded at the official ceremony at Lenexpo International Advanced Water Technologies Centre”. It was Exhibition Complex in the framework of the International a joint project of Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre Professional Exhibition and Conference “Russian Public and Lahti Region Business Development Centre (LADEC). Utilities”. A night programme, the Gulf of Finland Night, arranged On 22 March, the main character of Da-Voda website to coincide with the Gulf of Finland Year was held at the (da-voda.com), the Neva Crayfish, celebrated its birthday which Water Museum in 56, Shpalernaya str. The programme coincides with the World Water Day and the Baltic Sea Day. was implemented in the framework of the international A new page dedicated to the Help the Pinnipeds Project was Museums at Night event on 17–18 May. This time, nearly added to the website of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. 7,000 people visited the Universe of Water museum complex. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” got the international management award “Energy of Efficiency”. The award aims to encourage the managers who implement, at the national level, international management standards, norms and April requirements for business and social activities. Vodokanal St. Petersburg provided support for The working season of permanent snow-melting stations was over. All in all, nearly 111,000 m3 of snow were a traditional in-line skater race organized in the framework processed at 10 stations in the 2013–2014 seasons. of XII Festival “Honorable Citizens of St. Petersburg”. Vodokanal St. Petersburg announced the winners The race was devoted to the Gulf of Finland Year, its emblem of the third annual Crystal Drop Competition for the title being the Baltic ringed seal. It was the most mass-scale “Vodokanal’s Best Customer”. The results were voiced at an race ever: the number of participants was over 6,000. official ceremony in the Universe of Water museum complex. Vodokanal opened the fountain season. Traditionally, the Globe fountain in 56, Nevskiy, and the fountain in Manezhnaya square (in Novomanezhniy Garden) were the June first to open. In total, 43 fountains and fountain complexes Vodokanal St. Petersburg participated in 11th International were in operation during the season. Water Forum ECWATECH-2014 “Water: Environment and The Russian-German project “ECOvision” was launched Technology” in Moscow. at the Youth Environmental Centre. Under the project, young Vodokanal St. Petersburg won the First National Water people from St. Petersburg and Hamburg discussed urgent Sector Award “Russia’s Water” in the nomination “Best environmental problems and produced videofilms awareness-raising project aimed to develop respectful to be presented at ECOvideniye Festival in December. attitude to water in the society”. Vodokanal applied for the award by presenting its project “Fostering careful attitude to water at the household level”. Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre became a winner in the nomination “Environmental Education and Awareness-Building” under the international project “Environmental Culture. Peace and Harmony”. The project organizers were: the Non-Governmental Environmental Fund named after V.I. Vernadskiy and the International Environmental Public Organization GREENLIGHT. The project “Water + I = Friends” was declared the best one in the nomination “Environmental Education and AwarenessBuilding”. Vodokanal confirmed the compliance of its Energy Management System to the international standard ISO 50001:2011. The audit was made by the Russian Register 7 Certification Association A new section “Scheduled Works” was added to Vodokanal’s Environmental Centre in the presence of auditors website. Any information on the scheduled works performed (YEC); school students from the American by Vodokanal on its water and sewer networks can be found from Russia, Finland and Accreditation Council. there, such as addresses of work sites, completion dates, Estonia presented the Youth Vodokanal began to use etc. The capability of retrieval by street or district name Declaration on the Protection a new mobile diagnostic is provided for the user convenience. Moreover, a special of the Gulf of Finland system for the examination service, interactive map of scheduled works, is created. and delivered it to official of tunnel collectors. The Vodokanal is implementing a computerized information representatives of the three system provides timely system project to monitor atmospheric precipitation. countries. and reliable data about the The system will enable Vodokanal to perform online control condition of onshore and of sewerage fill rate during rainfalls and to make exact offshore parts of deep tunnel calculations of runoff volumes for relevant city areas. collectors. The project scope covers installation of 34 rain gauges and Vodokanal St. Petersburg started two fountains weather stations to measure atmospheric pressure, wind velocity and direction, and air temperature and humidity October During October, Vodokanal in the eastern and western in an automatic mode. The instruments will be equally St. Petersburg put the raypaths of the 300th distributed throughout the area of St. Petersburg and fountains and fountain Anniversary of St. Petersits nearest suburbs. complexes out of operation. burg Park. In late July, the last six patients of Vodokanal’s Traditionally, the fountain A mass release of Pinnipedian Rehabilitation Centre went to freedom. complexes in Moskovskaya 10 animals, the patients The release of five Baltic ringed seals and one grey seal and Lenina Squares were of Vodokanal’s Pinnipedian marked the official closure of the season 2014 during which the first to be stopped. Rehabilitation Centre, took the specialists cured and released to the wild their The Da-Voda website place. Ten Baltic grey seals 29 wards including five Baltic ringed seals. won the regional round were released to the wild of the First All-Russian ENES after successful treatment. competition of projects implemented in the field August of energy conservation Vodokanal began to use a new technology to repair sewers and energy efficiency in the July without interrupting their operation and to strengthen their nomination “Best InternetAll summer sessions at the structures. In this technology, a plastic strip is spirally wound media in dissemination of children recreation camp inside a sewer. Then a special mortar is pumped into the space energy-saving lifestyle and Zvyozdniy (town of Luga between the strip and the tunnel wall. organization of energyin the Leningrad Region) A new 500,000 m3/day first-lift pumping station was put into efficient production”. were dedicated to the Gulf operation at Main Water Treatment Plant. The official ceremony Another YEC project, “Water +”, of Finland Year. The Acting was attended by the Acting Governor of St. Petersburg was the finalist of the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko. Construction of a new water intake facility competition. Georgiy Poltavchenko visited and the first-lift pumping station at Main WTP was the first Vodokanal St. Petersburg Zvyozdniy camp to look at its phase of the Main WTP Reconstruction Project. took a second place in the activities. city competition “Best Work Site” organized by the State September Administrative and Technical Inspection (GATI). Vodokanal’s The official opening of Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre was held at Vodokanal’s treatment site in Tarasova str. plant in Repino. The event was attended by the Acting Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko. Registration of the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund was announced. Vodokanal participated in the citywide festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation” dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year. An official meeting of the public councils from Russia, Finland and Estonia devoted to the trilateral cooperation project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014” was conducted in Tavricheskiy Palace. At the meeting, the participants watched the video-diary of the Gulf of Finland Year and the Water Lesson given at Vodokanal’s Youth 8 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Calendar of Events between Sredneokhtinskiy ave. and Bolsheokhtinskiy ave., could be closed. At present, the wastewater is diverted where scheduled reconstruction of water distribution to Northern WWTP where it undergoes a full treatment cycle networks had been performed, was highly appraised by in compliance with the HELCOM recommendations. After the jury. the completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector Project The management systems implemented at Vodokanal in October 2013, the wastewater treatment volume were inspected. The audit was made by two independent in St. Petersburg reached 98.4%. companies: the Russian Register Certification Association The official awarding of the All-Russian National and the international company Sai Global Limited. The audiEnvironmental Prize named after V.I. Vernadskiy was held tors concluded that the existing management systems fully in Moscow. Vodokanal’s project “Marine Mammals complied with the ISO standards and thus confirmed the Research and Conservation Centre” won in the nomination validity of the Certificates of Conformity issued to Vodokanal “Environmental Initiatives”. St. Petersburg. Vodokanal St. Petersburg ranked first (in the category “companies with the staff number exceeding 2,000”) in the review competition 2014 among the St. Petersburg companies, institutions and organizations – supporters November of mass physical culture and sports events. The awarding took place in the Workers Palace. On the eve of the World Toilet Day celebrated on 19 November, a special service, Toilet Map, appeared on Vodokanal’s Vodokanal team won the final phase of the Weekend website. All public toilets managed by Vodokanal are marked League Championship 2014 among the CFI (Club of the on the interactive map and accompanied by notes specifying Funny and Inventive) teams of St. Petersburg companies its type (modular or permanent), working hours, and whether and organizations. Vodokanal team was awarded the first it is open around-the-year or only in summer. prize in the CFI Championship in 2013, too. The collector construction began under Admiralteyskaya embankment. The collector is needed to divert six untreated wastewater discharges into the Neva equivalent to approximately 1000 m3/day in total. The video works presented by Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre at the International Environmental Film Festival “Green Vision” reaped an impressive bunch of awards. Eleven videos shot by the participants of the Russian-German ECOvision Project (a traditional YEC project) were commended in different nominations at the festival. December The Baltic Seal Friends Fund established in 2014 on the initiative of the Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko opened its website: www.balticseal.org. With the website in place, all those who are concerned about the fate of seal pups in the region get a chance to learn more about the animals and give help to them. Vodokanal closed nine direct discharges from Petrovskiy Stadium. Before, the untreated wastewater was discharged into the Neva, and now it is diverted to the collector and treated at Northern WWTP. Likewise, 19 direct discharges at Petrogradskaya embankment were closed (the wastewaters were also diverted to Northern WWTP). At 47th Meeting of the HELCOM Heads of Delegations, sub-spot no. 18.1, “Collector Construction”, was deleted from the list of hot spots (sources of pollution). With the Northern Tunnel Collector in place, 76 direct discharges into the Neva equivalent to 334,000 m3/day of untreated wastewater 9 10 About the Company 11 Vodokanal 1858–1917 History The JSC faced huge financial and technical problems at the initial stage. In early 1863, the construction of water networks was, practically, suspended. By then, the water tower in Shpalernaya THE HISTORY OF THE CITY’S str. (architects I.A. Merz and E. Shubersky) has been built and CENTRALIZED WATER SUPPLY GOES several kilometers of water distribution networks have BACK TO 10 OCTOBER, 1858, been laid. The JSC’s registered capital was spent, the shares WHEN THE CHARTER sold badly, and even the government subsidy could OF “ST. PETERSBURG WATER not alter the situation. In March 1863, the 1 Guild PIPELINES JOINT-STOCK COMPANY” merchant A.I. Kron from St. Petersburg joined the WAS APPROVED BY THE RUSSIAN JSC, contributed the lacking sum (approximately, 900,000 EMPEROR ALEXANDER II. Roubles) and took up completion of the long-drawn AMONG THE FOUNDERS works. Water supply to the first OF THE JOINT-STOCK COMPANY customers started by the end of 1863. WERE ENGINEERS, SUCH Some modifications were made to the initial design AS A.N. ERAKOV, P.I. PALIBIN, during the construction period. At first, it was decided to take A.A. PERETZ, E.I. OKEL, water from a sort of a “ladle” – the artificial water body near AND PROMINENT BUSINESSMEN – Tavrichesky Palace connected with the Neva. However, the I.I. GLAZUNOV, M.I. YAKUNCHIKOV, “ladle” proved to be unsuitable for this purpose, and the JSC I.N. KUSHINNIKOV had to arrange water intake from the Neva. Before mid-1870es, the water network was only used by the citizens on the left-bank side. The new joint-stock company (Partnership) was established in 1873 (to be managed by English contractors) to supply water to Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya areas. In 1890 the State Duma took a decision to buy out the assets owned by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company, and in 1892 – to buy out also the assets of the New Water 12 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Networks Partnership. The City Executive Commission for water supply of St. Petersburg was established to manage the water networks and was subordinated to the city THE SOVIET PERIOD World War I and the Civil War had a negative impact on the administration. The manager of city water networks was technical condition of the city’s water supply system, including appointed on a submission from the chairman of the Executive its plants, equipment and networks. In 1920s–early 1930s Commission. wood pipes were sometimes used for construction of water During the first decades of the centralized water supply networks due to the lack of more suitable materials. It was operation in St. Petersburg all customers received water which only by 1935 that the pre-revolution level of water supply to passed only coarse mechanical treatment. In 1889 sand filters the city network had been reached. were put into operation at the Main Waterworks (the filters However, there were also some achievements at that time. had been built by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines JointFirst of all, construction of the Southern Waterworks (stage Stock Company as strongly demanded by the city authorities. I was put into operation in 1933, a part of stage II – in 1940) In 1911 the filtration station with water ozonation was and modernization of the Main Waterworks treatment facilities built in Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) area. Chlorine should be mentioned. In 1923–1924 construction of sewer disinfection of drinking water was implemented at the Main networks was resumed. In 1925 the city authorities approved Waterworks (the first chlorination experiments were made in the major sewerage plans for Leningrad (separate system Kronstadt in 1909). The Executive Commission for sewerage with four independent sewer basins). Vasilyevsky Island construction and water supply rehabilitation in St. Petersburg was selected as experimental district for the construction established by the City Duma had worked since 1911 and of a new sewerage system. Construction of sewers in took over most of the functions in relation to water supply Vasilyevsky Island (total length of street networks – 153.3 km) development. had lasted for 10 years. Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station was completed by 1930. Wastewater was discharged to the Neva Bay without any treatment. 13 In the 1930s more and more among other things, three big complexes of wastewater this event was attended sewers were built in other city treatment facilities. The first one – Central WWTP – was put into by the Governor districts. The length of sewer operation in 1978 (stage I). Before that, all city wastewater was of St. Petersburg networks in Leningrad reached discharged to the water bodies almost without any treatment. G.S. Poltavchenko. 1130 km which exceeded twice The Central WWTP, stage II, was put into operation in 1984, and In 2011, St. Petersburg the pre-revolutionary level. In the Northern WWTP, stage I, – in 1987. The construction of the was finally crossed out 1940 a new sewerage scheme South-West WWTP started in 1986. from the list of Baltic of Leningrad was adopted. It Sea polluters. Since then was also based on a separate sewerage system. The CONTEMPORARY HISTORY In the 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” developed the city has fully met the HELCOM recommendations scheme envisaged mechanical and implemented a novel-for-Russia concept of strategic on wastewater treatment treatment and precipitation planning of the public utilities’ financial operations and quality: phosphorus followed by discharge to four business. Creation of a management system based on the concentrations in the channels of the Neva Bay. corporate development planning was a crucial step total wastewater volume Stormwater ought to be to implementation of this concept in the company. discharged in St. Petersburg discharged to all watercourses It is the implementation of the strategic planning concept do not exceed 0.5 mg/l. The in the city. It was planned to that ensured sustainable development of SUE “Vodokanal official ceremony marking use the tunneling method to of St. Petersburg”. In 1992 the company was able to become the completion of the Clean build the main sewers. self-sufficient and raise the necessary investments for Baltic Sea Project was held A special page in reconstruction and development. In 2004, the St. Petersburg at Northern WWTP in June in Vodokanal’s history is related Water and Wastewater Systems Reconstruction and the presence of the President to World War II and the Development Programme for 2004–2011 was worked out. of Finland Tarja Halonen. blockade of Leningrad. The The South-West WWTP was inaugurated on 22 September In 2011, Vodokanal waterworks and facilities, clean 2005 in the presence of the President of the Russian expanded its biomonitoring water tanks, treatment plants, Federation V.V. Putin, the President of Finland Tarja Halonen system by implementing it water networks and sewers and the Swedish Prime-Minister Göran Persson. at wastewater treatment were subject to intensive Alongside with the construction of new facilities using plants: since the beginning bombings and shelling. As the best advanced technologies, wide-scale reconstruction of the year the composition many as 955 shells exploded of the existing WWTPs was implemented. By 2006, three of flue gases at the Southwithin the area of the Southern “hot spots” in the Baltic Sea catchment basin have been West incineration plant has WTP alone. The personnel of eliminated. The reconstruction of the Central WWTP in 2007 been monitored by African the most important facilities made it possible to meet, and even surpass the HELCOM snails, and since July the were put on a war footing. standards of nutrient concentrations. By commissioning effluent quality at SouthDestruction of networks caused two sludge incineration plants – at the Northern WWTP and West treatment plant has the flooding of basements, South-West WWTP – in 2007, St. Petersburg became the been checked by Australian streets and squares and first megalopolis to fully solve the problem of sewage sludge red-claw crayfish. sometimes even the whole city utilization. In 2011, Vodokanal districts. Nevertheless, both In 2008, Vodokanal St. Petersburg celebrated its 150th St. Petersburg became the city water networks and anniversary. One of the biggest events of the jubilee year one of the finalists for the the sewerage system were was the commissioning of the first section of Northern prestigious award of the working without interruption Tunnel Collector extension. European Foundation for except 25–26 January 1942 The year 2009 was marked by the 20th anniversary of Quality Management (EFQM) – when the electricity supply was cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment of Finland. Excellence Award-2011. cut off. “The Baltic. Common Sea. Common Concern” Conference was Since 2011, the Over the period between dedicated to this date. International Advanced Water 1950 and 1970 the annual In June 2009, the official ceremony of the last chlorine Technologies Centre, a joint average water supply to the container removal from Northern Water Treatment Plant project of Vodokanal and city has grown more than symbolized that Vodokanal stopped using liquid chlorine Lahti Science and Business twice – from 912,800 m3 to for water disinfection replacing it with hazard-free sodium Park (Finland), has been 2,057,600 m3. The Southern hypochlorite. working at the premises WTP stage II was put into In December 2009, the second stage of Northern Tunnel of SUE “Vodokanal of St. operation in 1948, Volkovskaya Collector Extension was completed which enabled to reach Petersburg”. WTP – in 1964, and the 91% of wastewater treatment. Since 2012, Vodokanal Northern WTP stage I – In June 2010, one of the biggest plants – Southern WTP St. Petersburg has started in 1971. Wide-scale started pre-commissioning of its new water treatment block a new type of activity: construction of water pumping designed for 350,000 m3/day of potable water production construction and operation of stations was underway too. (water supply to the city from this block began in January snow-melting stations. In 1952 the State Committee 2011). In 2012, the next-to-last of the Council of Ministers of In 2010, Vodokanal summarized the results of the pilot stage of the Northern Tunnel the USSR approved the project project aimed to create a water supply management system Collector was completed (the of sewerage construction and started to implement the system in the southern districts wastewater streams was in the central part of Leningrad of the city. diverted to the collector and where a combined sewerage By the end of 2010, the next stage of Northern Tunnel then to Northern WWTP for system was proposed instead Collector Extension has been completed, and the official treatment) which resulted of separate sewerage. The ceremony of connecting 12 more direct discharges to in the closure of five direct first stage of sewerage in the the Collector was held in January 2011. As a result, the discharges and the treatment city centre including the Main wastewater treatment level in the city reached 93%. of as much as 97% of all Pumping Station was put into In 2011, Vodokanal could already treat 94% of all wastewater. operation in 1958. wastewater having re-channeled five direct discharges to In autumn 2012, the In 1966 the General Northern Tunnel Collector and closed down seven small cooperation between St. Scheme of Leningrad Sewerage WWTPs (the wastewater formerly collected by them was Petersburg and the Leningrad was approved which included, re-channeled to Northern WWTP). The ceremony dedicated to Region got a new impetus: 14 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company the joint meeting of the city and region took a decision to establish the Steering Committee of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region in the sphere of social and economic development. In particular, the Committee would deals with the provision of water supply and sewerage services to the fast-growing developments at the border line between the city and the Leningrad Region. The first result of the joint environmental actions was diversion of wastewater in the town of Sertolovo (in the Leningrad Region) to Northern WWTP (in St. Petersburg). Due to that, the discharge of pollutants into the Lake Razliv could be reduced by 58.8%. In 2013, Vodokanal celebrated its 155th anniversary. Besides, this year was announced the Environmental Protection Year in Russia. The main event of the year took place on Vodokanal’s birthday, 10 October 2013: the largescale environmental project, construction of Northern Tunnel Collector, was completed in Petersburg. Ten untreated wastewater discharges were closed. Since then, 98.4% of wastewater has been treated. In 2013, Vodokanal put three more snow-melting stations in operation. The total number of such stations increased to ten. Snow is melted by the heat of wastewater fed into the melting chambers. IN 2014, THE CONSTRUCTION In 2013, Vodokanal launched a new social project: in cooperation with the not-for-profit partnership “Marine OF COLLECTOR BEGAN AT Mammal Rehabilitation Centre of Leningrad Region” and 2PR public relations agency, it was saving rare animals of the ADMIRALTEYSKAYA EMBANKMENT. Baltic Sea Region, ringed seals and grey seals. These activities were followed up in 2014. During the THE COLLECTOR WAS NEEDED season, the specialists cured and released 29 patients, among them – five very rare Baltic ringed seals. TO CLOSE SIX UNTREATED In September 2014, the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre was opened, and the Baltic Seal Friends WASTEWATER DISCHARGES, Fund was established. It was one of the most exсiting events in the Gulf EQUIVALENT TO APPROX. of Finland Year announced in 2014 by decision of Russia, Finland and Estonia. During the year, a wide range of events 1000 M3/DAY, INTO THE NEVA. dedicated to the Gulf of Finland challenges were organized in Petersburg both for specialists and for the general IN THE SAME 2014 YEAR, DIRECT public. In particular, the festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation” was held with Vodokanal as an active DISCHARGES WERE CLOSED NEAR participant. At the festival, an official meeting of the Gulf of Finland Year public councils from the three countries was PETROVSKIY STADIUM conducted. Pre-commissioning of a new 500,000 m3/day first-lift AND AT PETROGRADSKAYA pumping station began at Main WTP. Construction of the first-lift pumping station and new intake facilities was the EMBANKMENT initial phase of the Main WTP Reconstruction Project. 15 Mission and Values MISSION PROVISION OF HIGH-QUALITY WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES ENSURING GOOD QUALITY OF LIFE FOR CUSTOMERS, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY, CREATION OF WATER CONSUMPTION CULTURE AND CONSERVATION OF THE BALTIC SEA WATER ENVIRONMENT. VISION WE SEE VODOKANAL AMONG THE WORLD’S BEST PROVIDERS OF WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES DUE TO THE QUALITY OF ITS SERVICES AND ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS. 16 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company VALUES: • Innovative approach – incorporation of international best • Responsibility to future generations – careful and efficient use of natural resources including water, energy, forests, etc. practices in the company management, the use of advanced • Responsibility to the customers – continuous studies technologies and creation of know-how in different fields of the customers’ expectations and requirements, improvement of activities – that is the only way to reach success and of customer interaction procedures to raise the level to be a leading company. of satisfaction with the water and sewerage services. • Openness to the public and responsibility to the society – • Responsibility to the staff – continuous improvement transparency of the company activities, access to reliable of labour safety, decent salaries and wages, social security information on the company work and history, close contacts for the company staff and their families and for the retired with the mass media, educational institutions and public and employees. environmental organizations – all that constitutes the basis of our information policy. 17 18 Corporate Management System 19 Corporate Vodokanal’s corporate governance system is continuously developing Management and improving due to the strategic initiatives of the company management and its sole owner – City System Building of St. Petersburg; benchmarking studies of the best peers in Russia, Europe and other parts of the world; Philosophy participation of managers in international and Russian conferences, seminars and meetings; regular selfassessment of activities (since 2006 – against the THE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT RF Quality Award Model, since 2009 – against the OF SUE VODOKANAL EFQM Model); re-engineering of business processes; and internal audits. OF ST. PETERSBURG The corporate governance system relies on the IS BASED ON THE FOLLOWING principles and approaches set by the international PRINCIPLES: standards: ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health ACCOUNTABILITY. The company’s executive body and Safety System, ISO shall be accountable to the owner (City of St. Petersburg), 27001 Information Security the state authorities and control bodies in compliance System and ISO 50001 with the applicable law. Energy Management System. TRANSPARENCY. The company shall ensure timely At present, the corporate disclosure of reliable information on any material facts management system in relation to its activities, including its financial standing, is built on the processsocial and environmental performance and operating based approach aimed to results, as well as provide free access to such information implement a functional-zonal (annual reports, Internet site, management addresses management principle for in the mass media, Internet portal, panel discussions, water supply and wastewater conferences etc.) for all stakeholders. disposal. In 2013, the RESPONSIBILITY. The company shall acknowledge following production the rights of all stakeholders as provided by the applicable departments were included in law and shall seek collaboration with the stakeholders the corporate structure: area to reach the company goals and to maintain financial water supply management sustainability and social stability. offices and area wastewater EFFICIENCY. The company will only reach its goal if disposal systems, each of each employee – from director general to ordinary officer them serving several city – works efficiently. districts. 20 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company The company’s strategic planning horizons are harmonized with perspective plans of municipal and regional development, more specifically, “St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master-Plan till 2025 with an outlook to 2030” approved by the resolution of the St. Petersburg Government; Resolution of the St. Petersburg Government “On St. Petersburg State Programme “Urban Land Improvement and Environment Protection in St. Petersburg in 2015–2020””; Federal Target Programme “Clean Water” for 2011–2017; “Water and Wastewater Investment Programme of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” for 2015–2017” approved by the Order of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee and others. The Company strategy includes the targets in 5 areas: finance and investments; consumers; city/region/community environment; main business processes; and the Company personnel and development. Medium-term strategic and tactical goals for each of the strategic areas are set to achieve the targets. A special focus is on energy saving and improvement of energy efficiency. The Company’s strategic goals are achieved by training and motivating the personnel. In this way, key performance indicators are improved continuously and all personnel is involved in the process of continuous improvement of the Company management functions. The key indicators framework is improving steadily to ensure better understanding of internal processes and to take the necessary managerial decisions at the Company. The KPI (key performance indicators) framework is a set of interrelated measurable indicators of actual results. The KPI framework helps achieve the efficiency of both business processes and each staff member at his work place, and, eventually, raise the efficiency of the Company. The indicators are cascaded to the structural unit level. The information systems, such as IS “Water Balance”, Favordata, IS “Baltika” and IS “Hotline”, to support the keeping of daily statistics are implemented at the Company as a tool of continuous online performance monitoring. Systematic satisfaction surveys of all stakeholders including the assessment of satisfaction among the main customer categories, satisfaction and awareness of the public, and staff satisfaction including assessments of commitment and loyalty, are an integral part of Vodokanal’s continuous improvement. Together, the studies give an unbiased assessment of the company performance in respect of the key stakeholders. The personnel are viewed by the leaders as a strategic potential for sustainable development of the Company. The ethical standards of the Company activities are set out in the Corporate Ethics Code that establishes the standards of ethical behavior, and the general principles determining internal relations of the Company staff and relations with customers, partners, public authorities, local self-government bodies and the society in general. The corporate culture development approaches and the principles of corporate social responsibility are used by managers in their day-to-day activities at all management levels for the purpose of taking managerial decisions and providing social support for the Company employees. 21 Overview Annually, the Company management is evaluated by the senior executives, and of Management annual operation analysis reports are issued. The internal audit process has been developed and implemented Approaches to assess the conformity of the Company management systems to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 27001. The audits provide reliable information about Vodokanal THE FOLLOWING MANAGEMENT processes to the senior executives. Such information APPROACHES ARE plays an important role in the improvement of management USED BY VODOKANAL performance and efficiency at the Company. Vodokanal passes TO IMPROVE ITS OPERATIONS: successfully the management systems compliance audits made by the national • strategic planning; Certification Association • process-based approach to the Company Management; “Russian Register” and the • self-assessment according to the EFQM (European international company SAI Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model; Global. • satisfaction surveys of all stakeholders including the Since 2006, Vodokanal internal process users; has self-assessed its activities • management systems are based on the standards ISO against the Russian Federation 9001, 14001, 50001, 27001 and OHSAS 18001; innovative Government Quality management improvement tools are implemented; Award Model, and since • industry-specific benchmarking (comparison with the best 2009 – against the EFQM European peers) and functional studies; Model-based methodology • sociological studies of public awareness and expectations; developed in-house, and • annual public reports. participated in regional and European competitions. Vodokanal management is built on the process-based Above all, regular selfapproach. The processes required to implement Vodokanal’s assessments and participation mission, vision and strategy are identified, the sequence and in competitions promote interaction of the processes are established. The processes the involvement of many together with their interrelations and interactions constitute employees in the process of the Company’s process framework. continuous development and in the search for new paths of development and performance improvement. In 2006, Vodokanal got the RF Government Quality Award. In 2009, the Company passed an independent expert assessment for compliance with the EFQM Recognized for Excellence level (5*); in 2010, 22 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company PROCESS INTERACTION PATTERN IN ST. PETERSBURG VODOKANAL AS OF 9 OCTOBER 2014 All stakeholders Requirements Consumer Satisfaction All stakeholders Coordination of the Management Company activity processes Analysis of the Analysis of the in compliance with customer and other customer and other all stakeholders’ stakeholders’ stakeholders’ requirements requierements Process Owner : First Deputy satisfaction Director General Wastewater disposal Management Personnel Production Economy Finance Investment of Company Management development Management management and construction Development Projects Process Owner: management Process Owner: Process Owner: management Process Owner: Director for Personnel, Process Owner: Director for Economy Director for Finance Process Owner: Director for Water supply Director for Development Safety and Security Director for Production Capital Construction and Projects Investments Control over fulfillment of all stakeholders’ Setting goals and tasks Work performance analysis requirements Internal control Management Securing Social Supporting Document Property and improvement Public relations Production of the Company the Company and cultural management management of the Company support support business unit processes assets communications Management inventory Value added action Information flow it confirmed compliance with owners at the Company and will create a transparent reporting the Recognized for Excellence framework based on the key performance indicators of each By applying the management level (5*) at the CEEC Contest. employee. approaches, we can: As of the end of 2011, The Company’s intention is to further develop its strengths, • ensure continuous Vodokanal joined the ranks come closer to the model of ideal organization and participate improvement of service quality of finalists of the prestigious in international quality-related events. We see Vodokanal and customer satisfaction; EFQM (European Foundation ranging with the world’s best companies. • meet the challenges and for Quality Management) Using its own experience and the experience of its foreign solve the problems faced by Excellence Award-2011. and domestic peers, Vodokanal is developing the “Ideal Water Vodokanal; By using the operation Company” concept. It is now formulated in the company’s • augment the company’s self-assessment approach Strategic Plan and addresses all spheres of activity: interaction contribution in the sustainable Vodokanal could integrate its with customers; development and management of water future. management approaches and services and infrastructure; environment and society; financial link them to strategic planning sustainability and investments; staff development; and social processes. support. The Ideal Water Company Concept is revised in form At present, Vodokanal and substance against the results of self-assessment for the intends to develop its own previous year and in consideration of external factors, such production system with as new regulatory acts, the outlook for city development, a tentative name “4E: and customer expectations. Efficiency, Environment, Economy, Evolution”. 4E will be an integrating concept defining the place of each method, approach or standard. The production system will ensure a streamlined interaction of all process 23 Key 2. Do (D) – the service is provided and monitored at all process levels (management Performance processes, life cycle processes and supporting processes); daily operational indicators are checked. At this phase, Management management is limited to ensuring the achievement of tactical (monthly) targets. 3. Check (C) – the progress Processes in achieving the key performance indicators is checked using the daily and weekly data. 4. Act (A) – the progress in achieving tactical targets and the reasons for deviation from In parallel with the process The key performance indicators of the Water Supply targets are analyzed, and the improvements, Vodokanal process are: necessary corrective actions are is upgrading its set of • compliance of potable water quality at the plant outlet worked out at weekly working indicators for strategic and or in the distribution networks with the applicable regulatory meetings. Such actions help day-to-day monitoring of values of physical and chemical parameters (expressed adjust the existing approaches processes. The assessment as a percentage); to achieve the targets. tools are: internal and external • reduced number of cases where the microbiological limit audits of management values are exceeded at the plant outlet or in the distribution Process performance systems, self-assessment networks; measurements are the based on the EFQM • reduced number of recorded reasoned complaints about basis of the integrated Excellence Model, and low water head; operation monitoring system corporate management • reduced number of breakdowns on water distribution maintained and developed in rating criteria. Targets for networks per 10 km of pipelines per year; a systematic way, and used the next three years and the • reduction of water consumption and distribution losses. to identify the key problems form “Quality Targets for the to be analyzed. Performance Current Year Split by Months” The improvement of maintenance function alongside indicators are monitored have been developed to with reconstruction works lead to higher reliability of network using special scorecards support regular monitoring operation and lower breakdown rates. at all management levels. of Vodokanal’s progress The key performance indicators of the Wastewater Potential areas of to the (water supply and Disposal process are: process management wastewater disposal) quality • percentage of wastewater treated at wastewater improvement are identified goals. Process performance treatment plants; in the course of selfis monitored at different • reduced number of blockages per 10 km of sewers per assessment based on the management levels using year; company management relevant indicators. • permitted concentrations of total nitrogen in the treated systems, internal audit effluent; results and performance • permitted concentrations of total phosphorus in the evaluation reports for EMS, treated effluent; QMS, OHSAS, EnMS and • percentage of dewatered sludge to be incinerated. ISMS. Moreover, the analysis of process performance is The process performance management process is based on the agenda of monthly on Deming-Shewhart-Tailor cycle (PDCA): Board meetings where they 1. Plan (P) – key process performance targets are planned discuss the progress in for the next year before it begins, on the basis of the strategic achieving the targets. indicators, required resources and result analysis of the The results of analysis previous year. The cause-and-effect relationships between the are used to identify areas for approaches applied and the results we want to achieve are improvements and to work determined at this phase. out the necessary corrective measures and actions for the existing approaches in order to achieve the strategic targets. 24 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Main The leaders demonstrate to the staff, by personal example, the standards of ethical behaviour towards Provisions every stakeholder, support the learning of values by employees during the adaptation period, and on Corporate promote corporate unity at different levels by initiating, and participating in, joint events. The key approaches Culture to the development of corporate culture and the principles of corporate social responsibility are used n the day-to-day activities at all company management The development of corporate culture at the company levels for the purpose of is based on the unity of personnel in achieving the strategic taking managerial decisions, targets, identification and support of social standards and organizing recreation and values. For this purpose, regular companywide professional providing social support for and cultural events are organized. Vodokanal employees. Vodokanal management realizes the priority of social Internal communications responsibility to the personnel. This realization is based on are effected in the company’s the company’s internal standards and supported through integrated information space the implementation of different social support programmes including, on the one hand, including the improvement of remuneration mechanisms, a set of IT resources and medical care and voluntary medical insurance, subsidized the corporate newspaper catering, recreation opportunities for the employees and and, on the other hand, members of their families, organization of corporate events, individual meetings between and support of the company veterans and pensioners. the company managers of The company has defined and is following its policy any level with the Company in the field of information and knowledge. This policy employees. is based on the principles of openness, completeness, regularity, timeliness, objectiveness, reliability, the raising of staff competence and improvement of corporate culture. Values and ethical standards have been defined and are followed to develop the corporate culture. 25 Disclosure The company employees adhere to the corporate values (see the section • PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND TEAMWORK. Vodokanal employees are of Information аbout Vodokanal “Mission and Values” above), good professionals. They and maintain and develop the build relations with their corporate culture as required colleagues on the basis to achieve the highest level of confidence, collaboraActivities of performance. tion, corporate solidarity The corporate values are and mutual assistance. The obligatory for all Vodokanal employees take a proactive staff and are proposed to all approach in their teamwork those who cooperate with focusing on the result Vodokanal. of joint activities. Those The company’s ethical prinwho are capable of improving Until 30 January 2013, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, ciples are based on the corpothe company performance as a public utility, had disclosed information on its regulated rate values, compliance with are offered career promotion, activities in the manner prescribed by the “Standards for law, and respect for the rights and, moreover, implementaDisclosure by Public Utilities”, approved by the Decree no. 1140 of Vodokanal employees and tion of essential projects of the Government of the Russian Federation dated 30 December partners. They govern both is entrusted to them. 2009. The procedures and frequency of disclosure were approved in-company relations and the • STRATEGIC FLEXIby the Order no. 26–r of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee relations between Vodokanal BILITY. Vodokanal operates dated 22 March 2010. and its partners and customin the environment where Due to changes in the Federal Law no. 416–FZ “On Water ers including behaviour in the governmental regulation of Supply and Wastewater Disposal” dated 7 December 2011, since situations where conflicts tariffs and fluctuating prices January 30, 2013, any disclosure shall be performed in the manner of interests arise. for the suppliers’ products prescribed by the “Disclosure Standards for the Water Sector”, The principles are (but not are a reality and have approved by the Decree no. 6 of the Government of the Russian limited to): a significant impact Federation dated 17 January 2013. The procedures and frequency • FOCUS ON CREATION on the implementation of disclosure were approved by the Order no. 129 of the Federal OF VALUE. Vodokanal emof the company strategy. Tariff Authority dated 15 May 2013. ployees work in line with the • SOCIAL RESPONSIIn addition, pursuant to Article 4, part 1, clause 5 of the company strategy and strive BILITY. The company bears Federal Law no. 190–FZ “On Heat Supply” dated 27 February to fulfil important strategic responsibility for the social 2010, since 15 July 2013, any disclosure of information in the tasks. When implementing well-being of its employfield of heat supply shall be performed in accordance with the various actions, Vodokanal ees. The value created by “Standards of Disclosure by Heat Supply Organizations, Heat employees realize what value Vodokanal staff is a huge Networks Organizations and Regulatory Authorities”, approved they create for customers, contribution to the improveby the Decree no. 570 of the Government of the Russian their company and the society ment of the living standards Federation dated 5 July 2013. The forms and frequency in general. in St. Petersburg, the Baltic of disclosure were approved by the Order no. 282–r Sea Region and society of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee dated 9 October 2013. in general. Annually, the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee approves a reporting procedure for the organizations subject to governmental tariff regulation in St. Petersburg, in addition to the reports submitted under the above disclosure standards. THE MAIN PROVISIONS OF CORPORATE CULTURE ADOPTED BY SUE VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG ARE SET OUT IN THE COMPANY STANDARD STO VODOKANAL SPB 1.4–2010 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. CODE OF CORPORATE ETHICS 26 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company VODOKANAL ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AS OF 1 JANUARY 2015 Director Legal for Legal Department Information Project Support and Public Relations Management Department Department St. Petersburg and Russian Federation Environmental Budget Execution Management Bureau Department Director Contract Order Southern Water Economy Finance for Economy Bureau Regulation Supply Zone Department Bureau Bureau Customer Service Deputy Directorate Director General Director Development Insurance Customer for Development Coverage Service Customer Projects Projects Director Service Department Department Methodology for Finance Centre Branch Department Deputy Director Socio-Economic Intellectual Programs for Personnel, Personnel Administrative Property Safety Implementation Department Department Bureau and Security Centre Branch Director for Medical Personnel, Safety Centre Branch and Security Information Sanitary Company and Training Security Epidemiological Centre Branch Supervision Mobilization Department Inspection Department Director General Director Emergency Water Supply for Production Response St. Petersburg Directorate Transport Support Centre Wastewater and Logistics Disposal Branch Branch Wastewater Energy City Water Disposal and Mechanics Infrastructure Directorate Department Department Director for Production Deputy OHSAS Civil Defense Connection and Extra-Ordinary St. Petersburg Director and Production Department Engineering Situations Water for Production Inspection Innovation Inspection Supply Centre Branch Internal Internal Economic Control Control Tariff Management Security Director Department Quality Bureau Department Bureau Deputy Director Construction for Capital Project Supervision Construction Manager Department Director and Investments Investment for Capital Programs Construction Implementation and Investments Centre Branch Investment Construction Property Planning Directorate Department Department Chief Accounting Accountant Department 27 28 Vodokanal Today 29 Company Vodokanal’s assets are owned by the City of St. Petersburg represented by relevant public authorities. Vodokanal Profile provides its services to the city inhabitants (5 million people) and to many thousands of companies and organizations in St. Petersburg. As of 31 December 2014, the staff of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” numbered 8,450 people. The water supply system comprises: THE STATE UNITARY • 6,938 km of water supply networks; ENTERPRISE (SUE) • 198 boosting pumping stations; “VODOKANAL • 9 water treatment plants (the biggest are OF ST. PETERSBURG” Southern WTP, Northern WTP and Main WTP); PROVIDES WATER SUPPLY • 2 sodium hypochlorite production plants. AND SEWERAGE The sewerage system SERVICES TO THE CITY comprises: • 8,421.8 km of sewer OF ST. PETERSBURG. networks; • 264 km of tunnel IT IS THE COUNTRY’S collectors; • 154 sewage pumping BIGGEST PUBLIC UTILITY stations; • 15 wastewater AND ONE OF THE KEY treatment plants including 13 – for municipal sewage MUNICIPAL COMPANIES and 2 – for surface runoff. The biggest are: Central WWTP, IN ST. PETERSBURG Northern WWTP and SouthWest WWTP; • 3 sludge incineration plants. 30 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS OF SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” IN THE FIELD OF WATER TREATMENT: • all potable water supplied to the city is UV-treated to ensure epidemiologic safety; • liquid chlorine is not used for water disinfection, it is replaced by hazard-free, non-toxic sodium hypochlorite; • hazard-free, non-toxic ammonia sulfate is used for water ammonation instead of ammonia solutions; • water condition in the Neva is checked by means of a biomonitoring system where crayfish act as chief “inspectors”; • PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing is implemented to remove odors and oil. Moreover, Vodokanal is in charge of the city fountains and public toilets. Vodokanal is strongly focused on awareness-raising activities. It has its Information and Training Centre including MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS the Universe of Water Museum Complex and the Youth Environmental Centre. OF SUE VODOKANAL The International Advanced Water Technologies Centre established by Vodokanal in cooperation with Lahti Science and Business Park, Finland, is working at the company premises. OF ST. PETERSBURG” Another social awareness-raising project implemented by Vodokanal is the web-portal da-voda.com which promotes the IN THE FIELD ideas of careful water use. Vodokanal together with zoologists has been involved in the OF WASTEWATER project on rescuing marine mammals of the Baltic Sea Region. The Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre was TREATMENT: opened at Vodokanal premises. The establishment of the Centre was one of the key projects implemented in St. Petersburg in • 98.5% of wastewater is treated in Petersburg now; the Gulf of Finland Year. • Petersburg meets the HELCOM recommendations: phosphorus concentrations in the total volume of the city wastewater discharge do not exceed 0.5 mg/l, nitrogen concentrations – 10 mg/l; • Petersburg has solved the sludge disposal problem: SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” three sludge incineration plants are in operation in the city; • biomonitoring technologies are implemented to check HAS BUILT AN EFFECTIVE CUSTOMER the quality of treated effluent (by means of crayfish) and FEEDBACK SYSTEM. SINCE 2004, concentrations of flue gases at the sludge incineration plant (by means of snails); A 24–HOUR HOT LINE SERVICE HAS BEEN • a snow disposal technology is implemented IN OPERATION PROVIDING ALL KINDS OF in Petersburg: permanent snow-melting stations utilizing wastewater heat. INFORMATION ABOUT VODOKANAL WORK. THE HOT LINE SERVICE PHONE NUMBER IS +7 (812) 305-09-09 31 The Most Vodokanal is involved in the rescuing of rare animals in the Baltic Sea Region – grey and Important Events ringed seals – together with the zoologists Vyacheslav Alexeyev and Elena Andriyevskaya. In 2014, the rehabilitation season lasted from 14 March to 16 July. During that time, 29 animals were cured and released into the wild: 23 Baltic grey seals, 5 Baltic ringed seals and one Ladoga ringed seal. When the season was over, the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre closed for reconstruction. Today, it 1. THE UNIQUE MARINE MAMMALS’ is a unique facility with no analogs in Russia or the Baltic RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION countries. The Centre can admit up to 40 animals at the CENTRE WAS OPENED AT same time. Moreover, it offers opportunities for researchers. VODOKANAL PREMISES The official opening of the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre in September 2014 was attended by Georgiy Poltavchenko, Acting Governor of St. Petersburg. In the same period, September 2014, the registration of the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund was announced. In December, the website of the Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund was launched: www.balticseal.org. Thanks to the website, those who are not indifferent to the fate of the baby seals inhabiting our region have a chance not only to learn more about these animals but also to help them. An account for donations was opened, so everyone can contribute to the preservation of marine mammals in our region. Vodokanal’s website now has a new section dedicated to the Help the Pinnipeds Project. 32 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company 2. THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW WATER INTAKE AND A NEW FIRST-LIFT PUMPING STATION AT MAIN WATER TREATMENT 3. DURING THE GULF OF FINLAND PLANT (PRODUCING YEAR, VODOKANAL CONTINUED 500,000 M3/DAY ITS EFFORTS TO MITIGATE THE OF WATER) WAS NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE COMPLETED CITY’S WATER BODIES. DOZENS The reliability of water supply greatly depends on proper and fail-safe operation of the first-lift pumping station, and OF UNTREATED WASTEWATER today Main WTP supplies as much as ≈ 400,000 m3/day of drinking water to Central, Vasileostrovskiy and DISCHARGES WERE CLOSED, Petrogradskiy city districts and partly to Admiralteyskiy, Primorskiy, Kalininskiy, Krasnogvardeyskiy and Vyborgskiy WASTEWATER TREATMENT districts. Water starts its way to consumers from water intakes. PLANTS WERE MODERNIZED The water intake of Main WTP is located at the bottom In December 2014, the 23 m3/day average), and of the Neva in the area of Smolnaya Embankment. The river discharges of untreated 2 – under the responsibility water flows by gravity through pipelines from special water wastewater from Petrovskiy of industrial companies. intake structures – headwalls – to the first-lift pumping Stadium were eliminated As a result, the Bolshaya station. From the pumping station, water flows to the (9 direct discharges equivalent Nevka River became cleaner: waterworks where it undergoes a full treatment cycle to ≈1,000 m3/day were earlier, around 1.5 million and disinfection. closed) under the Neva cubic meters of untreated Construction of the first-lift pumping station is the initial Untreated Wastewater wastewater had been drained phase of a bigger project: all-around reconstruction of Main Discharge Closure Program. into the river, and now they WTP. A new 500,000 m3/day water treatment facility will To eliminate direct discharges are diverted to the Northern be built there in the next few years. from Petrovskiy Stadium, four WWTP for treatment. sewage pumping stations In November, construction were built and 2 km of of a new collector began at pipelines of various diameters Admiralteyskaya Embankment. were installed (some sections The collector is needed to were laid under the rivers close six direct wastewater Zhdanovka and Malaya discharges equivalent Nevka). to ≈ 1,000 m3/day in the city Besides, in 2014, center. The collector project 19 direct discharges were will be completed in May closed at Petrogradskaya 2015. Embankment. Seventeen In 2014, Vodokanal of them had been under the modernized wastewater responsibility of Vodokanal treatment plants in (three combined sewerage Kronstadt, Kolpino, Pushkin, discharges, 4,019 m3/day and Pontonny, and the bigger in total; and 14 rainwater plants, Northern WWTP and sewerage discharges, Central WWTP. 33 5. VODOKANAL STARTED TO INSPECT TUNNEL COLLECTORS USING A UNIQUE MOBILE DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM (MDS) The inspection is needed there is no need for the inspecto obtain current and reliator to get inside the collector. ble information about the The main tasks of MDS are condition of ground-based and to locate structural damage of underwater sections of deep reinforced concrete structunnel collectors. The 2–5 m tures of collectors, and to diameter collectors laid investigate hydrodynamic and at a depth of 30–80 m are physical processes. in operation. Special equipAny engineering solutions ment is needed to examine related to the operation their condition and identify of collectors are underpinned potential defects. with the results of overall Most of the collectors have investigation. no backup sewers, The MDS enables to avoid so they cannot be put out human contact with wastewaof the operation even for ter, to identify any damage of 4. AT 47TH HELCOM HEADS OF a short-time inspection the tunnel collector lining and or repair (if necessary). to decide about the need of DELEGATION MEETING, SUB-SPOT For this reason, a diagcapital repairs. nostic system was built to The MDS designer is LLC NO. 18.1 “NORTHERN TUNNEL examine the whole channel “TLAD” (St. Petersburg). profile and the condition of the Today, Vodokanal COLLECTOR CONSTRUCTION” WAS reinforced-concrete lining of is in charge of over 260 km the underwater section while of tunnel collectors including DELETED FROM THE LIST OF “HOT wastewaters keep passing ≈1,300 units of equipment through the collector. Besides, installed on them. SPOTS” The list of hot spots, the sites posing a threat to the Baltic Sea ecosystem, was approved by the Helsinki Commission in 1992. The countries which signed the Helsinki Convention (including the Russian Federation) took commitments to eliminate the sources of environmental hazard. In early 1990s, Russia accounted for 18 out of 132 HELCOM hot spots, including the six hot spots located in St. Petersburg. Four of them were the responsibility of Vodokanal. In 2006, thanks to the work done in St. Petersburg, the list of hot spots under Vodokanal responsibility was shortened from four to one. This hot spot (No. 18) was split into 19 sub-spots, 16 of which had been closed by 2014. In December 2014, HELCOM experts took a decision to exclude one more sub-spot related to the completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector. With the Northern Tunnel Collector completed in October 2013, 76 untreated wastewater discharges equivalent to 334,000 m3/day could be closed. Today, these volumes of wastewater are diverted to Northern WWTP where they undergo a full treatment cycle in line with the HELCOM recommendations. Since the completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector in October 2013, 98.4% of wastewater has been treated in St. Petersburg. 34 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company 6. VODOKANAL LAUNCHED TWO FOUNTAINS IN THE EASTERN AND WESTERN RAYPATHS OF THE 300TH ANNIVERSARY OF ST. PETERSBURG PARK Two years ago these fountains of surveillance cameras together with the fountain and water refilling/overflow “Mayak” also located in the systems. The hydraulic 300th Anniversary of St. Peterssystems were fully re7. ON 19–20 SEPTEMBER burg Park were included in arranged, electrical works the Municipal Program of with replacement of control 2014, THE CITYWIDE general overhaul of fountains cabinets were performed, and fountain complexes in St. anemometers (protective FESTIVAL “GULF Petersburg for 2012–2015. mechanisms to prevent wind Several years ago, deflection of fountain jets) OF FINLAND – AREA the out-of-order fountains were connected, drainage in the 300th Anniversary and filtration systems were OF COOPERATION” of St. Petersburg Park were renovated. Finally, the granite taken over by Vodokanal. bowls and ornamental TOOK PLACE The absence of proper structures of the fountains technical documentation were renovated. Vodokanal was fully engaged in its organization and complicated the pre-repair By summer 2014, the implementation. An official meeting of the public councils works. general overhaul of fountains from Russia, Finland and Estonia devoted to the trilateral The renovation scope in the eastern and western cooperation project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014” was covered the replacement raypaths was completed. conducted in Tavricheskiy Palace. The Governor of all pumping and lighting In June, they started of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, Vice-Governor of the equipment, and installation functioning in a regular regime. Leningrad Region Yu.V. Pakhomovskiy, Chairman of the Finnish Public Council of the Gulf of Finland Year М. Vanhanen, Vice-President of Estonian Society for Nature Conservation J. Telgmaa participated in the meeting. Besides, various citywide activities were held in the framework of the Festival – a folklore fest, march of military orchestras, concert at the Spit of Vasilievskiy Island. 35 Investments Vodokanal invested 3,669.3 Mio. Roubles in the water in 2014 supply system under the investment programme, including: • supply of safe potable water to the customers – 146.5 Mio. Roubles; • provision of reliable water supply services – 351.8 Mio. Roubles; IN 2014, VODOKANAL • improvement of energy efficiency and implementation INVESTED 8,536.2 MIO. of energy saving measures at water supply facilities – ROUBLES IN THE 561.2 Mio. Roubles; • access to water DEVELOPMENT AND supply services – 2,073.9 Mio. Roubles; RECONSTRUCTION OF WATER • other items (production bases, procurement SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER of equipment, security systems, development of fountain DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. complexes) – 535.9 Mio. Roubles. THE WORKS WERE PERFORMED The amount of 4,866.9 Mio. Roubles was invested in the UNDER THE ADOPTED wastewater system, including: • mitigation of wastewater INVESTMENT PROGRAMME system’s negative impact on the environment – 1,797.2 Mio. Roubles; • provision of reliable The investment The water supply objectives are: wastewater services – programme objectives are • supply of safe potable water to the customers; 589.8 Mio. Roubles; grouped in line with the • provision of reliable water supply services; • improvement of energy core production activities of • improvement of energy efficiency and implementation of efficiency and implementation Vodokanal. energy saving measures at water supply facilities; of energy saving measures at • access to centralized water supply services. wastewater collection The main wastewater disposal objectives are: and treatment facilities – • mitigation of wastewater system’s negative impact on the 139.6 Mio. Roubles; THE TOTAL environment; • access to the sewerage – • provision of reliable wastewater disposal services; 1,951.8 Mio. Roubles; INVESTMENT IN • improvement of energy efficiency and implementation • other items (production of energy saving measures at wastewater collection and bases, procurement of WATER SUPPLY treatment facilities; equipment, security systems, • access to centralized sewerage. development of public toilets) – AND WASTEWATER The investment programme was funded from the following 388.5 Mio. Roubles. sources: Moreover, 5,662.5 Mio. DISPOSAL PROJECTS • St. Petersburg budget – 507.9 Mio. Roubles Roubles from the municipal • corporate funds – 3,170.8 Mio. Roubles budget were invested in IN 2014 AMOUNTED • own funds (budget investments in the authorized capital) – the construction of water 326.2 Mio. Roubles infrastructure in 2014 by order TO 14,198.7 MIO. • connection fee – 3,539.8 Mio. Roubles of GKU “Ordering authority for • third-party financing – 991,5 Mio. Roubles construction and capital repair ROUBLES projects in the engineering and energy sector”. 36 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Adoption of Investment Programme for 2015–2017 The Investment Programme will be financed from the following sources: IN 2014, VODOKANAL’S • St. Petersburg budget – 20,995.7 Mio. Roubles; • corporate funds – 12,068.3 Mio. Roubles; INVESTMENT PROGRAMME • connection fee – 12,747.7 Mio. Roubles; • third-party financing – 611,0 Mio. Roubles. FOR 2015–2017 WAS APPROVED – The approved amount of financing will ensure the operation of water and sewerage systems in St. Petersburg at the existing 46,422.7 MIO. ROUBLES level. However, an investment programme for, at least, five years has to be adopted to improve the existing situation and promote (IN THE PRICES OF RELEVANT further development. YEARS) Vodokanal specialists have estimated the scope of work to be done in the period 2016–2025 at around 180.2 billion Roubles (in current prices). With such programme in place, Vodokanal will be able to implement the solutions set out in the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan till 2025. There will be means for overall modernization of water and wastewater treatment plants, and for reconstruction of networks on a bigger scale. The results achieved under the programme will enhance the quality of life in the city and improve the environment. 37 Vodokanal In 2014, Vodokanal won the First National Award of the Awards Russian water sector “Russia’s Water” in the nomination “Best awareness-raising project aimed to develop respectful attitude to water in THE ACHIEVEMENTS the society”. Vodokanal applied for the award OF VODOKANAL ARE by presenting its project “Fostering careful GENERALLY RECOGNIZED attitude to water at the household level”. BY BOTH RUSSIAN The project “Water + I = Friends” presented AND FOREIGN EXPERTS by Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre became a winner under the international project “Environmental Culture. Peace and Harmony” in the nomination “Environmental Education and Awareness-Building”. The awarding ceremony on 5 June coincided with the World Environment Protection Day (the Environmentalist Day). The competition was organized by the Non-Governmental Environmental Fund named after V.I. Vernadskiy and the International Environmental Public Organization GREENLIGHT. Vodokanal’s project dedicated to the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre won the XI All-Russian National Environmental Award named after V.I. Vernadskiy in the nomination “Environmental Initiatives”. 38 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Among other awards In 2014, Vodokanal bestowed on Vodokanal in St. Petersburg won the IN 2014, THE DIRECTOR 2014 is the international “Best Professional” skill management award “Energy competition of Russian GENERAL OF SUE VODOKANAL of Efficiency” aimed to water companies’ emergency encourage the managers repair teams; it was also OF ST. PETERSBURG who implement, at the the prize-winner of the national level, international competition among the F.V. KARMAZINOV WAS AWARDED management standards, sewerage emergency repair norms and requirements for teams, excavator drivers and THE RUSSIAN PRESIDENT’S business and social activities. maintenance technicians. The award promotes the Moreover, Vodokanal CERTIFICATE OF MERIT FOR HIS development of international St. Petersburg was awarded economic cooperation, and the Honourable Diploma for LABOUR ACHIEVEMENTS, MANY-YEAR the involvement of specialists in-house sports promotion from different countries and and for its huge contribution FRUITFUL WORK AND LEGISLATIVE public and commercial entities to the sports achievements in the search for solutions of the Inter-Regional Trade ACTIVITIES. AT THE END OF 2014, to business-related Union Committee at the challenges. International Workers’ Sports F.V. KARMAZINOV WAS HANDED Festival. A CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT “FOR EXEMPLARY MAINTENANCE OF CIVIL DEFENSE PROTECTIVE STRUCTURES IN ST. PETERSBURG IN 2014” ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNOR OF ST. PETERSBURG G.S. POLTAVCHENKO 39 40 Risk Management 41 Financial The financial model evaluates Vodokanal’s financial capabilities taking into account the big investment Risk projects implemented with the company’s own or borrowed funds. It takes account of macroeconomic factors and Management company development factors to identify potential sources of investments and to project development options under different scenarios. The model provides instruments for comparative dynamic analysis and SUE “VODOKANAL monitoring of Vodokanal’s performance. The monitoring OF ST. PETERSBURG” and analysis results provided by the financial model are FOLLOWS A BALANCED promptly used by Vodokanal management to make the FINANCIAL POLICY BASED necessary amendments to the company’s production and ON THE STRATEGIC PLAN investment programs. Risk management AND LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE. is integrated into the management system via TO MAKE A LONG-TERM strategic management and budgeting processes. Internal FORECAST, THE COMPANY control procedures are implemented by the company USES ITS FINANCIAL to mitigate all risk types. Internal audits are made MODEL by a separate department within the Vodokanal administration. Scenariobased approach, industry analysis and SWOT analysis are used by Vodokanal as risk identification and assessment methods. Furthermore, property insurance and third-party insurance of Vodokanal as the owner of hazardous production facilities are used as a risk reduction tool. 42 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Financial IN JANUARY Risk 2014, VODOKANAL SIGNED FORWARD Management CONTRACTS TO HEDGE FOREIGN Status EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE in 2014 RISKS UNDER THE EXISTING LOAN AGREEMENTS IN 2014, VODOKANAL KEPT USING A WIDE RANGE OF TOOLS TO MINIMIZE FINANCIAL RISKS Continuous monitoring of financial situation and assessing its The purpose of hedging potential impacts on the key financial indicators enabled prompt transactions is to ensure updating of financial policy and helped maintain the company’s financial security for financial sustainability. a company faced with In 2014, Vodokanal continued improving its financial model. instability of exchange/ The improved model corresponds to the European level and interest rates. Till 2020, allows to predict and analyze Vodokanal’s key financial indicators SUE “Vodokanal in accordance with IFRS. St. Petersburg” will make In 2014, the project “Elaboration of SUE Vodokanal of fixed payments in roubles St. Petersburg Corporate Development Concept for the period regardless of potential currency up to 2030” was launched. In particular, the Concept envisages fluctuations, which is extremely the creation of a high-level financial and operational model of important for the financial Vodokanal for the period up to 2030 determining the most and economic planning of any effective ways to achieve the strategic goals of the company company that raises revenues under different scenarios. exclusively in the national In 2014, in view of unstable rouble-to-euro exchange rate currency of the Russian (Vodokanal’s debt service obligations to international financial Federation. institutions, totaling over MEUR 123.2 as of the beginning of 2014) it was decided to hedge the company’s interest rate and exchange risks. 43 Non-Financial The internal control department works to achieve the following objectives: • ensuring the reliability Risk of financial and managerial information; • protection of the company assets and Management supporting the effective use of the company resources; • assistance in optimization of the corporate organizational structure; • compliance with the applicable laws of the Russian VODOKANAL’S INTERNAL Federation and St. Petersburg and internal regulations. CONTROL FUNCTION IS PERFORMED The internal control department provides the BY A SPECIAL DEPARTMENT management of Vodokanal with the information obtained: THAT DEALS WITH • during inspections of the company departments; PREVENTIVE IDENTIFICATION • by analyzing the range and prices of goods and AND MINIMIZATION services procured by the company in the course of OF THE COMPANY RISKS operations; • during the examination of basic and supporting processes in the Company. General procedures for internal control of departments and internal auditing are formulated and approved. Inspection reporting rules and requirements to the form and contents of reports are issued. The development of inspection and audit methods for different types of corporate activities is ongoing. 44 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company and mitigation of the to identify risks, determine SEGMENTATION OF NON-FINANCIAL environment pollution risks. risk factors and risk Currently, professional probability; makes analyses RISKS WAS MADE BY VODOKANAL risks assessment is not and assessments of the only an important part of risks that may affect the AS A PART OF SELF-ASSESSMENT occupational health and company’s information safety management but security. The company’s IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE also a part of the corporate informational security management. This activity management system EFQM EXCELLENCE MODEL. THE is implemented on the in accordance with ISO basis of OHSAS-18001 and 27001 was established KEY ASPECTS OF THE COMPANY national regulations. and certified in 2012 to 5. To alleviate the risks ensure a systematic approach ACTIVITIES WHICH MAY LEAD associated with undesirable to the information security. changes in legislation, At present, Vodokanal TO RISKS WERE IDENTIFIED the company makes a keeps improving its nonstrong contribution to the financial risk management. The non-financial risks (see Non-Financial Risk Map, development of regulations, Particular attention is paid page 47) are systematically managed by the company makes suggestions and to the following areas: using a process-based approach in order to restrain argues its position. • development of risk potential losses of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. 6. To prevent the risks management; 1. To minimize the risks associated with the customer associated with low culture • extension of both dissatisfaction with water and wastewater services, the of water use, Vodokanal internal and external quality management system based on the International widely implements benchmarking; Standard ISO – 9001 is continuously improved. Regular environmental awareness• development of its interaction with customers through the Hot Line Service building programmes. own production system in combination with the company’s transparency policy 7. The risks associated with a tentative name (including active communication with the mass media), with the pollution of potable “4E: Efficiency, Ecology, as well as questionnaires and customer satisfaction surveys, water source (the Neva) are Economy, Evolution”. 4E will help mitigate this risk, too. Internal and external audits mitigated by early detection be a consolidating concept under the Quality Management System (EMS) promptly of pollution events. determining the place of identify the management areas to be enhanced and help In particular, Vodokanal has each of the applied methods, improve the processes at all stages of the service lifecycle. implemented the river water approaches, and standards. In this way, the company performance can be enhanced and biomonitoring by crayfish customer satisfaction can be raised. at all its water intakes. 2. The risks associated with negative impacts on the Oil spills in the river are Sustainable use of natural environment are managed on the basis of the environmental detected by the monitoring resources, systematic management system ISO 14001 used by the company. system installed on one approach to the corporate Vodokanal enhances the reliability of water supply and of the bridges across the management, strong sewerage, improves wastewater treatment and sludge Neva, upstream of the first contribution to the management technologies, stops the discharge of city water intake. development of regulatory backwash water from water treatment plants using it for 8. To minimize the risks acts, environmental process needs after a proper treatment, and addresses the associated with accidents awareness-raising, environmental impacts of its vehicle fleet. and hazardous working innovative technologies, 3. The ISO 50001 energy management system was conditions Vodokanal is doing and internal and external implemented and certified in 2012 to raise energy efficiency its best to improve working benchmarking – all that at the plants in a systematic way. We aim to optimize conditions, to reduce the is integrated into the energy consumption, select and procure energy-efficient injury rate and to prevent corporate management equipment, design energy-efficient processes and facilities, emergency situations at culture and leads to and consider conversion to renewable energy sources. hazardous production sites. minimization of company 4. Improved occupational health and safety management 9. To mitigate the risks risks. on the basis of OHSAS-18001 mitigates the risks associated associated with information with work-related accidents, emergency situations and security, the company consequently, leads to the improvement of service quality implements measures 45 Non-financial Risk Management Status in 2014 Non-financial risk control THE RISK MANAGEMENT comprises: • identification of all In 2014, the non-financial risk management process PROCESS IS DESIGNED significant non-financial risks (risk map); was under constant control based on ISO Standards and TO REDUCE THE • monitoring of the progress of actions designed EFQM Excellence Model, thus ensuring an efficient PROBABILITY to mitigate any significant risks; combination of measures to alleviate the risks taken OF UNFAVORABLE • immediate response to identified risks or to the by the company and measures to minimize, OUTCOME AND TO LIMIT situations where the identified risks are near threshold levels; avoid or redistribute the unacceptably high risks. POTENTIAL LOSSES • effectiveness analysis of risk management actions OF SUE “VODOKANAL by the top management. OF ST. PETERSBURG” WHEN ANY RISK EVENT OCCURS 46 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company KEY NON-FINANCIAL RISKS MAP OF SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” Degree of Risk Risk factors Risk management measures impact Political and regulatory risks Risk of economically unjustified restrictions in the state regulation State authorities decide to freeze Close interaction with the regulating authority High of tariffs for water supply or limit the growth of tariffs (St. Petersburg Tariff Committee) and wastewater disposal Special features of the social, Country risk is weakly managed by the ComCountry risk economic and political situation High pany, however, it is taken into accounts when in Russia strategic decisions are taken or updated Operational risks Losses due to irrecoverable damHigh age of production facilities Company investment programme Production-related and technical risks Losses due to higher cost implementation; (risks of breakdowns or incidents) of providing water and wasteControl over the scope and time water services compared to the High schedule of repairs planned equipment operation scenario Implementation of antiterrorist measures in compliance with the law Shutdown of process equipment Terroristic or naturally-occurring of the Russian Federation; as a result of any terrorist act or natuAbove average threats Protection against potential consequences of ral disaster in the region accidents, catastrophes and natural disasters; Insurance of property and personnel; Customer dissatisfaction with the Management system improvement Lower quality of the services quality of water and wastewater Above average on the basis of ISO 9001 and EFQM provided services Excellence Model Losses due to economically Enhancement of internal control to prevent Corruption risks unjustified terms of transactions conflicts of interest; Above average (potential conflicts of interest) with counterparts and payments Compliance with anti-corruption policy and for nonexistent works the corporate ethics code Negative impact on the life and Compliance with the Russian laws pertinent health of the company personnel to occupational health and safety; improveRisks of accidents at production sites Average resulting from their operational ment of the management system on the activity basis of OHSAS 18001 Non-fulfilment of contractual obligations regarding the time More detailed preliminary analysis Risks of non-performance of obligaschedule and quality of performed Below average of counterparty risks and control over tions by contractors works, the supply of equipment performance of obligations by counterparties and components Strategic risks Incorrect long-term planning Regular updating of the strategic Strategic risk Above average of the company development development plan Environmental risks Water quality deterioration and Negative impact of ship traffic Maintenance and improvement of the Neva High pollution of the Neva and agriculture on the Neva water water monitoring system, incl. biomonitoring Negative impact on the environRisk of negative impact Management system improvement ment resulting from the company Above average on the environment on the basis of ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 activity Annual self-assessment of the company activities in accordance Strategic planning, key performance results, evaluation with the EFQM Excellence Model enabled successful integration of customer/staff/internal process user satisfaction, and of the non-financial risk management approaches into a holistic development of partnerships and corporate social responsibility – system. all these elements have become a part of the corporate management culture to reduce non-financial risks. 47 48 Participation in External Initiatives 49 The Gulf of Finland Year 2014 WAS DECLARED THE GULF OF FINLAND YEAR BY THE DECISION OF THREE COUNTRIES – RUSSIA, FINLAND AND ESTONIA On the Russian side, the Gulf In Russia, a wide series of DURING THE GULF OF of Finland Year Project was under the patronage actions as part of the Gulf of Finland Year were carried FINLAND YEAR VODOKANAL of the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir out to support sustainable development of natural ST. PETERSBURG CONTINUED Putin; on the Finnish side, it was supervised by the resources and water areas of the Gulf of Finland and ITS WORK RELATED TO THE President of the Republic of Finland Sauli Niinistö, to improve environmental situation in the region, where REDUCTION OF THE ADVERSE on the Estonian side – by the President of the Republic of political, economic, cultural and humanitarian interests IMPACT ON THE CITY WATER Estonia Toomas Ilves. The Gulf of Finland Year of Russia, Finland and Estonia intersect. BODIES. DOZENS OF UNTREATED was officially announced on 21 January, 2014, in For more active involvement of public WASTEWATER DISCHARGES Helsinki. The objective of the Gulf organizations, environmental agencies and business WERE CLOSED, WASTEWATER of Finland Year Project was to collect and evaluate the communities to this project, the Public Council dedicated TREATMENT PLANTS WERE information about the Baltic Sea, improve the level of to the Gulf of Finland Year Project was organized. The MODERNIZED. THE PROJECT knowledge of the managers and policy makers involved in Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko and the AIMED TO HELP THE PUPS protection and rehabilitation of the marine environment of Governor of Leningrad Region Alexander Drozdenko became OF MARINE MAMMAL GOT TO the Gulf of Finland. The activities under the co-chairs of the Public Council. The Director General of A NEW LEVEL. A NUMBER OF Gulf of Finland Year 2014 were related to political goals Vodokanal Felix Karmazinov joined the Public Council. AWARENESS-RAISING PROJECTS of top circles of the Baltic Sea region: support of the Meetings of the Public Council were held at the WERE IMPLEMENTED HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan, EU Marine Strategy premises of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. Framework Directive, EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region, etc. 50 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company In 2014, Help the Pinnipeds Project (rescuing of ON 5 SEPTEMBER 2014, In December 2014, Vodokanal’s project marine mammals’ pups at Vodokanal’s wastewater THE UNPARALLELED-IN-RUSSIA dedicated to the Marine Mammals Research and treatment plant in Repino) launched by the zoologists MARINE MAMMALS RESEARCH Conservation Centre won the All-Russian National Vyacheslav Alekseyev and Elena Andrievskaya and AND CONSERVATION CENTRE Environmental Award named after V.I. Vernadskiy Vodokanal St. Petersburg, was followed up. WAS OPENED AT REPINO in the nomination “Environmental Initiatives”. On 10 April, the Public Council meeting dedicated WASTEWATER TREATMENT In autumn 2014, the Baltic Ringed Seal Fund to the trilateral cooperation project “Gulf of Finland Year PLANT AFTER RECONSTRUCTION. was established (www.balticseal.org). 2014” was held, where the Governor of St. Petersburg THE CENTRE CAN ACCOMMODATE A donation account is opened, so now everyone Georgiy Poltavchenko proposed to support the Baltic UP TO 40 ANIMALS AT A TIME. can take part in the rescue of marine mammals in our ringed seal conservation project implemented with the RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES region. In particular, the support of Vodokanal and to consider establishment ARE ALSO OFFERED THERE members of the Public Council are: the Governor of a special fund. of St. Petersburg In 2014, the rehabilitation G.S. Poltavchenko, season lasted from 14 March the Director General to 16 June. Within this time of Vodokanal St. Peters29 animals were treated and burg F.V. Karmazinov, released to the wild. Among and the Chairperson them were 23 grey Baltic of the St. Petersburg seals, 5 Baltic ringed seals and Union of Journalists one Ladoga ringed seal. L.D. Fomicheva. Vodokanal participation in the Baltic Sea inhabitants rescue For this purpose, the remaining direct discharges should campaign was a follow-up of its years-long effort to protect be closed. Although the volume of untreated wastewater the Baltic Sea. In the beginning of 2014, Petersburg treated discharged through these outlets is not significant, big projects 98.4% of wastewater. Vodokanal’s task is to reach 100% (as should be implemented to close them. specified in the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan for the period up to 2025 with the outlook to 2030). 51 In December 2014, the untreated wastewater AT THE END OF 2014, THE PROJECT discharge from Petrovskiy Stadium was eliminated “MODERNIZATION OF WASTEWATER (9 direct discharges equivalent to about 1,000 m3/day were TREATMENT PLANTS IN KRONSTADT, closed, with the wastewater diverted to Northern WWTP). KOLPINO, PUSHKIN AND For this purpose, four sewage pumping stations were built PONTONNIY” LAUNCHED IN MARCH and over 2 km of pipelines of different diameter were 2012 WAS COMPLETED laid with inverted siphons constructed under the The project objective was to improve the efficiency Zhdanovka River and the of wastewater treatment at the small WWTPs and to achieve Malaya Neva River. stable phosphorus and nitrogen removal performance. In particular, at Kronstadt WWTP, the biological Also in 2014, 19 direct treatment process was reconstructed using the enhanced discharges at Petrogradskaya nitrogen and phosphorus removal technology by Embankment were closed. Johannesburg university; grit channels were modernized; Seventeen of them air blowers were replaced with modern energy-efficient (3 combined discharges turbo-blowers, etc. At Kolpino WWTP, four grit channels accounting for 4,019 m3/day and four clarifiers were modernized and reequipped; the of wastewater; and equipment of raw sludge pumping stations was replaced. 14 rainwater discharges, At Pushkin WWTP, the old screens were replaced with 23 m3/day average) were modern perforated ones; the pumping equipment at raw under the responsibility sludge/waste activated sludge pumping stations was of Vodokanal, and 2 were replaced; the raw sludge screen building was built; the old industrial wastewater air blowers were replaced with advanced energy-efficient air discharges. As a result, blowers. the Bolshaya Nevka River became cleaner: earlier, about 1.5 million cubic meters of IN 2014, wastewater were drained into it, and now all the wastewater MODERNIZATION is diverted to Northern WWTP for treatment. OF BIGGER In November 2014, the WASTEWATER construction of collector at Admiralteyskaya Embankment TREATMENT began. This collector is needed to close six direct PLANTS, discharges in the center of the city (next to the Bronze NORTHERN AND Horseman) equivalent to ≈1,000 m3/day of wasteCENTRAL WWTPS, water. The length of the WAS ONGOING collector to be built under Admiralteyskaya Embankment is 550 m, the diameter is 1.2 m. Sewers should also be laid under Sennaya Square. The works at Admiralteyskaya Embankment and Sennaya Square will be completed by May 2015. 52 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company The Northern WWTP project covered reconstruction and The Baltic Cruise Program at the Universe of Water museum modernization of mechanical and biological treatment processes. complex was launched to coincide with the Gulf of Finland Now, 3 primary and 6 secondary clarifiers are reconstructed; raw Year. This program is still going on. It is designed for both sludge pumping station and return sludge pumping station are children and adults. In the rooms of the Youth Environmental built. Installation of the aeration tank equipment is near end. Centre participants get acquainted with the inhabitants of the At Central WWTP, reconstruction works are ongoing in the Baltic Sea: seal, plaice, salmon, Arctic tern and many others, aeration tank sections 5 and 6 (sections 3 and 4 have already using the unique 3D-installation “The Nature of the Baltic Sea” been modernized). with stereoholographic effects. The e-encyclopedia gives the participants new knowledge about the Baltic Sea, later, their A major awareness-raising event of the Gulf of Finland Year knowledge can be checked by a video quiz equipped with was the Night of the Gulf of Finland in the framework of the an e-voting system. On a game table with a touch panel the international Museums at Night event at the Universe of Water visitors can move a virtual ship across the sea, piece together museum complex. A special guided tour dedicated to the Gulf a jigsaw puzzle map of the Baltic Sea countries, and place the of Finland was organized for this purpose. The timeframe of Baltic Sea inhabitants to their habitats. In addition to advanced the event was 17 May, 6 p.m. – 18 May, 6 a.m. The museum technologies, a collection of aquarium fish helps learn more exhibitions were visited by 6,622 people by entire tickets. about the Baltic Sea. The outdoor folk performance dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year was organized at Vodokanal’s Information and Training Centre. Visitors got acquainted with cultural traditions of Russia, Finland and Estonia, learnt about special features of the Gulf of Finland, the activities of the Marine Mammals Rehabilitation Centre, and the achievements of Vodokanal. A special excursion to three museum exhibitions including an intellectual game, experiment with water, express tours and the exhibition of environmental installations “Youth for the Gulf of Finland Year”, was arranged. IN MAY, THE ANNUAL INLINE SKATER RACE DEDICATED TO THE GULF OF FINLAND YEAR WAS ORGANIZED IN ST. PETERSBURG WITH THE SUPPORT OF VODOKANAL. THE SYMBOL OF THE RACE WAS THE BALTIC RINGED SEAL. THE RACE COLLECTED THE BIGGEST NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN ITS HISTORY – MORE THAN 6,000 PEOPLE TOOK PART IN IT 53 Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre ALL SUMMER SHIFTS In late July, the St. Petersburg students involved in the organized the environmental awareness-raising project The IN THE CHILDREN RECREATION activities of the Youth Environmental Centre, Water Olympiad for 1–5 grade pupils. Nearly 1,500 school CAMP “ZVYOZDNIY” (THE TOWN including the YEC core team, took part in the students and preschoolers from 47 educational OF LUGA, LENINGRAD REGION) development of the Youth Declaration dedicated to institutions of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region WERE DEDICATED the protection the Gulf of Finland. Teenagers from took part in the project. TO THE GULF OF FINLAND YEAR three countries (Russia, Finland and Estonia) visited Another environmental the environmental camps awareness-raising project located in Meriharju and (for high school students), Harakka Nature Centres in Awareness Raising of the Finland. They studied in mixed Young in the Framework of groups, and discussed the the International Advanced challenges and future of the Water Technologies Centre, Gulf of Finland from different was implemented by points of view. The students Vodokanal together with discussed topics, such as the Lahti Region Development navigation and fishing, water LADEC and culminated in the use in metropolitan cities Environmental Installation and ways to reduce water Festival “The Youth for the consumption; talked about Gulf of Finland Year”. biodiversity of the Gulf of The project participants Finland, etc. The main task learned about the current chosen by the students was situation in the Gulf of to protect the Gulf of Finland, Finland area and prepared and to find a balance between environmental installations the environmental, social on the subject. and economic components At first, the students now and in the future. presented their works The discussions led to the in schools and then in the development of the Youth Universe of Water exhibition Declaration. It was made in hall. two versions – in the form of a video message and a The Water Museum and text document. The students Youth Environmental Centre involved in this activity initiated the “Children for got together at the official the Gulf of Finland Year” meeting of the Public Councils competition of environmental of Russia, Finland and Estonia drawings and posters made dedicated to the trilateral by children. One of the Youth cooperation project “The Environmental Centre rooms Gulf of Finland Year 2014” in accommodated the exhibition Tavrichesky Palace, to deliver of the works submitted to the the Declaration to official competition. representatives of the three countries. 54 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company On 19–20 September 2014, the citywide festival “The On 22–27 September, 2014, Vodokanal hosted the VIII Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation” was held. Vodokanal International Scientific and Practical Conference “Marine was an active organizer and participant of the festival. The Mammals of Holarctic” organized by the Marine Mammals official meeting of the Public Councils of Russia, Finland and Council. The leading experts from Russia, Norway, Canada, Estonia dedicated to the trilateral cooperation project “The the USA and other countries, who study seals, whales (also Gulf of Finland Year 2014” was held in Tavrichesky Palace. white whales and killer whales), walruses, polar bears and The Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko, the Viceother representatives of the Holarctic fauna, participated in Governor of the Leningrad Region Yu.V.Pakhomovskiy, the the conference. Prof. A.V. Yablokov, Chairman of the Marine Chairman of the Finnish Public Council for the Gulf of Finland Mammals Council, Deputy Chairperson of the RAS Scientific Year M.Vanhanen, and the Vice-President of the Estonian Council for Environmental Challenges and Emergency Society for Nature Conservation J. Telgmaa attended the Situations, Adviser to RAS, pointed out that by opening the meeting. During the festival, different all-city events were Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre Vodokanal arranged – a folk festival, march of military orchestras, concert wrote a new impressive page in the history of research and at the Spit of Vasilyevsky Island. protection of marine mammals in Russia. Matti Vanhanen, Chairman of the Finnish Public Council for the Gulf of Finland Year who attended the event, called the festival the culmination of the Gulf of Finland Year. He also noted that the condition of the Gulf of Finland, in particular, in its eastern part, had improved significantly due to St. Petersburg achievements in wastewater treatment. THE EVENTS RELATED TO THE GULF OF FINLAND YEAR WERE WIDELY COVERED IN MASS MEDIA In addition, the information on the Gulf of Finland and the events of the year was posted on the Da-Voda website devoted to careful attitude to water (www.da-voda.com), and on the pages of the Neva Crayfish (the main character of Da-Voda website) in social networks. A special section dedicated to the Gulf of Finland was added to the website supported by Vodokanal. 55 Compliance with HELCOM Recommendations Out of the 18 hot spots located in Russia, 6 were in St. Petersburg including the 4 hot spots with 19 “hot subspots” being the responsibility The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of SUE “Vodokanal of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki Convention) was signed by all Baltic of St. Petersburg”. countries in 1974. For the first time ever, the Convention At that time, wastewater addressed all polluters located in the catchment area of treatment in St. Petersburg the Baltic Sea. After the collapse of the USSR and other was quite unsatisfactory, geopolitical changes in 1990s, the new Helsinki Convention besides, the discharge was signed in 1992 by the states located along the coast of huge volumes of untreated of the Baltic Sea and the European Communities. In October wastewater into the local 1998, the Russian Federation joined the Helsinki Convention water bodies had to be 1992. stopped urgently. In 1992, the Comprehensive Programme of environmental protection measures in the Baltic Sea Region adopted The main tasks of as a part of Helsinki Convention listed the biggest pollution Vodokanal with regard to the sources of the region and named them “hot spots”. Initially, commitments taken by the the Programme specified 132 “hot spots” located in all Russian Federation under the countries of the Baltic Sea Region. Helsinki Convention were as follows: • closure of untreated wastewater discharges; • reduction of nutrient SINCE THEN, VODOKANAL load on the Baltic Sea basin. ST. PETERSBURG HAS DONE A HUGE WORK TO PHASE OUT UNTREATED WASTEWATER DISCHARGE INTO THE WATER BODIES, TO BUILD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS AND TO UPGRADE TREATMENT PROCESSES. AS A RESULT, THE MEETINGS OF COMMITTEES AND HEADS OF DELEGATIONS OF HELCOM MEMBERCOUNTRIES RECOGNIZED THAT THE MAJORITY OF VODOKANAL’S HOT SPOTS WERE ELIMINATED 56 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company By 2014, only 3 sub-spots within hot spot “18” (18.1 – system development”) from the HELCOM list. The Northern Tunnel Collector Construction; 18.11. – Kolpino The 47th Meeting of HELCOM Heads of Delegation WWTP; and 18.15 – Metallostroy WWTP) had remained. on 16–17 December approved the exclusion of hot sub-spot With the Northern Tunnel Collector put into operation no. 18.1 from the HELCOM list. on 10 October 2013, Vodokanal could reach a very high The closure of hot sub-spots 18.11 (Kolpino WWTP) and wastewater treatment level (98.4%) and stop the discharge 18.15 (Metallostroy WWTP) is planned for 2018, after the of 122 Mio. m3/year of untreated sewage into the Gulf of reconstruction of Kolpino WWTP with the plant capacity Finland. increased to 140,000 m3/day, and closedown of Metallostroy Due to the results achieved by Vodokanal, Russia could WWTP with the wastewater diverted to Central Wastewater apply for exclusion of hot sub-spot no. 18.1 (“sewerage Treatment Plant. No. Hot sub-spot Status 18.1 Sewage collectors closed (2014) 18.2 Central WWTP closed (2010) 18.3 Northern WWTP closed (2006) 18.4 South-West WWTP closed (2009) 18.5 Pargolovo WWTP closed (2006) 18.6 Prigorodniye WWTP closed (2006) 18.7 Torfyanoye WWTP closed (2006) 18.8 Zavodskiye WWTP closed (2006) 18.9 Pushkin WWTP closed (2006) 18.10 Petrodvorets WWTP closed (2012) Capacity will be increased to 140,000 m3/day 18.11 Kolpino WWTP and a sludge incineration shop will be built; hot sub-spot closure expected in 2020 18. 12 Kronstadt WWTP closed (2009) 18.13 Sestroretsk WWTP closed (2006) 18.14 Pontonniy WWTP closed (2009) WWTP closedown with the wastewater diverted 18.15 Metallostroy WWTP to Central WWTP; hot sub-spot closure expected in 2019 18.16 Repino WWTP closed (2009) 18.17 Zelenogorsk WWTP closed (2006) 18.18 Pesochniy 1 WWTP closed (2012) 18.19 Pesochniy 2 WWTP closed (2012) 57 THE NEVA UNTREATED BY 2015, THE WASTEWATER DISCHARGE WASTEWATER CLOSURE PROGRAMME DEVELOPED IN 2001 TREATMENT LEVEL IS BEING IMPLEMENTED IN ST. PETERSBURG SUCCESSFULLY TO IMPROVE HAS REACHED 98.5% WATER ENVIRONMENT IN ST. PETERSBURG AND PRESERVE THE BALTIC SEA WATER RESOURCES Now the Programme pipelines, and inverted siphons is one of the most important under the Rivers Zhdanovka environmental projects in the and Malaya Neva had to be city. In the period 2003–2014 built to divert the wastewater alone, 217 direct discharges from Petrovskiy Stadium. of untreated sewage and Furthermore, the rainwater equivalent to construction of sewage 479,000 m3/day in total collector under Admiralteyskaya were diverted, including embankment began 19 discharges (4,019 m3/day) in 2014 to enable the closure at Petrogradskaya embankment of 6 more direct wastewater and 9 direct discharges (approx. discharges (approx. 1,000 m3/day) from Petrovskiy 1,000 m3/day in total). Stadium closed in 2014. Four The collector will be sewage pumping stations, completed in the end over 2 km of different-diameter of April 2015. 58 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company At the end of 2013, the St. Petersburg Government approved tion 28E/5, substitutes for Recommendations 9/2, 16/9, and the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan till 7/3) for municipal wastewater treatment on November 15, 2025 with an Outlook to 2030. The tasks to be fulfilled under 2007, the requirements to wastewater treatment quality bethe Master Plan include the closure of all untreated wastewacame still more stringent. Concentrations of total nitrogen and ter discharges. The remaining 103 direct sewage discharges total phosphorus in the treated effluent discharged into water in the city (they account for the 1.5% of wastewater still bodies shall not exceed 10 mg/l and 0.5 mg/l, respectively. discharged untreated) must be closed by 2020. The discharge Modernization of the biological treatment technologies (esvolumes are very small; however, interceptors and networks pecially, for the purpose of reaching the phosphorus removal have to be constructed to divert them to treatment plants. targets) is Vodokanal’s ongoing process. Since 2005, enhanced In particular, the Okhta collector project should be launched biological treatment and chemical phosphorus precipitation to stop the discharge of untreated municipal and industrial methods have been applied at St. Petersburg wastewater wastewaters into the River Okhta. treatment plants to meet new requirements and achieve stable The Master Plan envisages modernization of municipal nutrient removal performance. Since 2008, with the chemical wastewater treatment plants, such as the upgrading of the phosphorus precipitation process implemented at all municipal treatment processes and implementation of tertiary treatment WWTPs, the total phosphorus removal efficiency has grown and wastewater disinfection at all plants. to 89–90%. Compared to 2005, the volume of phosphorus The treated effluent quality targets are strictly defined discharged into the Gulf of Finland decreased 5.76 times, and in the HELCOM recommendations. the volume of nitrogen – 1.42 times. Phosphorus concentraIn the 1990s, HELCOM adopted unified limit values for contions in the total discharged volume are 0.5 mg/l or less (even centrations of nutrients, nitrogen and phosphorus, for all Baltic taking into account the minor percentage of wastewater still countries. The requirements grow increasingly stringent. discharged untreated) and nitrogen concentrations – not higher With the adoption of new recommendation (Recommendathan 10 mg/l. DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS 22,288 25,000 18,163 nitrogen, t/year phosphorus, t/year 20,000 12,712 12,634 12,496 12,248 12,365 15,000 11,037 11,048 t/year 10,729 10,003 10,049 9,628 9,303 10,000 8,617 3,502 3,027 2,457 5,000 2,307 2,168 1,930 1,773 1,270 1,178 760 677 492 491 433 355 0 1985 1987 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, Vodokanal continued to implement the Northern are dismantled, the air duct is reconstructed and relevant WWTP reconstruction project designed by SWECO, Sweden, equipment is supplied. to improve the nutrient (also total nitrogen) removal effiIn 2014, the Small Wastewater Treatment Plants Reciency. In particular, rehabilitation of concrete structures on construction Programme launched in March 2012 was onprimary clarifiers 5–8, secondary clarifiers 7–12, aeration tank going. Works were performed at WWTPs in Pushkin, Kolpi2, transformer sub-station 2 and return sludge pumping stano, Kronstadt and Pontonniy. The Programme is financed tion 2, is completed. The construction of raw sludge pumping by NDEP loan, FMoE technical assistance, BSAP Fund and stations 1 and 2, and installation of equipment in aeration Vodokanal’s own funds. The objective of the Programme tanks and primary clarifiers are underway. Equipment is is to improve the treatment efficiency at small WWTPs and installed in secondary clarifiers. The old air blowers and piping reach a stable phosphorus/nitrogen removal performance. 59 THE FOLLOWING HAS BEEN DONE AT WWTPS BY THE replaced. Repairs of reinforced END OF 2014: • Kronstadt WWTP: the biological treatment system concrete structures and the aerators on the first-stage aeration tanks are completed. was reconstructed to implement the enhanced nitrogen/ • Pushkin WWTP: the phosphorus removal process designed by the Johannesburg old screens are replaced with University. The technology supports flexible process control modern perforated screens; making it possible to achieve proper performance at any the pumping equipment is change of influent wastewater parameters. Furthermore, grit replaced at raw sludge/waste channels were modernized; air blowers were replaced with activated sludge pumping advanced energy-saving turbo-compressors; reconstruction stations; a screen building of secondary clarifiers and the sludge separation system for is constructed; and the separate thickening of waste activated sludge and raw sludge old air blowers are replaced are completed. All basic construction and installation works are with modern, energy-efficient finalized. ones. • Kolpino WWTP: the first reconstruction stage (without • WWTP Pontonniy: the WWTP capacity expanded) is completed, including mechanical and biological modernization of four grit channels, two primary clarifiers treatment facilities and sludge and two secondary clarifiers, and replacement of equipment; treatment facilities moreover, the equipment of raw sludge pumping stations was are modernized. THE REALIZATION OF THE The subject of the Memorandum is the support to joint activities for the Baltic Sea recovery. The Memorandum FACT THAT THE RECOVERY provides for information sharing and collaboration in bringing treatment plants into compliance with the HELCOM OF THE BALTIC SEA ENVIRONMENT recommendations. Under the cooperation referred to in the Memorandum IS ONLY POSSIBLE of Understanding between HELCOM and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, a pilot project aimed to identify sources THROUGH JOINT EFFORTS and types of the pharmaceuticals discharged from St. Petersburg into the Baltic Sea is launched (scientists IN THE FIELD OF INNOVATION from the Russian Academy of Sciences Environmental Safety Research Centre are involved in the project implementation). AND AWARENESS-RAISING The test pharmaceuticals are diclofenac and ethinylestradiol, as their negative impact on the hemathermal species in the LED TO THE SIGNING OF THE Baltic Sea has been reported. In 2014, the methodology of diclofenac and ethinylMEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING estradiol detection in water was finalized, the first set of samples was taken, diclofenac/ethinylestradiol consumption BETWEEN HELCOM AND SUE and discharge patterns were analyzed. The results have shown that diclofenac removal at WWTPs is very poor, therefore it “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” was recommended to make further studies to determine the maximum admissible concentration of diclofenac in the influent ON APRIL 19, 2013 to WWTPs. As for ethinylestradiol, it was found that potential concentrations of the pharmaceutical in municipal sewage (0.004 ng/l) were lower than the most stringent environmental quality standards (0.007 ng/l). 60 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company ANOTHER PILOT PROJECT, DETECTION OF MICROPLASTICS IN WASTEWATER, IS AT THE IMPLEMENTATION PHASE Microplastics and their impact on water environment is a new alia, interaction with industrial In 2014, laboratory tests challenge raising concern worldwide, since such “litter” is not companies to ban the use of were made to detect biodegradable and tends to accumulate in the environment. microplastics and to assess microplastics in wastewater On October 3, 2013, the Ministers of Environment and the use of nanoparticles at Vodokanal’s WWTPs. high-level officials from nine Baltic countries and the European in production processes It was found that the Union adopted the HELCOM Copenhagen Declaration. In the (e.g. in cosmetics production)”. removal efficiency of different Declaration all parties agreed that the “regional actions plan Therefore, it is important to modifications of microplastics on marine litter shall enable … development and testing of get reliable information on at municipal WWTPs was technology for removal of microplastics and nanoparticles in microplastics concentrations rather high (96% average) as municipal wastewater treatment plants by 2020 and, inter in wastewater. shown in the table below. MICROSCOPIC LITTER PER 1 L OF WASTEWATER Influent wastewater After mechanical Treatment efficiency, Litter type After final treatment to WWTPs treatment % Textile fibers 467 33 16 96.57 Synthetic particles 160 21 7 95.63 Black particles 3,160 302 125 96.04 It was also found that microplastics (fibers and particles) the studies to underpin a legislative initiative aimed at concentrations were much higher in the treated effluent than minimization of microplastics concentrations in industrial in the Baltic Sea waters. It was recommended to continue wastewater. 61 Participation in The Steering Committee is the executive body of the UN GC Network Russia. the UN Global It consists of ten members elected for a one-year term. The permanent members of the Steering Committee are: Compact one representative of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, one UN representative and one representative of the state authorities. Five representatives of the THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GC Network Russia member-companies and one (UN GC) IS THE INITIATIVE THAT representative of not-for-profit organizations – members of ENCOURAGES COMPANIES TO BRING the UN GC Network Russia are elected by the General THEIR ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGY IN Meeting. In the last three years, COMPLIANCE WITH TEN UNIVERSAL Vodokanal’s Director for Personnel and Security PRINCIPLES IN THE AREAS OF HUMAN Anatoliy K. Kinebas was voted into the Steering Committee RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT by the members of the UN GC Network Russia. PROTECTION AND ANTI-CORRUPTION In 2014, Anatoliy K. Kinebas was elected ViceVodokanal St. Petersburg joined UN GC in April 2007 and Chairman of the UN became one of the first Russian companies to sign the GC Network Russia Steering relevant agreement. Committee. Vodokanal’s support of the UN GC initiative demonstrates In 2014, one essential its eagerness to comply with international standards activity of the Network, in all areas of activity and confirms its intention to promote where the UN GC Network social projects. Russia member-companies On 17 December 2008, the UN Global Compact Network and members of the Steering in Russia was launched at the General Meeting of UN GC Committee were directly members. involved, was institutional development of the Network by establishing an independent legal entity. Eventually, the Steering Committee members approved the charter of the not-for-profit partnership “National Global Compact Network” and launched the official website of the UN GC Network Russia. 62 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company In 2014, Vodokanal retained After joining the Global IN 2014, VODOKANAL WAS the role of Environment Activity Coordinator for implementation Initiative in April 2007, Vodokanal submitted annual AN ACTIVE PARTICIPANT OF of 10 UN GC principles. As a part of the Environment Activity, Vodokanal organized sustainability reports. The reports are posted on the Global Compact SPECIALIST CONFERENCES, events under the international Gulf of Finland Year 2014 website in English and Russian. At the national SUMMITS, ROUNDTABLES Project, such as Help the Pinnipeds Project, Da-Voda level, Vodokanal participates in the activities of the AND SESSIONS DEDICATED website, Youth Environmental Centre projects, a roller race Russian Community of Global Compact member-companies. TO THE KEY TOPICS OF UN devoted to the Gulf of Finland Year, and the Gulf of Finland Night event. Participation in the Global Initiative events offers scope for sharing best practices GC, SUCH AS: On 2 April 2014, the World Autism Awareness Day, some and searching for ways of incorporating responsible • March 2014 – Roundtable “Business and Human Rights: buildings in St. Petersburg were business principles into Challenges to Practical Application of the Guiding Principles for illuminated blue in sympathy development strategies Business Activities in the Human Rights Aspect”. to the people suffering from and everyday practices • June 2014 – international inter-bank conference “Human this illness. Vodokanal took part of Russian companies. Capital. Personnel Management. Reboot” dedicated to the in the Light It Up Blue event. latest best practices in staff performance management, new The Universe of Water Museum technologies and competences, incentive programs aimed building in 56, Shpalernaya str. to improve business efficiency and many more. was lighted blue in the morning • December 2014 – annual conference “Labour Market and evening. On that day, the and Social Investments: Interaction between Business and blue color also prevailed inside State” held in the framework of the Russian Business Week. the former clean water tank The conference participants discussed a number of aspects, where the museum is located such as: the shortage of skilled personnel, problems of singlenow. Moreover, Vodokanal industry towns, social responsibility of business, assessment invited children affected with of staff qualifications and labour conditions, and systematic autism to visit the Universe continuous staff training for big companies. of Water Exhibition. 63 Involvement in the Development of Regulatory Framework IN 2014, VODOKANAL SPECIALISTS PARTICIPATED IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DRAFT REGULATORY LEGAL ACTS AT FEDERAL AND REGIONAL LEVELS AIMED TO REGULATE RELATIONS BETWEEN DIFFERENT ACTORS OF THE WATER SECTOR AND WITH ASSOCIATED SECTORS More specifically: • Order of the Russian Ministry of Construction dated 4 April 2014 no. 162/pr “On approving the list of reliability, quality and energy efficiency indicators for centralized hot water supply, cold water supply and/or wastewater disposal systems, and the rules to estimate target and actual values for such indicators”. • Decree of the Russian Government dated 24 April 2014 no. 368 “On approving the procedure of obtaining the antitrust authority’s consent to the change of concession agreement terms and conditions”. • Order of the Russian Ministry of Environment dated 31 January 2014 no. 47 “On changing the Methodology of estimating the damage inflicted on water bodies by violating the water law, as approved by the Order of the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment dated 13 April 2009 no. 87”. • Ordinance of the St. Petersburg Government Committee for Energy and Engineering Support dated 04 July 2014 no. 81 “On amending the ordinance of the St. Petersburg Government Committee for Energy and Engineering Support dated 18 November 2012 no. 148”. 64 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company • Guidelines on the estimation of production and distribution losses of hot, potable and utility water in centralized water supply systems (registered by the Russian Ministry of Justice on 17 February 2015, effective from and including 19 February 2015). • Guidelines on the estimation of collected (disposed) DUE TO THE WORK DONE wastewater volumes using the sewer throughput method (registered by the Russian Ministry of Justice on 25 February IN 2014, THE REGULATORY 2015, effective from and including 9 March 2015). • Guidelines on the estimation of collected (disposed) FRAMEWORK REQUIRED TO rainwater volumes (registered by the Russian Ministry of Justice on 24 February 2015, effective from and including FULLY IMPLEMENT THE FEDERAL 10 March 2015). • Draft federal law no. 500410–6 “On amending the LAW “ON WATER SUPPLY AND Housing Code of the Russian Federation and some legal acts of the Russian Federation” (the draft law passed in a first WASTEWATER DISPOSAL” DATED reading at the Russian State Duma; now it is being finalized). • Draft federal law no. 386179–6 ”On amending the 7 DECEMBER 2011 NO. 416–FZ, federal law “On water supply and wastewater disposal” and some legal acts of the Russian Federation (the draft COULD BE FINALIZED law passed in a first reading at the Russian State Duma; now it is being finalized ). • Consolidated comments by Vodokanal regarding the draft decree of the Russian Government on approving the Moreover, the rule-making (in addition to the aboveprocedure of in-process potable water quality monitoring effort created preconditions listed proposals) were (the rules are enacted by Decree of the Russian Government for changing the existing laws prepared at the corporate dated 6 January 2015 no. 10). of water supply, wastewater level. The proposals were • Draft federal law cancelling compulsory appointment disposal and environment submitted for consideration of guarantor for centralized water supply and wastewater protection, based on the of the Russian Ministry disposal systems (the law was drafted by the company practical implementation of Construction and the employees in furtherance of the meeting held at the Tariff of some provisions relevant federal and municipal Committee on 26 June 2014). The idea of such law was of the above law. Thus, authorities. supported by the Committee for Energy and Engineering in December 2014, over In 2015, the proposals Support. 30 different proposals aimed are discussed at the meetings • Consolidated proposals regarding the amendment to at the improvement of the presided over by the officers the federal law “On concession agreements” dated 21 July existing federal and regional of the Vice-Governor of 2005 no. 115–FZ, namely, limitation of the list of centralized regulatory frameworks St. Petersburg I.N. Albin. water supply/wastewater disposal facilities to be transferred to concession (the proposals are submitted to the Russian Ministry of Construction). 65 Activities of the International Advanced Water As before, in 2014, the Centre activities pursued the following objectives: Technologies Centre • provide training in the field of innovative water supply and wastewater disposal technologies; • enhance the proficiency of St. Petersburg Vodokanal IN 2014, ACTIVITIES OF THE employees as well as the employees of Russian and INTERNATIONAL ADVANCED WATER foreign companies operating in water and wastewater TECHNOLOGIES CENTRE, A JOINT PROJECT sectors; • share experience in the IMPLEMENTED BY ST. PETERSBURG technologies applied in water supply, wastewater disposal, VODOKANAL AND LAHTI REGION environment protection and rational use of natural DEVELOPMENT LADEC LTD. (FORMER resources; • accumulate, generalize LAHTI SCIENCE AND BUSINESS PARK LTD., and promote knowledge of innovations both in the sphere FINLAND), CONTINUED of the applied technologies and in water and wastewater The history of the International Advanced Water Technologies management; Centre began in 2010 with the signing of the Memorandum • contribute to the of Understanding between SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” promotion of innovations both and Lahti Region Development LADEC Ltd. in the sphere of the applied Since that time, the Centre has passed a long way: arranged technologies and in water and practical work of the Centre, carried out the state registration of the wastewater management for Centre as a non-commercial partnership, made contacts with Russian further dissemination and foreign partners, developed efficient mechanisms to arrange of innovative solutions among training activities of different format, introduced and implemented Russian companies; the improved processes of receiving feedback from workshop • perform environmental participants, obtained substantial experience in taking part in largeawareness-raising activities. scale international forums and exhibitions. 66 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company In 2014, the Centre operated in line with its annual programme which included activities in the form of ABOUT 4,000 RUSSIAN AND workshops, conferences, environmental awareness-raising projects, interactive and laboratory classes, lectures and FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES, on-the-job training. Vodokanal experts, leading specialists from reputable INCLUDING MORE THAN European institutions and companies were engaged as lecturers and teachers for conducting training activities 800 WATER AND WASTEWATER of the Centre. During 2014, a total of about 40 training and EXPERTS, PARTICIPATED environmental awareness-raising activities (including 12 workshops and 2 conferences) were conducted by the IN THE TRAINING ACTIVITIES Centre for representatives of the water sector as well as students and schoolchildren. Activities took place both in OF THE CENTRE IN 2014 Russia (St. Petersburg, Moscow) and in Finland (Lahti). TOTAL NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS NUMBER OF WORKSHOP AND CONFERENCE IN THE CENTRE ACTIVITIES (PE.) PARTICIPANTS (PE.) 500 450 449 4,500 400 4,000 3,911 350 3,500 3,480 300 3,000 3,100 250 2,500 236 200 231 2,000 1,500 150 1,000 100 500 50 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Representatives of 38 Russian Vodokanals, 48 Russian The Centre continued to conduct environmental awarenessand foreign companies and 5 higher education institutions raising activities for students and schoolchildren. A great participated in workshops and conferences organized by the impact on environmental awareness-raising activities Centre in 2014. is made by experts of the Youth Environmental Centre The objective of the workshops and conferences, on the of St. Petersburg Vodokanal. Due to the high-proficiency and one hand, is the exchange of experience and promotion of the creative approach of YEC experts it became possible to build advanced technologies among Russian and foreign experts up a sense of responsibility and respect for water resources of the water sector and, on the other hand, – training and among the younger generation. enhancement of proficiency of the Company’s own employees. This is precisely why about half of the participants of the activities in 2014 were employees of St. Petersburg Vodokanal. 67 the Centre organized visits A cornerstone of success is IN 2014, THE CENTRE to St. Petersburg Vodokanal continuous improvement production facilities for of the Centre activities. ORGANIZED ACTIVITIES students where future water It pays special attention to experts had an opportunity the maintenance of contacts FOR MORE THAN 3,000 RUSSIAN to learn about water/ with participants of the Centre wastewater treatment as activities and consideration AND FOREIGN SCHOOLCHILDREN well as the used equipment in of participants’ opinion for practical terms. further work. The Centre AND STUDENTS Of vital importance for conducts opinion survey the development of the based on questionnaires Centre is its participation and analyzes the level Implementation of large-scale interschool projects targeted in international exhibitions of satisfaction. for the promotion of rational and solicitous attitude to the and forums. In June 2014, ecosystem of the Baltic Sea became a new area of activities. the Centre represented its The grand prize – a trip to Finland for exchanging activities in the exhibition knowledge with Finnish peers – is a great incentive that booth of St. Petersburg attracts schoolchildren into the projects. Vodokanal at the international In 2014, one of the most important aspects of forum ECWATECH-2014 in environmental awareness-raising activities was the work Moscow. with students of relevant professions and other professions. Lectures and interactive lessons devoted to water supply and wastewater disposal fundamental concepts, influence of manmade factors on the environment were conducted for those students. Within the framework of the training programme SATISFACTION LEVEL (%) 100 98 99 99 99 98 98 97 97 97 95 91 92 50 Quality of teaching Curriculum content Organization Equipment of teaching process and facilities available for teaching 2012 2013 2014 The Centre is open for cooperation with all stakeholders. It is a unique platform which gives birth to new ideas and develops new trends by means of the joint work based on long-term experience of the experts involved. Thanks to the wide-range and relevance of topics of the training activities, they may attract not only managers and experts of water and wastewater companies but also representatives of allied industries, higher educational institutions, secondary schools, scientific and research institutions and other interested persons. 68 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Membership Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains partner relations with Russian water companies in Associations, in the framework of other professional associations. The Company is a member of the Russian Association Unions and other of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal (RAWW); Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of Vodokanal, Organizations is a member of the RAWW Board. Baltvod Association of North-Western Water Companies initiated by Vodokanal (more than twenty years ago) actively VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG participates in promotion of the advanced water and GIVES MUCH ATTENTION TO wastewater technologies in water sector of the PARTICIPATION IN PROFESSIONAL North-West Federal District. President of the Association ASSOCIATIONS AND UNIONS is also Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of the In 2014, Vodokanal continued to work within the framework Company. of the non-commercial partnership National Union of Moreover, St. Petersburg Vodokanals (NUV) uniting companies of different ownership Vodokanal is involved in the which account for almost two-thirds of the total water supply work of the Non-Commercial in Russia. The main activity of NUV is the improvement of Partnership “Russian Water interaction between water companies and governmental Association”. authorities for the purpose of introducing new operational In 2014, Vodokanal standards and technical regulations as well as improving together with Lahti Region investment prospects of the sector. The NUV was established Development LADEC Ltd. in 2009 and Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of (Finland) continued to Vodokanal St. Petersburg, was elected its President. promote the Non-Commercial Partnership “International Advanced Water Technologies Centre” which activities are aimed at the provision of training in the field of the advanced water and wastewater technologies for the Company’s employees, water companies from other regions of Russia and abroad. 69 The European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) is a not-for-profit membership organization. It was established in 1987 by 14 leading European companies with the support of the European Commission to increase the competitiveness of the European economy by promoting new management approaches, stimulating the learning of management basics and creating opportunities for recognition of success in this field. Currently, EFQM members number over 800 European organizations totaling several millions of employees. More than 30,000 companies all over the world use principles and instruments developed by EFQM. EFQM was established to assist organizations in achieving sustainable success by giving them relevant recommendations. There is a set of key principles upon which the EFQM’s fundamental concept of Excellence is based: • adding value for customers; SINCE 1 DECEMBER 2011, • sustainable achievement of the distinguished results; • leading with vision, inspiration and honesty; • developing organization capacities; ST. PETERSBURG • succeeding through the talent of people; • using creativity and innovation; VODOKANAL HAS BEEN • managing with flexibility; • creating a sustainable future. A FULL MEMBER OF THE One of the top-priority tasks of St. Petersburg Vodokanal is the improvement of the Company’s management system EUROPEAN FOUNDATION aimed to raise responsibility for sustainable future of the region, including: • the increase of the reliability and efficiency of water FOR QUALITY MANAGEMENT supply and wastewater disposal systems through the introduction of up-to-date management and metering (EFQM) systems, improvement of water and wastewater treatment processes; • rational use of water resources in the course of treating, Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member of two selfdistributing and provision of drinking water to consumers; regulatory organizations: the Non-Commercial Partnership • protection of the environment at water intakes, during “Association of Builders of St. Petersburg” (the transportation, treatment, handling and incineration competency certificate for a particular type of works of wastewater sludge; influencing the safety of permanent facilities • guaranteeing to consumers the quality of water supply no. 0064.04–2009–7830000426–С–003 dated 9 April and wastewater disposal services that meet and exceed the 2015) and the Not-For-Profit Partnership “Interregional requirements of Russian and European standards; Union of Design Engineers” (the competency certificate • keeping the investment attractiveness to implement for a particular type of works influencing the safety of reconstruction and building programs; permanent facilities no. 0176–2011–7830000426–P–30 • effective resource management to optimize costs. dated 28 December 2011). Membership of Vodokanal in the listed organizations was approved by the City Property Committee pursuant to the Federal Law no. 161–FZ dated 14 November 2002 “On state and municipal enterprises”. The fact that Vodokanal has relevant competency certificates enables the Company to perform its daily operation on a full scale and in line with applicable law of the Russian Federation. 70 ANNUAL REPORT’14 All of the above will guarantee the quality of services, customer confidence in the safety of drinking water and MAIN STAGES OF INTERACTION customers’ right to the healthy environment not only today but in the following years. WITH EFQM: The Foundation organized the EFQM Excellence Model Competition to motivate organizations, which introduce • in 2009, Vodokanal Vodokanal presented at the self-assessment according to EFQM Excellence Model, received the certificate competition its videoshare experience and assess the company management confirming compliance of film “The Neva Crayfish by experts from companies that are the most successful the Company’s management and His Friends” telling about in management improvement, namely, by EFQM acting with the “Recognized for the da-voda website assessors. Excellence” 5 stars level of (www.da-voda.com) – the A company that complies to the maximum with the EFQM Model; project aimed to disseminate the EFQM Excellence Model becomes a winner of • in 2010, Vodokanal the ideas of careful attitude a prestigious prize – the EFQM Excellence Award (there won the International Quality to natural resources; are also Prize Winner and Finalist Nominations). But Tournament of Central and • in 2014, Vodokanal’s before a company starts to compete for the Excellence Eastern Europe; employees participated Award, it should pass, as a rule, several regional levels • in 2011, St. Petersburg in the events aimed at (“Committed to Excellence” Level and “Recognized for Vodokanal became a finalist learning about the best Excellence” Level) and receive relevant certificates as well of the EFQM Excellence practices of EFQM members; as win the International Quality Tournament of Central Award. The Company was after the training workshop in and Eastern Europe. Such multi-level structure assumes the first to achieve such Brussel the Company changed a stage-by-stage introduction of the Excellence Model. a result among European its approach to the selfSince 2005, Vodokanal has started self-assessment water companies; assessment procedure; of its activities on the basis of the Excellence Model to • in 2012, St. Petersburg • since 2010, Vodokanal’s improve its management framework. At first the Company Vodokanal won the best experts acting as EFQM used the Russian Federation Government Regional Quality practice competition in assessors (experts) have been Model that harmonized with the EFQM Model. Since creative use of social media engaged in examining Russian 2009, Vodokanal has conducted the self-assessment organized by the European companies for nomination on the basis of the EFQM Model and participated Foundation for Quality to “Recognized for Excellence” in the competition. Management (EFQM). Level. 71 Support Those events included: • organization of the of Regional city contest “Fundamentals of Safe Water Use” in the framework of the All-Russian School Olympiad in Life Safety, the city round; Initiatives • organization of the interactive programme “ECOSchool” in the framework of the Youth Ecological Forum; • co-organizing of VI All-Russian Scientific ST. PETERSBURG VODOKANAL Environmental Conference “Water – Source of Life on IS ENGAGED Earth”; • preparation and IN VARIOUS REGIONAL implementation of the programme for International INITIATIVES INCLUDING Event “Museums at Night”; • co-organizing of ENVIRONMENTAL children programme at the International Environmental AWARENESS-RAISING Film Festival “Green Vision”; • participation in the In 2014, experts of the environmental festival Information and Training and research-to-practice Centre, the Universe of Water conference “Krasnoselskaya Museum Complex and the Rainbow”; Youth Environmental Centre • participation in the city participated in regional festival “ECOokhta”; events devoted to the Gulf • participation in the City of Finland Year and targeted Festival “Children Days in to environmental awarenessSt. Petersburg” (development raising among children, the and implementation of the youth, population and city environmental programme guests. “Baltic Expedition”); 72 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company • participation in the International Professional Forum of Childhood – Guardian” and the Council for the Conservation Museum Workers “Museum and Kids Culture”; organization of National Natural Heritage; together with the All-Russian Museum Association of the • organization of the Children’s Drawings Exhibition panel discussion and training workshops; together with the Regional Public Organization “Marine • organization of the round-table discussion Mammals Council” within the framework of the Gulf of Finland “Environmental Education and Awareness-Raising” dedicated Year 2014 and organization of VIII International Conference to the Gulf of Finland Year; “Marine Mammals of Holarctic”. • greeting by the core team of the Youth Environmental Moreover, Vodokanal helps to ensure comfort for Centre addressed to the delegates of XV International Forum participants of different city and district events by way “Baltic Sea Day”; of providing toilets. • development and organization of the youth group in the In 2014, Vodokanal on the request of various organizations framework of XV International Forum “Baltic Sea Day” in the provided mobile toilets for more than 790 public events, premises of YEC; including city events celebrating the New Year, Christmas, • participation and organization of UN Model International Victory Day and Day of the City. Vodokanal helped to arrange Youth Conference; comfortable conditions for the participants of such a large• participation in the Fifth St. Petersburg Educational scale event as Scarlet Sails School-Leaving Festival. Forum; organization of the round-table discussion “Professional interests as a factor of choosing and mastering the profession” together with the Committee for Education; • organization and participation in the International Environmental Camp within the framework of the Trilateral Cooperation under the Gulf of Finland Year 2014; development of the Youth Declaration; • participation of the core team of the Youth Environmental Centre as part of the international youth group in the development and presentation of the Youth Declaration on the Protection of the Gulf of Finland to the participants of the Official Meeting of the Public Council within the framework of the Trilateral Project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014”; • organization of the Open Water Lesson in the Youth Environmental Centre within the framework of the City-Wide Festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation”; • organization of the educational campaign “Water Lessons” dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year among city educational institutions together with the Committee for Education; • participation together with St. Petersburg Committee for Education in the All-Russian Workshop of the Russian Federation Ministry for Education and Science; • participation in the Festival of Broadcast Journalism for Children “TELESTART” (the YEC team received the Grand Prix for its video film “Be caught, a fish!”); • organization of XII Regional Creative Work Exhibition of senior citizens and disabled people “Good Hands Craft” together with the Committee for Social Protection of the Population of the Leningrad Region; • organization of the programme “Eco-Kids on their Way towards Goodness and Love for Nature!” for children from orphanages of Moscow and St. Petersburg together with the All-Russian Public Help to Children Movement “Angel – 73 74 Interaction with Stakeholders 75 Partnership Concept Vodokanal St. Petersburg divides its partners into segments – by types of activities or services and by significance and importance of the partnership VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG in terms of creating value for the stakeholders. MAINTAINS LASTING, Vodokanal adheres to the multilateral partnership MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL concept including the interaction with its local and RELATIONS WITH ITS PARTNERS foreign partners and suppliers on technical, process-related, ON THE BASIS OF MUTUAL TRUST, financial, organizational and tutorial aspects of activities. RESPECT AND OPENNESS IN LINE As for its international partners, in 2014 Vodokanal WITH THE EFQM EXCELLENCE MODEL continued to cooperate successfully with such CONCEPTS AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IN organizations as: • the Ministry of the THE DYNAMIC ENVIRONMENT Environment of Finland; • the John Nurminen OF THE MODERN WORLD Foundation; • Nordic Environment THE COMPANY SUCCESS AND Finance Corporation (NEFCO); SATISFACTION OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS • Swedish International Development Cooperation STRONGLY DEPEND Agency (Sida); • Northern Dimension ON THE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Partnership (NDEP); OF EFFECTIVE PARTNERSHIP • foreign partnerssuppliers of equipment and technologies. 76 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company The international cooperation enables Vodokanal to study and implement into its own operations experience of the best THE BASIC PRINCIPLE foreign companies. One of the most long-term partners of the Company is the Ministry of the Environment of Finland OF THE PARTNERSHIP which participated in over 50 innovative projects of Vodokanal. Among long standing business partners of Vodokanal there APPLIED BY VODOKANAL are about 20 Finnish companies and organizations. Vodokanal maintains close partnership with water companies of the Baltic IS THAT EACH PARTNER Region. The Company has partner relationships with water companies of Helsinki, Stockholm, Tallinn, Hamburg and Berlin. FULFILS ITS OBLIGATIONS International cooperation assists the Company to solve issues related to efficient benchmarking, investments, environmental IN DUE TIME AND protection, technical upgrade and environmental awarenessbuilding. AT A GOOD QUALITY LEVEL Since 2009, St. Vodokanal has been the member of the National Union of Vodokanals and interacted with water AND UNDERSTANDS THAT companies and governmental authorities for the purpose of introducing new operational standards and technical PARTNERSHIP IMPLIES regulations as well as increasing investment opportunities of the sector. The Company is engaged in reviewing and JOINT WORK AIMED developing new drafts of water legislation for public utilities, conducts consultations with legislative and executive bodies, AT LONG-TERM, exchanges experience with leading housing and public utilities as well as water unions. At present Vodokanal is involved in SUSTAINABLE CREATION promoting innovative approaches in housing and public utilities of the Russian Federation and CIS. Vodokanal production OF VALUE FOR BOTH branches conduct working meeting with experts from housing and public utilities of the Russian Federation and CIS and PARTIES. OVER DECADES arrange visits to Vodokanal reference plants, where such innovative projects and best practices have been implemented. OF COOPERATION WITH Among Russian partners in the field of innovative technologies there are such companies as Kreal, Arsenal and FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC AViV. Together with these companies Vodokanal obtained 10 documents of title for new technologies. PARTNERS, VODOKANAL The partnership with the Russian and European banking community as well as with different investors is successfully HAS NEVER FAILED implemented by Vodokanal. Investments implemented by means of the public-private partnership model are TO FULFIL an example of sophisticated and consistent partnership concept of the Company. For instance, the Northern Tunnel ITS OBLIGATIONS Collector construction, reconstruction and upgrading of small Well-defined partnership wastewater treatment plants of St. Petersburg were financing concept and mutually from several sources including budgets of the Russian beneficial cooperation with the Federation and the City of St. Petersburg, own funds of partners help the Company Vodokanal and proceeds provided by IFIs (including Northern to implement innovative Dimension Environmental Partnership (NDEP)). technologies, modernize To attract young water and wastewater experts plants, improve the company Vodokanal cooperates with the following educational management and, eventually, institutions: St. Petersburg State University of Architecture raise the stakeholders’ and Civil Engineering, St. Petersburg State Technological satisfaction with Vodokanal Institute, St. Petersburg State Transport University, services. St. Petersburg State University of Maritime and Inland Shipping and others. 77 Interaction with Customers ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ASPECTS OF VODOKANAL ACTIVITIES IS MAINTAINING EVERYDAY CONTACTS WITH CUSTOMERS The Company communicates with customers in several ways: in the course of services provision, in the course of interaction initiated by Vodokanal (interviews, focus groups), by discussing various problems in the mass media, in newspapers, magazines and by organizing different meetings with citizens. Quick response to the customers’ complaints of deficiencies in water and sewage networks operation is an important aspect for Vodokanal. Besides, Vodokanal SINCE 2003, VODOKANAL receives requests via the Internet (there OF ST. PETERSBURG is a separate section “Feedback” on the HAS BEEN OPERATING THE corporate website www.vodokanal.spb.ru). HOT LINE SERVICE WHICH RECEIVES CUSTOMER CALLS ROUND THE CLOCK. TEL.: +7 (812) 305-09-09 78 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company VODOKANAL-CUSTOMERS INTERACTION THROUGH CALLS Customer A customer calls Informing the customer the Hot Line Service of the process and surveying customer opinion on the quality of executed works (customer satisfaction) Every request is registered Hot Line Service Follow-up control The request is forwarded to a relevant Vodokanal’s division for processing Works are carried Information about out to solve the problem Production the works carried out until the request is satisfied divisions in relation to the request of Vodokanal All incoming requests are recorded in the information system a sufficient number of skilled operators available at any time of the Hot Line and forwarded to the relevant production of the day or night. division responsible for examination of the network, The customer call management includes computer remediation of relevant section of network and informing the registration of all incoming calls. Codification of calls supports customers of the works performed. All the call processing efficient evaluation of service quality and helps determine stages – from the call to remediation – are under the the areas for improvement in order to eliminate the causes control of a body independent from the production division of complains preventively. which performs the works. The monitoring of the request Processing of customer calls is based on the information processing may only be stopped after the customer confirms obtained by means of up-to-date technologies, in particular, that the works are completed. Thus, it is a customer who the Call-Centre – automated call recording and distribution evaluates the final results of works in relation to every call. system. The information obtained through this system Moreover, the above system enabled citizens, customers enables us to ensure reception of all incoming calls and and clients to receive information and consulting services to optimize both the call processing time and the waiting from the Hot Line operators. time required for the caller to get the operator’s answer. To develop the call reception system, the time distribution All these factors contribute to the improvement of the of calls during 24 hours was analysed. The results of the customer service quality. analyses ensured efficient arrangement of work process with 79 The contest procedure is Vodokanal conducts the Annual Contest for the best customer implemented according to title – “Crystal Drop” to build up close interaction between the Provision “On Contest customers and Vodokanal on the grounds of mutual openness for the Best Customer Title – and good partnership as well as to search ways for further Crystal Drop” that came enhancement of water and wastewater services provided to into force by the Decree customers. no. 159 dated 9 November 2012. Major criterion for the selection of nominees is the fulfilment by the customer of contractual obligations including first of THE WINNERS OF CRYSTAL DROP CONTEST all timely and fully payment by the customer of water WERE ANNOUNCED AS FOLLOWS: and wastewater services. In 2014, Crystal Drop THE TITLE “THE BEST CUSTOMER AMONG HOUSING • Among customers Contest was conducted COMPANIES” WAS AWARDED TO: with water and wastewater in two stages. The first • The best customer among managing companies: consumption 10,000– stage was organized I place: Housing agency of Petrodvorets town; 30,000 m3/day: within the framework of X II place: ZAO “Stiles”. I place: OOO “North-West International Exhibition and • The best customer among Housing Construction Technopark”; Conference “Housing and Cooperatives, Housing Companies and Condominiums: II place: St. Petersburg Public Utilities of Russia”. I place: Housing Construction Cooperative “Sea Facade”. State Unitary Enterprise for The winners of the title THE TITLE “THE BEST CUSTOMER AMONG HEAT SUPPLY Foreign Mission Services “Best Public Utility” were COMPANIES” WAS AWARDED TO: “Inpredservice”. announce on 19 March I place: OOO “Peterburgteploenergo”; • Among customers 2014 in Lenexpo Exhibition II place: JSC “St. Petersburg Heating Grid”. with water and wastewater Complex. THE TITLE “THE BEST CUSTOMER AMONG consumption over 30,000 The second stage of the ORGANIZATIONS WHICH ARE FINANCED THROUGH m3/day: contest was finalized on 19 ST. PETERSBURG BUDGET” WAS AWARDED TO: I place: Arsenal MachineApril 2014 in the Universe • Among customers served by the Centralized Accounts Building Plant; of Water Museum. Department: II place: ZAO “Malthouse I place: Nursery school no. 83 of Nevskiy District, Soufflet St. Petersburg”. St. Petersburg; IN THE NOMINATION II place: Nursery school no. 11 of Admiralteyskiy District, “CLEAN WATERS OF St. Petersburg. THE BALTIC SEA” (FOR • Among customers not served by the Centralized IMPLEMENTATION BY THE Accounts Department: CUSTOMER OF NATURE I place: St. Petersburg Lensoviet Theatre; AND WATER PROTECTION II place: Lyceum no. 387 named after N.V. Belousov, MEASURES): Kirovskiy District, St. Petersburg. I place: OOO “Unilever THE TITLE “THE BEST CUSTOMER AMONG Rus’”. ORGANIZATIONS FINANCED THROUGH THE FEDERAL IN THE NOMINATION BUDGET” WAS AWARDED TO: “LET’S SAVE WATER FOR I place: St. Petersburg State University of Aerospace NEXT GENERATIONS” (FOR Instrumentation; INSTALLATION BY THE II place: The Institute of Experimental Medicine of the CUSTOMER OF METERING North-West Branch of the Russian Academy of Medical INSTRUMENTS TO ENSURE Sciences. RATIONAL WATER USE): THE TITLE “THE BEST CUSTOMER AMONG INDUSTRIAL I place: Housing COMPANIES” WAS AWARDED TO: Company “Fort”. • Among customers with water and wastewater consumption up to 10,000 m3/day: I place: The B.E. Vedeneev All Russia Institute of Hydraulic Engineering; II place: ZAO “Petrodvorets Zavod Mashrybprom”. 80 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company IN 2014, VODOKANAL CONTINUED WORK RELATED TO CONSULTATIONS AND EXCHANGE OF OPINIONS WITH DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF CUSTOMERS Within the working group In 2014, Vodokanal conducted working meetings with with the participation of St. Petersburg International Business Association (SPIBA) with St. Petersburg authorities, regard to wastewater disposal norms, wastewater treatment Vodokanal actively quality, standard form contracts for water and wastewater cooperated with the services and installation of local wastewater treatment plants. Union of Industrialists Meetings of the working group organized by the Concierge and Entrepreneurs of Newspaper with the participation of the public services St. Petersburg (with regard providers were held to discuss issues of water supply for to wastewater disposal apartment houses, including drinking water quality, installation norms, construction of local of house meters, estimation of public service consumption wastewater treatment plants by an apartment house if there are no metering instruments and installation of water and and interaction with owners (right holders) of non-residential wastewater meters). premises of apartment houses. Vodokanal organized Vodokanal conducted consultations with the Association working meeting with of Housing Construction Cooperatives, Housing Companies and St. Petersburg Association Condominiums, discussed issues related to estimation of Industrial Companies of wastewater service consumption by an apartment house (with regard to wastewater if there are no limits for wastewater services consumed for the disposal norms, construction apartment house management needs and boundaries of local wastewater treatment of operating responsibilities of the public service providers plants). toward wastewater network within apartment houses. 81 Interaction with Suppliers VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG IS STRIVING TO BUILD LONG-TERM, MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL RELATIONS WITH SUPPLIERS In compliance with the Law no. 223–FZ, the following an offer of contract to one Pursuant to the Federal information is to be posted on the official web-site: supplier (contractor) only. Law “On procurement 1. Procurement plan. The use of this procedure of goods, works, services 2. Procurement regulation. is limited to strictly by certain types of legal 3. Procurement information. defined cases where other entities” no. 223–FZ dated 4. Amendments made to a contract during its conclusion procurement procedures are 18 July 2011, when procuring and performance. not feasible or reasonable; goods, works and services 5. Data on the number and total value • competitive dialogue – St. Petersburg Vodokanal of contracts concluded. a method of order shall comply with the principle placement where the Order of transparency. According to To use the Company’s own funds in an effective way, Vodokanal Placement Commission this principle the contracting carries out procurements applying regulated procedures, conducts negotiations authority is obliged to including: with the participants of post the information about competitive dialogue and • tender – a bid process where the winner is a person upon the completion of such pursued procurements bidding the best contract terms evaluated in line with tender negotiations participants on the official web-site criteria, evaluation procedure and bids comparison; of negotiations make their www.zakupki.gov.ru • auction (open or closed) – a bid process where the final proposals. Prior to the winner is a person bidding the lowest price or, if the contract competitive dialogue the price is reduced to zero in the course of the auction and Order Placement Commission, the auction participants compete for the right to make the on the grounds of evaluation contract, – a person bidding the highest price for the contract; criteria and procedure set • request for quotation – a method of order placement forth in the Competitive where the information about the purchase of goods, works or Dialogue Documents, services is made available to unlimited range of persons selects the participant of the by posting the call for quotations on the company website; competitive dialogue offering the participant which offers the lowest contract price the best contract terms. becomes the winner. The maximum contract price in this procedure is 1,000,000 Roubles, and the procedure may only be launched by the company (including its branches) once in three months for the same product; • single source (supplier, contractor) procurement – a procedure other than tender where the purchaser sends 82 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Prior to the above-mentioned procedures the prequalification E-procurement reduces labour costs of the bidders and may take place in case of procurement of goods, works and the contracting authority, facilitates the development services for production needs and if untimely and poor quality of competitive environment, speeds up and simplifies of goods, works and services may impair customers. procurement process. Prequalification means selection of contenders for particIn 2014, within the framework of the interaction with ipation in the procurement procedure in compliance with the suppliers and implementation of import substitution requirements and criteria set by the contracting authority. programme Vodokanal made contacts with domestic The following selection criteria are commonly used for suppliers of pumping equipment, pipes, chemical agents prequalification: for water and wastewater treatment and other suppliers. • bidder’s experience in the area relevant to the subject To improve energy efficiency of the Company’s facilities of the tender; and ensure sustainable development of partnership relations • plants and equipment; targeted for the development of production operations, • qualifications of managers and specialists; continuous modernization and upgrading of equipment, • company ratings; Vodokanal entered into the cooperation agreement • certificates, diplomas, self-regulating organization docuwith ZAO “Hydromashservice”. Within the frame of that ments; cooperation the Company has developed and has been • other criteria enabling to assess the bidder. implementing the action plan aimed at enhancing the quality With such approach, goods and services can be procured of maintenance works, training of personnel in selection, on optimal terms and conditions. The published information operation and maintenance of equipment as well as on bidding and requests for quotations includes contracting at improving equipment acceptance procedure. authority’s contact persons for inquiries regarding the tendering/ One of the most vital issues of import substitution technical issues. Those who wish to submit their bids (requests for the Company is the introduction of new domestic for quotations) can receive clarifications on various issues in the submersible pumps at wastewater treatment facilities. course of preparing their tender proposals either by addressing In October 2014, the Committee for Energy and the contact person specified in the documentation over the Engineering Support hosted the meeting of the science phone or in a written form by sending an inquiry. and technology council to discuss current regional The Order Regulations Bureau is responsible for clarification regulations for construction and operation of piping systems of issues concerning preparation of bids while the initiator-deand the development of new regulations. In the course of partment is responsible for clarification of issues related the meeting several HDPE pipe manufacturers from to the terms of reference and draft contract provisions. St. Petersburg (OOO “Ikaplast”, OOO “FTK ROST”, In 2014, within the framework of the Provision “On the OOO “Insulation Technologies”, ZAO “Nordpipe” and others) procurement of goods, works and services through Vodokanal established consent to upgrade their production processes own funds” the Company conducted over 2,000 procurement with consideration for current Vodokanal requirements procedures and awarded contracts for the total amount of over to pipe products. The Company cooperates with suppliers 25 billion Roubles. with regard to the development of quality control Pursuant to the Regulation of the Government of the Rusprocedures for pipe products and establishment of test sian Federation no. 616 dated 21 June 2012 “On approval of laboratory. the list of goods, works and services, the procurement of which Vodokanal performed surveys to substitute import is made in electronic form”, to procure goods (works, services) chemicals used for water and wastewater treatment. in electronic form, as well as to computerize the process of All-in-all, during 2014 Vodokanal departments did great procurements made at the Company’s own funds, Vodokanal enwork interacting with local suppliers to find substitutes of tered into the contract with the company operator of electronic import raw materials and equipment for each production tendering platform B2B (B2B-VODOKANALSPB) and OTC-tenstage of drinking water treatment and distribution as well der (www.otc.ru). as wastewater pumping and treatment. 83 Interaction with In 2014, Vodokanal completed the Project for Upgrading Financial Small Wastewater Treatment Plants in St. Petersburg, which included the works at Kronstadt WWTP, Kolpino WWTP, Pushkin WWTP and Pontonniy WWTP. Institutions The objective of the project was to increase the efficiency of wastewater treatment at small plants and ensure stable removal of phosphorus and nitrogen from wastewater (the Baltic Marine Environment IN 2014, VODOKANAL Protection Commission (HELCOM) pays great attention CONTINUED TO IMPLEMENT to the compliance with these parameters, since it is THE NEVA UNTREATED phosphorus and nitrogen that intensify the growth of blueWASTEWATER DISCHARGE green algae in the Baltic Sea). Project implementation started CLOSURE PROGRAM in March 2012. The project was financed with the loan The Program is co-financed In 2014, Vodokanal continued the reconstruction provided by Nordic Environment with the loans provided of Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant within the frame Finance Corporation (NEFCO), by the European Bank of the Neva Program. The works were financed through the the non-refundable assistance for Reconstruction and earlier attracted loan proceeds and non-refundable technical granted by the Ministry of the Development (EBRD), Nordic assistance. Equipment supply is ongoing. The completion Environment of Finland (FMoE), Investment Bank (NIB) and of the Program is scheduled for 2015. Baltic Sea Action Plan Fund European Investment Bank In December 2014, the hot sub-spot no. 18.1 “Northern (BSAP Fund) and the Northern (EIB), as well as the nonTunnel Collector Construction” was excluded from the list Dimension Environmental refundable assistance of of hot spots (pollution sources) at the 47th Meeting of the Partnership (NDEP) as well the Northern Dimension HELCOM Heads of Delegation. Due to the Completion of the as own funds of Vodokanal. Environmental Partnership Northern Tunnel Collector 76 untreated wastewater discharges LLC Vodokanal-Finance (NDEP), Swedish International (channeling 334,000 m3 into the Neva) were closed. Today (subsidiary of Vodokanal Development and Cooperation that wastewater is transported to Northern Wastewater St. Petersburg) was paying, Agency (SIDA), the Ministry Treatment Plant and undergoes full cycle of treatment in a timely manner and in of the Environment of Finland in line with HELCOM Recommendations. full, the accumulated coupon (FMoE), EBRD Special Support yield to the holders of Series Fund and the John Nurminen 01 non-convertible interestFoundation. IN 2014, VODOKANAL WENT bearing documentary bearer bonds of LLC VodokanalIn addition to the provision of funds, Vodokanal’s ON PERFORMING ITS OBLIGATIONS Finance, with obligatory centralized care (state lenders and donors monitor the performance OF DEBT REPAYMENT AND registration number 4–01– 36398–R dated 16 November of financial obligations by Vodokanal, compliance with SERVICING UNDER THE 2010). In 2014, the amount of the paid coupon yield was environmental requirements, conformity of tender LOAN AGREEMENTS RUB 175,520,000.00. The series 01 bond’s procedures for procurement of goods, works and services coupons rate remained with the international at 8.8% per annum. standards. 84 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Interaction In compliance with it the customers’ wastewater quality control will be planned based with Industrial on monitoring wastewater quality in check points of 601 sewerage areas. That helps identify troubled areas and Enterprises monitor, first of all, those customers that generate wastewater which quality does not meet the regulation requirements. In 2014, International Advanced Water Technologies DURING 2013–2014, WATER Centre hosted the workshop for industrial enterprises AND WASTEWATER REGULATIONS targeted for the exchange of experience in water and WERE UNDER REVISION. wastewater techniques. Participants of the workshop VODOKANAL INTERACTED discussed the issues related to collection and treatment WITH REPRESENTATIVES of surface water from the territories of industrial comOF INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES, panies, treatment of industrial wastewater prior to its CLARIFIED VARIOUS discharge to the centralized sewerage system, changes PROVISIONS OF NEW REGULATIONS in the laws of the Russian Federation on water supply AND GAVE NECESSARY and wastewater disposal, experience of EU countries CONSULTATIONS in norm setting and industrial wastewater treatment. Over the last years, the Government of the Russian Federation water protection plans, 13 The working group, which approved the Cold water supply and wastewater disposal customers installed local task was to address issues rules, Wastewater composition and properties control rules wastewater treatment units related to enforcement of the (defined customer categories subject to special discharge limits or reconstructed existing Federal Law “On Water Supof pollutants), Rules for the determination of discharge limits ones. Among those cusply and Wastewater Disposal” of pollutants by customers, Provision on decreasing the tomers there were ZAO as well as related bylaws, discharges of pollutants. The RF Ministry for Natural “Malthouse Soufflet St. was established under the Resources and Environment approved the Methodology for the Petersburg”, OOO “Mondelēz jurisdiction of the Committee development of discharge limits of pollutants by customers. Rus’”, OOO “Unilever Rus’”, for Energy and Engineering Vodokanal provided assistance to industrial enterprises St. Petersburg Automobile Support of St. Petersburg. in connection with: Operating Company no. 11, Representatives of the • the development of declarations on wastewater ZAO “Obyedineniye Soyuz”, Union of Industrialists composition and properties; St. Petersburg Diary “Piskaand Entrepreneurs • the identification of pollutants discharge sources; revskiy”, ZAO Construction of St. Petersburg, Associa• planning of administrative and technical measures Company “Dvadtsatiy Trest”, tion of Industrial Enterprises to reduce pollutants discharges; ZAO “British American Tobacin St. Petersburg, • development of action plans to cut down pollutants co Russia” and others. St. Petersburg nternational discharges. In 2014, to increase the Business-Association, the In 2014, the Company received from its customers efficiency of work with cusCommittee for Energy and for checking 43 declarations on wastewater composition tomers and reduce discharge Engineering Support and properties. of pollutants in the municipal of St. Petersburg and 112 inspections of the customers’ water and wastewater sewerage system Vodokanal St. Petersburg Vodokanal facilities were conducted during 2014 to check, among began to implement, in line became members of the other things, the implementation by the customers of water with the current laws, the working group. As a result of protection plans. sewerage area segmentathe joint work, new wastewaBased on the results of the work performed in 2014, tion to plan the customers’ ter composition norms were 53 customers developed and submitted to Vodokanal their wastewater quality control. adopted in St. Petersburg. 85 Establishment The water cluster will create conditions to accelerate introduction and development of Water of modern technologies and innovations in water industry by way of promoting the application of engineering solutions, advanced Cluster and Water technologies and equipment. Finally, the integrated, research-and-technology, innovative and production Academy infrastructure will be created aimed to increasing the level of social and economic development of the region as well as to enhance the environmental condition of the Baltic Sea. Such infrastructure will contribute to the fulfilment of tasks set forth by the VODOKANAL IS INVOLVED IN INTENSIVE Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no. 989 dated WORK TO ESTABLISH THE SO-CALLED 11 December 2013 “On the approval of St. Petersburg WATER AND WASTEWATER CLUSTER water and wastewater master plan up to 2025 with an (HEREINAFTER REFERRED outlook to 2030”. Under the leadership of TO AS “THE WATER CLUSTER”) O.A. Markov, Vice-Governor of St. Petersburg, a working TO INCREASE EFFICIENCY OF WATER group was established to address issues related to the COMPANIES IN THE RUSSIAN creation and operation of the water cluster in St. Petersburg. FEDERATION THROUGH St. Petersburg Vodokanal together with the working THE DEVELOPMENT, DISSEMINATION group developed the draft Resolution of St. Petersburg AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TECHNICAL, Government “On approval of the concept to facilitate MANAGERIAL, LEGAL, FINANCIAL AND the creation and operation of the territorial water cluster ECONOMIC SOLUTIONS BY APPLYING in St. Petersburg”. Within the framework THE INTEGRATED RESOURCES OF of the water cluster it is planned to establish the PRODUCTION, EDUCATION AND Water Academy – educational, scientific, research and RESEARCH-AND-DEVELOPMENT SECTORS methodological centre. A package of documents needed to create the Water Academy was developed in 2014. The Water Academy will be located at the following address: Lit. A and Lit. B, 4–6 Chernoretskiy per., St. Petersburg. 86 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Interaction with Implementation of personnel management Personnel policies covers the following areas: • recruitment and occupational selection of personnel; • regulation of labour relations; FOLLOWING THE PRINCIPLES • remuneration and motivation; OF SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS • social support of employees; VODOKANAL IMPLEMENTS ITS • development (training, refresher course PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT POLICIES and advanced training) of employees; AIMING AT EFFECTIVE INTERACTION • occupational and health safety. BETWEEN EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS Personnel management policies are based on strict observance Interactions with employees are based on social partnership, of the Labor Code of the Russian Federation. In terms of labor common goals, respect for mutual interests, feasibility of the relations the Company is committed to the principle of equal obligations taken by the parties and proper fulfillment thereof. opportunities and guarantees no discrimination in respect Opportunities of Vodokanal in terms of interaction with of gender, religion, political views, age, nationality, material personnel are determined, on the one hand, by many years’ situation, etc. In 2014, no violations of labor law by Vodokanal experience in social program implementation, substantial were reported. material resources in this area, and on the other hand – Vodokanal considers its personnel as one of the main by implementation of new techniques and strategic approaches in strategic resources that ensure competiveness of the social development. Company and contribute to the success in achieving its goals. In this regard, the most important goals of the personnel management policies are the maintenance of professional personnel in all areas of the Company activity and motivation of employees to productive and effective labour. 87 As of 1 January 2015, the actual number of the Company employees was 8,450 people. The gender and age personnel structure is as follows: the average age of the Company employees is 44.08, including managers – 43.57; specialists – 39.92; white collar workers – 58.22; blue collar workers – 46.56. The Company employs 5,171 men (61.2%) and 3,280 women (38.8%). The average record of service is 10 years. 38% of the Company INTERACTION WITH PERSONNEL Vodokanal pays special attention to interaction employees have a higher education. IS ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT with the youth. As of 1 January 2015, The number of candidates of science is 32; doctors of COMPONENTS OF STRENGTHENING the Company employed 2,748 young experts which science – 4. The personnel turnover AND DEVELOPMENT OF VODOKANAL’S accounts for 32.5% of the actual number of Company reduced from 8.01% in 2013 to 6% in 2014 which CORPORATE CULTURE AND IS employees. St. Petersburg Vodokanal corresponds to the standard staff turnover level of about CARRIED OUT, AMONG OTHER implements projects targeted to the establishment of 6% (when calculating the turnover percentage only THINGS, THROUGH THE INTERNAL the younger experts’ pool, recruitment of talented the number of voluntary resignations and dismissals COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM youth, creation of conditions for the youth professional for violation of work discipline are taken into account INCLUDING: growth and involvement in the Company’s operations. according to orders of the RF • regular meetings of Company employees with managers State Committee for Labour). to inform employees about Company future development; The total percentage of the • publication of the corporate newspaper “Vodokanal’s Company personnel turnover News”; is less than that in the North• corporate web-site available to every employee where West Federal District of the the Company regularly places and updates information on its RF (20% in 2014). activities (policies, plans, procedures, etc.); • wide-range surveys of opinions; • placement of advertisements, boards and other information on special stands. 88 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company IN 2014, SOME conditions for creative • thematic events for the PROJECTS WERE initiatives and development of professional capacities of the youth; youth including the business game “Feel the Value of Water”, environmental quest IMPLEMENTED • the event dedicated to the Youth Day (27 June 2014). “Water and Cities”, intellectual game “The Rifleman of AIMED AT: The program included the training course – the Voroshilov Regiment” organized during All-Russian, 1. Recruitment and effective adaptation of young experts “Effective Management city and corporate events; in the Company: Skills (Effective Interaction • work with veterans, • Welcome to Vodokanal Event for young new-comers. in Process Management)”. participation in events The objective of the event is to tell young employees about the Young employees, members dedicated to memorable days; Company history, traditions and innovations, inform about the of the Group of Talents and • participation in the career development opportunities, social programs. In 2014, the Youth Council of the trade Museums at Night annual over 190 young recruits took part in the event; union organization took part in event dedicated to the • Adaptation and Tutorship Procedures. 490 employees the event; International Museum Day; passed the adaptation procedure in 2014. 15 employees • meetings of the youth the event was organized underwent the tutorship procedure. and the Company managers by the Universe of Water 2. Involvement of the youth (the Future Generation held in all Company business Museum Complex. Project): units, where young people • work with students and graduates from higher and got an opportunity to have secondary education institutions (introductory, production an informal talk with top and pre-graduation practices). In 2014, training practice was managers of the Company and The Youth Council organized for 81 students from higher education institutions ask questions; of the Company works and 106 college students; • mass sports events in cooperation with the • work with students from the Water College (training (seasonal sports tourist Company administration and practice and employment of graduates). In 2014, 28 students meetings, Spartakiada games) trade union. passed the training practice and 24 students were employed by with an active participation of The Youth Council unites the Company. In total, 754 Company employees are graduates the youth. young employees – members from the Water College. 6. Creation of the external of the trade union under 3. Recognition of services: image of the Company: 35, who are interested in • in 2014, 15 employees under the age of 35 with a 5 • participation of Company professional and cultural year unbroken record of service were awarded the lapel badge cross-function teams in self-development, discussion “The Best Young Employee of the Company” and a monetary amateur sports championships of acute problems of the remuneration, as well as a free voucher to Burevestnik of St. Petersburg and Russia; Company, dissemination Sanatorium for 7 calendar days granted to the awarded person • participation in the of values and principles and a family member. Club of the Cheerful and of St. Petersburg Vodokanal. 4. Improvement of conditions for professionalism Sharp-Witted Championship, In particular, the Youth development and career promotion: held among St. Petersburg Council calls working youth • professional contests with an active participation of the companies and enterprises; to take part in trade union youth; • participation in the activities and public life of • work with the Company personnel pool. International Contest for the Company, promotes the 5. Development of commitment to the Company: the Best Youth Adaptation healthy life style, organizes • the IV Youth Games Festival (25–27 April 2014) targeted System held in the town of sports and cultural events. to build up corporate unity among young employees, establish Yugorsk; 89 Interaction With The Collective Employment Agreement determines not only responsibilities of the Trade Unions employer and the trade union, but also social guarantees and privileges for Company employees and labour veterans. On 1 January 2014, the PARTNERSHIP WITH THE new Collective Employment Agreement entered into force TRADE UNION PLAYS AN IMPORTANT and it will be valid for the next three years. ROLE FOR VODOKANAL It provides a welldeveloped corporate social ST. PETERSBURG responsibility base that comprises social support of the personnel’s potential and St. Petersburg Vodokanal recognizes the trade union as motivation, healthcare and a major element of the effective system in terms of company labor occupational safety management; occupational health and safety; raising personnel systems, care for veterans, satisfaction level; organization of employees’ leisure and rest, sports development, youth and other activities. policies, interaction with trade The main document defining the relationships between the unions, regular staff training. employer and the trade union as the parties of social partnership Performance of the is the Collective Employment Agreement – a legal act that Agreement, where relations regulates social and labour relations between employers between the personnel and and employees based on the congruence of interests of the the company are specified, parties in compliance with the laws of the Russian Federation. is annually verified by representatives of the parties. After considering the results of such verification a certificate is issued and made available to all employees. The Collective Employment Agreement is revised and amended on regular basis in compliance with performance analysis results. All amendments to the Collective Employment Agreement are aimed at optimizing social and labor relations between employees and the employer. 90 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Interaction Relevant environmental with Educational information, various forms of work, active training methods applied in YEC allowed to attract over 600 educational institutions Institutions to the implementation of YEC projects and programmes. YEC partners are kindergartens, schools, colleges, vocational schools, VODOKANAL PAYS SPECIAL higher education institutions in St. Petersburg and the ATTENTION TO THE TRAINING Leningrad Region. Interaction with OF WORKERS AND ENGINEERS educational institutions is built on the basis of FOR THE COMPANY social partnership and in compliance with the main Cooperation between College students study up-to-date production processes with objectives of YEC: Vodokanal and the the help of Vodokanal. For this purpose, annual on-the-job • fostering the culture Water College (former training for water and wastewater department students of water use in the city; Professional School no. 89) at the Company’s facilities is organized. College • fostering the is an outstanding example of representatives also participate in professional contests responsible attitude successful social partnership. organized by Vodokanal. of citizens to natural Advanced training In 2014, Vodokanal continued its partnership with resources; facilities have been created the following specialized institutions of higher education: • development of social in the College together with St. Petersburg Technological Institute, St. Petersburg State activity of the youth; Vodokanal, among them: University of Water Communications, State University • promotion of ideas • training set to simulate of Architecture and Civil Engineering, St. Petersburg of efficient environmental emergency repairs (at water State Transport University and others. education as well as and sewer networks) and education for sustainable a training ground; AN IMPORTANT FIELD development. Work with educational • training simulators for welding, sanitary, ventilation OF VODOKANAL ACTIVITIES institutions, kids and youth includes interactive activities and electrical works, smallsize mechanical equipment, IS CLOSE INTERACTION WITH and excursions; different projects; competitions, laboratory and workbench equipment; SCHOOLS OF ST. PETERSBURG, festivals and actions. Besides, a lot of work • all equipment for the College classrooms to provide LENINGRAD REGION AND OTHER with teachers is done on the premises of YEC including training and educational process. RUSSIAN CITIES UNDER DIFFERENT seminars, methodological support and dissemination The material and technical facilities are used not only PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS of teaching aids. for training of newcomers but for advanced training OF THE YOUTH ENVIRONMENTAL and retraining of regular employees. CENTRE (YEC) AND THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX 91 Interaction with Environmental and other NonGovernmental Organizations Since 2011, meetings of the working group on water supply and wastewater disposal in the residential sector of the city have been held at the premises RESPONSIBILITY TO THE SOCIETY of Vodokanal. The idea to organize such a working AND FUTURE GENERATIONS IS AMONG group started up during the IV Conference for THE BASIC VALUES OF VODOKANAL Chairpersons of Homeowners Associations. It was also ST. PETERSBURG. IN ITS PRODUCTION decided that the working group would comprise AND ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESSexperts from Vodokanal, CEO of managing companies, RAISING ACTIVITY THE COMPANY chairpersons of housing cooperatives and construction ACTIVELY INTERACTS WITH associations, as well as representatives of the DIFFERENT PUBLIC ORGANIZATIONS publishing house “Concierge”. Regular meetings are AND CIVIL SOCIETY ACTIVISTS dedicated to contractual relationship between customers, sub-customers and Vodokanal St. Petersburg, boundaries of responsibility for operation of water supply A representative of Vodokanal is a member of the systems between customers Environmental Council for Environmental Protection under and sub-customers, the Government of St. Petersburg. In 2014, a draft of installation by Vodokanal the state sub-program “Development and Environmental of water filters at the inlets Protection for the period of 2015–2020” was discussed of the buildings, maintenance at the meetings of the Environmental Council. Members of water meter units, water of the Environmental Council supported the proposal of the heads in apartment houses, Committee of Natural Resources, Environment and Ecological etc. At these meetings Safety to amend the draft of the sub-program. In addition, Vodokanal experts always the Environmental Council dealt with the issues of construction answer specific questions waste disposal, air quality and arrangement of state on water supply and environmental monitoring of atmospheric air. sewerage services asked by representatives of housing cooperatives and managing companies. 92 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Vodokanal regularly participates in the meetings of the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and also in the meetings IN 2014, THE COOPERATION organized by the Industrial Committee of St. Petersburg International Business Association (SPIBA). Cooperation of OF VODOKANAL WITH Vodokanal and SPIBA began in March 2011. Members of the SPIBA Committee for Environmental Protection and Industrial SPECIALISTS OF THE NOTSafety met with representatives of Vodokanal and approved the establishment of the SPIBA working group at Vodokanal FOR-PROFIT PARTNERSHIP in order to solve efficiently acute problems of water supply and wastewater disposal and to maintain a continuous MARINE MAMMAL REHABILITATION dialogue with international business community. Vodokanal is involved in work of the Public Council for CENTRE OF THE LENINGRAD improvement of environmental situation in St. Petersburg and enforcement of civil rights to healthy environment. In April REGION CONTINUED 2014, the first meeting of the Public Council was held at the The main goal of the Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Centre premises of the Information and Training Centre of Vodokanal. is providing help to seal pups. The scientists and zoologists At that meeting Vodokanal represented a new area of its Vyacheslav Alekseyev and Elena Andrievskaya are qualified activities targeted to creation of the chemical balance of experts that have gained a wide experience in successful pollutants in the city sewerage system. Vodokanal intends to rehabilitation of marine mammals. In addition to the rehabilitation introduce the system, which will make it possible to identify work they monitor populations of the Ladoga ringed seal, the the sources of specific pollutants entering the city sewerage Baltic ringed seal and the grey seal in St. Petersburg and the system, as well as to deal directly with industries-sources of Leningrad Region. In late 2014, the Baltic Ringed Seal Foundation specific pollutants and provide them assistance in developing was established with the active support of Vodokanal. pollutants discharge reduction plans, including selection of optimal techniques for local wastewater treatment. In 2014, Vodokanal also took an active part in a series IN LATE JULY 2014, of events organized by HELCOM. In particular, on 5 March 2014, Vodokanal participated in the International Conference REPRESENTATIVES OF THE dedicated to the HELCOM 40th Anniversary. In 2014, cooperation between Vodokanal and “Ecology INDEPENDENT AND NOT-FORand Business” Company continued. Within the framework of that cooperation Vodokanal participated in the Baltic Sea PROFIT CIVIL MOVEMENT Day International Forum on 19–21 March. During the forum Vodokanal hosted at its premises the panel discussion – “BEAUTIFUL PETERSBURG” “Environmental education and awareness-raising for the Gulf of Finland Year”. VISITED THE HOT LINE SERVICE Partner relationships with the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership are continued. In June 2014, the OF VODOKANAL NDEP Steering Group meeting was hosted by the Company. Vodokanal has had the call center for over ten years. In 2014, the cooperation of Vodokanal and the Baltic Sea The telephone number +7 (812) 305-09-09 operates 24 hours Action Plan Group (BSAG) continued and was targeted to the per day. About 700–800 calls are received by the Hot Line development of so-called “road map” to reduce the adverse Service daily. All calls can be divided into requests (regarding impact on the Lake Ladoga – Lake Onega – Neva River – Gulf tariffs, technical terms, museum’s working hours, etc.) and of Finland water system. complaints. Any complaint will be immediately processed if it is In 2014, Vodokanal also cooperated with different within Vodokanal’s competence or passed to other city services. environmental and other public organizations to implement Complaints submitted to the Hot Line Service are analyzed and projects and programs of the Youth Environmental Centre. studied. That helps identify the most problematic areas and take relevant measures. The head of the Beautiful Petersburg movement Krasimir Wranski said that he got a most positive impression after visiting the Hot Line Service. “It was interesting to see how work with customers is organized in Vodokanal. According to opinions of St. Petersburg citizen, Vodokanal is one of the best city companies in terms of quality and efficiency of call processing”, said K. Wranski. “The period between a call and solving the issue is several days or even hours, that is amazing”. 93 Interaction with Federal and Regional Authorities IN ITS ROUTINE OPERATIONS In order to implement the state policies in water supply VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG and wastewater disposal aimed to protect health CONSTANTLY COOPERATES WITH and improve life quality of the population, Vodokanal BOTH FEDERAL AND REGIONAL St. Petersburg and the Committee for Energy AUTHORITIES, AS WELL AS WITH and Engineering Support developed the St. Petersburg MANAGEMENT OF DIFFERENT Water and Wastewater Master Plan for the period SUBJECTS OF THE RUSSIAN up to 2025 with the outlook to 2030. The Master Plan FEDERATION was developed in compliance with the Petersburg Master Plan based on the results of technical survey of water supply and wastewater systems. On 11 December 2013, the Government of St. Petersburg adopted the resolution no. 989 “On the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Master Plan for the period up to 2025 with the outlook to 2030”, which determines targets and ways of water supply and wastewater system development. 94 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company IN 2014, VODOKANAL WAS INVOLVED IN ORGANIZATION OF DIFFERENT CONFERENCES, MEETINGS, ROUND TABLES , SEMINARS, FORUMS AND OTHER EVENTS HELD BY PUBLIC VODOKANAL AUTHORITIES OF THE RUSSIAN REGULARLY HOSTS FEDERATION AND ST. PETERSBURG AND EVENTS ATTENDED BY PROFESSIONAL COMMUNITY BY REPRESENTATIVES OF FEDERAL AND REGIONAL AUTHORITIES On 11 March 2014, the Ministry of Natural Resources and In particular, in 2014, Vodokanal employees participated Environment in conjunction with Vodokanal held a round table in the All-Russian meeting “Effective management of as part of the project “St. Petersburg Initiative”. Co-chairs public utilities sector for the purpose of creating favorable of the round table were the director of the International living conditions for citizens” (on 1–3 October 2014, Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources Suzdal, Vladimir), held with the support of the Ministry and Environment N.R. Inamov and Director General of of Construction, Housing and Utilities of the Russian Vodokanal St. Petersburg F.V. Karmazinov. On 23–24 October Federation, the State Corporation “The Fund 2014, a plenary session under the St. Petersburg Initiative for Promotion of the Housing and Utilities Reform”, Project was held in Vodokanal. On 22 October 2014, NP “Housing and Utilities Sector Development” and an offsite meeting of the Working Group on Monitoring of regional authorities. Implementation of the RF State Council’s decisions and Vodokanal specialists prepared letters, reports, its presidium under the supervision of Assistant to the answers to inquiries and other materials for state President of the Russian Federation I.E. Levitin was held. authorities of the Russian Federation and St. Petersburg, On 13 November 2014, a meeting of the specialized regarding the situation in the water sector, the need technical committee of the Federal Agency for Technical to improve the existing legislation, ways to achieve Regulation and Metrology (Rosstandart) TK-113 “Best more efficient interaction between the Company and available technologies” was organized in Vodokanal. its customers and other issues in relation to Vodokanal In February and April 2014, meetings of the Public Council activities. Vodokanal’s experts prepared an answer under The Gulf of Finland Year Project co-chaired by the to St. Petersburg Committee for Energy and Engineering Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko and the Support dated 24 March 2014 with regard to the Governor of the Leningrad region A.Yu. Drozdenko were held. Committees’ request to declare a number of regulatory Vodokanal also hosted meetings of the Union of legal acts of St. Petersburg invalid due to their nonIndustrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Association of Industrial compliance with the Federal Law “On Water Supply Enterprises of St. Petersburg, the city Public Utilities Council and Wastewater Disposal” no. 416–FZ dated 7 December and many others. 2011. As a result, the regional legal regulations on In 2014, delegations of the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous relations between the users of wastewater systems District, the government of Yaroslavl Region, Khabarovskiy continued in force. Region Administration visited Vodokanal. 95 Vodokanal participated Vodokanal also took an active part in meetings held by the Vodokanal also participated in business meetings organized executive authorities of the Russian Federation. On 24 November in the meetings held at the by executive authorities 2014, representatives of the Company participated in the meeting Ministry of Construction, of St. Petersburg including organized by the Deputy Minister of Construction, Housing and Ministry of Natural Resources St. Petersburg Committee Utilities of the Russian Federation A.V. Chibis dedicated to the and the State Duma. for Energy and Engineering entry into force of the environmental part of the Federal Law “On In 2014, Vodokanal took Support, St. Petersburg Tariff Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” no. 416–FZ dated part in legal proceedings of Committee. On 26 June 2014, 7 December 2014. According to the meeting results it was the claims against Vodokanal’s representatives of Vodokanal’s decided that this document should be further adjusted and customers under which the Legal Department took part brought in line with the principles of technological standardization environmental and district in the meeting that was set forth in the Federal Law “On Environmental Protection” no. 7– prosecutor’s offices requested dedicated to the issue of FZ dated 10 January 2002. As a result of the implemented joint to oblige them to install determining a guaranteed work, on 29 December 2014, the State Duma of the Russian local wastewater treatment supply company in St. PetersFederation adopted in the third final reading the Federal Law units at discharges to the burg and organized by the no. 458–FZ “On Amendments to the Federal Law “On Production municipal sewerage system Tariff Committee. and Consumption Waste” and separate legislative acts on (or to improve the existing local After that meeting it was invalidity of some legislative acts (provisions) of the Federal Law wastewater treatment units). decided to develop a legislative no. 458–FZ. According to the Article 18 of the said law the entry Favourable award on such initiative aimed at excluding into force of several articles of the Federal Law “On Water Supply legal proceedings made the mandatory appointment and Wastewater Disposal” no. 416–FZ dated 7 December 2011 it possible to improve the quality of the said company. (the part related to the prevention of the negative impact on the of customer’s wastewater environment) was postponed to 1 July 2015. treatment, prevent damage to the centralized sewerage system and reduce the adverse impact on water bodies, which in its turn cut down the fees for the adverse impact on the environment to be paid by Vodokanal. In total, Vodokanal participated in 290 similar legal proceedings in 2014. In 2014, Vodokanal took an active part in arrangement and work of different discussion panels dedicated to the legal regulation of water supply, wastewater disposal and environment protection activities. In particular, under the IV Petersburg International Legal Forum Vodokanal was the organizer of a panel discussion dedicated to issues of protection and sustainable use of water bodies. 96 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Interaction Vodokanal’s information policy aims to create with Mass a positive company image, improve mutual understanding between the company, its customers and the society, and to foster Media the culture of water use and responsible attitude towards the environment. Relations with the mass media are based on the principles of objectivity, reliability ACCESSIBILITY OF INFORMATION of information and quick response. The forms of IS ONE OF THE MOST interaction with the mass media are as follows: IMPORTANT VODOKANAL • response to the mass media’s inquiries; VALUES. INTERACTION WITH • interviews of Vodokanal’s representatives THE MASS MEDIA in the mass media; • press conferences, IS A GOOD WAY TO MAKE THE briefings, round tables; • press-tours for INFORMATION ACCESSIBLE journalists to Vodokanal’s facilities; • initiating publications in printed and electronic NUMBER media, and TV/radio items; OF MASS MEDIA • design and maintenance PUBLICATIONS of websites describing the ON VODOKANAL Company activities; ACTIVITIES • work with mass media as part of the information support of projects. YEAR NUMBER The mass media’s interest in Vodokanal activities is 2006 2,756 growing every year. Over 9,800 materials about the 2007 3,177 Company activities were 2008 3,835 publicized (in printed media, Internet, radio and TV) 2009 4,364 in 2014. In 2013, the number 2010 6,138 of such materials exceeded 2011 8,108 9,000; in 2012 it was over 8,000. 2012 8,836 2013 9,254 2014 9,866 97 THE DIGESTS Development of the Internet sphere was in Vodokanal’s OF MATERIALS special focus in 2014. The information about ON VODOKANAL the Company activities was regularly posted ACTIVITIES ARE on Vodokanal websites (Vodokanal’s official website PRESENTED TO www.vodokanal.spb.ru, and the Museum Complex’s THE COMPANY website www.vodokanalmuseum.ru, Burevestnik MANAGEMENT Sanatorium’s website www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru). ON A DAILY BASIS. In 2014, the web-site of Youth Environmental Centre MAIN EVENTS OF 2014 IT HELPS RESPOND www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru was launched. COVERED BY THE MASS TO PUBLICATIONS In 2014, the Company also continued to develop the PROMPTLY, awareness-raising InternetMEDIA: PROVIDE portal about water (da-voda. com) made with the support of Vodokanal. A special • Center for Research and Conservation of Marine Mammals, release of treated animals to the wild, opening COMMENTS AND website section was created on the Internet-portal to of the Centre after reconstruction, establishment of the Baltic Ringed Seal Foundation. CLARIFICATIONS cover the events organized within the frame of the Gulf 5 press tours were organized to the Centre and animal release events. The project was widely covered by the mass AS NECESSARY of Finland Year. In 2014, over 370 news media, including NTV, RTR, STO TV, Sank-Peterburg, Mir, OTV, DTV, TC of the Federation Council; in printed publications AND PINPOINT and 150 press-releases were posted on Vodokanal’s (newspapers “Metro”, “Peterburgskiy Dnevnik”, “Vecherniy Peterburg”); on radio stations “Radio Rossiyi”, “Zenit”, NEW THEMES FOR official web-site. The Information and Public “Baltika”, and the Russian news agency; and on the popular city web-resources Fontanka.ru and The Village. INTERACTION Relations Department of Vodokanal answered Numerous journalists’ requests were processed separately. In total, over 700 publications on this theme were issued WITH THE MASS on average 35–40 media inquiries per month (requests in 2014. The information on the Centre was placed on the official MEDIA for comments, interviews, shooting films). Vodokanal’s web-site (www.vodokanal.spb.ru), the Da-Voda web-site dedicated to the solicitous attitude to water (www.da-voda.com), in the social networks VKontakte and Facebook. • Pre-commissioning of the new 1–lift boosting pumping station at Main Water Treatment Plant (over 60 publications). • Implementation of the automated information system for recording atmospheric precipitation (installation of precipitation gauges) (over 30 publications). • Events under the Gulf of Finland Year Project (about 200 publications). • Traditionally, opening and closing ceremonies of fountains and operation of snow-melting facilities are topics of interest among journalists. In total, mass media released over 900 publications about the fountains, approximately 300 publications about the snow-melting facilities. 98 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Cooperation algae in the Baltic Sea), operation of the sludge incineration plant. The manager of the with Social PastFuture Project Vadim Dubinin thanked Vodokanal’s specialists for the interesting excursion and fast organizaMedia tion of the visit. The PastFuture creative team is engaged in architectural photography of industrial and historic buildings. Their goal is to make an art photo report of architectural masterpieces, industrial and other buildings To communicate with the in different styles of the Internet audience, under 1 year) hunting may be permitted in Baikal Lake. Another 19–20th centuries. the most part of it being remarkable poll by the Neva River Crayfish was dedicated to the In November, journalists the youth, Vodokanal has initiative of one citizen who addressed deputies of the Leningrad and concerned citizens chosen as its representative Region with a request to withdraw the Ladoga seal from the (in particular, representatives – the character of the DaRed Book of the RF and permit its shooting. of Kanonerskiy Ostrov commuVoda.com portal –The Neva But the most headline-making poll was about dishes cooked nity, RPR-PARNAS in VKonCrayfish. This character is from the Baikal seal: it collected a lot of responses and gave rise takte) visited Central Wastewadirectly associated with to lively discussions both on the Neva River Crayfish account ter Treatment Plant. They saw Vodokanal’s activity. and on web-pages of users who reposted the news. how wastewater comes to Traditionally, a lot of attention is paid to all posts about the the plant, how it is treated by Many people know that Center for Research and Conservation of Marine Mammals and screens and sand traps at the crayfish from the Neva River the Baltic Ringed Seal Foundation. Such posts helped inform mechanical treatment stage work at all Vodokanal’s water general public about a special nomination of the Foundation and how it becomes clean at intakes. They monitor the within the framework of the citywide creativity contest “I Love the main biological treatment quality of water coming from Gulf of Finland”. Many contest participants learned about that stage. Members of the public the Neva River. nomination from social networks. saw the treated effluent, visitThe Neva Crayfish gives Users are also interested in drinking water and wastewater ed the main pumping station, video lessons on the Da-Votreatment, work of Neva river crayfish at Vodokanal’s biomonthe control room and the da.com portal, has its own itoring stations. In November 2014, the Neva River Crayfish sludge incineration plant. accounts in social networks explained the situation about untreated wastewater in Novoye Dmitry Gusev (the head (VKontakte, Facebook, Twitter). Devyatkino (Vsevolozhskiy District of the Leningrad Region) that of the public project “Do It It communicates with its flows into the Neva River and the Gulf of Finland. Vodokanal RIGHT!”) visited Central WWTP friends, answers their quesdoesn’t bear responsibility for the treatment of wastewater within a group of civil activists. tions, takes initiatives, tells from the other RF subject, but citizens of St. Petersburg can In follow-up of the visit it was interesting facts about water safely drink water since water treatment plants are designed agreed that he would pass and animals; shares informafor even bigger pollution. to Vodokanal’s specialists tion on devices that help save In early October, a group of bloggers from St. Petersburg his proposals about urban water in everyday life, organizvisited South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. redevelopment, in particular es environmental actions. The initiator of the blog-tour was Eugeniy Kochanov who on measures to provide efIn total, the Neva Crayfish addressed Vodokanal with a request to organize a tour to a fective wastewater collection has over 11 thousand friends wastewater treatment plant. Eugeniy Kochanov writes about from pavements and roads. in the social networks. There his walks around Petersburg and posts his stories and photos D. Gusev gave Vodokanal his is also the Da-Voda account on LiveJournal (nickname – zydog). His post about his trip to methodical album for identifyin VKontakte, Facebook and SWWTP was quite popular with the internet audience. “I have ing urban redevelopment issues Twitter. At the end of 2014, reached the bloggers’ Zen by this post. Besides it hung in the and description of generic soluthe number of subscribers was LiveJournal top for some hours last Friday, then it was taken tions for effective collection over 2,500 people. to Fishki.net. What a success!” – said Eugeniy. of wastewater from pavements The Neva River Crayfish One of the tour participants wrote in his blog after visiting and roads and for reduction constantly interacts with SWWTP: “…I was fortunate to visit SWWTP. It is the plant of the city environment environmentally active Internet of an amazing size. WELL DONE, Vodokanal!!!” pollution (pollution of roads, users. In particular, in 2014, In December, a group of St. Petersburg photographers from pavements and air) (illustrated users were nearly interested PastFuture Project visited SWWTP. Vodokanal’s specialists told with examples). In December, in the news posted by the about wastewater treatment stages, importance of nitrogen D. Gusev had a meeting with Neva River Crayfish that seal and phosphorus removal from wastewater (It is nitrogen and Vodokanal’s specialists to and baby seal (seal pups phosphorus that give a boost to the growth of blue and green discuss his proposals. 99 In January 2014, a delegation Participation of Vodokanal headed by Director General F.V. Karmazinov took part in the International Conference in Helsinki in Exhibitions dedicated to the opening of the Gulf of Finland Year. In late February, the Company participated in the V International Ecology and Conferences Forum in St. Petersburg. In addition to being involved in theme-based sections and round tables discussions, Vodokanal organized its own booth where forum participants could learn about IN 2014, VODOKANAL the latest technical solutions of the Company. ST. PETERSBURG TOOK AN ACTIVE Vodokanal traditionally took an active part in the PART IN DIFFERENT RUSSIAN AND organization and holding of the XV International forum INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS “The Baltic Sea Day”, which was held on 19–21 March AT ALL LEVELS IN ORDER 2014. In March and October, TO OPTIMIZE INTERACTION Vodokanal and the Ministry of Natural Resources and WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS Environment of the Russian Federation organized some activities under the St. Petersburg Initiative Project at the premises of Vodokanal. 100 ANNUAL REPORT’14 About the Company Vodokanal participated in the All-Russian Forum “Housing and Utilities 2014. Technologies, Investments and New Quality”, which was held on 19–21 March in Nizhny Novgorod. The Forum was organized on the initiative of the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities of the Russian Federation. Vodokanal traditionally participated in the ECWATECH International Water Forum on 3–6 June 2014 in Moscow. The Company together with partner companies presented their exhibition stand and A number of outstanding all-city events were organized within Vodokanal’s specialists the festival program, the key event being the formal meeting participated in some topicof the Public Councils of Russia, Finland and Estonia headed based discussion panels. by its co-chairpersons in Tavrichesky Palace on 19 September On 18–21 June 2014, 2014. In the follow-up of the meeting the Youth Declaration the IV St. Petersburg on the Protection of the Gulf of Finland was accepted. International Legal Forum In 2014, the project for the protection of marine mammals took place. A special of the Baltic Sea that had begun a year before came to its discussion subpanel dedicated logical end. On 5 September 2014, the Opening Ceremony of to the environmental Vodokanal’s Centre for Research and Conservation of Marine legislation was organized Mammals was organized at the town of Repino. The Governor within the frame of the forum of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko attended the ceremony. for the first time. Vodokanal An outstanding international conference “Marine Mammals was the organizer of that of Holarctic” dedicated to the marine fauna protection was held subpanel. in cooperation with A.N. Severtsov Institute of Ecology and The most outstanding Evolution of the Russian Academy of Sciences at the premises and significant environmental of Vodokanal on 22–27 September. event (implemented as a Vital importance for environmental cooperation had the part of the core program conference “Provision and Protection of the Civil Right for the Gulf of Finland Year of St. Petersburg Citizens to the Healthy Environment” that Project) was the citywide was organized on 18 December at Vodokanal. The conference festival “Gulf of Finland – was held in cooperation with the Human Rights Commissioner Area of Cooperation” held in St. Petersburg, Government of St. Petersburg and the City in St. Petersburg on 19–20 Environmental Prosecutor’s Office. September 2014. 101 102 Results of Activities in 2014 103 104 Water Supply 105 VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG Vodokanal activities related to the provision PROVIDES POTABLE WATER TO THE of water supply services include the following: INHABITANTS (OVER 5 MILLION • water intake and water treatment; PEOPLE) AND TO THE COMPANIES • water transportation. St. Petersburg takes AND ORGANIZATIONS IN THE CITY water from surface and underground sources. (45,400 CUSTOMERS) The main water source is the Neva River; Vodokanal takes more than 98% of water from it. The water supply system ADJUSTED CAPACITY OF WATER TREATMENT PLANTS:* comprises: • 9 water treatment Southern WTP 900,000 m3/day plants; Northern WTP 608,000 m3/day • 194 boosting pumping stations; Main WTP 422,000 m3/day • 6,938.2 km of water Volkovskaya WTP 211,000 m3/day networks; Kolpino WTP 151,000 m3/day • 2 sodium hypochlorite plants. Kronstadt WTP 18,000 m3/day Pipeline diameters of the Zelenogorsk WTP 10,000 m3/day municipal water network in St. Petersburg range from Duderhof WTP 20,000 m3/day 50 mm (house connections) Gantulovskaya Gora WTP 32,000 m3/day to 1.4 m (water pipelines). The bigger part (59%) * Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of WTPs calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, technical condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to potable water quality in compliance with the of networks in the Resolution of St. Petersburg Government no. 989 “On approval of St. Petersburg water supply and wastewater disposal St. Petersburg water systems for the period up to 2025 with an outlook to 2030” dated 11 December 2013. supply system is made of cast iron. In recent times, DAILY AVERAGE SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATER TO THE CITY pipes made of polyethylene have become increasingly common, especially in the 2009 2,028,290 m3 spheres of capital repairs and 2010 1,994,690 m3 rehabilitation of networks. About 60% of water 2011 1,922,900 m3 networks in St. Petersburg 2012 1,853,300 m3 have been in operation for 2013 1,808,800 m3 15–50 years. The operating time of 25% of all networks 2014 1,712,700 m3 is over 50 years, and such networks need reconstruction Water losses on the networks amounted to 12.9% in 2014 (13.7% in 2013); the breakdown rate of water networks (number of damages per 10 km) – 2.8 (2.9 in 2013). or replacement. 106 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 ST. PETERSBURG WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IS BASED ON THE AREA ZONING PRINCIPLE THE SOUTHERN WATER SUPPLY THE SYSTEM SUPPLIES WATER SYSTEM COMPRISES: TO THE FOLLOWING • Southern Water Treatment Plant (first-lift pumping ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS: stations, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); • Duderhof WTP (first-lift pumping stations, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); 70% of Moskovskiy district, • Kolpino WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping 85% of Frunzenskiy district, station); • Kronstadt WTP (first-lift pumping station, water 80% of left-bank part of Nevskiy treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); district and 15% of right-bank part • Petrodvorets WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift of Nevskiy district, pumping stations). Water from Southern WTP is tertiary treated here. The plant is also ready for use in case of need 65% of Kirovskiy district, to take water from Nikolskiy pond; • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth 100% of Pushkinskiy district, lift: Moskovskaya, Frunzenskaya, Uritskaya, South-Western, Rybatskaya, Kupchinskaya, Strelninskaya, Lomonosovskaya, 100% of Petrodvortsoviy district LGU Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, Pulkovskaya, Orlovskaya; and the town of Kronstadt, • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. 100% of Kolpinskiy district, 100% of Krasnoselskiy district. 107 THE SYSTEM SUPPLIES WATER THE NORTHERN WATER SUPPLY TO THE FOLLOWING SYSTEM COMPRISES: ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS: • Northern WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping 100% of Kurortniy district, stations); • Zelenogorsk WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water 65% of Primorskiy district, treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); 90% of Vyborgkiy district, • Sestroretsk WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift 80% of Kalininskiy district, pumping station). Water from Northern WTP is tertiary treated here. The plant is also ready for use in case of need to take 65% of Krasnogvardeyskiy district, water from Lake Razliv; • underground water sources of Kurortniy district; 85% of the right-bank part • named boosting pumping stations of the third lift (Murinskaya, Kushelevskaya, Primorskaya, Severo-Primorskaya, Kolomyazhskaya, Ozero Dolgoe, Martynovskaya, Parnasskaya, of Nevskiy district. Osinovaya Roshcha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, Novoselovskaya, Shuvalovskaya WTPs); • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. THE CENTRAL WATER SUPPLY THE SYSTEM SUPPLIES WATER SYSTEM COMPRISES: TO THE FOLLOWING • Main WTP (first-lift pumping stations, water treatment ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS: facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping stations); • Volkovskaya WTP (first-lift pumping station, water 100% of Petrogradskiy, treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); Vasileostrovskiy, Tsentralniy, • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift (Vasileostrovskaya, Gavanskaya, Petrogradskaya); Admiralteiskiy districts, • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • water supply and distribution networks. 10% of Vyborgskiy district, 20% of Kalininskiy district, 35% of Krasnogvardeiskiy district, 20% of the left-bank part of Nevskiy district, 15% of Frunzenskiy district, 30% of Moskovskiy district, 35% of Kirovskiy district, 35% of Primorskiy district. 108 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Water Treatment Technologies TREATMENT OF WATER FROM SURFACE SOURCES The water treatment process at the key WTPs taking water from St. Petersburg surface sources (the Neva River and the Gulf of Finland) includes the following stages: • a two-stage water disinfection system; • coagulation of pollutants (aluminium sulfate is used); THE TWO-STAGE • flocculation (polyacrylamide-based cationic flocculant is used); • sand filtration in the contact clarifiers (one-stage treatment INTEGRATED PROCESS scheme); • sedimentation and sand filtration in rapid filters (two-stage OF POTABLE WATER DISINFECTION treatment scheme); • powdered activated carbon is dosed when necessary (if the GUARANTEES EPIDEMIOLOGICAL Neva water quality becomes worse, or for odour and oil removal). SAFETY OF WATER SUPPLY IN ST. PETERSBURG The process consists of ammonium sulfate and sodium AND FULL COMPLIANCE chemical pretreatment with hypochlorite, and can maintain chloramines and secondary the disinfecting effect not OF THE MICROBIOLOGICAL disinfection with ultraviolet. only in the process of water Chloramines are produced in treatment at WTPs, but also PARAMETERS WITH THE the treated water by dosing during water distribution via of hazard-free chemicals, the municipal networks. CURRENT REGULATIONS The process solutions used to design and build K-6 block, a new 350,000 m³/day water treatment block at Southern WTP, in operation since early 2011, are as follows: • pre-ozonation; • clarification: coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation in lamella sedimentation tank, sludge thickening, sludge recirculation and removal; • filtration through dual-media (sand/granular activated carbon) rapid gravity filters; • air-and-water backwashing of filters; • equalization, treatment and utilization of backwash water; • sludge treatment; • storage, preparation and dosing of chemicals; • disinfection with chloramines. 109 POTABLE WATER TREATMENT TERTIARY WATER TREATMENT AT ZELENOGORSK WTP TECHNOLOGIES USED (GROUNDWATER) AT PETRODVORETS AND Zelenogorsk WTP takes raw water from underground sources. The groundwater treatment process in SESTRORETSK WTPS Zelenogorsk aims at removing excessive concentrations Electrochemical corrosion of steel pipes in the St. Petersburg of iron and manganese and consists of: water distribution system results in secondary pollution of potable • aeration; water with iron. • removal of the sludge resulting from air oxidation Formerly, both Petrodvorets WTP and Sestroretsk WTP used of ferric hydroxide (III) by means of filtration through the their own surface water sources – the Nikolskiy pond and the gravel-sand media of the first-stage rapid filters; Razliv Lake. Later, because of excessive pollution of these water • catalytic oxidation and separation of manganese bodies both plants were converted to tertiary treatment facilities as dioxide on the second-stage pressure filters. to treat the water supplied by the city waterworks. The tertiary Water is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite solution. treatment uses the existing water treatment units, i.e. sand filters Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron and blow-up (one-stage treatment scheme). of dissolved carbonic acid is performed in the aerator. To prevent corrosion of steel pipes and reduce iron To enhance the oxidation of iron and manganese concentrations in the tertiary-treated water from Petrodvorets and compounds, sodium hypochlorite solution is injected into Sestroretsk WTPs, calcium chloride and soda ash are dosed into water. Chlorination is made after the aeration and the the water as anticorrosion agents. sodium hypochlorite dose is 4–5 mg/l of active chlorine. Both plants have the equipment as required to receive, dilute The first-stage rapid filters are equipped with a drainage and dose 32% solutions of calcium chloride, and the systems system: hemispheric channels located on the bottom and for preparation and dosing of 10% soda ash (sodium carbonate). covered by slotted elements. These elements are produced The dosing of calcium salts and carbonic acid into the treated by winding stainless steel wire and welding it to a guide water and the resulting pH increase can slow down the corrosion frame of the element. The wire is profiled in such a way that process, and in some cases, fully stop oxidation of iron in steel slots widening inwards are formed between its rows. pipes due to the formation of calcium carbonate film which This solution ensures high reliability of the drainage isolates steel from water and the dissolved oxygen contained in it. structure, and the funnel-shaped slots prevent the clogging of filter elements and facilitate the backwashing process. Due to the drainage system, a dual-media bed could be used for the reconstruction of open filters without increasing TERTIARY WATER TREATMENT the bed height. The lower filter bed is made of 0.6–0.8 mm quartz sand, the sand layer height being 800 mm. The upper TECHNOLOGIES USED filter bed is made of anthracite (0.8–2.0 mm); the height of the layer is 400 mm. AT BOOSTING PUMPING The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP is designed for enhanced removal of iron and manganese and consists STATIONS AND HOUSE of six pressure filters, main-line pumps, flush-water pumps for pressure filters, stilling tanks, sodium hypochlorite dosing equipment, flow meters and a chlorine analyzer. CONNECTIONS To improve the potable water quality at remote sections of The water treatment process control is fully automated. the network, tertiary treatment systems are constructed in the The plant operation data are displayed on the monitors boosting pumping stations and house connections. Special filter of the operators in the plant control room. media are used there to remove iron. 25 tertiary treatment systems were installed in 2014. 110 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Water Water quality control is implemented by the Company in accordance with Quality the approved programs – the Working Program for Production Control of Potable Water Quality and the Control Production Program for Water Quality Control. The Working Program for Production Control of Potable Water Quality in St. Petersburg for 2012– 2017 has come into effect WATER QUALITY CONTROL since 1 January 2012. It was developed in accordance AT VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG with SanPiN 2.1.4.1074–01 “Potable water. Hygiene IS CARRIED OUT AT ALL STAGES – requirements to potable water supplied by centralized FROM RAW WATER INTAKE water supply systems. Quality control. Hygiene TO THE WATER METERING SYSTEM requirements to safety of hot water supply AT THE HOUSE CONNECTION systems”; approved by St. Petersburg Department of Rospotrebnadzor and adopted by the Chairman of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support. The program covers 174 checkpoints where 86 water quality parameters are monitored. 111 The following parameters are used in water quality control: • composite; • organoleptic; • chemical (organic and non-organic); LEVELS • microbiological; • parasitological (Lamblia cysts); OF WATER • virological (presence of hepatitis A virus antigens and rotavirus antigens); QUALITY • hydro-biological (phytoand zooplankton); • radiation safety. CONTROL: The main water quality parameter values for 2014 • on-line process control are posted, in a tabular form, on the corporate website using automatic analyzers www.vodokanal.spb.ru, section “Water supply. Water quality.” and automated continuous The Program for Production Control of Potable Water monitoring systems; Quality covers 306 additional checkpoints allowing a more • laboratory control; detailed assessment of the water supply system. Twelve most • control by an important parameters are short-listed for monitoring. independent organization – A systematic approach based on the principle: “WTP – Water Research and Control water mains – city quarter network – customer” was used for Center; selection of the checkpoints to be included into the Program • control by Rospotrebfor Production Control. nadzor. The monitoring results enable us to: • trace the changes in qualitative characteristics of potable water at all stages of water production and distribution; • identify hot spots and troubled sections of water networks; • prioritize investments in implementation of technical solutions (selection of water treatment technologies; reconstruction of the existing facilities and capital repair of water networks, change of hydraulic regimes of water The automated analyzers system); are installed at all stages • evaluate the efficiency of corrective actions. of water treatment, signals from the instruments are sent to the control room and process engineers, thus providing for the real-time control of the process. 29,722 water samples were analyzed in 2014. Minor deviations from regulatory requirements with regard to total iron content were identified in the distribution water network. 112 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 THE MONITORING RESULTS SHOW THAT POTABLE WATER IN ST. PETERSBURG IS HARMLESS IN TERMS OF ITS CHEMICAL COMPOSITION AND SAFE IN TERMS OF EPIDEMIOLOGICAL DURING 2014, AND RADIATION THE QUALITY CONDITIONS OF POTABLE WATER In 2013–2014, Vodokanal also additionally monitored water quality in the distribution networks of residential houses at the addresses not included into the list of checkpoints under IN 415 APARTMENT the Working Program. As a result, a full picture was obtained to enable the Company to reconstruct the water networks BLOCKS (WHERE first of all in the sections which will create a maximum effect for customers. ABOUT 104,000 PEOPLE LIVE) IMPROVED The water quality improvement was achieved thanks to implementation of tertiary treatment systems at house connections, cleaning of service pipes and replacement of valves. In 2015, this work will be continued. In addition to the instrumental of Sciences is used at all city River is monitored by crayfish. cardiac rhythm of the crayfish metering, the biomonitoring water intakes to control water Special sensors for on-line changes and a relevant signal system designed by the quality in the water source, recording of the crayfish is transmitted to the control St. Petersburg Environmental the Neva River. cardiac rhythm are attached room. Safety Research Center Prior to the treatment to their carapaces. If there are This biomonitoring system of the Russian Academy process, water from the Neva toxic substances in water, the is improved continuously. 113 Achievements of 2014 IN 2014, REHABILITATION The new first lift unit of the Main WTP includes the AND CONSTRUCTION following: • three parallel gravity OF NETWORKS AND WATER pipelines (each 230 m long and 1.6 m in diameter); SUPPLY FACILITIES WAS PERFORMED • six up-to-date slot-type headwall filters installed on the TO GUARANTEE SAFETY gravity pipelines at the depth of 13.5 m (two on each OF DRINKING WATER FOR pipeline); • the first-lift pumping THE CUSTOMERS, INCREASE station (24 m deep, 8 powerful pumps installed underground). OF SERVICES RELIABILITY The unique slot-type headwall filters were developed AND IMPROVEMENT specially for the new water intake of the Main WTP. OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY It is through them that water from the Neva gets into the pipelines. Each headwall filter is a 3.8 tons structure, 1. CONSTRUCTION The water intake of Main WTP is located at the bottom of the Neva near Smolnaya Embankment. The river water flows by 10 m long, 2.5 m high and 2.5 m wide. Slot width in new AND COMMISSIONING gravity through pipelines from special water intake structures (headwalls) to the first-lift pumping station. From the pumping headwalls is 2 mm. This means that no dirt, algae or fish get OF A NEW WATER station, water flows to the waterworks where it undergoes comprehensive treatment and disinfection processes. into the pipelines along with water. INTAKE AND A NEW The new first-lift pumping station is fully automated. Its FIRST-LIFT PUMPING operations are controlled from the control room of the Main STATION AT MAIN WTP. Unattended operation of the pumping station WATER TREATMENT is ensured. PLANT 114 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 2. DESIGN WORKS 5. DESIGN AND FOR RECONSTRUCTION CONSTRUCTION OF WATER AND CONSTRUCTION DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS OF UV DISINFECTION AND WATER SUPPLY FOR SYSTEMS SMALL COMMUNITIES Design works for modernization of UV disinfection systems Construction of the centralized water supply system at the water treatment plants were conducted. in Volodarskiy community was carried out. Construction UV disinfection system design works were completed of the centralized water supply system in Olgino community and installation works commenced at Sestroretsk WTP and was completed. Gantulovskaya Gora WTP. Works related to the planning of water networks in Martyshkino, Molodezhnoye, Lisiy Nos, Toriki communities were going on. 3. CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION 6. IMPORT SUBSTITUTION OF WATER SUPPLY UNDER REVISION OF THE NETWORKS PROJECT “DESIGN AND In recent years, Vodokanal gives much attention to water networks rehabilitation. CONSTRUCTION OF In 2014, 79.8 km of water supply networks were rehabilitated, constructed and overhauled (72.4 km in 2013). A NEW TREATMENT BLOCK In 2014, works on replacing reinforced concrete pipelines continued including reconstruction of the water pipeline along AT MAIN WTP INCLUDING Narodnogo Opolcheniya Ave. Replacement of valves was carried out. Over 3,000 valves RECONSTRUCTION of various diameters were replaced. OF PIPELINES TRANSPORTING RAW 4. CONTINUATION WATER FROM THE FIRST-LIFT OF WORKS PUMPING STATION” RELATED TO THE In 2014, revision of the project “Design and construction of a new treatment block at Main WTP including reconstruction ESTABLISHMENT of pipelines transporting raw water from the first-lift pumping station” continued. OF THE WATER SUPPLY The project revision takes into account the requirements towards substitution of imported equipment envisaged in the MANAGEMENT SYSTEM original project in accordance with the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation “On National Security Strategy In 2014, works in the Southern Water Supply Zone (in particular – of the Russian Federation for the period up to 2020”. in the 2nd machine room of Southern WTP) continued. Full It is planned to ensure the maximum use of equipment renovation of the 2nd machine room building was carried out produced by domestic manufactures, namely, process including replacement of the main equipment (pumps, valves, equipment, pumps, valves, electrical equipment, automation process pipelines, power-generating equipment and automatic systems, hoisting devices, etc. process control systems). Under the project on the establishment of the water supply management system, design works for reconstruction of the pumping stations of the Northern and Central Water Supply Zones (including the big ones – Murinskaya and Kushelevskaya pumping stations and several boosting pumping stations) were going on. 115 Prospects for Water Supply System Development IN ORDER TO INCREASE THE SATISFACTION OF ST. PETERSBURG INHABITANTS WITH THE QUALITY OF WATER SUPPLY SERVICES AND ENSURE RELIABLE AND SAFE OPERATION OF WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES, THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES ARE PLANNED TO BE LAUNCHED IN 2015 AND CONTINUED IN 2016–2017: • revision of the design and cost estimating documents (with due regard to import substitution), commencement of construction and installation works in the frames of the reconstruction of Main WTP, construction of a new treatment block to produce 500,000 m3/day; • commencement of design works related to the reconstruction of Northern WTP to increase its capacity to 700,000 m3/day; • design and reconstruction works at Kronstadt WTP including building of a container-type unit for two stage water treatment; • reconstruction of the chemical plant at Southern WTP; 116 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 • modernization of waterworks at the Duderhofskoe Lake; • commencement of modernization of underground water intake units (Gostilitskiye, Varvarinskiye, Vilpovitskiye); • modernization of the sodium hypochlorite dosing systems at the facilities in Kurortny district (Zelenogorsk WTP, Sestroretsk WTP, Gorskaya WTP and Pesochnaya WTP); • continuation of UV disinfection systems modernization at water treatment plants (Northern WTP, Southern WTP, Volkovskaya WTP, Main WTP, Kolpino WTP, Petrodvorets WTP, Moskovskaya PS, Frunzenskaya PS). Modernization of the existing • continuation of works related to design and boosting PS, Parnas boosting UV disinfection systems will construction of underground water intakes to ensure the PS, Shuvalovskaya boosting ensure safety of potable reserve water supply; PS, Primorskaya boosting water supplied to the citizens • design works and commencement of works related PS). The pumping stations and energy saving; to the modernization of Gantulovskaya Gora WTP; reconstruction projects • preliminary design and • continuation of works related to the construction and envisage replacement detailed design works related reconstruction of water distribution pipelines that serve of pumps, valves, process to the modernization of a large number of inhabitants and influence the development pipes, power-generating Volkovksaya WTP including of urban areas: equipment and automatic its transformation into a – completion of works related to the reconstruction process control systems; boosting pumping station; of Lopatinskiy water pipeline which is important for water • continuation • completion of UV supply of the right-bank part of the city; of works related to design disinfection system at – continuation of works related to the construction of the and construction of water Sestroretsk WTP and pipelines from Northern WTP to Murinskaya pumping station distribution networks Gantulovskaya Gora WTP; and from Main WTP to Vasilevskiy Island; in Martyshkino, Molodezhnoye, • commencement • continuation of water network reconstruction; Lisy Nos, Toriki communities; of construction of • continuation of valves replacement; • import substitution underground water treatment • in 2015, from 1 March 2015 till 1 December 2015, in water supply construction plant in Dyuny; it is planned to perform sector-by-sector commissioning of and reconstruction projects • construction the management system in the Southern Water Supply Zone. in accordance with the of underground water intakes • continuation of works related to the establishment Decree of the President and water distribution of the water supply management system in the Northern of the Russian Federation networks to supply water and Central Water Supply Zones (including 1st and 2nd “On National Security Strategy to Krasavitsa and pump compartments of the Northern WTP, Petrogradskaya of the Russian Federation for Reshetnikovo communities; boosting PS, Murinskaya boosting PS, Kushelevskaya the period up to 2020”. • design works and commencement of the construction of the backwash water recirculation system at the Southern WTP; 117 118 Wastewater Disposal 119 ST. PETERSBURG SYSTEM St. Petersburg has a combined wastewater OF WASTEWATER DISPOSAL disposal system. 70% of the territory is connected to the AND TREATMENT IS A COMPLEX OF combined sewerage system which collects domestic INTERCONNECTED ENGINEERING and industrial wastewater as well as surface (rainfall, FACILITIES TO PROVIDE snow-melt) runoffs. The rest of the territory – mostly COLLECTION OF WASTEWATER, ITS new construction areas and suburbs – is sewered TRANSPORTATION AND TREATMENT according to a separate scheme where rainfall and AT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS snow-melt waters are collected separately from FOLLOWED BY DISCHARGE INTO other wastewater and discharged currently without WATER BODIES AND WASTEWATER any treatment. As of 1 January 2015, SLUDGE UTILIZATION 98.5% of all municipal sewage is treated. The remaining portion is discharged without any treatment into city water bodies. Untreated wastewater is discharged through direct discharge points managed by Vodokanal and industrial organizations. Every year Vodokanal reduces untreated wastewater discharges, eliminates direct discharge points and ensures transportation of sewerage to wastewater treatment plants. 120 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 THE WASTEWATER SYSTEM ADJUSTED CAPACITY* OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS: INCLUDES: South-West Wastewater Treatment 290,000 m3/day • 15 wastewater treatment plants comprising: Plant − municipal wastewater treatment plants – 13; − runoff treatment plants – 2. Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant 690,000 m3/day • 154 sewerage pumping stations; • 8,421.8 km of sewerage networks including: Central Wastewater Treatment Plant 1,050,000 m3/day − gravity pipelines – 8,088.2 km; − pressure pipelines – 333.6 km. Sestroretsk Wastewater Treatment 17,000 m3/day • 264.4 km of tunnel collectors; Plant • 21,843 dump wells; Zelenogorsk Wastewater Treatment • 1,188 of direct discharges including: 10,000 m3/day Plant − 100 discharges from the combined sewerage system, − 1,078 storm-water discharges including water basins; Repino Wastewater Treatment Plant 10,000 m3/day − 10 flushing water discharges from waterworks. • 2 landfills: Severniy, Volkhonka-2 and sludge beds Petrodvorets Wastewater Treatment in Gorelovo community; 72,000 m3/day Plant • 3 sludge incineration plants; • 10 stationary snow-melting stations: Kronstadt Wastewater Treatment Plant 28,000 m3/day − 2, Oktyabrskaya Embankment (capacity – 7,000 m3/day); − 77 Peterhofskoe shosse (7,000 m3/day); Pushkin Wastewater Treatment Plant 71,000 m3/day − 20, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino (7,000 m3/day); − 45, Rizhskiy pr. (7,000 m3/day); Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 69,000 m3/day − 83, Stachek pr. (3,500 m3/day); − Letter A, 69 Krasnoputilovskaya str. (3,500 m3/day). Pontonny Wastewater Treatment Plant 11,000 m3/day − 123, Volkhonskoe shosse (7,000 m3/day); − 2, Rybinskaya str. (5,000 m3/day); Metallostroy Wastewater Treatment − Mebelnaya str. (7,000 m3/day); 9,000 m3/day Plant − Kushelevskaya road (5,000 m3/day). Diameters of the sewerage network range from 100 mm Pulkovo-3 Wastewater Treatment Plant 690 m3/day (courtyard networks) to 1.5 m (water mains). Pipelines with diameters up to 500 mm make up 79% of the total length of Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 860 m3/day all sewerage networks. THE MAIN MATERIAL OF SEWERAGE * Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants is calculated for rainy weather conditions taking into account wastewater treatment quality requirements. PIPES IS AS FOLLOWS: • reinforced concrete – 56.8% of the whole network; • concrete – 18.8%; • polyethylene – 12.5%; • cast iron – 7.3%; ACCORDING TO THE • ceramics and other materials – 4.6%. About 46% of all the networks have been in operation RESULTS OF 2014 THE for over 40 years. Tunnel sewers are the basic mains for collecting and DAILY AVERAGE VOLUME transporting wastewater to wastewater treatment plants. Currently, 264.4 km of tunnel sewers are operated in the city OF TREATED WASTEWATER WAS 2,100,000 M3/DAY having 641 shafts and 450 bore wells. Internal diameter of tunnel collectors ranges from 2 to 4.7 meters, with laying depth of 15–80 meters. The capacity of sewerage pumping stations ranges from The percentage of disinfected effluent was 19% 300 m3/day to 1 Mio. m3/day. 121 THREE SEWERAGE AREAS – NORTHERN, CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN – ARE ESTABLISHED IN ST. PETERSBURG NORTHERN CENTRAL SOUTHERN RUNOFF SEWERAGE AREA SEWERAGE AREA SEWERAGE AREA SEWERAGE AREAS covers the largest part of the covers the territory of the covers the southern territory The area in St. Petersburg city (mainly the right bank left bank of the Neva River of the city. Wastewater with the separate sewerage of the Neva River) including i.e. Nevskiy (the left-bank), from a part of Kirovskiy system (separate collection Nevskiy, Krasnogvardeyskiy, Vasileostrovskiy, Central, and Krasnoselskiy districts of storm-water and domestic Kalininskiy, Vyborgskiy, Admiralteyskiy, Frunzenskiy, and the town of Strelna wastewater) accounts for Petrogradskiy, Primorskiy Moskovskiy and a part of of Petrodvorets district is about 1/3 of the whole districts, a part of Central Kirovskiy and Pushkinskiy transported to South-West sewered area of the city. district, and also receives districts. The main collecting Wastewater Treatment The remaining 2/3 of the wastewater from adjacent sewer is a sewerage collector Plant through the system of territory is served by the areas of the Leningrad Region. delivering wastewater to the tunnel collectors. Penstocks combined sewerage system. The main sewer of this Central Wastewater Treatment located in the shafts of tunnel In Kolpino, Pushkin, Pavlovsk sewerage area is the Northern Plant (on the Bely Island). collectors are used to regulate and Sestroretsk runoffs are Tunnel Collector delivering The sewage pumping station wastewater flow between discharged into the stormwastewater to the Northern no. 6 redistributes wastewater the Southern and the Central water sewerage system (which WWTP. Commissioning of between the Northern and sewerage areas. is a completely separate the Northern Tunnel Collector Central sewerage areas. Wastewater from system). In Petrodvorets section from Kantemirovskaya Kolpinskiy, a part of and Kronstadt runoffs are str. to Finlandskiy bridge Pushkinskiy, Petrodvorets discharged into both stormsignificantly increased and Kronstadt districts flows water and combined sewerage wastewater volumes entering to wastewater treatment systems. The area where the Northern WWTP. In plants located in each of these runoffs are collected into addition, this area includes districts through the pressurethe sewerage system has local sewerage areas of gravity collectors. been defined and currently it Kurortny district (Sestroretsk accounts for 418 km2. WWTP, Zelenogorsk WWTP, Repino WWTP, Molodezhnoe WWTP). IN THE COURSE OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT THE PLANT PRODUCES NOT ONLY TREATED EFFLUENT, BUT ALSO SLUDGE WHICH CONTAINS POLLUTANTS REMOVED FROM INFLUENT 122 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Before the commissioning Treated flue gases emitted into the atmosphere at all SIPs of sludge incineration plants, meet the requirements of the European Committee Directive all dewatered sludge was 2000/76. disposed for storage to Gross emission of pollutants from all SIPs is within the limits landfills. of maximum permissible emission stated by Rosprirodnadzor. At the present time, three On-line control instruments are used at all plants to analyze sludge incineration plants the composition of emitted flue gases. Besides, (SIP) constructed at the city’s the independent organization – Water Quality Research biggest WWTPs (Central and Control Center – performs expanded monitoring of gas WWTP, Northern WWTP and composition. SWTP) are in operation. They Moreover, the SIP at SWTP is equipped with a unique incinerate sludge produced biomonitoring system. The indicators of flue gas quality are the in the course of wastewater giant African snails which react not only to one-time emissions, treatment at all WWTPs. This but also to minimal amounts of concentrated hazardous enabled the city to solve substances, as well as to synergistic effect of various pollutants. its primary task – to stop storing wastewater sludge and reduce the negative environmental impact. Advantages of incineration: • 10–times reduction of generated waste amount; • no pathogenic microflora and unpleasant odor in ash; • concentration of harmful compounds in FLUE GASES OF ALL treated flue gases generated in the course of sludge SIPS UNDERGO incineration meets the requirements of the Russian A THREE-STAGE Federation and the European Union; PURIFICATION • use of heat for hot water supply and heating PROCESS of buildings; • energy production by means of steam utilization at SWTP and Central WWTP; • possibility of ash ST. PETERSBURG utilization and industrial use. The heat generated in IS THE FIRST LARGE CITY the process of incineration is used for technical purposes, space heating and electric energy production, thus enabling Vodokanal IN THE WORLD St. Petersburg to achieve significant savings of energy TO SOLVE THE resources. PROBLEM OF WASTEWATER SLUDGE UTILIZATION 123 Wastewater CHEMICAL TREATMENT Treatment is chemical removal of phosphorus phosphates. Previously, the wastewater treatment plants applied Technologies mechanical and biological treatment only; and the quality of effluent in terms of phosphorus concentration did not meet the requirements of Helsinki Commission. Thus, a chemical-biological TECHNOLOGIES TO ENSURE treatment method was implemented at Vodokanal WASTEWATER TREATMENT IN WWTPs. This method combines enhanced biological COMPLIANCE WITH THE RUSSIAN nutrient removal and chemical phosphorus removal. Today, NORMS AND THE REQUIREMENTS OF all St. Petersburg WWTPs apply chemical phosphorus THE BALTIC MARINE ENVIRONMENT removal method using the most effective and costPROTECTION COMMISSION ARE efficient chemical – aluminum sulfate. IMPLEMENTED AT VODOKANAL’S The principle of chemical treatment of wastewater WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS is that the addition of the chemical causes a reaction which results in formation of insoluble compound of WASTEWATER The process flow of municipal wastewater treatment aluminium and phosphates to be removed from the plants includes the following stages of wastewater and TREATMENT QUALITY sludge treatment: system along with sludge. After the implementation AT ST. PETERSBURG MECHANICAL TREATMENT is aimed of the chemical treatment method at all the WWTPs, at clarifying wastewater to ensure normal flow of further WWTPS IS treatment stages. It includes screens, grit removals the effluent quality meets HELCOM recommendations and primary sedimentation tanks. The screens retain REGULATED BY coarse impurities; grit removal units separate mineral in terms of total phosphorus content (max 0.5 m/l). suspended solids (sand). In the following stage of primary THE RUSSIAN sedimentation, there goes a process of mechanical and REGULATIONS AND organic pollutants sedimentation. TERTIARY INTERNATIONAL BIOLOGICAL TREATMENT is the main TREATMENT. Given that almost all water bodies wastewater treatment process before the effluent RECOMMENDATIONS is discharged into a water body. This block includes aeration intreated St. Petersburg, where wastewater is tanks and secondary sedimentation tanks. The biological discharged, are categorized treatment process is based on the activated sludge as fishery water bodies, biocenosis in the presence of oxygen. The biocenosis it predetermines the quality of activated sludge is formed by various bacteria, protozoa requirements to wastewater and metazoa which clean wastewater through oxidation discharged into water bodies – of pollutants present in it. suspended solids of less than 5 mg/l. Therefore, tertiary treatment (post-treatment) 124 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 is needed to be introduced at all WWTPs of the city in order to stabilize treatment quality. IN ORDER TO ENSURE Now it is implemented only at Repino and Petrodvorets WWTPs. THE COMPLIANCE OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT DISINFECTION . The Water Code of the Russian WITH HELCOM RECOMMENDATIONS, Federation and other regulations require disinfection of treated wastewater. Disinfection using ultraviolet radiation is introduced at Repino WWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP, VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG Petrodvorets WWTP and South-West WWTP. HAS BEEN CONSTANTLY SLUDGE TREATMENT . The main purpose UPGRADING BIOLOGICAL of the wastewater sludge treatment stage is to minimize its volume and eliminate negative environmental impact TREATMENT BY MEANS (smell, pathogenic microflora). Optimal solution for utilization of sludge produced in wastewater treatment plants OF ENHANCED NUTRIENT is incineration. REMOVAL TECHNOLOGIES The advanced UCT biological process (University of Cape Town) has been implemented at SWTP and Sestroretsk WWTP, and JHB process (University of Johannesburg) – at Petrodvorets WWTP, Repino WWTP and Pushkin WWTP. These technological solutions enable to manage the biological treatment system in a flexible way, adjusting the recirculation volumes and supply of oxygen for aeration. As a result, with any changes of external factors affecting the treatment process (wastewater temperature, influent contaminant concentrations), it became possible to select the optimal mode and ensure the required quality of treatment. The projects of the city wastewater treatment plants reconstruction are meant to upgrade biological treatment with effective solutions of UCT and JHB technologies. Efficiency of wastewater treatment at Vodokanal WWTPs in 2014 was as follows: suspended solids and BOD – over 97%; total phosphorus – 94% and total nitrogen – 70%. At the present time, Vodokanal is searching for efficient and cost-effective technologies of effluent tertiary treatment and disinfection to be implemented at all wastewater treatment plants of St. Petersburg. 125 Wastewater Besides, regular process control of all the stages of wastewater and sludge Quality treatment is carried out at all WWTPs aiming at qualitative and quantitative measurement Control of the plant operations. These control activities ensure the operation of the facilities in compliance with the established regulations. To adjust the treatment mode of WWTPs the following parameters are WASTEWATER QUALITY CONTROL AT monitored: temperature, biological oxygen demand VODOKANAL’S FACILITIES (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), phosphates, IS CARRIED OUT IN ACCORDANCE nitrogen, alkalinity, dissolved oxygen, properties WITH WASTEWATER of activated sludge and sediments. QUALITY ASSESSMENT PROGRAMS Moreover, the SouthWest Wastewater Treatment APPROVED BY THE NEVA-LADOGA Plant has been constantly using the system for BASIN WATER AUTHORITY biomonitoring the quality of effluent to be discharged AND ROSPOTREBNADZOR into the Neva Bay of the Gulf of Finland. Crayfish play AUTHORITY the role of bioindicators. Australian red-claw crayfish are used in warm seasons and narrow-clawed crayfish – in cold seasons. Only the organism of an animalbioindicator is able to assess Wastewater quality Wastewater quality control simultaneously a set of all control is carried out by is regularly performed: the qualitative characteristics monitoring 21 physical • in the inlet chamber of water, where it lives, and chemical parameters, of wastewater treatment and its safety for the Neva 8 microbiological plants; Bay of the Gulf of Finland. and parasitological • in the collection chamber Replacement of crayfish parameters. Around in the outlet of wastewater depending on the season 16,000 components are treatment plants. is necessary to exclude false determined annually. operation of bioelectronic monitoring system. 126 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 IN 2014, VODOKANAL INTRODUCED NEW APPROACHES TO MONITORING QUALITY AND COMPOSITION OF WASTEWATER FROM CORPORATE CUSTOMERS WHICH ARE BASED ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF CHEMICAL Wastewater samples are taken in the junction points and analyzed. If the concentration of any pollutant exceeds BALANCE OF the norms, Vodokanal takes wastewater samples from all the corporate customers of this sewerage area in order POLLUTANTS to identify the source of this pollutant. If there are no excessive pollutant concentrations in the sewerage area IN THE CITY (junction point) there will be no further inspecting of corporate customers in such sewerage area. SEWERAGE SYSTEM In 2014, 601 sewerage areas were monitored. 6,476 samples were taken (about 10 samples in each shaft (junction point)). In 2014, no exceedance was identified in 4% of shafts, excessive concentrations of 1–2 substances were identified in 19% of shafts, excessive concentrations The new Vodokanal’s activity was first represented, of 3–5 substances were identified in 30% of shafts, on 7 April, at the meeting of the Public Council for excessive concentrations of 6 and more substances were improvement of environmental situation in St. Petersburg identified in 47% of shafts. and enforcement of civil rights to healthy environment. 976 corporate customers were controlled within The new approach to monitoring quality and composition the frame of the chemical balance. Around 20% of such of wastewater from corporate customers is focused customers did not violate wastewater quality requirements. on identification of sources of pollutants which cannot be When a company–polluter is identified, the next task removed at municipal WWTPs to the extent required by the is to help the company solve the problem (find the pollutant norms. sources, give consultation on developing necessary action Control of quality and composition of wastewater plans, advise on suitable process solutions, etc.). It is a usual from corporate customers is based on wastewater quality practice for Vodokanal to help industrial companies select monitoring by Vodokanal in junction points of sewerage technologies of removal specific pollutants from wastewater. areas. The city territory is conditionally divided into During 2014, 112 corporate customers underwent 601 sewerage areas. Each sewerage area is connected relevant surveys. 53 customers developed and submitted to a certain sewer shaft (junction point). Wastewater from to Vodokanal water protection actions plans, 13 customers customers of this sewerage area gets into this particular installed local wastewater treatment plants or renovated junction point. the existing ones. 127 Future Activities with regard to Industrial Wastewater Treatment In accordance with the Federal Law no. 416–FZ “On Water In July 2014, Federal Supply and Wastewater Disposal”, to prevent negative Law no. 219–FZ “On impact on water bodies, the Department of Rosprirodnadzor amending the Federal Law in the North-West Federal District will establish by 1 July “On the protection of the 2015 discharge limits for pollutants, other substances and environment” dated 21 July microorganisms for big industrial companies (producing over 2014 was adopted. New 200 m3 of wastewater per day). Since 1 July 2015, such provisions of the law are customers will be subject to regulatory measures established targeted for a step-by-step by Rosprirodnadzor for the protection of water bodies. transition to new principles It shall be noted that in accordance with the Federal Law of wastewater quality no. 416 Vodokanal is obliged to control and evaluate the regulation which will be based quality of customers’ wastewater in terms of its compliance on process parameters of the with the establishes norms and with the information best available technologies contained in the customers’ declaration on wastewater (BAT) and applied, inter alia, quality and composition. to wastewater disposal In case of any violations of the established norms companies and a number by big customers, Vodokanal is obliged in 24 hours to of their customers. inform the local body of Rosprirodnadzor about this fact. The process parameters This information will cause unscheduled inspection of the will be established for the customer by Rosprirodnadzor. facilities which produce significant negative impact on the environment (1st category). 128 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 The regulatory acts adopted in furtherance of the Federal Law no. 219 make it clear that implementation of BAT will be obligatory for the following St. Petersburg industries: • treatment of municipal wastewater by centralized In 2015, the International sewerage systems; Advanced Water • production of refractory ceramics and ceramic Technologies Centre construction materials; will continue its • production of synthetic dyes, inorganic colors and activities focused vanish materials, surfactants; on providing assistance • production of pharmaceuticals; to the companies and • large-scale food processing companies; exchanging international • fuel-and-energy companies; experience in the • municipal solid waste landfills; spheres of water supply, • facilities having electroplating production lines and wastewater disposal and chemical processes. environmental protection. The Federal Law no. 219 states that detailed norm Vodokanal plans to hold setting for wastewater disposal companies and their a number of workshops customers is established by water and wastewater laws for industrial companies of the Russian Federation. dedicated to the best The water industry-based community has to do a solid available technologies piece of work on developing and agreeing the concerted applied for industrial position (also with industries) that will interlink law wastewater treatment provisions with the environmental regulations and will be and to the on-site reflected in the following documents: treatment of run-off from • reference guides of the best available technologies industrial plants. for water sector; • amendments to the Federal Law no. 416 related to improving the principles of wastewater quality regulation for water companies and their customers (including regulations for the transitional period before BAT are implemented, i.e. for 7–12 years). Vodokanal St. Petersburg Entrepreneurs, Association plans to continue its of Industrial Companies, cooperation with the Russian St. Petersburg International Association of Water Business Association Supply and Wastewater (SPIBA). Vodokanal will give Disposal, National Union consultations and organize of Vodokanals, Ministry of workshops dedicated to the Natural Resources of the issues arising in connection Russian Federation, scientific with the application of the and design organizations Federal Law “On Water Supply in this direction. and Wastewater Disposal” Besides, Vodokanal and relevant by-laws as well St. Petersburg will continue as the issues related to the its interaction with selection of BAT for local businesses communities wastewater treatment and industrial companies and implementation of St. Petersburg, the of wastewater metering Union of Industrialists and systems. 129 Achievements 2. WASTEWATER SLUDGE TREATMENT of 2014 WITH CHEMICAL AGENTS “AK-GF-R” AND “MMT-BD-A” IN 2014, VODOKANAL IMPLEMENTED AND PRODUCTION THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ORGANOENVISAGED BY THE WATER AND MINERAL WASTEWATER MASTER PLAN FOR THE COMPOSITION PERIOD UP TO 2025: COMMENCED AT SEVERNIY LANDFILL 3. THE CLOSURE OF UNTREATED 1. REHABILITATION The main purpose of the rehabilitation is to ensure the quality of treated wastewater before WASTEWATER OF NORTHERN WWTP discharging into water bodies in accordance with the Russian standards and HELCOM international DISCHARGES (1ST STAGE) AND recommendations. THE MEASURES TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES INTO THE CITY CENTRAL WWTP WAS IN 2014 WERE AS FOLLOWS: • The following main process facilities were WATER BODIES CARRIED OUT IN reconstructed at Northern WWTP: – four primary sedimentation tanks, six secondary AND DIVERSION ORDER TO IMPROVE sedimentation tanks; – construction and installation works, installation OF WASTEWATER WASTEWATER of process equipment in five aeration tank sections (2nd stage); STREAMS TREATMENT QUALITY – replacement of existing air blowers with the controlled ones (5 units); CONTINUED AND TO COMPLY – construction of new raw sludge pumping stations and a pumping station for return and waste In 2014, the following discharges were closed: WITH HELCOM sludge. • Rehabilitation of aeration tanks no. 5 and • 19 direct discharges along Petrogradskaya embankment. RECOMMENDATIONS no. 6 at Central WWTP was started to implement JHB nutrients removal technology enabling enable Seventeen of them were the responsibility of Vodokanal flexible control of the biological treatment process (three combined discharges and the achievement of target values in situations totaling 4,019 m3/day, and 14 where the parameters of influent wastewater or other stormwater discharges with the influencing factors are subject to change. average flow of 23 m3/day), the remaining two discharges were from industrial enterprises. The wastewaters were diverted via 130 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Northern Tunnel Collector to Northern WWTP to undergo a full • The reconstruction of tunnel along Rizhskiy pr., the treatment cycle. The discharge of untreated wastewater into the section between shaft no. 31 BIS (Rizhskiy pr.) and Bely Island Neva equivalent to 1.5 Mio. m3/year was stopped. (Gapsalskaya str.), was completed. The tunnel collector resumed • The domestic and stormwater discharges (9 direct its design characteristics and is now the main line for wastewater discharges) from Petrovskiy Stadium on Petrovskiy Island were transportation to Central WWTP. closed. Their connection to the municipal sewerage system • The construction project of the TC ring tunnel along allowed to divert, additionally, 370,000 m3 of wastewater to Basseynaya str. with the length of 4,800 m was designed. Northern WWTP and to mitigate the pollution load on the Neva. The project will improve the reliability of wastewater disposal • In 2014, construction of the tunnel collector on system and enable decommission of the tunnel collector Admiralteiskaya embankment was launched, the works will be in Blagodatnaya str. for reconstruction. completed in early May 2015. With the collector in place, six • The design of the connection line from shaft 1/27 untreated wastewater discharges in the city center equivalent (33, Obukhovskoy Oborony pr.) was completed. to 1,000 m3/day can be closed. • The project design was finalized and the expert opinion was obtained for the construction of sewer network from Zelenogorsk 6. ONGOING DESIGN to Reshetnikovo and Krasavitsa communities. After the project completion, wastewater from the above communities will be OF AUTOMATED WASTEWATER diverted to treatment plants, reducing the load on Kurortniy district water bodies, and wastewater services will be provided DISPOSAL CONTROL SYSTEM to the local people. • The design phase of the sewer network reconstruction IN ST. PETERSBURG project aimed to stop the discharge of municipal sewage into the Murinskiy Stream is ongoing. In 2014, the design terms of reference was formulated. The project design envisages a TC sluice gate control system and redistribution of flows at different hydraulic modes in order to optimize the loads 4. DESIGN OF THE SLUDGE on the wastewater transportation system and treatment plants. It also covers a wastewater volume/quality monitoring system. INCINERATION SYSTEM The automated control system will improve the reliability of wastewater disposal process and reduce energy consumption. REHABILITATION PROJECT AT CENTRAL WWTP 7. RE-LAYING OF SEWER NETWORKS The sludge incineration plant at Central WWTP is one of the In recent years, Vodokanal gave much attention to the re-laying largest in the world and has been in operation for 17 years. The of sewerage networks. In 2014, 55.3 km of sewer networks useful life of basic SIP facilities is 10–12 years. To ensure reliable were re-laid. incineration of all sewage sludge and to avoid sludge disposal to landfills, two new sludge incineration lines at Central WWTP are 8. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION designed. OF WASTEWATER NETWORKS 5. REHABILITATION AND AND FACILITIES FOR SMALL CONSTRUCTION OF TUNNEL SETTLEMENTS COLLECTORS In 2014, construction of a centralized sewerage network was ongoing in Volodarskiy settlement. The centralized sewerage system in Olgino was completed. After the completion of the Construction and rehabilitation of tunnel collectors was project, wastewater from the settlements will be directed to Southundertaken to ensure fail-safe wastewater service and to West and Northern WWTPs. improve the reliability of sewerage system operation. Design of sewerage networks in Martyshkino, Molodezhnoe, • In 2014, rehabilitation of the tunnel collector to Bely Island Lisiy Nos, and Toriki was underway. from shaft no. 43 (3 Gapsalskaya str.) to shaft no. 44b (Bely Island) with the length of 2,200m was at the design phase. The tunnel collector’s concrete structures along this section are quite worn out because of long operation time (over 35 years). The renovated tunnel collector will improve reliability of wastewater transportation and it will be possible to use it for wastewater delivery to Central WWTP. 131 Sewerage System Development Prospects TO MITIGATE NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND REACH STABLE TREATMENT QUALITY PARAMETERS IN 2015 (WITH THE WORKS FOLLOWED UP IN 2016–2017), THE FOLLOWING SHOULD BE DONE: • Divert the remaining domestic and combined direct discharges including the construction of Okhta Tunnel Collector (1st stage), completion of the networks and collectors in Admiralteyskiy district of St. Petersburg, and lay sewer networks from Reshetnikovo and Krasavitsa settlements to Zelenogorsk; • Continue reconstruction works at Northern WWTP (1st stage) and Central WWTP (aeration tanks 5 and 6; air blower station); • Develop design documentation and begin rehabilitation works at Zelenogorsk WWTP (1st stage); • Reconstruct WWTPs of Zvyozdniy camp and Burevestnik sanatorium in Luga; • Build new wastewater treatment facilities in Molodezhnoe settlement; • Finalize the design and start to build 2 new sludge incineration lines at the Central SIP; • Continue to process sewage sludge making it environmentally safe and emptying sludge lagoons at Volkhonka and Severniy landfills. 132 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 The following projects are envisaged to improve the reliability of wastewater services: • Construction of ring tunnel collectors and a system to divert wastewater flows between sewer basins: – preparatory works for construction of a 4,800 m ring tunnel collector along Basseynaya str. as required to stop the operation of the tunnel collector in Blagodatnaya str. for the purpose of reconstruction; – preparatory works for To improve energy efficiency and sustainable use FURTHER construction of a 608.2 m of resources: connection line from shaft • Vodokanal proceeds with the establishment EQUIPMENT IMPORT 1/27 (33 Obukhovskoy of St. Petersburg wastewater management system aimed to Oborony pr.); ensure optimal hydraulic control of the sewerage network and SUBSTITUTION – construction design to raise the efficiency of the centralized wastewater disposal of a 1.400 m ring tunnel from facilities. For this purpose it is necessary to: MEASURES shaft no. 11 of TC no. 18 in – install flow metering and wastewater quality monitoring 109 Fontanka Embankment, instruments with automatic data transfer; IN THE FRAMEWORK to shaft no. 3 of the TC in – arrange customer service for each sewer basin; Ruzovskogo str. (at the corner – develop chemical balance of wastewater disposal system; OF WASTEWATER of Vvedenskiy canal and – optimize pollution load on wastewater treatment facilities 2 Lazaretniy pereulok). and water bodies in consideration of the chemical balance data. DISPOSAL SYSTEM – installation of ventilation • The following activities are planned under the chemical and gas cleaning system of the balance development: CONSTRUCTION AND tunnel collectors. – research works to determine the impact of specific • Rehabilitation of tunnel pollutants on the activity of biocoenosis of the biological REHABILITATION collectors and sewerage treatment at municipal wastewater treatment plants; network: – research works to investigate the impact of untreated WORKS WILL – commencement of surface runoff on water bodies; reconstruction of the inlet – continue interaction with industrial companies to develop BE TAKEN IN collector to Zelenogorsk action plans for reducing negative impacts on the environment. WWTP; To ensure the access of citizens to centralized COMPLIANCE WITH – construction of sewerage wastewater disposal services, the following activities are network from Reshetnikovo planned: THE DECREE and Krasavitsa settlements • Сontinue the construction of combined sewerage system to Zelenogorsk; for “Konnaya Lakhta” facility. OF THE PRESIDENT – construction of a system • Build infrastructure in new industrial areas. to switch wastewater flows • Continue the design and commence construction OF THE RUSSIAN between Metallostroy WWTP of sewerage networks in Martyshkino, Molodezhnoe, Lisiy Nos, and Central WWTP sewer and Toriki. FEDERATION basin; • Reconstruction “ON NATIONAL of sewerage networks. SECURITY STRATEGY OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION FOR THE PERIOD UP TO 2020” 133 134 Specialized Vehicles and Equipment 135 TYPES OF VEHICLES Types of vehicles As of 1 Jan. 2015 AS OF 1 JANUARY 2015, VODOKANAL Passenger vehicles 49 ST. PETERSBURG HAD 928 VEHICLES Freight vehicles: 321 Dump truck 123 Flatbed truck 46 VODOKANAL’S VEHICLE FLEET INCLUDES: • 171 specialized van trucks to transport workers Van truck 144 and equipment; • 123 dump trucks; Other 8 • 121 units of road construction equipment including 45 loader-excavators; • 55 specialized combined vehicles for sewer flushing; • 29 MHT700 steam generators; Specialized vehicles: 327 • 24 tank trailers for drinking water supply; • 405 other vehicles. Van trucks to transport 171 workers Vacuum-type 0 Sewage suction trucks 28 Combined trucks for 55 sewer flushing Other 73 Buses 25 Road construction 121 machinery Trailers, semi-trailers 85 Total 928 136 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 AGE OF VEHICLES VODOKANAL IS 500 497 479 464 PLANNING TO 435 447 UPGRADE AND 400 383 374 DEVELOP ITS 300 VEHICLE FLEET Quantity The Company is planning 200 to convert to vehicles 159 equipped with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engines 110 103 100 88 with improved technical 70 capabilities, and to use 40 multifunction transport units 28 0 5 thus reducing the number 0 of vehicles in its fleet. under 1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years over 5 years 01.01.2010 01.01.2013 01.01.2014 01.01.2015 Vodokanal has on its balance Vodokanal has the following equipment on the balance sheet 16 diesel power plants sheet: including 1,250/1,000 kVA/ • compact mobile boiler units (MNT700, MNS700) kW (prime rating) mobile as a substitute for outdated ADU steam generators, to thaw diesel-electric container-type out fire hydrants and stormwater tanks in the winter period; plants (3 units.). When cold • 1 ASTEC DD2024 boring machine; water supply is interrupted • 2 UNIVERSAL HDD mod. UNI 60*70 horizontal during network repairs, trailer directional drilling machines (truck-mounted); tanks are used to deliver • 1 special van – Mobile Teleinspection Laboratory. drinking water to the citizens. The mobile laboratory for diagnostics and examination of networks using high-tech robotic video systems reduces the examination time and improves the accuracy of defect detection. 137 In 2014, Vodokanal purchased The vehicles to be procured are the products of Russian 9 vehicles including: manufacturers, including: • 5 HIGER KLQ6129Q • 14 emergency vans with improved chassis capabilities, buses; providing more comfort for the teams transported. • 2 HIGER KLQ6928Q The emergency vans will replace the outdated emergency buses; vans on ZIL chassis; • 2 FREIGHTLINER CUSCO • 2 wheel-mounted full-revolving shovels to replace outdated HYDRO TRENCHER 5327 EK excavators; vacuum plants. Due to the • 2 full-revolving shovel crawlers; plants, fewer vehicles were • 4 Amkodor 333B front-end shovel loaders to replace needed for repairs of water outdated TO–28 loaders and EK excavators; networks and sewers (3 instead • 10 L2H2 310 cargo and passenger vans on Ford Transit of 5 at one site). chassis, with improved chassis capabilities, providing more comfort for the teams transported, – to replace outdated emergency vans on GASel chassis; • 5 KAMAZ 65115–6058–23 (A4) dump trucks equipped with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engines, with improved technical capabilities, – to replace old dump trucks with EURO–1,2 engines (KAMAZ–55111S, KAMAZ–65,115); • 5 Chassis Double Cab LWB EF 460 small dump trucks on Ford Transit chassis equipped with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engines, with improved technical capabilities, designed for limitedspace urban environments, – to replace outdated GAZ–330232 gasoline-fuelled trucks; • 1 vehicle with a rope transfer, equipped with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engine, with improved technical capabilities, – to replace outdated KAMAZ 53229S vehicle with Euro–1 motor; • 1 PSS–121.28–02 manlift truck on KamAZ-65115 chassis with EURO-4 (or higher) diesel engine, with improved technical capabilities, – to replace outdated AGP-18.02E gasoline-fuelled manlift on ZIL–433362 chassis; • 3 IS2KZ sludge suction vehicles on KAMAZ 65115–3082 chassis, with EURO–4 (or higher) diesel engines, with improved technical capabilities, – to replace outdated KO-510 gasolinefuelled sludge suction vehicles on ZIL–433362 chassis; • 1 mobile three-phase laboratory for testing (low and medium voltage) power and cable networks and locating failures, with high-tech equipment to perform water networks telediagnostics, – to replace 3990–0000010 laboratory on PAZ– 320540 chassis with a gasoline motor; • 1 track bulldozer TM10.10 GST90 – to replace outdated B10M.0111–EH bulldozer. 138 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Backup Power Supply for Vodokanal’s Facilities A BACKUP POWER SUPPLY SYSTEM CONSISTING OF MOBILE AND STATIONARY DIESEL-ELECTRIC POWER UNITS (0.4/6/10 KV) HAS BEEN OPERATED BY VODOKANAL SINCE 2013 With the backup system In 2014, the installation in place, Vodokanal can, of diesel-generators at WTPs NEARLY 90 LONG-DURATION if power outage occurs, led to a 600,000 kWh ensure pump operation to reduction of power (OVER 30 MINUTES) POWER maintain water head in the consumption by pumps, networks up to 10–15 m, because each dieselOUTAGES WERE RECORDED stand-alone operation of generator was equipped WTPs to supply water from with a continuously-operated AT VODOKANAL FACILITIES, clean water tanks during variable-speed drive. 12 hours, and wastewater HOWEVER, THEY HAD pumping to treatment plants. NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE CUSTOMER SERVICE QUALITY AS THE POWER DEFICIT WAS COMPENSATED BY THE BACKUP SYSTEM 139 140 Customer Service 141 Customer Enterprises (to discuss changes to wastewater Service disposal norms, installation of local wastewater treatment plants, and water consumption – wastewater disposal in 2014 balances). Vodokanal conducted working meetings with St. Petersburg International Business Association (SPIBA) (to discuss wastewater disposal norms, wastewater CUSTOMER SERVICE IS ONE OF THE treatment quality, and installation MOST IMPORTANT AND PRIORITIZED of local wastewater treatment plants). AREAS OF VODOKANAL ACTIVITIES Meetings of the working group under the aegis of The Concierge Newspaper with the participation of Given the positive experience of “one contact” customer In 2014, Vodokanal provided municipal service providers centers in St. Petersburg and in consideration of customers’ consultations and exchanged were held to discuss water calls and proposals, Vodokanal interacts with its customers opinions with different supply to apartment blocks, through the Customer Service Centre using the same “one categories of customers and including drinking water contact” principle. the customer association. quality, installation of The functions of the Customer Service Centre are: Within a working group house meters, estimation • consultations on conclusion/amendment/termination with the participation of of water consumption by of cold water supply and wastewater disposal contracts; St. Petersburg authorities the apartment blocks not • conclusion of cold water supply and wastewater (Committee for Energy equipped with water meters, disposal contracts; and Engineering Support, and interaction with owners • receipt of meter readings; payments under cold water St. Petersburg Committee (right holders) of nonsupply and wastewater disposal contracts; for Tariffs, Committee for residential rooms • interaction with customers in arrears, including Use of Natural Resources, in apartment blocks. identification of the cause of debt, development and Environment Protection, and Vodokanal held implementation of debt payment plan. Ecological Safety), Vodokanal consultations with the Throughout 2014, automation of the customer actively collaborated with Association of Housing interaction process was implemented on a large scale. the Union of Industrialists Construction Cooperatives, In particular, remote transfer of house meter readings and Entrepreneurs of Housing Companies and to Vodokanal was implemented to ensure reliable recording St. Petersburg on the Condominiums to discuss of cold water volumes supplied to apartment blocks. topics, such as: the change installation of house meters, Installation of water meters with remote data transfer of wastewater disposal estimation of wastewater capability will enable to: norms, construction of local volumes produced by an • manage water supply of apartment blocks in real-time, wastewater treatment plants, apartment block in the determine optimal parameters of cold drinking water supply and making amendments absence of communal to apartment blocks; to relevant laws and wastewater disposal • ensure reliable recording of water consumption volumes regulations regarding water norms, and battery limits in apartment blocks as of a certain date and time; the data consumption – of municipal service providers can be used for settlement of accounts between Vodokanal wastewater disposal with regard to house sewer and service providers and between service providers and balances. networks. residents. In 2014, Vodokanal Water meters with remote data transfer capability are conducted several working installed by Vodokanal under the water supply management meetings with St. Petersburg system project for the Southern water supply zone. Association of Industrial 142 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Volumes of Sales by housing organizations of comprehensive measures on energy-saving and energy efficiency increase, including minimization of water losses in in-house networks, rational water consumption by population and installation THE RESULTS OF VODOKANAL of water meters in apartment blocks. ACTIVITIES IN 2012–2014 The major factor that has impact on the reduction SHOW A STABLE REDUCTION of energy resources consumption by customers IN COLD WATER is the obeyance of the Federal Law no. 261–FZ CONSUMPTION “On energy-saving and energy efficiency increase, BY CUSTOMERS and on amending certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation” dated 23 November 2009. Installation of cold VOLUMES OF WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICES SALES and hot water meters by FOR 2012–2014, IN PHYSICAL UNITS (‘000 M3) residents of apartment blocks leads to the decrease of water consumption due to 700,000 rational water use. Water sales reduction for 600,000 “Other Consumers” category is caused by saving fuel and 500,000 energy resources by the companies, application of 592,068 680,044 400,000 569,934.4 617,641.7 616,403.7 resource-saving technologies 544,120.9 300,000 (for instance, application of water recycling by 200,000 industrial companies and 100,000 other organizations), modernization of equipment of industrial companies and 2012 2013 2014 elimination of breakdowns Water supply Wastewater disposal and leakages in in-house networks. In line with the Federal Law no. 261–FZ “On energysaving and energy efficiency increase, and on amending certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation” dated 23 November 2009, The diagram illustrates the Reduction of sales in 2014 amounted to 4.5%. organizations financed reduction in water conWater supply reduction trend may be observed for both through the budget sumption over the last three “Service Providers to Households” category and Other implement energy-saving years. Volumes of water Consumers category. measures, which also lead consumed were reduced by Reduction of water supply volumes for the “Service to the reduction of water 8.1% in the last three years. Providers to Households” category is a result of application consumption. 143 Accounts Receivable IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THE COLLECTION OF PAYMENTS, SETTLEMENT OF ANY RECEIVABLES AND PREVENTION OF THE RECEIVABLES INCREASE, VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG HAS DEVELOPED AND IMPLEMENTED THE MECHANISM OF INDIVIDUAL INTERACTION WITH CUSTOMERS The Company daily approves AIMED TO ENSURE TIMELY COLLECTION individual payment collection plans split by customer OF PAYMENTS FOR POTABLE WATER AND categories and monitors the observance of such WASTEWATER SERVICES plans on a weekly basis. STRUCTURE OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AS OF 1 JANUARY 2015 (MRUB) AS OF 1 JANUARY Heat suppliers 2015 THE ACCOUNTS St. Petersburg budget 350.6 30.8 RECEIVABLE Federal 0.5% AMOUNTED TO RUB budget 350.0 6.1% 6.2% 5,698,109,600 Organizations in Leningrad Region 11.7% 664.9 Other 5.9% 338.6 63.8% Providers of services 5.8% to households 3,634.5 Industry 328.7 144 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Accounts receivable Less than Share of accounts Less than 1 month Over 2 months Customer group as of 1 Jan. 2015 2 months receivable in overall (000’ RUB) (000’ RUB) (000’ RUB) (000’ RUB) structure (%) Providers of services to 3,634,467.4 981,171.6 401,388.4 2,251,907.4 63.8 households Heat (energy) 350,644.4 331,389.1 272.7 18,982.5 6.2 suppliers St. Petersburg 30,792.8 22,365.6 4,240.5 4,186.8 0.5 budget Federal budget 350,006.8 58,442.2 44,121.4 247,443.1 6.1 Organizations in 664,900.7 45,928.9 25,038.8 593,933.0 11.7 Leningrad Region Other 338,578.8 183,050.3 36,023.5 119,505.0 5.9 Industries 328,718.8 244,149.8 19,876.5 64,692.4 5.8 Total 5,698,109.6 1,866,497.5 530,961.8 3,300,650.3 100 The share of the customer category “Providers of Services TO AVOID Actions targeted to the prevention of delays in payments are as follows: to Households” accounts for 64% in the overall structure of DELAYS IN • telephone negotiations with customers to find out the reasons for non-payment and agree on possible repayment accounts receivable, the share of the category “Organizations PAYMENTS AND dates; • reconciliation of actual volumes of the provided services in Leningrad Region” is 12% and the share of customers OVERDUE including services for non-residential premises in apartment houses; financed by the Federal Budget (the Russian Federation ACCOUNTS • written notifications to warn about the breach of contractual obligations and overdue payments; Ministry of Defense including OAO “Slavyanka”) is 6%. RECEIVABLE • reconciliation of payments and clarifying to customers the reasons for debt accumulation; The above table represents the overall structure of the VODOKANAL • working meeting with representatives of customers in arrears to agree on payment due dates; accounts receivable as of 1 January 2015 split by time IMPLEMENTS • notifications to customers that Vodokanal is entitled to limit and cease, on a temporary basis, the provision of cold and shares in overall structure for each customer category. A SET OF ACTIONS water supply/wastewater disposal services; limitation and stoppage of water supply and (or) wastewater services; • agreeing on the repayment of outstanding debt in installments; • interaction with government authorities (exchange of information, working meetings), participation in the work of multiagency commissions (district administrations, governmental authorities of the Leningrad Region, local authorities, Housing Committee, main authorities responsible for distribution of budgetary funds); • recovery of accounts receivable through the court proceedings. 145 THE LAWS OF THE RUSSIAN In 2014, the lawsuits brought in arbitration court prior to 2014 were completed; as which debts account for less than RUB 20,000. In the period ending on FEDERATION PROVIDE a result 300 judgments were made in favor of Vodokanal 31 December 2014, 306 notifications were forwarded FOR TEMPORARY to collect RUB 215,090,000. Thus, totally in 2014 to customers about the breach of money obligations LIMITATION AND STOPPAGE (as of 1 January 2015), 1602 judgments on recovery under the agreements for the total amount of RUB OF COLD WATER SUPPLY of RUB 1,230,260,000 were issued. As of January 2015, 472 2,890,000. Upon such notifications Vodokanal received payments for the AND WASTEWATER lawsuits are pending in courts to collect debt and penalties amount of RUB 1,850,000. In the same period DISPOSAL SERVICES with total amount of RUB 576,760,000. Vodokanal sent 25 statements of claim to justice IN CASE OF Since August 2014, Vodokanal has started to courts for the issuance of court orders for the total CUSTOMERS’ DEBT apply to justice courts for the issuance of court orders with regard to physical entities amount of RUB 253,000 and received payment in the amount of RUB 122,000. Such measure is exceptional and is applied by Vodokanal when all other measures aimed at the settlement of a debt have been exhausted or when the customer breaches the agreed repayment of the outstanding debt. IN 2014, 1177 In 2014, Vodokanal forwarded notifications about temporary limitation and termination of water supply/ ENFORCEMENT wastewater services to 747 customers. Provision of water supply/wastewater services was ORDERS AT THE AMOUNT temporary limited for 3 customers and cold water supply and/or collection of wastewater/pollutants was actually terminated OF RUB 726,550,000 for 79 customers. Recovery of accounts receivable through the arbitration WERE RECEIVED. court and then through enforcement proceedings is one of the instruments to liquidate the accounts receivable. THE ENFORCEMENT ORDERS In 2014, 2019 lawsuits were brought into the arbitration court to collect debt with total amount of RUB AT THE AMOUNT OF RUB 2,514,320,000. As of 1 January 2015: 763,220,000 WERE PAID • the arbitration court delivered judgments at 1302 lawsuits in favor of the Company at the amount of RUB 1,015,160,000 (RUB 429,150,000 were paid prior to the judgment); • 227 lawsuits were paid in full prior to the court judgment at the amount of RUB 200,630,000; • 22 amicable agreements were concluded for the total amount of RUB 211,640,000. In 2014, 40 claims at total amount of RUB 34,810,000 were sent to the respondents and had been paid before the lawsuits were taken to the court. 146 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Connection This includes the issuance of: • specifications; • conditions for to Water connection (utility connection) to municipal water and sewerage networks; • connection (utility Distribution connection) contracts to municipal water and sewerage networks; • project validation;, and Sewerage • certificates of conformity of built (reconstructed) facilities to connection conditions. Customers’ applications Networks for authorizations are received by the Customer Service Centre at the address: Building 5, 103 Moskovskiy pr., from 9:00 till 17:00 (without lunch-break). The one contact principle is used. VODOKANAL ISSUES AUTHORIZATIONS Other visiting addresses for the customers are: FOR CONNECTION OF NEW • Room 218, 15 Saperniy pereulok, Kolpino; (RECONSTRUCTED) FACILITIES TO • Room 12, 1 Pereulok Suvorovtsev, Petrodvorets MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRIBUTION AND Applications for obtaining specifications can be SEWERAGE NETWORKS submitted via the Internet. 147 ANNUAL SUMMARY OF THE ISSUED PERMITTING DOCUMENTS FOR THE CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS Type of works Number of documents The number of documents in 2013 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 compared to 2014 Technical specifications, utility connection condi5,143* 4,591** 5,333*** 4,285**** -19.65% tions, initial data 6,281 7,250 6,987 8,623 Other documents 6,211 7,803 4,623 4,478 -3.14% Reviewed design doc3,045 3,169 2,950 3,456 3,794 4,120 4,211 4,372 3.82% uments Prepared utility connec123 311 314 476 424 1,276 200.94% tion contracts Executed utility con242 181 260 374 333 1,115 234.83% nection contracts Letters confirming the issuance of conformity 489 466 489 363 370 1.93% certificates to utility connection conditions * Including technical specifications – 3,261; utility connection conditions – 1,663; initial data – 219 ** Including technical specifications – 2,761; utility connection conditions – 1,532; initial data – 298 *** Including technical specifications – 3,792; utility connection conditions – 1,242; initial data – 299 **** Including technical specifications – 3,566; utility connection conditions – 565; initial data – 154 Time periods for issuing THE SCHEME OF ISSUING AUTHORIZATIONS FOR CONNECTION OF FACILITIES TO authorizations by Vodokanal: MUNICIPAL WATER AND SEWERAGE NETWORKS • specifications – 7 working days (by law – 14 working days); Receiving specifications* • utility connection conditions – 14 working days (by law – 30 working days); • utility connection contracts – 5 working days (by law – 30 working days); Receiving utility connection conditions • project approval – and concluding the connection contract 10 working days (the term of the project review is not regulated by law); • certificate of conformity of built facilities to connection conditions – 7 working days (the term of issuing the Approval of project documents certificate is not regulated by law). Receiving the certificate of conformity of the built facility to utility connection conditions * – If the client has determined the required installed capacity, the receipt of specifications shall not be required. 148 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Call In 2004–2014, the Centre implementation and use of the calls recording and handling system, as well as other improvements of this process, led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the maximum VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG HAS ITS HOT waiting time of 2 minutes (in peak periods, when up LINE SERVICE TO RECEIVE CALLS FROM THE to 200 calls per hour are received). At present, the CUSTOMERS (PHONE: +7 (812) 305-09-09, average time of waiting for the operator’s reply is SEE ALSO “INTERACTION WITH CUSTOMERS” 2–20 seconds. In 2004–2014, the number of calls (general FOR MORE DETAILS) inquiries or consultations) increased from 55,659 to 112,576. The number of inquiries INFORMATION INQUIRIES related to Vodokanal 150,000 activities has increased over 120,493 these years. It can 125,000 116,869 be explained by the increase 111,273 108,700 112,576 of new customers and the 100,000 93,084 growing interest of the 83,983 84,355 citizens in the Company’s 73,395 operations. 75,000 The number of 55,659 55,047 complaints received by the Hot Line Service reduced 50,000 from 30,146 to 24,656 in 2004–2014. 25,000 The most serious complaints are those related to low cold water head 0 and blockages in the yard 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 sewers. In 2004, 2,673 3,000 complaints about low water LOW WATER HEAD COMPLAINTS head were received, and in 2,673 2014 there were only 2,500 14 legitimate complaints, i.e. the number of complaints has reduced by more than 2,000 190 times over 11 years. The number 1,500 of complaints related to blockages of the yard sewers has reduced 1,000 839 by 2.2 times in 2004–2014. 730 500 378 218 153 127 156 38 25 14 00 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 149 Customers’ Vodokanal actively involves consumers in discussing issues arising in connection with water supply and Satisfaction wastewater disposal. Such interaction is carried out on a regular basis in the form of an open dialogue (regular Survey meetings, working groups, consultations). The Company provides ongoing monitoring of satisfaction of both customers and endconsumers. END-CONSUMERS OF COLD WATER AND Questionnaires used to survey customers’ satisfaction WASTEWATER SERVICES ARE THE POPULATION with water and wastewater services are approved by OF ST. PETERSBURG, INDIVIDUAL St. Petersburg Vodokanal’s Standard no. 18.2–2010 ENTREPRENEURS AND LEGAL ENTITIES OF “Interaction with customers (clients) during rendering DIFFERENT OWNERSHIP of services. Information support to customers (clients)”. In 2014, St. Petersburg Vodokanal conducted selective polling of its customers (budgetary organizations, providers of services to households, tenants, industrial companies). 293 customers participated in polling. The polling results showed that: • 85.2% of customers were satisfied in general with water supply and wastewater disposal services; • 91.4% of customers were satisfied with Hot Line Service operation. At the same time, 16.8% of respondents were not satisfied with the timeframe required for the conclusion of contracts for water supply, collection of wastewater and pollutants. 19.8% of respondents were not satisfied with the location of customer service offices. 150 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 The survey demonstrated that about 85% of respondents were satisfied with cold water quality in 2014 (that parameter remained at the level of 2013). About 89% of respondents were satisfied with cold water odour (a year ago that parameter accounted for 87%). Satisfaction with tap water taste and transparency was 87% (a year ago – 85%) and 91% (a year ago – 88%), respectively. 90% of respondents were satisfied with cold water head (Over 2014, that parameter increased by almost 3%). St. Petersburg citizens highly appreciated the operation of Vodokanal’s Hot Line Service (telephone: +7 (812) 305-09-09). More than 95% of those who have ever called the Hot Line Service were satisfied with its performance. Satisfaction with provision of information about IN 2014, VODOKANAL CONDUCTED forthcoming repair works increased substantially – by 8.6% and accounted for almost 87%. 10% of respondents were ITS USUAL OPINION SURVEYS undecided. In 2014, St. Petersburg Vodokanal launched a new section devoted to the scheduled repair works on its website AMONG THE CITIZENS (www.vodokanal.spb.ru/presscentr/planovye_raboty). In that section Vodokanal places not only textual data about the OF ST. PETERSBURG REGARDING forthcoming repair works at water and sewerage network but also continuously updates the repair works interactive map. THE SERVICES PROVIDED Satisfaction with reliability of water supply during repair works was 81% in 2014. BY VODOKANAL, I.E. END-USER About 55% of St. Petersburg citizens were satisfied with current cold water and wastewater tariffs. 87.5% of SATISFACTION SURVEY respondents could not say what tariff they paid for cold water supply. The data was collected by According to the results Almost 70% of the city residents installed water meters street interviewing of 1000 of the surveys and on the in their flats. The majority of those, who had the meters persons of all age groups and grounds of the opinion given (87%), thought that they were worthwhile. Another 10% different social status, living in by marketing companies, of respondents were undecided when they were asked to different city districts. it was decided that outdoor assess the efficiency of water meters. Those who were not Opinion surveys among polling was more effective. satisfied with water meters (3%) listed among the reasons citizens of St. Petersburg Since 2010, Vodokanal of their dissatisfaction, for instance, the need for regular meter are carried out annually. The has conducted opinion verification as well as the fact that there was no difference objective of such surveys is to surveys in the form whether you paid a fixed amount or by water meter readings. find out to what extent the of outdoor polling. The survey showed that citizens had positive attitude end-users are satisfied with Questionnaires are developed to social projects of Vodokanal. 99% of respondents were the quality of services and on the basis of a Likertsatisfied with the work of the Universe of Water Museum. social projects of Vodokanal. type scale (rating scale). St. Petersburg residents also evaluated positively the work By analyzing the results of such Mathematical-statistical of the Youth Environmental Centre (97%). Almost all surveys Vodokanal can identify methods are used to analyze respondents (over 98%) gave positive assessment of problems, as the citizens the collected data Vodokanal operation of fountains and fountain complexes. see them, and improve its (e.g. scalogram analysis). performance in relevant areas. In 2014 the sample size The sociological survey was 1000 persons. procedure is improved every Respondents are grouped THE SURVEY-2014 RESULTS year. Before 2008, opinion by age, gender, social status, polls were made by phone only. district of residence, etc. SHOWED THAT THE OVERWHELMING In 2009, Vodokanal used two to ensure representative methods: telephone polling and sampling. MAJORITY OF RESPONDENTS outdoor polling. (86%) RATED HIGH VODOKANAL’S WORK: 67% OF RESPONDENTS GAVE 4 SCORES (ACCORDING TO A 5–SCORE SYSTEM) AND 19% OF RESPONDENTS GAVE 5 SCORES 151 152 City Fountains 153 IN 2014, AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2014, 67 FOUNTAINS AND 4 FOUNTAIN COMPLEXES WERE OPERATED BY VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG VODOKANAL 70 4 ST. PETERSBURG 60 4 4 4 OPERATED 50 Total number of fountain complexes Total number of fountains 67 FOUNTAINS 40 4 4 AND 4 FOUNTAIN 1 3 4 60 62 67 30 COMPLEXES 42 55 20 41 33 35 31 27 10 20 17 0 1996 1999 2002 2005 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Development of fountains is in Smolniy Garden (1934), a precondition for maintaining the memorial fountain “Crown IN 1996–2014, THE CITY the status of St. Petersburg of Glory” in Moskovskiy as the Europe’s cultural and Park of Victory (1949) and TRANSFERRED 61 FOUNTAINS historical center. many typical little fountains Fountains belong to the in courtyards were built. TO VODOKANAL FOR ECONOMIC unique look of the “Northern The total number of these Capital” created by great hydraulic engineering MANAGEMENT; European architects who structures exceeded 300 designed traditional palaces, in our city. However, MOST OF THEM WERE parks and gardens where by the end of ХХ century, the fountains played an important major part of fountains was NON-OPERATIONAL. role. However, fountains had in a critical condition (as no long been a kind of “luxurious maintenance or repairs had VODOKANAL IS MAKING EVERY ornament” that adorned private been provided over a long estates of St. Petersburg time); fewer than 20 fountains EFFORT TO RENOVATE THE CITY noblemen. The first public were in operation. fountains appeared in St. In 1996, it was decided FOUNTAINS: IN 1996–2014 Petersburg in the second to transfer the fountains half of XIX century, when to Vodokanal to improve the IT REPAIRED 35 FOUNTAINS. public gardens and parks situation. were opened. Moreover, the CURRENTLY, ONLY 32 FOUNTAINS construction of fountains was facilitated by the development TRANSFERRED TO THE COMPANY of water supply system. Thus, fountains in Alexandrovskiy, IN INOPERABLE CONDITION Rumyantsevskiy and Nikolskiy gardens were built. ARE OUT OF OPERATION The interest in the city fountains amplified in the second half of XIX – beginning of XX centuries and in the 1930s and 1950s. At that time, full-flowing fountains 154 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 CONDITION OF THE CITY FOUNTAINS AND FOUNTAIN The reconstruction projects of the following fountains COMPLEXES OPERATED BY VODOKANAL were designed: ST. PETERSBURG • the fountains in Smolniy Garden (1, Smolniy Alley, bld. 1, lit. F and bld. 2, lit. F; 2, Smolniy Alley, bld.1, lit. F and bld.2, lit. F). • the fountain in Aleksandrovskiy Garden (3, Admiralteyskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. F). • the fountains in Rumyantsevskiy Garden (2, Rumyantsevskaya Square, lit. М, Н). • the fountain “Crown of Glory” in Moskovskiy Park Operational 39 of Victory (188, Moskovskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. F). • the fountain in Zelenogorsk (559/1, Primorskoye shosse, bld. 1, lit. А). Non-operational 32 Capital repair project for the fountain “Globe” (56, Nevskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. F) was designed. 0 10 20 30 40 50 Besides, the following is planned for 2015: • commencement of construction and installation works to renovate the fountain “Crown of Glory” in Moskovskiy CAPITAL REPAIRS OF THE Park of Victory (188, Moskovskiy pr., bld.1, lit. F); • commencement of construction and installation works FOUNTAINS IN THE WESTERN to renovate the fountain in Aleksandrovskiy Garden (3, Admiralteiskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. F); AND EASTERN RAYPATHS OF THE • completion of construction and installation works under the capital repair project for the fountain “Lighthouse” in the ST. PETERSBURG 300TH St. Petersburg 300th Anniversary Park (74, Primorskiy pr., lit. L); • commencement of construction and installation works ANNIVERSARY PARK to renovate the fountains in Rumyantsevskiy Garden (2, Rumyantsevskaya Square, lit. H, F); (74, PRIMORSKIY PR., LIT. H, M) • commencement of construction and installation works to renovate the fountain “The Birth of Aphrodite” (64–66, WERE COMPLETED IN 2014 Ligovskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. F); • completion of construction and installation works under the capital repair project for the fountain “Globe” (56, Nevskiy Repair works included restored, granite bowls and pr., bld.1, lit. F). complete replacement decorative structures of of the pumping and lighting fountains were renovated. Moreover, detailed designs will be developed for equipment, installation The fountains were put into reconstruction of the fountains at the addresses: of CCTV cameras and operation in June 2014. 224 Moskovskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. G; 207 Moskovskiy pr., refilling/overflow control The general overhaul bld. 1, lit. G; 165 Moskovskiy pr., bld. 1, lit. G. Capital repairs systems. Radial fountains’ of “Lighthouse” fountain of the following fountains will be performed: “Pearl” hydraulic systems have in the St. Petersburg 300th (Kronstadt, 2 Leningradskaya Str., bld. 1, lit. V), “The Water been completely replaced; Anniversary Park also began Carrier” (Kronstadt, 2 Leningradskaya Str., bld. 1, lit. D), the electrical works including in 2014. With this fountain fountain at the entrance to the water tower (Kronstadt, replacement of control in operation, the St. Petersburg 2 Leningradskaya Str., bld. 1, lit. E), “Fish” (Kronstadt, 5 Lenina cabinets were performed; 300th Anniversary Park will Str., bld. 1, lit. B), “Swan Lake” (5 Kamennoostrovskiy pr., anemometers (protective feature a fountain complex bld. 1, lit. A); and the fountain complex at Moskovskaya mechanisms preventing wind complying with a single Square. drift of fountains jets) were stylistic idea. connected, fountains drainage and filtration systems were 155 156 Public Toilets 157 IN 2014, VODOKANAL OPERATED 613 PUBLIC TOILETS There are 738 public toilets in the economic management of Vodokanal 180 St. Petersburg, including: 156 • 216 stationary toilets; 160 146 • 137 networkable 140 modular toilets; 116 118 122 • 33 modular toilets with 120 105 storage containers to be 97 installed in the gardens and 100 85 parks; 80 • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes installed 60 47 50 on vehicle chassis; • 307 mobile cabins; 40 • 25 urinal-type toilets. 20 The following units 0 are currently operated by 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Vodokanal: • 156 stationary toilets Stationary toilets Modular toilets repaired by the Company by means of the municipal budget funding; According to the inventory made by territorial district Since 2006, a lot of work has • 105 modular toilets; authorities of St. Petersburg, there were about 300 toilets on been done to install new• 332 mobile cabins; the city balance sheet in early 1990s, some of them leased generation modular toilets • 20 mobile bus-mounted out for a long term, and the others either devastated or falling next to underground stations sanitary and hygienic into decay. Vodokanal was assigned with the task to solve this and in the places approved complexes. problem. by district administrations. Vodokanal has been operating public toilets since 2001. The toilets are equipped with In December 2001, the Order of the Administration of modern sanitary and hygienic St. Petersburg no. 1492–ra “On the development of St. facilities. They are more Petersburg public toilet network” was issued. Vodokanal St. comfortable and look nicer. Petersburg assumed responsibility for the maintenance of All in all, 137 new-generation public toilets owned by the city of St. Petersburg and for modular toilets should be contracting repair, renovation or development works. installed in the city by 2020. Moreover, Vodokanal issues technical specifications for mandatory construction of public toilets in newly-built shopping centers. Today, almost every big shopping center has free public toilets for all categories of visitors. 158 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 Vodokanal was the first to purchase mobile sanitary and Vodokanal, in cooperation with the Committee for Press, hygienic toilet complexes installed on vehicle chassis. With such took action to provide for the placement of the public toilets toilets, visitors can get services of better quality compared to addresses on the city advertising media under the municipal mobile toilet cabins. Currently, Vodokanal intends to purchase advertising program. Under the program, locations improved models of such toilets. of Vodokanal’s toilets are indicated on billboards and signs. The outsourced trained personnel work in every public toilet All Vodokanal stationary toilets have light boxes with the operated by the Company, and Vodokanal specialists supervise Company logo and are easily recognizable from afar. Modular their work on a regular basis. The toilets have security systems toilets also have information on their proprietary. Information to ensure the personnel security. Over 500 people are involved about public toilets is posted on Vodokanal website in the operation and maintenance of toilets. (www.vodokanal.spb.ru/kanalizovanie/tualety). In November Toilets are open from 9.00 a.m. till 09.00 p.m. On public 2014, Vodokanal website was updated with a new service – holidays toilets are open according to a special schedule. an interactive map of public toilets. Moreover, Vodokanal can extend the open hours if necessary, The Committee for Energy and Engineering Support especially, during public events. Instruction no. 31 dated 28 March 2014 “On Implementing Vodokanal sets up mobile toilets during the city festivals, the St. Petersburg Government Order no. 213 dated 26 March such as the New Year, Christmas, Victory Day, Day of the City 2014”, sets the charge of 20 Roubles for the public toilets and Scarlet Sails. operated by Vodokanal. The right of free use of public toilets is granted to: • invalids and participants of the Great Patriotic War; IN TOTAL, MOBILE TOILETS • disabled persons of 1, 2 and 3 group; disabled persons that have restrictions in labor activity of I, II and III degree; WERE PROVIDED FOR MORE • combat veterans; • citizens awarded the “Resident of Sieged Leningrad” badge; THAN 790 EVENTS IN 2014 • heroes of the USSR, the Russian Federation, and holders of full set of Orders of Glory; • home front workers; ON REQUESTS OF DIFFERENT • victims of political repressions; • former prisoners of concentration camps; ORGANIZATIONS • military conscripts; • disabled children under 18; The St. Petersburg Government Decree no. 487 dated • children under 7. 17 June 2014 “On the State Programme of St. Petersburg “Improvement and Environment Protection in St. Petersburg” for the years 2015–2020” was adopted in June, 2014. The Programme envisages allocation of funds for reconstruction, capital repair and operation of toilets. In particular, it provides for overhaul of 32 toilets, preparation of design documentation for capital repairs of 29 toilets, reconstruction of 21 public toilets, design of reconstruction projects for 13 toilets, procurement of 11 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes, and connection of 11 modular and 15 stationary toilets to utility networks. In 2015, it is planned to overhaul 3 public toilets, reconstruct 9 toilets, initiate design works for 3 toilets, and procure 2 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes. The standards defined by the set of rules “Urban Development. Planning and development of urban and rural settlements” (SNiP 2.07.01–89) are used to estimate the number of toilets required. In accordance with the rules, the number of toilets should meet the following requirement: one seat per 1000 people. At present, the number of all municipal toilets is equivalent to “1 seat per 557 people”. 159 160 Permanent Snow-Melting Stations 161 Under the St. Petersburg Government Decree CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION no. 1334 dated 16 October 2007, snow from sidewalks OF PERMANENT SNOW-MELTING and roadways shall be disposed to specially STATIONS IS AN IMPORTANT equipped snow dumps. ACTIVITY OF VODOKANAL A permanent snow-melting station consists of an Ten PSMSs located at the underground snow-melting chamber (snow is unloaded from following addresses were THE OPERATING trucks and melted there) with separator-crushers, a grit in operation in St. Petersburg removal unit (for sedimentation of suspended solids and in 2014, with the total PRINCIPLE litter), a sewage pumping station, a crusher control panel and capacity 59,000 m3/day an entry control point. Wastewater can be pumped into the of snow: OF SNOWsnow-melting chamber by the existing or newly-constructed 1. 2, Oktyabrskaya emb. – sewage pumping stations depending on the location of the 7,000 cubic meters of snow MELTING station. per day; Permanent snow-melting stations (PSMS) have 2. 77, Peterhofskoye STATIONS IS important advantages over snow dumps: shosse – 7,000 cubic meters • snow-melting stations divert all contaminated of snow per day; THE USE OF wastewater to WWTPs, while wastewater from snow dumps 3. 20, Sevastyanova str., can partly infiltrate into the soil and produce adverse effect Kolpino – 7,000 cubic meters SEWAGE HEAT on water bodies and the environment; of snow per day; • they require a much smaller land area than snow 4. 45, Rizhskiy prospect – (THE AVERAGE dumps; 7,000 cubic meters of snow • PSMSs process snow very quickly compared to snow per day; TEMPERATURE dumps where accumulated snow keeps melting till June 5. 83, Stachek pr. – disrupting the landscape aesthetics and polluting the air with 3,500 cubic meters of snow IS 16–18°C) fine particles; per day; • due to snow melting in winter, smaller volumes 6. 69, Krasnoputilovskaya THAT MELTS THE of snow runoff are collected by the sewerage system in str. – 3,500 cubic meters spring. of snow per day; SNOW FED INTO Before October 2012, St. Petersburg had only one 7. 123, Volkhonskoye permanent snow-melting station at 43, Rizhskiy prospect. shosse – 7,000 cubic meters THE MELTING It was quite outdated at the time when the station was of snow per day. transferred to Vodokanal for economic management. 8. Rybinskya str. – CHAMBER; Under the St. Petersburg Government Order 5,000 cubic meters of snow no. 713 dated 12 July 2012 “On the action plan for design, per day; IT TAKES ABOUT implementation and modernization of permanent snow9. Mebelnaya str. – melting stations in St. Petersburg in 2012–2013” Vodokanal 7,000 cubic meters of snow 3 MINUTES obtained the approval for its PSMS design, implementation per day; and modernization programme. 10. Kushelevskaya road – TO PROCESS Pursuant to the Order, ten PSMSs were constructed 5,000 cubic meters of snow in 2012–2013. per day. 10 TONS OF SNOW 162 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Results of Activities in 2014 PSMSs are operated in compliance with the Operating Rules and the volumes of snow delivered to the snow-melting and Procedures for Permanent Snow-Melting Stations. This stations. It is an integrated hardware-software system document sets out an action plan to ensure safe and reliable consisting of two levels: level 1: operator workstation, operation of PSMSs; description and periodicity of works and level 2: hardware and software system in Beliy Island. to be performed in the operating and inter-seasonal Operation Rules and procedures are developed to interact maintenance periods; description and periodicity of with the road services. The main customer of snow reception maintenance and repair works; and performance standards. and processing works at PSMSs is the Municipal Landscaping The operation of snow-melting stations is divided into: Center. • the operating period; In 2014 (January–April, and December), 148,401 m3 • the inter-seasonal maintenance period. of snow were received and processed at the PSMSs. The snow-melting stations work round-the-clock The biggest volume of snow (29,340.8 m3) was received throughout the operating period. Each station is served by by the station located at 2, Oktyabrskaya emb., lit. A. 16 operators (4 shifts, 4 operators each) who measure and keep records of the incoming snow, make visual inspections of the snow composition, arrange access to the separatorcrushers for trucks, and control the operation of separatorcrushers (processing of big-sized industrial and domestic garbage, etc.). An automatic snow metering system is used to measure the volumes of received snow. The system collects, All in all, 111,091 m3 of snow were received and processed processes, stores, displays and transfers the data (tables, at the PSMSs during the season 2013–2014 report forms, receipts, etc.), keeps records of vehicle traffic (December 2013 – April 2014). VOLUMES OF SNOW RECEIVED BY PSMSS IN 2014 Volumes of snow received, m3 Item PSMS address Total in no. January February March April October November December 2014 2, Oktyabrskaya 1 8,175.5 11,841.5 569.0 – – – 6,200.8 29,340.8 emb., Lit. A 83, Stachek pr., 2 1,344.5 8,969.0 – – – – 5,883.0 17,065.5 Lit. B 77, Peterhofskoye 3 3,154.0 10,547.0 280.0 – – – 5,938.0 20,925.5 shosse, Lit. A 69, Krasnoputilovskaya 4 102.5 7,271.5 50.0 – – – 1,938.0 9,404.5 str., block 3 20, Sevastyanova 5 1,902.0 3,488.5 – – – – 7,884.0 14,317.5 str., Kolpino 45, Rizhskiy 6 1,151.0 9,562.5 20.0 – – – 1,081.0 12,359.0 prospect, Lit. A 123, Volkhonskoye 7 shosse, block 2, 487.0 987.0 20.0 240.0 – – 615.5 2,349.5 Lit. A 8 2, Rybinskya str. 2,670.0 15,356.0 230.0 – – – 2,622.5 21,359.0 Mebelnaya str., 9 2,196.0 4,206.0 96.0 – – – 3,766.0 10,288.0 site 1 Kushelevskaya road, 10 911.0 8247,5 452.0 – – – 1,381.5 10,992.0 site 2 Total: 22,093.5 80,476.5 1,717.0 240.0 – – 37,310.3 148,401.3 In 2014, the design of PSMS project at the address: The PSMS construction Shkiperskiy protok, site 9, was finalized and a positive in Shkiperskiy protok will Expertise Opinion no. 78–1–5–0413–14 dated 17 October be completed in 2016 in 2014 was obtained. accordance with the funds allocated. 163 164 Innovations 165 Implementation In 2014, the construction was completed, and the of New Water pre-commissioning of the new water intake facility and a 500,000 m3/day first-lift pumping station began at Main WTP. Construction of and Wastewater the first-lift pumping station and intake facilities was the initial phase of the Main WTP Reconstruction Project. Technologies Unique slot-type headwall filters (the Neva water gets into the pipelines through them) were custom-designed and specially manufactured for the water intake facility. Each headwall filter weighs VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG IS 3.8 tons and the overall structure measures 10 m IMPLEMENTING UP-TO-DATE TECHNOLOGIES (length) x 2.5 m (height) x 2.5 m (width). The width of ON A LARGE SCALE TO ENSURE PROVISION slots in the new headwalls is 2 mm. It means that no litter, OF HIGH-QUALITY WATER AND WASTEWATER waterweeds or fish can get into the pipelines together SERVICES TO ITS CUSTOMERS AND TO MINIMIZE with water. Technically, the headwalls are complex NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT structures designed to raise the water intake process to a totally new level and to make 1. CONSTRUCTION WATER SUPPLY OF A FIRST-LIFT it very reliable. Incidentally, the headwalls are Russianmanufactured (they were assembled at a factory in the PUMPING Leningrad Region). The new first-lift pumping STATION AND WATER station is fully automated and controlled from the control INTAKE FACILITIES room located in the Main WTP. The pumping station AT MAIN WTP is designed for unattended operation. The next phase of the Main WTP renovation will cover reconstruction of the existing water treatment facilities and the building of a new 500,000 m3/day treatment block. Currently, Vodokanal is updating the project “Design and construction of a new treatment block at Main WTP including renewal of raw water intake pipelines”. 166 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations The update will be done in consideration of the requirement to • Calculation of tap water quality index based on combined substitute home-produced equipment for imported products epidemiological/chemical safety parameters. under the project. The equipment (process plant, pumps, valves, The methods were tested at Vodokanal facilities and used electrical equipment, automation systems, lifting machinery, to calculate the integrated chemical and epidemiological risk of etc.) produced by national manufacturers will be used to potable water. The calculation results confirmed that potable a maximum extent. water in St. Petersburg is non-hazardous, safe to drink and presents no negative impact on human health. In 2014, a calculation software module was implemented to make integrated assessments of potable water quality. 2. PILOT RESEARCH AND It passed the tests and can be used to calculate integrated risk assessments of the influence of chemical substances and FEASIBILITY STUDY OF A NEW microorganisms contained in raw/potable water on human health. TREATMENT TECHNOLOGY TO BE USED FOR THE TREATMENT OF 4. R&D PHASE OF THE WATER QUALITY WATER FROM SURFACE SOURCES MONITORING AND FORECASTING In 2012, a novel technology was developed: a sequence of natural surface water treatment steps based on new PROJECT INTENDED FOR THE WATER equipment, new design solutions and new materials offered by national designers and manufacturers. BODIES INFLUENCING THE QUALITY In 2013–2014, a mobile package plant based on this technology was implemented on a full scale: a 1200 m3/day OF WATER IN THE LAKE LADOGA – potable water treatment/disinfection module was designed and constructed, and the pre-commissioning was completed. RIVER NEVA SYSTEM The package plant operating regimes for different seasons In 2014, Vodokanal together with the Russian State were tested and adjusted throughout 2014. University of Hydrometeorology finalized the R&D aimed Further tests of the package plant operating regimes to implement practical monitoring and forecasting of water for different seasons and the design of Kronstadt WTP quality in the water bodies that influence the quality of water reconstruction project using the water treatment technology in the Lake Ladoga – River Neva System. in question are planned for 2015. Such monitoring and forecasting system is intended to improve the performance of Vodokanal’s water supply 3. SOFTWARE MODULE FOR system (at the water intake) by monitoring and analyzing the condition of the water bodies influencing the quality of water INTEGRATED EVALUATION in the Lake Ladoga – River Neva system, and by making short-term and long-term forecasts of potential water quality OF POTABLE WATER QUALITY fluctuations at Vodokanal’s water intakes. A catalogue (list) of hydrometeorological, hydrochemical In 2013, Vodokanal together with the Department of and hydrobiological monitoring data (concentrations of Preventive Medicine and Health Protection at the Northnutrients and pollutants) collected by governmental and Western State Medical University named after I.I. Mechnikov departmental institutions in 2004–2011 was made and designed an integrated risk evaluation model to assess the complemented by Vodokanal’s data for 2000–2014. cumulative impact of chemicals and microbiological agents in Moreover, a water quality monitoring flowchart (including raw and potable water on human health. locations of water quality checkpoints) and a special method The integrated risk evaluation model was used to design of hydrometeorological forecasting of the Lake Ladoga – a potable water quality data evaluation system based on River Neva system condition were developed, including the criteria, such as epidemiological safety, chemical safety methods of shortand long-term forecasting of water quality; and organoleptic advantages. The data system contains the and technical specifications for a computer-based information following calculation software modules: system and its sub-systems were drawn up (the possibility of • Integrated evaluation of potable water in centralized interface with Vodokanal’s existing information systems was water supply systems in terms of chemical safety. also envisaged). • Calculation of overall epidemiological risk for human A pilot-scale implementation of the Lake Ladoga – River health arising from the use of raw and potable water. Neva water quality monitoring project is planned for 2015. 167 2. MOBILE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM FOR EXAMINATION OF TUNNEL COLLECTORS The mobile diagnostic system (MDS) is intended for the examination of tunnel collectors to obtain timely and reliable data about the condition of above-water and underwater sections of deep tunnel collectors. Such 2m-5m diameter collectors laid at a depth of 30–80 m are in operation. Special equipment is needed to examine their condition and identify potential defects. Most of the collectors have no backup sewers, so they cannot be put out of operation even for a short-time inspection or repair (if necessary). 1. SEWAGE SLUDGE For this reason, the tunnels are usually examined at night, when they are filled to a minimum level. However, one TREATMENT TECHNOLOGY cannot be sure that all defects have been found in the section examined. USING CHEMICAL AGENTS Now, a diagnostic system is built to examine the whole channel profile and the condition of the reinforced-concrete AK-GF-R AND MMT-BD-A lining of the underwater section while wastewaters keep passing through the collector. Besides, there is no need for FOR SLUDGE LANDFILLS the inspector to get inside the collector. The mobile diagnostic system (MDS) is a vehicle with To mitigate negative impacts of sludge landfills on the an onboard diagnostic floating facility (DFF) which is, in environment, Vodokanal together with LLC RusEkoTekh fact, a boat equipped with measuring sensors and a videobegan, in June 2013, to test a new sludge treatment camera connected via a conducting rope to the ground-based technology where chemical agents AK-GF-R and MMT-BD-A equipment: a cable drum to reel in the rope, and recording are added to get AMIDA organic-mineral composition (OMC) instruments. as an end product. The boat is descended into the collector shaft and moves The technology is based on chemical treatment followed along the tunnel by gravity and due to the MDS hydrodynamic by sludge disinfection and detoxication, and can be used resistance acting on the water stream while the drum drive directly in sludge ponds. ensures reel-out of the conducting rope and the movement The detoxicating component (AK-GF-R), made of of MDS at operator-defined speed. While moving forward potassium or sodium salts of amino acids, is used to bind through the collector, the video-camera shows the condition movable metals. Ions of heavy metals are detoxicated of the collector walls. The operator can see real-time data on without being extracted from sewage sludge. the monitor installed in the vehicle. The disinfection technology is based on the chemical The MDS measuring unit consists of sensors that make agent MMT-BD-A: a complex copper compound of hydroxyl ultrasonic scan of the underwater part; and an omnidirectional amino acids having the ability to bind with proteins in TV camera with zoom and rotation capabilities to view bacterial cell walls causing the death of cells. Copper was defects in the above-water part at different angles. The MDS selected as the main component of the chemical agent board computer correlates measurement data with the crossbecause some of its properties determine protein strength, sectional and axial position of the pontoon boat inside the and it acts on pathogens as “poison”. In this way, the collector. landfilled sludge is detoxicated. The land-based part of MDS is a truck including a van with OMC AMIDA is an artificial soil-like composition and can equipment and an articulated crane with outriggers, hook be used as an organic fertilizer in compliance with GOST R assembly and hydraulic pump. 17.4.3.07–2001. The MDS enables to avoid human contact with Currently, the treatment of sludge in ponds 5 and wastewater, to identify any damage of the tunnel collector 7 is ongoing. lining and to decide about the need of capital repairs. 168 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations 3. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPUTER-BASED ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATION MEASUREMENT DATA SYSTEM At present, atmospheric precipitation data for St. Petersburg are provided by the observation stations of FGBU “NorthWestern Authority for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring” (Gidrometcenter). However, the number of observation stations is insufficient to obtain timely and reliable information on different city districts (the fallout is often non-uniform and differs by districts). Thirty-four flowmeters will be installed under the project. 4. COLLECTOR IN The instruments are uniformly distributed throughout St. Petersburg and the nearest suburbs. Moreover, weather ZELENOGORSK stations will be constructed to measure atmospheric pressure, wind velocity and direction, and air temperature In 2014, hydrometeorological engineering surveys were made and humidity in an automatic mode. to forecast potential negative impact of abrasion (washout) Currently, Vodokanal is in the process of creating and on the inlet sewage collector to be laid to Zelenogorsk commissioning its automated precipitation data measurement WWTP. The surveys were needed to decide whether the system (AMIS “Osadki”). It is working in close collaboration collector design should be changed (i.e. whether any steps with the Federal Department of Hydrometeorology and should be taken to ensure safe operation) if the forecast Environmental Monitoring (“Rosgidromet”). of the coastline abrasion process was unfavourable. AMIS “Osadki” will measure and record (in 5min. The impact of the coastline abrasion was assessed under intervals, around-the-clock and automatically) the amount of two climatic scenarios: maximum and minimum water levels precipitation in St. Petersburg and the suburbs, and transfer in the Gulf of Finland. the information to Rosgidromet system. Using the results of surveys, first-priority actions The new automated system with online data transfer to prevent washout of the coastline were specified: capability will support accurate calculations of surface runoff • rehabilitation of damaged parts of coast protection for specific areas in the city and suburbs taking into account structures; the non-uniformity of atmospheric precipitation. • stabilization of the coastline sections subject In 2015, Vodokanal and Rosgidromet will put the system to washout to a greater extent; into full-scale operation. • prohibition of building in the water body’s buffer zone. 169 NEW TECHNOLOGIES FOR during distribution, and the probability of leaks through the RECONSTRUCTION OF holes, cracks or slits caused by corrosion of the pipe material, WATER/SEWER NETWORKS is lower. Sunline technology (a wearproof polymerimpregnated sleeve) is often used for sewer reconstruction. Sometimes, a different method is chosen: an old pipe is pneumatically expanded and burst, and then a new pipe is IN 2014, VODOKANAL USED pulled through it. Pipes made of fragile materials (asbestos NEW TECHNOLOGIES, cement, cast iron, or reinforced concrete) are renewed by E.G. NO-DIG METHODS, means of pneumodrift. In 2014, Vodokanal TO RECONSTRUCT ITS WATER began to use the KANKОSEI technology which enables NETWORKS a company to repair the existing sewers without Annually, approx. 60% of water and sewer networks stopping their operation and in Petersburg are renovated using trenchless technologies. to strengthen their structures. With such technologies, pipes can be repaired with minimum Originally, the new technology disturbance to the surrounding area, and long-lasting disruption was developed in Japan and to traffic flow can be avoided. further upgraded together Vodokanal uses different methods for network renovation. with LLC “Transspetsstroy” One is CemPipe liner: a plastic tube is pulled into a host pipe, to adapt it to the North-West and the space between the old pipe and the plastic tube is filled Russian conditions. with cement mortar. Another technology, PipeWay, is a special The principle is as follows: method of applying epoxy resin on the inner surface of a pipe. a plastic strip is spirally wound A 630 mm diameter pipeline in Pulkovskoye Shosse inside a collector. Then was renovated in 2014 by spraying the polymeric material a special mortar is pumped Scotchkote Liner 2400 on cleaned inner surface of the pipeline. into the space between the Scotchkote Liner 2400 is a rapidly solidified polyurea applied strip and the tunnel wall. by centrifugal spraying. It enhances the structural strength of There are several reasons water pipes by forming a highly-effective corrosion-resistant why the technology is suitable coating. As a result, there is no deterioration of water quality for renovation of tunnel collectors in St. Petersburg. 170 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations Firstly, it enables renovation of collectors laid at the depth of 5 m–50 m or deeper without putting them out of operation, i.e. works can be performed in the operating collectors. Secondly, it can be used for any tunnel diameter in the range 1.2 m–4.7 m, or any cross-section geometry (from circular to U-shaped), and the distance between shafts TESTS OF CONDUITS Setup of microtubular optical fibre ducts in gravity sewers can be an optimal may be up to 550 m. Short radius bends (30 m or smaller) FOR OPTICAL alternative to the existing telecommunication networks on some collector sections are no obstacle to this technology. The new technology FIBRE CABLES with traditional underground telecommunication facilities can be used for overall repair of tunnels and pipes IN SEWER and overhead-underground junctions. including reinforcement of their structures (it is needed NETWORKS Under the tests, an optical fibre communication line was laid in the existing sewers when dynamic or static loads (sections between 5, Omskaya increase) and renovation of str. and 41, Lanskoye shosse, the old pipe surface. Due to and between 6, Omskaya str. the technology advantages and 20, Omskaya str.). a tunnel can withstand The trial operation results additional loads or vibrations demonstrated that the tests (for example, a tunnel collector may need structural IN 2014, VODOKANAL MADE were successful. The Scientific Technical Council at the reinforcement when deep excavation or construction TESTS TO FIND OUT WHETHER Committee for Energy and Engineering Support decided of a high building is planned in this area, or when a collector is IT WAS POSSIBLE to take further steps aimed at the implementation of this under heavy traffic loads). With this technology, TO LAY MICROTUBULAR technology, such as amending the applicable regulatory no additional construction (excavation) works are required OPTICAL FIBER CONDUITS documents and procedures. on the surface or inside the structure. Therefore, repair IN GRAVITY SEWERS works can be performed quickly and at a minimum price as compared to traditional technologies. 171 TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS TO TIGHTEN SEWER MANHOLES The ground water level is high At its core the technology in St. Petersburg. To prevent uses polymer inserts with penetrating of infiltration water anker elements to cover into the sewerage system the inner surface of manholes technical solutions to tighten and provide the system sewer manholes are needed. tightness. With anker elements Leakage of manholes leads not reliable mechanical adhesion only to increase in the volume of polyethylene and walls of pumped wastewater but of reinforced manholes occurs also soil erosion around the by coating the above surfaces pipeline and manholes that with a special solution and in turn results in sagging and fastening them together destruction of pavement. followed by welding of plastic To solve the issue in 2014, elements. Vodokanal St. Petersburg considered various options to tighten manholes; one of them is being applied now. 172 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations INFORMATION AND ANALYTICAL SOFTWARE TO ASSESS THE RISKS OF WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS IN 2014, VODOKANAL BRANCH “ENGINEERING AND INNOVATION CENTRE” IMPLEMENTED THE The IAS is based on the Guidelines for express-calculation of risk INFORMATION AND ANALYTICAL evaluation matrix developed by the Engineering and Innovation Centre with the aim to identify the key actions SOFTWARE (IAS) AT VODOKANAL to be included in the St. Petersburg water and wastewater plan. With the software system implemented, any calculations FACILITIES TO ASSESS THE RISKS of non-performance risks for the actions envisaged under Vodokanal’s Investment Programme could be computerized. OF WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER The IAS supports an integrated approach, systematic consideration of risk factors, and in-depth estimation of potential DISPOSAL SYSTEMS losses and benefits from implementation or non-implementation of development projects for Vodokanal’s structurally complex facilities. The IAS helps assess the consequences of non-implementation, or unreasoned exclusion from St. Petersburg water and wastewater plan, of any projects having social or environmental significance. 173 Development of Hydraulic Hydraulic calculations are Simulation made for pressure zones, water supply districts or other territorial units depending on specific task. Chiefly, schedules of service interruptions and diversion to other networks MODERN AND EFFICIENT HYDRAULIC are calculated to forecast changes of water flows and SIMULATION INSTRUMENTS pressures, and to select optimal operating modes ARE USED TO SOLVE OPERATIONAL of pumping stations. Hydraulic simulation is based AND DEVELOPMENT TASKS FOR WATER on the PDCA cycle providing continuous improvement SUPPLY NETWORK OF SUE “VODOKANAL of models and simulation approaches. OF ST. PETERSBURG” 174 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations MOREOVER, CALCULATIONS ARE MADE TO SELECT THE BEST TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS FOR THE PROJECTS AIMED AT THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE CITY’S CENTRALIZED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. FOR EXAMPLE, LIMIT VALUES (MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM) OF STREAM VELOCITY AT THE LOCATIONS OF INTER-SECTORAL FLOW METERS IN THE SOUTHERN WATER SUPPLY ZONE WERE DETERMINED USING HYDRAULIC SIMULATION. DUE TO THAT, INSTRUMENTS WITH OPTIMAL OPERATING PARAMETERS COULD BE SELECTED, AND THE LIST OF INSTRUMENT LOCATIONS COULD BE OPTIMIZED 175 176 Geoinformation System Development 177 A GEOINFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) IS CREATED TO PROVIDE TO VODOKANAL DIVISIONS TIMELY, RELIABLE AND COMPREHENSIVE GEOINFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY’S FACILITIES AND THE CITY INFRASTRUCTURE, TO CONSOLIDATE ALL TYPES OF ACCOUNTING, TO REGISTER PROPERTY RIGHTS, TO EXCHANGE INFORMATION WITH STATE AUTHORITIES AND TO PROVIDE DATA SUPPORT TO PRODUCTION PROCESSES IS “Baltika” operation is based on 10 interacting The GIS comprises hardware, IS “Baltika” is a distributed, subsystems and their software modules which support software, Vodokanal’s MapInfo MapXtreme-based the following functions: cartographic database and graphics and information • CARTOGRAPHY – performs standard GIS operations data communication channels. system. It has an openwith spatial objects, service cartographic operations, architecture core and operations on technical record-keeping objects, supports a powerful graphics engine. vector and raster data sets, defines the coverage of territorial zones; • PROPERTY ACCOUNTING – enables to manage Company’s property; maintain a register of land parcels held on lease or leased out; issue reports on current or scheduled payments; update information about buildings, facilities, networks and movable assets; • TECHNICAL RECORD-KEEPING – updates information about the status of water wells and network sections, records changes in technical parameters of engineering networks; network write-off, planning, renovation and preparation for cadastral registration; maintains thematic registers of housings, discharges, boosting pumping stations, sewage pumping stations, water meters, tunnel collectors, connection points, water wells, zones, etc.; supports the issuance, follow-up and closure of network cleaning requests on the basis of reporting documentation; supports inventories, drafting and making of contracts with customers; provides information support to electrochemical protection of steel pipelines; 178 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations • WEB-ACCESS – performs standard GIS operations with spatial objects, service cartographic operations; supports browsing through records of technical parameters, events, THE USE engineering networks, the Company assets and flow meters; processes sewer cleaning requests; provides a navigation OF CUTTING-EDGE function for line crews and emergency teams using a mobile working place; TECHNOLOGIES • ADMINISTRATION – management of user accounts; editor lock of registers open to several users at a time, FOR THE DEVELOPMENT maintains lists of users, tasks, roles and news in IS “Baltika”; • INTEGRATION WITH EXTERNAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY’S OWN SYSTEMS AND RESOURCES – updates information about facilities and their addresses; establishes primarily links INFORMATION SYSTEM between the accounting data and technical records; specifies the place of breakdown upon the request from IS “Hot Line”; ALLOWED TO SOLVE THE interacts with IS “Customer Service Centre” and software module “Passport of the Facility”; on-line location and SECURITY RESTRICTIONS recording of an object position at the mobile workstation; builds and transmits to SYNERGEE WATER up-to-date PROBLEMS FACED BY USERS models of engineering networks; • SIMULATION AND SHAPING OF WATER SERVICE WORKING WITH CARTOGRAPHIC INTERRUPTION AREAS, WITH OPTIMIZATION ANALYSIS OPTION – shapes service interruption areas, makes lists of DATA, SUCH AS LOCATION disconnected customers and passports of disconnected sites; simulates the shaping of disconnected areas, and automates AND CHARACTERISTICS OF the search for redundant valves; • MONITORING OF THE SOUTHERN WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING NETWORKS, ZONE RECONSTRUCTION PHASES – supports the monitoring of reconstruction works at required levels; BY INSTALLING THE CERTIFIED • SUPPORT OF INTEGRATED WATER NETWORK SURVEY – maintains and browses the register of the planned INFORMATION SECURITY water network integrated survey, visualizes the works completed under the water network integrated survey. SOFTWARE WIN • NAVIGATION – positions network elements on the map and visualizes them by means of double-frequency 7 PRO NO. 2180 STEK RS GLONASS/GPS receivers (accuracy in differential mode – 2m or more, and in RTK, real-time mode, – 0.20 m or more). ON THE WORKSTATIONS 179 IS “Baltika” cartographic database contains over 150 regularly updated cartographic layers, including: • existing cadastral plan of the St. Petersburg Committee for Land Resources and Land Management; • data of St. Petersburg urban-planning information system from the Committee for Urban Development and Architecture; • information about investment projects received from GU “Investment Management”; • the digital 1:10000 map of St. Petersburg dated 2005; • raster tablets (1:500, 1:2000); • orthophotomaps of St. Petersburg territory produced on the basis of the aerial survey conducted in April–May 2011 (resolution – 18 cm); • digital surface map of In 2014, IS “Baltika” was developed in the following way: St. Petersburg, where all • UPDATING OF THE EXISTING FUNDAMENTAL types of surface (grass lawns, CARTOGRAPHIC BASE. bushes, asphalt, tile, etc.) are The work is carried out under the data exchange agreement presented in the form of areal between the Committee for Informatization and Communication, objects (1:2000); Committee for Urban Development and Architecture, • digital map of the LeninGU “Investment Management” and St. Petersburg Committee grad Region within a radius for Land Resources and Land Management. of 30km from St. Petersburg • DEVELOPMENT OF THE PACKAGE OF INTERRELATED and the map of the town INFORMATION-COMPUTING TASKS AND MODELS. of Luga; The module “Quality of water in water bodies” was established • thematic information to provide information support of water quality monitoring in water about engineering networks, bodies, to enter the data on water quality checkpoints and the land plots, buildings and faciliresults of water quality monitoring, and to issue standard reports ties of the Company. for a given period of time; groups of tasks for the module “Quality of water in water bodies” were built in WEB. The module for informational support of the electrochemical corrosion protection of steel pipelines was set into operation to enter (edit, remove) cartographic data related to electrochemical corrosion protection into e-map layers, and to enter technical characteristics of each electrochemical corrosion element. A special register was built to list electrochemical corrosion protection units, steel pipeline defects and results of steel pipeline technical surveys. 180 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations The following functions were improved under the IS “Baltika” maintenance contract: • Implementation of a new IS “Baltika” updating system THE SYSTEM at the Company. • Introduction of new MapXtreme licenses, transferring MAINTENANCE of the WEB-access subsystem to new WEB-servers, the operating speed of IS “Baltika” WEB-client increased 4 times. EVALUATION • Development and setting into operation of the sewer hydrodynamic flushing module. Visualization of telediagnostics HAS SHOWN results; enhancement of the sewer hydrodynamic flushing register; the flushing module is improved in WEB-client. • Collection, analysis and systematization of the system A 25% INCREASE software errors identified during the system operation; approval of error recovery algorithms and time schedules. IN THE NUMBER • Analysis, troubleshooting and remedy of IS “Baltika” malfunctions at the users’ workplaces; development OF REFERENCES of recommendations for the client’s system administrators on how to restore the client-side functionality. TO IS “BALTIKA” • Development of IS “Baltika” database and WEB-interface to link house connections of IS “LIVS” in the Customer Service Center (CSC) with IS “Baltika” nodes. AT VODOKANAL • Network’s mathematical graph forming and unloading function for a given zone is provided. IN 2014 • Implementation of OrtoPhotoPlans 2013 display function. • The layer of land parcels from Cadastral Chamber is included into the Object-Target System of the Committee of Natural Resources and Land Management. • A photo saving function is developed for buildings and meters in WEB-subsystem. • A map “Physical assets without CSC IS contract” is developed in WEB-subsystem. GIS supports development • The work schedule register display for IS “Maintenance of calculation/modeling/simulation and Repair Management” is improved in WEB-subsystem. software modules, visualization of • “Network Examination Register” module is improved. production processes, and thematic • The GUION Inventory Module is put into operation. and situation simulation for decisionmakers. The structure of distributed GIS is built using advanced methods of large information system design and surpasses standard ISs in terms of combining data storage and processing logics in a single information visualization unit. GIS has a wide range of functionality for the data management systems implementation making it possible to use the geographic information system as the core instrument for heterogeneous data integration and publication. 181 Energy-Saving and Energy Efficiency Projects VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG IS ONE OF THE BIGGEST ENERGY CONSUMERS IN ST. PETERSBURG. IN 2014, THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF THE COMPANY ACCOUNTED FOR 691.1 MIO. KWH The Company is strongly Plant and Moskovskaya Pumping Station was completed. Since the completion focused on energy saving and Frequency converters were installed at Southern, Main, Northof AIMS CMEE 5th stage, energy efficiency improveern, Volkovskaya and Kolpino WTPs. Pumps were replaced 95% of the Company’s elecment. at Bogumilovskaya and Krasnaya Sloboda Pumping Stations. tric energy has been conIn 2014, electricity conThe Company started reconstruction of two biggest third-lift trolled automatically. sumption reduced water pumping stations: Murinskaya PS and Kushelevskaya It is planned to extend AIMS by 4.3% as compared PS; reconstruction of the air blower station including substituCMEE in 2015. In 2014, the to the previous year. This tion of variable air feed blowers for the existing blowers, was implementation of automated result was achieved, among carried out under the Northern WWTP Reconstruction Project. system for commercial meterother things, due to the imThe works will be completed in 2015. ing of thermal energy began. plementation of water supply Since 2012, Vodokanal has implemented and In June 2014, Vodokanal’s management system, installacertified the energy management system (EnMS) under energy management systion of energy-efficient equipISO 50001:2011 “Energy Management Systems. Requiretem successfully passed the ment at the pumping stations ments with Guidance for Use”. audit for conformity with ISO in the Southern water The Company’s existing energy management system ena50001:2011 made by the supply zone of St. Petersbles efficient control over sustainable use of energy resources Russian Register certification burg, and renewable energy as required for the provision of water and wastewater servicassociation in the presence sources (heat and electricity es, and supports timely decision-making aimed to increase the of American Accrediting Counproduced by sludge incineraenergy efficiency of Vodokanal operations. cil auditors. tion). Vodokanal’s own elecIn 2014, implementation of the 5th stage of the In 2014, Vodokanal extricity production reached Automated Information-Measuring System for Commercial perts participated in confer2.862 Mio. kWh. Metering of Electric Energy was completed at 34 facilities ences, seminars and panel In 2014, the reconstrucof Vodokanal. The system supports automated collection discussions dedicated to tion of machine room no. 2 of readings from commercial electric counters and control energy efficiency and energy at Southern Water Treatment of power grid parameters. management. 182 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations Patents THE MAIN PRINCIPLES Within the framework of scientific and technical OF VODOKANAL INTELLECTUAL information monitoring, the Company made patent PROPERTY POLICY ARE: research on 15 topics. The feasibility of the following novel technical solutions was verified based on such research: • provision of timely legal protection of intellectual • a challenging technology property in compliance with the intellectual property law; of flush water regeneration • preventing any violation of the Company’s exclusive using a hollow fiber membrane rights to the intellectual property; reactor was successfully tested • monitoring of scientific and technical information, at Southern WTP, a technical search for new cutting-edge technical solutions, solution for the ceramic determination of scientific and technological level membrane reactor of developments. was developed; • test programs were developed, and the tests of new potassium In order to improve the effectiveness of patent work, monopersulfate-based a number of regulatory and guidance documents were chemicals for sewage/drinking developed including, in particular, Vodokanal standards: water disinfection began; “Procedure to identify protectable intellectual activity • a challenging chemicalresults from the results of research and development, free technology of enhanced design and experimental, technological activities” and “SUE wastewater treatment using “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” regulations on production a membrane bioreactor was secrets (know-how)”. finalized; In 2014, Vodokanal began the trial operation of six utility • useful characteristics models and lodged applications to obtain patents for of Okkervil standpipe’s ejector 12 inventions and utility models including the sewer shaft unit, shut-off valve and rod repair method, the municipal water supply-wastewater (operated by Vodokanal since disposal balance assessment method, the inflow diagnostic 2012) were upgraded; system, the drinking water treatment method and plant, etc. • a pilot “Device to prevent water hammers when Moscowtype fire hydrants are opened incorrectly” was designed; • a “Device to remove small water volumes from hard-toreach places” was developed; • a conceptual model of direct water standpipe was developed. 183 Development of Information Infrastructure VODOKANAL’S INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTS CORPORATE PRODUCTION, FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES Vodokanal’s information infrastructure includes: ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE FIELD • communication systems and tools; • production automation OF COMMUNICATIONS The corporate communication systems and tools support process systems and tools; data transfer, process control automation, and the monitoring • information systems; of emergency team operations; reduce emergency response • information security; times, etc. Thus, the first-priority task for this IT function • technical and engineering is to expand the corporate information network and to improve support of IT infrastructure. the communication quality with due regard to general cost The key focus for optimization targets. Vodokanal in the field The following was done in 2014: of information technologies • 8,225 m of main fiber-optic communication lines were laid; is on automating the • two new data channels were provided for the Company Company processes. facilities and two existing channels were extended; It means, primarily, transition • 4,170 SIM-cards were activated to be used, mainly, to a single standard for data transfer from house meters. of IT implementation, cross-cutting integration Innovative communication solutions were gaining of information systems, momentum. In 2013, the feasibility of CableRunnerTM and establishment hybrid micro-tube ducts for the construction of fiber-optic of an integrated corporate communication lines in the St. Petersburg underground management system. sewers operated by Vodokanal, was evaluated. Additional trilateral agreements regarding the trial operation of two finished sections of fiber-optic communication lines were 184 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Innovations ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF CORPORATE INFORMATION SYSTEMS Vodokanal’s all major information systems undergone qualitative changes in 2014 after amendments had been made to the Federal Law no. 416–FZ “On Water Supply and Sanitation”. By modernizing the information systems in 2014, the existing business processes could be updated and extended in compliance with the law of the Russian Federation. A computer-based metrological information system was developed and put into full-scale operation. Moreover, a huge work was done to upgrade the Billing and Collections System with the capability of data migration from related systems, thus eliminating the need for additional information systems and handling all relations with customers by a single information system. The prototype IS “Water meter reading and maintenance information system” was developed to improve the process automation level, and presented to users. signed in February 2014. Currently, the test program Integration of corporate information systems into a single is completed, a positive decision regarding the feasibility information space, Vodokanal’s CISDN, is ongoing. of micro-tube ducts for fiber-optic communication lines is obtained, and amendments are being made to relevant sectoral regulatory documents in cooperation with the Committee for Information and Communication and other ACHIEVEMENTS stakeholders. IN INFORMATION SECURITY Vodokanal’s Information Security Management System (ISMS) ACHIEVEMENTS IN PROCESS was developed, implemented and certified according to the international standard ISO/IEC 27001:2005. AUTOMATION In 2014, the milestones on the way to process automation were: As a result, a plan of organizational and technical measures to improve the company information security was developed and adopted for implementation. The plan includes internal audits of • pilot-scale tests of the innovative Nemo-Aqua Platforminformation security, and acquisition of hardware and software based water supply management system for the south-western systems designed to upgrade the technical level of information district of St. Petersburg were launched; in parallel, Vodokanal security and to mitigate identified and assessed risks. began work to create a citywide water supply management The external audit conducted in 2014 by the “Russian system; Register” Certification Association and Sai Global confirmed that • commissioning of an automated process control system Vodokanal’s Information Security Management System complied for water intake from the Neva by Main WTP under the Main WTP with ISO/IEC 27001:2005. reconstruction project; The advanced FSTEC RFcertified data protection tool • development of software and hardware for water supply “Certified Windows 7 Pro” was installed at 600 workstations. automation complex. Moreover, SIMATIC PCS7, a homogeneous and uniform process control system with a unique expandable architecture, was implemented at Southern WTP as an innovative process automation solution. 185 186 Social Responsibility 187 AwarenessBuilding UNDERTAKING ITS MISSION, SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” PUTS SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON DEVELOPING CAREFUL AND RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT IN GENERAL AND WATER RESOURCES IN PARTICULAR The recent years’ stable trend towards reduction of water consumption is, among other things, the result of Vodokanal’s awareness-building efforts. For the purpose of disseminating the culture of water THE KEY INSTRUMENTS use and developing environmental thinking, Vodokanal widely collaborates with the mass media and uses the potential OF THE COMPANY’S of different Internet-resources. In 2010, the Internet-portal www.da-voda.com targeted for the active part of Internet AWARENESS-BUILDING community was launched with the support of Vodokanal. The principal character of the Portal – the Neva Crayfish – ACTIVITIES ARE THE YOUTH has its own pages in social networks. ENVIRONMENTAL CENTER (YEC) AND THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX – BOTH BEING PART OF THE INFORMATION AND TRAINING CENTER 188 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Youth THE MAIN TASK OF YEC IS TO HELP Environmental THE YOUNGER GENERATION Center REALIZE THE VALUE OF WATER, TO RAISE THE IN 2014, TWENTYCULTURE OF NINE ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS WATER USE IN AND PROGRAMMES WERE ST. PETERSBURG, IMPLEMENTED AT THE YOUTH AND TO TEACH ENVIRONMENTAL CENTRE, CHILDREN SIMPLE INCLUDING 19 CITYWIDE, SKILLS OF USING 5 REGIONAL AND 5 INTERNATIONAL WATER RESOURCES ONES, WHERE NEARLY SPARINGLY. 37,000 PEOPLE WERE CHILDREN INVOLVED TRANSFER THE YEC is an advanced interactive centre offering interactive classes for pre-schoolers, schoolchildren, college students KNOWLEDGE AND and families; it implements environmental projects, provides informational and methodological support to teachers and EXPERIENCE THEY organizes festival thematic events. YEC is an active participant of regional and GOT TO THEIR international programmes and projects. FAMILIES AND SCHOOLS 189 YEC ACTIVITIES ARE BASED ON THE IDEAS OF SUSTAINABLE In 2014, YEC specialists DEVELOPMENT; designed and tested a combined educational IT MAKES GOOD USE excursion “Looking for Mysteries” OF INFORMATION to the Universe of Water Museum and to the TECHNOLOGIES AND ACTIVE Youth Environmental Centre. LEARNING METHODS Every day, YEC offers interactive programmes for children Projects are implemented and young people of different age groups by request by YEC the whole year round. of educational institutions: In 2014, project teams were • for 5–7 year old children: “Droplet’s Journey”, “Sea built by requests of educational Adventures on Your Birthday”; institutions. They were trained • for 1–5 year schoolchildren: “Water on the Earth”, at YEC workshops and then “Water in Everyday Life”, “Mysteries of Nature”, “Big, Little performed independent Sea”, “Learn from the Nature”, “Sea Adventures on Your activities, made studies Birthday”; or creative works. • for 6–10 year school students: “The Sea Nearby”, “Secrets of the Baltic”, “The City By the Sea”, “Proficient in the Baltic”, “Water Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow”, “Water – A Global Resource”, “Water, Environment and I”; • for 8–11 year school students and college students: “Water Quality Test Lab”, “The Sea Nearby”, “Secrets of the Baltic”, “The City By the Sea”, “Water Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow”, “Water – A Global Resource”, “Water, Environment and I”. Key projects implemented by YEC in 2013: • “Water +” – project for secondary school dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year; • “Children – for the Gulf of Finland Year” – project for 5–15 year old children; • “ECOgames” project for secondary school dedicated to the Earth Day; • “ECOsummer” project for participants of summer programmes at Children Recreation Camp “Zvyozdniy”; • New Year event “New Year in the Old Tower. International projects implemented by YEC in 2014: • Russian-Finnish project “Training of the Young Through the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre”; • Russian-German project “ECOvision” in partnership with the General Consulate of Germany. 190 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility YEC PARTICIPATION Moreover, YEC participated in the Children TV Journalism IN REGIONAL AND Festival “TELESTART” in 2014. INTERNATIONAL The YEC project team presented its videofilm “Wish PROGRAMMES You Fish!“ and won in the nomination “Ecology”; it also IN 2014: won the grand-prix of the Festival. • “Fundamentals of Safe Water Use” Programme in the framework of the All-Russian School Olympiad in Life Safety, the city round. • VII All-Russian Scientific Environmental Conference “Water – a Well of Life on the Earth”. • The Gulf of Finland Night Programme in the framework of the international event “Museums at Night”. In 2014, interactive • Children programme at the International Environmental workshops on “modern Film Festival “Green Vision”. environmental education and • Environmental festival and research-to-practice conference “Krasnoselskaya Rainbow”. education for sustainable development” were organized VODOKANAL’S • Interactive programme “ECOschool” in the framework of the city Youth Environmental Forum. for teachers of educational institutions. YEC ACTIVITIES • City event “Children Days in St. Petersburg” (preparation and implementation of the environmental programme The workshops aimed to disseminate effective ARE APPRECIATED “The Baltic Expedition”). • International professional forum of museum workers education methods and make the teachers more competent BOTH IN RUSSIA “Museum and Children Culture” (Vodokanal organized and implemented a round table and master classes in selection of relevant topics for environmental lessons. AND IN FOREIGN in cooperation with the All-Russian Museum Association). • XV International Forum “The Baltic Sea Day” (welcome Twenty thematic workshops were delivered COUNTRIES address by the YEC core team, preparation of the youth in 2014; in total, 782 people workshop). attended them. • Round table “Environmental education and awarenessbuilding – for the Gulf of Finland Year”. • UN Model International Youth Conference. • The Fifth Petersburg Educational Forum (Vodokanal In 2004, YEC was awarded the National Environmental Prize organized and implemented, in cooperation with the Education of V.I. Vernadskiy Foundation for its contribution to the strengthening Committee, the round table “Professional interest of environmental safety and sustainable development. In 2007, as a factor of choice and profession mastering”). YEC was awarded the Certificate of the European Environmental • International environmental camp in the framework Agency for teaching young people how to conserve the environment of Trilateral Cooperation “Gulf of Finland Year 2014”, and the Baltic Sea. In November 2013, at the official closing of the formulation of the Youth Declaration. Environmental Year in the State Kremlin Palace and at the “Russian • Awareness-raising campaign “Water Lessons” Ecology” tele-marathon final held at RIA Novosty news agency, for the city’s educational institutions, conducted in cooperation Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre was declared the winner with the St. Petersburg Education Committee. of the Environmental Year First National Prize in the nomination • Open Water Lesson at YEC in the framework of the “Eco-Leader of the Year 2013”. The diploma states that YEC activities All-City Festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation”. are highly commended “for persistent dissemination of environmental • The St. Petersburg phase of the programme “Ecovalues and sharing best practices in the field of environment-friendly Schoolers – Way to the Good and Nature-Loving” targeted technologies and healthy life style”. to pupils of children homes in Moscow and Petersburg In 2014, YEC’s project “Water + I = Friends” won in the (in cooperation with the All-Russian Children Support Advocacy nomination “Environmental Education and Awareness-Building” under Group “Angel – Childhood – Guardian” and the Nation’s the international project “Environmental Culture. Peace and Harmony”. Environmental Heritage Conservation Council). The awarding ceremony took place on 5 June, the World Environment • Joint exhibition of children’s drawings in cooperation with Protection Day (the Environmentalist Day). The competition organizers the regional public organization “Marine Mammals Council” were: the Non-Governmental Environmental Fund named after V.I. in the framework of the Gulf of Finland Year 2014 and VIII Vernadskiy and the International Environmental Public Organization International Conference “Marine Mammals of Holarctic”. GREENLIGHT. 191 The Universe of Water Museum • Multimedia exhibition Complex “The Underground World of St. Petersburg” (in the left annex to the Water Tower). Visitors can trace the route of water from the intake to treatment plants, then to the flats via distribution THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM networks and back to wastewater treatment plants. COMPLEX IN 56, SHPALERNAYA STR. Here, they can also look at a model of the historical IS AN OPEN SOCIAL PROJECT OF SUE center of St. Petersburg. The model was produced “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG”. by the Institute of Architecture to Vodokanal’s order. THE MUSEUM COMPLEX NOT ONLY • Multimedia exhibition “The Universe of Water” OFFERS A FULL PICTURE OF THE MAN’S (in the former underground clean water reservoir). VIEWS OF WATER AND ITS PROPERTIES, It is a unique storage of modern water knowledge. BUT ALSO SHOWS THE HISTORY The exhibition is based on multimedia technologies, OF ST. PETERSBURG, THE CITY WHERE stereo effects and textual explanations. Over thirty WATER IS A CITY-FORMING ESSENCE video-films disclosing various aspects of the water element AND THE SOURCE OF SCIENTIFIC, are demonstrated there. The exhibitions in the WaENGINEERING AND CULTURAL ter Tower were opened in 2004 – it was Vodokanal’s ACHIEVEMENTS RATHER THAN JUST present on the 300th anniversary of St. Petersburg. SOMETHING THAT IS USED FOR The former clean water reservoir was transformed into the HOUSEHOLD OR INDUSTRIAL NEEDS Universe of Water museum by the 150th anniversary of Vodokanal in 2008. The Universe of Water museum offers new interactive activities for visitors THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX COMPRISES of different age groups. THREE EXHIBITIONS: Interactive programmes are • Classical museum exhibition “The Water World of developed for pre-schoolers St. Petersburg” (in the former Water Tower). The exhibits – and schoolchildren of differdocuments, pictures, objects, collections of sanitary equipment ent age; general and thematic and hatches – show the history of water supply and sewerage excursions are offered origination and development. for students and adults. 192 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility VISITORS OF THE MUSEUM COMPLEX (NUMBER OF PERSONS) 250,000 225,515 215,769 218,848 202,408 204,553 200,000 191,733 189,645 183,398 150,000 100,000 90,552 66,560 67,820 69,265 50,000 37,052 0 2003-2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of visitors Museum and YEC taken together IN 2014, THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX According to the opinion THE UNIVERSE survey, overall satisfaction with the performance OF WATER 0.2% 0.8% of the museum complex was 99% in 2014. MUSEUM 9.1% COMPLEX AND YEC WERE VISITED 28.1% Very satisfied BY 218,848 PEOPLE 61.8% Rather satisfied Satisfied Dissatisfied Rather dissatisfied 193 KEY PROJECTS UNDER THE INTERNATIONAL The Universe of Water museum complex is a long-term participant EVENT “MUSEUMS AT NIGHT 2014” of the international event “Museums at Night”. This event helps impart water knowledge and ideas to a wide audience. THE VISITORS WERE OFFERED A SPECIAL TOUR “THE GULF The tour comprised: • intellectual game; OF FINLAND NIGHT” ALLOWING • water experimen; • express-excursions; TO SEE ALL THREE EXHIBITIONS • exhibition of environmental installations “Youth – for the Gulf of Finland Year”. OF THE MUSEUM COMPLEX WITH As many as 6,622 people visited the Universe of Water ONE MUSEUM TICKET during the Museums at Night event. In 2014, the Universe of Water participated in big tourist exhibitions: • The international exhibition of tourism and recreation in Northern Europe, MATKA-2014 Nordic Travel Fair (16–19 January 2014, Helsinki, Finland); • IX International tourist exhibition Intourmarket (ITM)–2014 (15–18 March 2014, Moscow). It is one of the country’s main exhibitions officially supported by the Russian Ministry of Culture and the Federal Tourist Agency. Over 1,000 companies from 148 countries and regions of the world were the exhibitors. The total number of visitors was over 80,000. In January-May 2014, the Universe of Water participated in the city’s museum competition-voyage “The Big Regatta”. Under the project, the Museum specialists developed a dedicated educational excursion to the historical exhibition “Water World of St. Petersburg”. In early autumn, the museum complex and YEC participated in the city’s thematic environmental project “EcoOkhta” organized together with the Administration of Krasnogvardeyskiy District in St. Petersburg. A folk concert dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year and an educational competition designed by YEC specialists were organized at YEC in the framework of the event. The visitors could learn more about the cultural traditions of Russia, Finland and Estonia, special features of the Gulf of Finland, the activities of the Marine Mammals Rehabilitation Centre, and the achievements of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. 194 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility IN THE PERIOD 19 DECEMBER 2014 – 5 JANUARY 2015, ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESSTraditionally, the museum complex participated in the Citywide Festival of children museum programmes “Children Museum BUILDING INTERACTIVE Days in St. Petersburg” during the autumn school vacation, 30 October through 9 November 2014. YEC specialists NEW YEAR PROGRAMMES developed an interactive family programme “The Baltic Expedition” for the Festival participants. The programme “THE NEW YEAR IN THE OLD was run 36 times, for 1,026 participants in total. TOWER OR LOOKING FOR A MAGIC KEY” WERE CONDUCTED Special interactive thematic programmes for schoolchildren AT THE MUSEUM COMPLEX FOR and families were designed and offered by the museum specialists in 2014: THE CHILDREN OF VODOKANAL • Where Do Crayfish Winter? – during the first-graders’ vacation in February; EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS OF • Make a Date At the Water Museum – for Valentine’s Day (14 February); PETERSBURG SCHOOLS. • Fair Winds and Following Seas! – for the Fatherland Defender’s Day (23 February); THE NEW YEAR 2014 • Cleanliness Is the Best Beauty – for the International Women’s Day, 8 March; PROGRAMMES WERE ATTENDED • Tune In To the Baltic – for the World Water Day and the Baltic Sea Day; BY 4,833 PEOPLE • The Fountain Of Wishes – for the All-Russian Family, Love and Faithfulness Day; • Old Salt – for the Russian Navy Day; • The Odyssey of Water – dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year – for secondary school students. In 2014, temporary thematic exhibitions were organized at the museum complex: • 19 September – 19 October: The Sea Nearby – exhibition of works of art from the Central Naval Museum (dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year). The exhibition displayed 27 paintings by well-known marine artists dedicated to historical events in the Gulf of Finland, and 6 models of XVIII-, XIXand XX-century ships. • 6–30 November: The Gulf of Finland Wind – exhibition of watercolours dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year. The exhibition displayed 270 works by Petersburg watercolorist and by artists from Finland, Estonia and Belarus. • 17–28 November: Genial Handicraft – XII regional exhibition of creative works by elderly people and invalids. The exhibition was timed to coincide with the International Day of Older People and the International Invalids’ Day. It was initiated by the Leningrad Region Committee for Social Protection. 195 Da-Voda Website The Neva Crayfish has his pages in the social networks, such as VKontakte, Facebook and Twitter. The Crayfish addresses his friends in Russian and English. His friends numbered over 11,000 at the DA-VODA WEBSITE (DA-VODA.COM) end of 2014. In summer 2014, IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF VODOKANAL’S Vodokanal won the First National Water Sector Award BIGGER PROJECT AIMED TO DEVELOP “Russia’s Water” in the nomination “Best awarenessRESPECTFUL ATTITUDE TO WATER raising project aimed to develop respectful attitude to water in the society”. Vodokanal applied for the award by presenting its project “Fostering careful attitude to water at the household level”. Vodokanal used several key instruments for the project: Da-Voda website devoted to careful attitude to water including its accounts in social networks, YEC, and the museum complex. In October 2014, Da-Voda website won the regional round of the First All-Russian ENES competition of projects implemented in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency. The project “Use of social media to develop careful attitude to water resources: example of Da-Voda website (www.da-voda.com)” won in the nomination “Best Internetmedia in dissemination of energy-saving lifestyle and organization of energy-efficient production”, in the category “Best project in dissemination of energy-saving lifestyle and organization of energy-efficient production”. Da-Voda website helps promote the culture of water use among the Web community. The main character of the portal, the Neva Crayfish, explains why a growing number of people avoid wasting water nowadays; what technical means are available to save water without impairing the comfort; how to face domestic water-related challenges; and what negligent attitude to water might lead to. 196 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility In 2014, senior school IN 2014, This special section of the website contains information on geography, history, biology and ecology of the Gulf of students (participants of the Environmental Installations A SPECIAL Finland, – it is a sort of the Gulf encyclopedia. The section’s columns “Animal (Plant) of the Month”, Project of the Year”, Festival conducted by Vodokanal’s Youth SECTION “Word of the Month”, “Change to Better”, and “Events” were updated every month. Environmental Centre) were involved in the compilation “THE GULF OF In particular, the animal of February was Baltic ringed seal announced the symbol of the Gulf of Finland Year in Estonia. of website content. They prepared a video-lesson FINLAND YEAR” According to the zoologists of the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre, the local population of ringed seals scenario dedicated to the problem of litter on the WAS ADDED in the Gulf of Finland is at a critical level: 200 animals only. For this reason, a wide-scale project is ongoing in Petersburg beaches. In this way, the awareness-raising effects TO DA-VODA with the aim to save Baltic ringed seals. The Centre specialists formulated a public rescue service development programme of YEC activities and Da-Voda portal (high-school children are WEBSITE WHERE to save ringed seals in the Gulf of Finland. In 2014, the stars of the Word of the Month column were: active Internet users) could be combined, and more feedback ONE COULD the President of Finland Sauli Niinistö, the Russian Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Sergey Donskoy, (on the problems the new generation is concerned with) GET MORE the Governor of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko, the President of Estonia Toomas Hendrik Ilves, the Finnish could be obtained. As a result, a new video-lesson “The Neva KNOWLEDGE Minister of Environment Ville Niinistö, the HELCOM Executive Secretary Monika Stankiewicz, a representative of the Finnish Crayfish and a Clean Beach” was posted on the website ABOUT THIS Environment Institute Marine Research Centre SYKE Kai Myrberg, and the Russian President Vladimir Putin. last summer. “Video-lessons” is a poWATER BODY The column “Change to Better” focused on threats and consequences of oil spills and relevant preventive measures; pular section on the portal where the Neva Crayfish AND LEARN HOW studies of physical, chemical and biological processes in the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Finland; and the geological diversity acts as a teacher. The total number of views of short TO HELP IT and its influence on the Gulf biodiversity. The column “Events” was devoted to different events animated cartoons about in the three countries that participated in the Gulf of Finland careful attitude to water was Year Project; the training course in spatial planning of the Gulf nearly 92,000. of Finland water area and coastline held in Petersburg and Helsinki; the Festival “Gulf of Finland – Area of Cooperation” in Petersburg, etc. One of the most popular sections on the website is Da-Voda In 2014, the column “Thirst for Companionship” presented TV: videofilms on various environmental topics are often interviews with stars of international standing, such as Charles posted there. Last year, most of them were dedicated to the Fishman, a well-known American journalist and writer; David marine mammals’ pups rescue project: the “kindergarten” for Belle, developer of parkour; and Vivienne Westwood, one seal pups, and the release of recovered and healthy patients of the main symbols of British fashion industry. The Governor of the Marine Mammals Research and Conservation Centre. of St. Petersburg Georgiy Poltavchenko was also interviewed Da-Voda website has several permanent columns. One of by Da-Voda. them, the Gadgets, presents information on different devices The growing popularity of Da-Voda is evidenced by the site that help reduce water consumption (without impairing the traffic data: in 2011, the average number of visitors was comfort), evaluating their advantages and disadvantages. 135/day, while in 2014 there were 380–430 visits a day. In 2014, the portal visitors learnt about Water&Time device Moreover, social networks provide 80% of links to Da-Voda and how it could save absent-minded inhabitants from being by references. flooded; about a new invention – water-powered car engine, and how water could be effectively extracted from air. 197 Rehabilitation of Marine Mammals SINCE 2013, VODOKANAL HAS RENDERED Seal pups are treated at the premises of Repino AID TO PINNIPED PUPS IN OUR WWTP in Kurortniy District of St. Petersburg. After the REGION TOGETHER WITH THE PROFESSIONAL animals improve in health and learn to get food on their own ZOOLOGISTS HAVING A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE they are released into the wild. IN REHABILITATION OF BABIES Vyacheslav Alexeyev and Elena Andriyevskaya OF LADOGA RINGED SEALS, are experienced zoologists and Russia’s only specialists BALTIC RINGED SEALS AND GREY SEALS, in marine mammals of our region. They have practiced AND WITH 2PR PUBLIC rehabilitation of seal pups since 2007. RELATIONS AGENCY 198 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility IN 2014, 29 PUPS (23 BALTIC GREY SEALS, 5 BALTIC RINGED SEALS AND 1 LADOGA RINGED SEAL) WERE REHABILITATED IN REPINO. ALL OF THEM RECOVERED, LEARNT TO HUNT AND RETURNED TO THEIR NATURAL When the seal pups rehabilitation season was over, the reconstruction of Marine Mammals Research and get prepared to the release into the wild there. The seals HABITAT Conservation Centre began. In September 2014, the Northusually attach themselves to West marine mammals centre, unparalleled anywhere humans during 1.5–2 months in Russia, was opened in Repino. of rehabilitation, and it is The Centre’s three blocks can receive up to 40 animals. undesirable: a wild animal A quarantine isolation block was built for new arrivals. must remain wild. It is for this The quarantine block is divided into two sections: there are reason that, practically, two kitchens, two examination rooms, and cubicles located no people come in sight of so as to separate the animals that come from the the seals at the adaptation Gulf of Finland and from Lake Ladoga. Next is located site. The seals stay in water a laboratory diagnostics room. When the animals recover most of the time and are and put on enough weight they are transferred to a physical given a possibility to lie “on rehabilitation room. Healthy seals are kept at outdoor the shore”. They are given temperature, eat fish without human assistance, recover their fish from behind a screen – motor function, foster adaptation to cold water gradually by for the animals not to staying in water for longer each time, and learn to catch live associate the coming food fish. The next block houses adaptation cages. The animals with humans. 199 THE BALTIC RINGED SEAL FRIENDS FUND WAS ESTABLISHED IN SEPTEMBER 2014 For the first time, the need for such fund was voiced on 10 April 2014 at the meeting of the Public Council for the trilateral cooperation project “Gulf of Finland Year 2014”. Bank details for transfer of donations: Then the Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko Fund for conservation of marine mammals – proposed to support the Baltic ringed seal conservation project The Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund implemented with Vodokanal’s assistance, and to consider Account no.: 40703810490200000024 establishment of a special Baltic ringed seal friends fund. Bank name: additional office “Lesnoy” The Director General of the Fund is V.A. Alexeyev, OAO “Bank Saint Petersburg” zoologist and veterinary with a unique experience in seal pups INN: 7831000027 rehabilitation. BIK: 044030790 Today, everyone can participate in the rescuing of Baltic Payment function: for statutory activities ringed seals and other marine mammals. The website of the of the Fund Baltic Ringed Seal Friends Fund. (www.balticseal.org) has a special section “How you can help us”. The information on the Fund’s current account and money transfer procedures can be found there. Donations will be used to finance the rehabilitation Vodokanal participation in the saving of the Baltic Sea of marine mammals’ pups (purchase of fish, medicaments inhabitants is a follow-up of the many-year work it carries and other things) and the scientific research related to the out to protect the Baltic Sea. Over the recent years, conservation of marine mammals and their habitats. Vodokanal has done a lot to improve the condition of the Gulf of Finland: the volume of untreated wastewater discharge is much smaller (98.5% of wastewater in Petersburg is treated now), phosphorus and nitrogen removal technologies are implemented at all WWTPs (it is phosphorus and nitrogen that cause intensive growth of blue-green algae). As a result, the habitats of ringed seals and other marine animals became more comfortable. 200 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility WHEN YOU FIND A BABY SEAL, DO THE FOLLOWING: 1. Do not disclose you presence and do not frighten the animal. Inform the Centre experts (hotline: +7 (812) 699-23-99) or the Emergency Response Service, of the animal you have found. 2. If necessary (if the animal has any open wounds, is exhausted or its limbs are in unnatural position), block the access to the open sea for it and take measures to protect it from birds or stray dogs. 3. Wait for the arrival of rescuers. 4. Do not try to feed the pups or give them any veterinary treatment. 201 202 Environment Protection 203 Along with traditional ST. PETERSBURG IS THE LARGEST approaches (protection of water bodies against CITY LOCATED AT THE BALTIC wastewater pollution in the region, introduction SEA COAST. OUR CITY AND, of safe and effective wastewater disinfection methods, CONSEQUENTLY, VODOKANAL, reduction of drinking water losses during its producBEAR A SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR tion and transportation, awareness-raising activity in THE BALTIC SEA CONDITION, FOR THE ecology and resource saving) new approaches have been CONSERVATION OF THE BALTIC SEA BASIN developed and implemented in the Company – reduction in power and heat consumption Protection of the environment and the Baltic Sea, sustainable by optimizing processes, use use of natural resources and responsibility to future of vehicles equipped with generations for the results of the Company activities are energy efficient engines. DURING 2014, the key priorities of Vodokanal and constitute one of the Company’s strategic targets. Under the obligations undertaken by the Russian VODOKANAL Vodokanal’s environmental concept is based on the understanding of its role in creating a positive environmental Federation to fulfill the Helsinki Convention on the CONTINUED situation throughout the Baltic Sea Region. The key international area of leaders’ activity is participation in social Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea, CONSECUTIVE and intergovernmental structures of the Baltic Sea countries, particularly, in the framework of the International Convention the Company makes a lot of efforts to reduce the DEVELOPMENT of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (HELCOM) supporting the principle: “Baltic Sea – our common untreated wastewater discharge and remove nutrients OF THE home”. To provide the efficient implementation of its (nitrogen and phosphorus) from wastewater. ENVIRONMENTAL environmental conception the Company introduced and certified the environmental management system according In 2014, at the 47th meeting of the HELCOM MANAGEMENT to ISO 14001 in 2003. In 2013, the Company developed and improved the new Heads of Delegation the sub-spot no. 18.1 “Northern AS AN INTEGRAL Environmental policy, as the 2008 policy commitments had been fulfilled to a large extent. Tunnel Collector Construction” was excluded from the list PART OF THE of “hot spots” (sources of pollution). COMPANY In order to manage the environmental safety MANAGEMENT Vodokanal St. Petersburg constantly develops norms of permissible environmental impact produced in the course of business (norms for permissible discharge of substances and microorganisms in water bodies, norms for emission of hazardous substances in the atmosphere, norms for waste production and waste disposal limits. In addition, the Company performs continuous environmental monitoring of the quality of wastewater coming to wastewater treatment plants and discharged into water bodies, as well as discharges from industrial companies, atmospheric air in the sanitary protection zone, wastewater sludge, soil and waste management. 204 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Reduction of Impact on Water Bodies in 2014 In 2014, Vodokanal carried out the following activities under the Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure The impact on water Programme: bodies is mitigated in two • in September 2014, the construction of the sewerage ways: network along Petrogradskaya Embankment was completed. • closure of untreated 19 untreated wastewater discharges were closed, 17 of wastewater discharges; them were managed by Vodokanal (three combined sewerage • construction, discharges with total flow of 4,019 m3/d; and 14 stormwater modernization or rehabilitation runoffs with an average flow of 23 m3/d), and the remaining two of wastewater treatment discharges belonged to industrial companies; plants to meet the HELCOM • in December 2014, the untreated wastewater discharge Recommendations and the from Petrovskiy Stadium was eliminated (9 direct discharges with Russian regulations a flow of about 1,000 m3/d were closed); on wastewater treatment • construction of the sewer along Admiralteyskaya and disinfection. Embankment is ongoing. Commissioning of the sewer will make it possible to close 6 untreated wastewater discharges located in the city centre (next to the Bronze Horseman); • the first stage of design works for the construction of the Okhta tunnel is completed. The Okhta tunnel is needed to stop untreated wastewater discharge in the basin of the Okhta River, • design of the pressurized sewerage network to divert; wastewater from Metallostroy WWTP to Rybatskaya wastewater pumping station and then to Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. Implementation of the project will allow to stop the discharge of insufficiently treated effluent from Metallostroy WWTP; • design works under the project aimed to stop untreated wastewater discharge into the Karpovka River are completed; • design work to modernize and develop the surface runoff transportation in the area of Murinskiy Ruchey is ongoing Implementation of the project will make it possible to connect 7 surface runoffs to the sewer and channel them to Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant, thus improving significantly the environmental condition of Murinskiy Ruchey. 205 Vodokanal carried out the following activities to improve wastewater treatment at WWTPs: • reconstruction of Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant including implementation of the UCT technology by SWECO (Sweden) for enhanced nutrients removal is ongoing; • modernization of aeration tanks no. 5 and no. 6 at Central Wastewater Treatment Plant including implementation of the JHB technology for enhanced nutrients removal continues; • the Programme for Rehabilitation of Small Wastewater Treatment Plants (Pushkin, Kolpino, Kronstadt, Pontonniy) is completed. The implementation started in March 2012. The project was aimed at increasing the efficiency of wastewater treatment at small WWTPs and provision of stable phosphorus and nitrogen removal parameters; • design works for the construction of Molodezhnoye WWTP are completed. The positive opinion of the State Environmental Expertise was received from the St. Petersburg branch of the State Environmental Expertise. The effectiveness of Vodokanal’s activities aimed at the elimination of untreated wastewater discharges and reconstruction of wastewater treatment plants is proved by reduction of pollutants discharge into water bodies of St. Petersburg. Parameter Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Suspended solids discharged into t/year 19,418 21,845.4 15,826.9 14,120.8 13,706.9 12,382.2 9,353.6 8,289.3 water bodies Total BOD discharged into t/year 26,074.3 28,627.3 18,718.2 17,677.9 15,635.6 13,311.7 11,271.2 9,573.6 water bodies Total nitrogen discharged into t/year 11,037.3 11,048.2 10,729.6 10,003 10,048.6 9,627.7 9,303.4 8,616.7 water bodies Total phosphorus discharged into t/year 1,269.7 1,177.8 759.9 677.7 492.4 491.8 433.6 355.2 water bodies The result of the survey was the updated registry that includes IN MAY 2014, THE SURVEY the data about 851 water bodies, wastewater discharges managed by Vodokanal and other water users, as well as the OF WATER BODIES LOCATED data about other sources producing adverse impact on water bodies. The collected data was submitted to the Committee IN ST. PETERSBURG for Natural Resources, Environment and Ecological Safety. The information about violation of water protection laws was WAS COMPLETED forwarded to the authorities of the prosecutor’s office. 206 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Reduction of Impact on the Atmospheric Air According to the results of measurements of pollutants in industrial emissions and the THE IMPACT OF VODOKANAL FACILITIES ON THE atmospheric air in buffer zones and zones affected ATMOSPHERE IS ESTIMATED BY MEANS OF INSTRUMENTAL by Vodokanal facilities, no exceedance of limit values CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL EMISSIONS AND POLLUTANT and maximum permissible values were recorded in 2014. EMISSIONS INTO THE ATMOSPHERE In 2014, the following measures were implemented: A range of devices and technologies are implemented and tested • control of pollutants content at 165 sources of industrial at Vodokanal facilities for the reduction of negative impact on emissions (2,237 analytical measurements); the atmosphere and prevention of odour nuisance spreading. • control of air quality and noise level in the buffer zones The majority of sewage pumping stations are located in urban and the areas affected by 86 Vodokanal facilities development areas near residential buildings and public facilities. (3,392 analytical measurements in 122 points); Ventilation system of sewage pumping stations emits evil-smelling • control of performance of 18 gas and dust removal gaseous substances into the atmospheric air. facilities, including 6 flue gas treatment facilities at sludge In 2014, a photo-sorption gas cleaning plant was selected for incineration plants (SIP). At Central and South-West SIPs Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station to remove organic flue gases undergo a two-stage treatment in electrostatic (aromatic hydrocarbon) and non-organic (ammonia, hydrogen precipitators and the scrubber systems equipped with acid and sulfide, sulfur dioxide, mercaptans, etc.) substances. The air cleaning alkaline columns; at Northern SIP they undergo a two-stage technology works in the following way: the contaminated air from treatment in electrostatic precipitator and are dry-cleaned the sewer comes into the UV chamber and is distributed throughout in bag filters using chemicals (activated carbon and sodium the chamber. Ozone is generated in the UV chamber and ensures hydrocarbonate). initial reduction of evil-smelling substance; after that air flows One of the sources of the negative impact on the to a coal filter where evil-smelling substances and the remaining atmosphere is wastewater sludge landfills. ozone are fully destroyed. The pilot plant was delivered and installed The negative impact of landfills on the atmosphere is at Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station. controlled in two ways: The existing network of tunnel collectors is mainly located • full elimination of the negative impact produced by sludge in residential areas and can cause discomfort to citizens with the landfills by way of processing the deposited sludge to the odour spreading through manholes and shaft hatch covers. In order environmentally safe condition; to eliminate unpleasant odors an air purification system has been • prevention of odour nuisance spreading from sludge installed at the shaft no. 31–bis. The air purifier is designed to landfills. remove harmful evil-smelling substances (hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, The geotube method comprising chemical treatment and methyl and ethylmercaptans, aromatic hydrocarbons) from the air. static dewatering of sludge in geotubes had been applied Operation results showed that no unpleasant odour was observed at Severniy landfill from 2010 till 2013. In 2014, testing near the collector shafts. It was found out that the purification of wastewater sludge processing and chemical disinfection system was easy to operate. technology started at Severniy landfill. In 2014, a filter for unpleasant odor removal was installed In 2013, the automatic deodorant spraying system under the hatch of the manhole located in the south-west for odour removal was put into operation at Severniy and of St. Petersburg. Filtering biomass is used as a filter medium and Volkhonka-2 landfills. The length of the deodorant spraying is placed in separate cartridges inside the filter box. Biofiltration pipeline is 3,800 m and 1,350 m at Severniy and Volkhonka is based on microorganisms’ natural ability to form biofilm on the landfills, respectively. solid porous surface of the filtering material, to remove admixtures The automatic deodorant spraying system comprises of organic and non-organic volatile substances from the air, a pumping station with a control unit and a pipeline with nozzles, to oxidize them and decompose to water and carbon dioxide. through which the deodorant solution is sprayed (the pipeline is placed on poles along the landfill perimeter). The spraying system operation is adjusted according to the data of the connected meteorological station, which checks the wind direction. The bigger amount of chemical solution is supplied to the downwind side to produce the required odour removal effect. The applied method proved to be highly effective according to the results of the assessment made by the Scientific Research Institute for Atmospheric Air Protection (OAO NII ATMOSFERA) in 2014. The content of mercaptans in the air reduced by 70%, and the odour intensity was cut down in total by 40%. 207 208 Labour Safety 209 VODOKANAL’S OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM DEVELOPED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARD OHSAS 18001–2007 AND APPLICABLE RUSSIAN LAWS GUARANTEES THAT THE IDENTIFIED HAZARDS ARE UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE COMPANY The main purpose of the Vodokanal employees and Company’s updated occuall stakeholders (contractors, The monitoring system pational health and safety visitors) are informed about includes: policy is to prevent industrial the Company’s occupational • monitoring of working accidents and to create prophealth and safety policy. environment (assessment er conditions at workplaces The effective operation of sanitary and hygienic to achieve high performance. of the Occupational Health conditions of labour, Complexity of production and & Safety Management organization of labour and diversity of technologies and System at St. Petersburg maintaining favourable socialequipment used are taken Vodokanal also includes the psychological environment into account. employee’s health safety at work); management. • monitoring of health Programs for disease prestatus of employees (health vention and health improvesurvey for detection of early ment of employees, monitorsymptoms of diseases, ing of working conditions and biological monitoring, polling health of employees, as well of employees). as monitoring of efficiency of implemented measures are an important element of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System. 210 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility During 2014, Vodokanal carried out the following activities to achieve the goals of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System: THE INTERNATIONAL • working conditions at twenty seven production facilities of the Company were improved due to the introduction of new, AUDIT CARRIED OUT IN safe practices and advanced technologies that ensure reliable and failure-free operation as well as reduce the rate of injuries OCTOBER 2014 CONFIRMED and professional diseases; • monitoring and assessment of safe working conditions at THAT THE OCCUPATIONAL 398 facilities of the Company was organized and carried out by way of instrumental measurements of hazardous and harmful HEALTH & SAFETY workplace factors; • 100% of employees are provided with personal MANAGEMENT SYSTEM protective equipment; • 6,424 employees of the Company underwent training OF VODOKANAL and knowledge checks with regard to occupational health and safety issues. FUNCTIONED IN COMPLIANCE WITH OHSAS 18001–2007 REQUIREMENTS DUE TO ACCIDENT PREVENTION THE AVERAGE VODOKANAL’S ACCIDENT RATE IN DIFFERENT YEARS NUMBER OF 14 12 INSURANCE EVENTS 12 11 PER 1000 WORKERS IS 10 9 SIGNIFICANTLY LOWER 9 8 8 7 THAN THE SIMILAR 6 6 6 6 6 INDUSTRY PARAMETER: 5 5 4 VODOKANAL’S AVERAGE – 4 3 2 0.71, INDUSTRY AVERAGE – 1.48 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Orders “On control provided to the NorthIndustrial safety compliance inspection is organized and over industrial safety at Western Department implemented in the Company in accordance with Article 11 the hazardous production of Rostekhnadzor. of the Federal Law no. 116–FZ dated 1997 “On industrial facilities of the Company” As of December 2014, 39 safety at hazardous production facilities’ and the Rules for were issued. Action plans hazardous production facilities Organization and Implementation of Control over Industrial are annually developed to were registered and operated Safety at Hazardous Production Facilities approved by the ensure compliance with by the Company. Vodokanal Decree of the RF Government no. 263 dated 10 March 1999. industrial safety requirements operates chemically hazardous On the grounds of the Rules, the Company developed the in the course of operation facilities, explosive and fire Regulation “On control over industrial safety in the course of hazardous production hazardous plants according to of operation of hazardous production facilities of SUE facilities. Information about relevant licenses issued by the “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” approved by the Director the organization of control North-Western Department of General in July 2014. over industrial safety is Rostekhnadzor. 211 212 Personnel 213 THE MAIN GOAL OF THE PERSONNEL All main personnel management approaches are MANAGEMENT IS TO ENSURE PROPER as follows: • effective use of labour SELECTION, RATIONAL AND EFFICIENT resources; • strong managerial USE OF THE PERSONNEL TARGETED competence and qualification of personnel; FOR THE INCREASE OF VODOKANAL’S • improve basic remuneration and incentive EFFECTIVENESS AND systems, employees motivation; • achieve global standards CUSTOMERS’ SATISFACTION in labour and industrial safety; • create favorable conditions for labour and As of 1 January 2015, the personnel of Vodokanal numbered for 32.5% in the total number recreation; 8,450 persons (1,613 managers, 2,492 specialists and whiteof the Company’s personnel. • social support of collar workers, 4,345 blue-collar workers). Vodokanal employs employees and former The average age of Vodokanal’s employees is 44. The share 32 candidates of science and employees; of young employees (employees under the age of 35) accounts 4 doctors of science. • raise personnel loyalty, maintain stable and positive social environment; EDUCATION OF THE PERSONNEL, % • create conditions for implementation of young employees’ initiatives, for Blue-collar 8 18 36 35 3 professional growth and selfworkers realization; • develop consistent Specialists 1 system of training, promotion, and white-collar 70 19 5 5 development and evaluation workers of employees; • develop dynamic corporate culture, which Managers 75 16 5 4 facilitates effective interaction of employees and accelerates integration of new assets and 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 employees; Higher Undergraduate Secondary vocational Basic vocational General secondary Basic general • maintain appropriate age/ professional composition of the personnel; • interact with the sectorPERSONNEL TURNOVER, % related educational institutions 12 in order to buildup external 10.49 9.93 9.11 succession pool for the 10 7.54 7.2 8.01 Company; 8 6.63 • develop social partnership. 6 6 4 2 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 To achieve the goals set, the work in these areas is carried Tutorship procedure is successfully used to develop the out with due regard to the interrelationship of all personnel personnel, it is applied to young employees who were management processes. The recruitment cycle is deemed to be recruited by the Company for the first time and don’t have completed not at the moment when a new employee starts the work experience, as well as graduates from secondary and work but after a successful adaptation procedure and it can’t be higher educational institutions. isolated from the adaptation procedure. The Company acts as a responsible employer that One of the key areas of work with personnel is fast supports and develops social programs for its employees. adaptation of newly employed persons including their This activity is carried out through the Centre for the professional development and optimization of their integration Implementation of Social and Economic Programmes and into the Company’s social environment. the Medical Centre. The Company has a sanatorium where Adaptation procedure is organized for all newly employed recreation and treatment of Company’s employees and their persons. Vodokanal traditionally organizes the Welcome to families are organized, as well as rehabilitation of those Vodokanal Event for new employees as a part of the personnel employees who work in hazardous and dangerous working adaptation and motivation. conditions. 214 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Personnel Recruitment, Company’s Succession Pool are assessed according to the Company standard “The Personnel Appraisal System”. Goals and individual Motivation development plans are determined for employees from the succession pool, they are regularly trained. and Appraisal In 2014, the existing succession pool was 230 persons; the perspective succession pool was 72 persons. Adaptation and tutorship procedures are applied to ONE OF THE KEY TASKS UNDER newly employed persons, which provide fast and THE PERSONNEL RECRUITMENT PROCESS effective entering into the position (profession). IS IMPLEMENTATION To improve employees’ professional skills the OF THE EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGY ongoing from-worker-tomanager training is carried OF RELATIVELY QUICK SEARCH out. To achieve this goal, the professional skills contests AND QUALITATIVE SELECTION OF ALL “Best Professional” are annually organized in the CATEGORIES OF PERSONNEL Company. In 2014, Vodokanal held 21 professional skills Personnel recruitment is contests for 19 professions, performed in compliance MODERN HR-TECHNOLOGIES with the Company standard where 185 employees participated. “Recruitment and Employment ARE USED FOR SEARCH AND Procedures” and is based on Motivation system for the Company personnel is applications given by heads SELECTION OF CANDIDATES FROM of structural units. targeted at highly-efficient work of personnel, continuous Under the recruitment THE EXTERNAL LABOUR MARKET: process, work with the development and increase of personnel satisfaction. internal and external labor E-RECRUITMENT (WEB-RESOURCES), The motivation system market is performed including includes both tools of the internal succession CAREER FAIRS, THE OFFICIAL pool. The succession pool financial incentives (bonuses, salary increments, lumpis formed on a regular COMPANY WEB-SITE, SPECIALIZED basis during appraisal and sum remunerations, extra paid holidays, material and training events in compliance AND NON-SPECIALIZED PRINT MEDIA, with the standard “Work targeted social assistance) and non-financial incentives with a Succession Pool”. TARGETED TRAINING IN HIGHER This work is aimed at the (recognition of personnel services, medical support, retention and development EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS of the Company’s personnel. rest and recreation, cultural events, insurance of Employees included in the employees and their families). 215 Assessment of Personnel Satisfaction Vodokanal performs regular assessments of personnel satisfaction. THE SYSTEMATIC The main objectives of this procedure are to: • increase the employee satisfaction with work; ASSESSMENT • decrease the employees’ turnover; • determine motivation preferences of employees; ALLOWS • identify the main problems of the personnel. Achievement of these objectives leads to creation of the TO CLARIFY optimal conditions for maximum efficiency of each Company employee. AND TRACK DOWN THE ASPECTS OF COMPANY ACTIVITIES THAT ARE APPRECIATED BY EMPLOYEES, AS WELL AS THOSE THAT ARE UNPOPULAR, CAUSE DISCOMFORT, REDUCE EFFECTIVENESS AND LEAD TO THE LOSS OF VALUABLE SPECIALISTS 216 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Personnel Vodokanal applies a comprehensive multi-module training programme that Training and makes it possible in a short time to adopt the personnel to changes in legislation and business environment, Development optimize costs while maintaining the high quality of training. An important factor of successful training is accurate identification of training needs subject to shortand long-term targets of the Company. The training process in Vodokanal is implemented according to the Company standard “System of Planning, ONE OF THE KEY VODOKANAL’S Organization and Control of Personnel Training”, PRIORITIES IS EMPLOYEE in compliance with the training schedule for current year, DEVELOPMENT AT ALL LEVELS which is drafted subject to annual applications “FROM WORKER TO MANAGER” of the Company units. Given a wide range AIMED TO CREATE AND MAINTAIN of personnel training needs, the corporate training system A HIGH PROFESSIONAL LEVEL AND should be highly flexible and mobile, which is achieved PERSONNEL MOTIVATION, THAT through the diversity of training: internal and PROVIDES THE HIGHEST EFFICIENCY external training, partnership training projects (Water OF WORK WITH THE MAXIMUM USE College, International Advanced Water Technologies OF EMPLOYEES’ POTENTIAL Centre), cooperation with scientific institutions and higher educational institutions. Due to the flexible approach, the training can have optimal content, scope, duration, cost, etc. in each specific case. 217 A SPECIAL FORM OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES THE NUMBER OF PROFESSIONAL IS PROFESSIONAL SKILLS SKILL CONTESTS “BEST PROFESSIONAL” CONTESTS “BEST PROFESSIONAL” THAT 20 18 19 19 19 HELPS IDENTIFY 16 18 18 THE EMPLOYEES14 15 12 TRANSMITTERS 10 12 10 10 OF ADVANCED 8 6 EXPERIENCE AND 4 PROVIDE PROFESSIONAL 2 0 DEVELOPMENT OF OTHER 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 EMPLOYEES THROUGH THE JOINT PRACTICAL ACTIVITY IN PROFESSIONAL In the framework of cooperation with the Water pool. In addition, the Talent Group is formed out of the CONTESTS College, Vodokanal provides hands-on training of the employees included in the perspective succession pool. College students. In 2014, Persons with the highest 28 students got hands-on development potential are training in Vodokanal. included into the Talent In addition, Vodokanal Group. provides training for the In order to form the College professors, PG external succession pool the students and foremen at the Company improves interaction In 2014, Vodokanal held 19 professional skills contests, where Company’s production sites. with the sector-related leading 185 persons participated. The best specialists in the following Succession pool educational institutions, holds spheres were identified: technicians of chemical and biological establishment is one of the events for the purpose of laboratories; pump operators; electricians for repair and areas of the Company HRsearching and recruitment maintenance of electric equipment; electric and gas welders; management. Succession pool of talented graduates. The operators of excavators and truck-mounted cranes; nurses; management is performed in following practices are drivers; repair and maintenance workers; instrumentation accordance with the corporate organized in the Company: repairmen; operational engineers; specialists for occupational standard “Succession Pool introductory, production and safety, industrial safety and production control; health Management” and aims pre-degree practices. In 2014, and safety inspectors. Competitions for environmental at personnel potential practice was organized for management and quality management system auditors were development. The succession 187 institute and college organized. Best emergency repair teams in water supply pool comprises the existing students (81 institute and wastewater sectors were identified. Moreover, in 2014, succession pool and students, 106 college Vodokanal representatives participated in interdisciplinary perspective succession students). professional skill contests. The majority of Vodokanal’s professional contests is organized in the Water Utilities Department of the Water College, which is equipped in line with up-to-date requirements and has facilities that comply with difficulty level of professional contests. Professional re-training and qualification improvement of Vodokanal employees are performed at the Water Utilities Department of the Water College. 218 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Within the framework of the external succession pool TRAINING AND The Company creates a favourable training climate and considers the training costs to be investments in the fixed establishment the Company cooperates (organizes QUALIFICATION assets leading to optimal use of the employee potential. In total, 8341 employees were trained in 2014. practices) with the following higher education IMPROVEMENT (Company employees may take several trainings a year). institutions: • St. Petersburg State OF VODOKANAL DISTRIBUTION OF TRAINEES BY TYPES OF TRAINING University of Architecture and Civil Engineering – in water EMPLOYEES IS 7,000 6,513 and wastewater fields; • North-West State Open AN ONGOING 6,000 6,228 2013 2014 University – in environmental safety; PROCESS 5,000 4,000 • St. Petersburg State Transport University – THROUGHOUT 3,000 pe. in water, wastewater and hydraulics; THE WHOLE 2,000 855 • St. Petersburg State University for Water EMPLOYMENT 1,000 0 624 501 505 742 822 Communications – in the field of integrated PERIOD Compulsory training in compliance with the RF legislation requirements Professional training, refresher courses and advanced Corporate computer literacy and communication Seminars and advanced trainings for in labour safety, fire safety, training skills programs managers use and protection of water traffic safety and sanitary for workers and specialists and epidemiological welfare resources; of the population • St. Petersburg State Polytechnic University – in the field of construction and applied ecology. DISTRIBUTION OF TRAINEES BY INTERNAL AND In 2014, 501 Vodokanal In 2014, Vodokanal EXTERNAL TRAINING PROGRAMMES IN 2014 employees underwent employed thirty six 2014 professional training, refresher institute graduates and At the Water courses and advance training for eleven 2014 vocational College workers, among them 166 pe. 166 persons – at Water College college graduates. The Company actively premises. 6,513 employees took At the International 2% cooperates with the Water Advanced Water training in in compliance with Technologies Centre 15% the RF legislation requirements College to form a pool of 1,439 pe. qualified specialists who in labour safety, fire safety, have optimal industry-specific 34% traffic safety and sanitary and professional competences Internal training epidemiological welfare of (potential employees 3,194 pe. the population. 505 persons of Vodokanal, housing underwent training in computer 49% and utilities sector and literacy and communication skills. construction sector) for 822 persons participated in External training seminars and advanced trainings St. Petersburg labour market. (contract training) College students intern 4,542 pe. for managers and specialists, at the Company and are among them 439 persons took employed after graduation. the training course “Advanced TRAINEES SATISFACTION WITH water and wastewater EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN 2014 technologies” within the frame of the workshop programme of 100% the International Advanced Water 97% 98% 98% 98% 97% 98% Technologies Centre. 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% Computer courses Water College International Advanced Water Technologies Centre To date, Vodokanal focuses on optimization of personnel accumulates professional experience of Vodokanal employees training, refresher courses and advanced training, improves and partners and is inextricably connected with the sector the personnel education and development system that development strategy in general. 219 220 Social Policy 221 Principles The social policy is implemented in accordance with the current law and of Social Policy in compliance with social responsibilities specified in the Collective Agreement for 2014–2016 and regulatory acts of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. The key principle of the VODOKANAL’S SOCIAL POLICY corporate social policy is that of social responsibility IS AN IMPORTANT ELEMENT according to which Vodokanal: OF ITS PERSONNEL, PRODUCTION • builds its development strategy with due regard AND ECONOMIC POTENTIAL to the interests of the society as a whole; • complies with the law; • complies with generally accepted moral and ethical standards; • respects human rights; • is committed to ensure a balance of interests of the stakeholders including personnel, consumers and other groups which are linked in one way or another to the Company’s activities; • considers the interests of future generations aiming at maximizing prudent use of the natural resources and improving the living conditions for the population; • works consistently on ensuring health and safety of the personnel. 222 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility The current Collective Agreement of Vodokanal SOCIAL BENEFITS AND GUARANTEES TO THE specifies a comprehensive corporate social responsibility framework which includes the following components: social support to personnel potential COMPANY EMPLOYEES and motivation, occupational Social benefits and guarantees to the Company employees safety and health system, and former employees are specified in the Collective care for war veterans, physical Agreement of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” for fitness and sports promotion, 2014–2016. Material assistance and compensations are youth policy, interaction with provided: trade unions, continuous • to employees, who reached jubilee age, and to retiring system of personnel training. employees (403 people in 2014), The corporate social policy • to employees with an uninterrupted service in the is implemented through social Company for 25, 30, 35, 40 years (196 people in 2014), programs that are attractive • financial assistance for childbirth (265 people in 2014), for the employees and aim • financial assistance for medical treatment (169 people at engagement and retention in 2014), of high-qualified personnel • payments after death of a relative (332 people in 2014), in the Company, development • payments in other circumstances (122 people in 2014), of high-quality labour • targeted material assistance to the war veterans resources, qualified (354 people in 2014), management and corporate • quarterly targeted material assistance to retired culture. employees (1,717 people in 2014). CATERING FOR THE COMPANY EMPLOYEES SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has 17 canteens at its premises, where over 3,500 people a day can be served. Catering is an important factor and mechanism for implementing the Company’s social policy. This contributes to increased efficiency and improvement of labour organization. In the night time, emergency teams and drivers working in 24– hour shifts are provided with free hot meals delivered to their work places in specially equipped vehicles. 223 Recognition of Employees’ Achievements and Corporate Awards SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” VALUES ITS EMPLOYEES AND RECOGNIZES THEIR CONTRIBUTION TO ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS AND COMPANY DEVELOPMENT In order to motivate personnel, increase the level of their satisfaction and involvement into business processes, AWARDING THE TITLE Vodokanal nominates its employees for departmental and national prizes as well as prizes from regulatory and “HONORARY EMPLOYEE administrative authorities of St. Petersburg, and bestows corporate awards for service. OF VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG” The title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” AWARDING THE TITLE “LABOUR is bestowed on (at the request of managers and co-workers) the Company employees and other persons for contribution VETERAN OF VODOKANAL to development of the water supply and wastewater disposal systems of St. Petersburg. The title can be bestowed for ST. PETERSBURG” development, adoption and implementation of cutting-edge equipment and technologies, application of forms and methods The title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” of labour organization leading to a significant economic impact, is awarded to employees who have the record of service improvement of the positive image of the Company in Russia of at least 20 years in the Company for personal contribution and abroad, mentoring, strengthening of corporate culture and to management and production, introduction of advanced high professionalism. technologies to water supply and wastewater disposal At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel badge and processes. At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel certificate, as well as a money reward. badge and certificate, as well as a money reward in the An Honorary Employee has a right to receive a free voucher amount of a month salary. to Burevestnik Sanatorium for recreation and resort treatment. In 2014, the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal In 2014, the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed on 291 Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed on 10 Vodokanal employees. employees. 224 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility THE LAPEL BADGE “THE BEST YOUNG EMPLOYEE OF VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG” The lapel badge “The Best Young Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is bestowed on the employees under the age of 35, who have a 5–year unbroken record of service, for personal contribution to management and production, introduction of modern technologies to water supply and wastewater disposal processes, improvement of the service quality, professional skills promoting the development of Vodokanal, active participation in the social life of the Company. In 2014, the lapel badge “The Best Young Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was bestowed on 15 young employees. CORPORATE PRIZES AND PRIZES FROM REGULATORY AND ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND ST. PETERSBURG In 2014, 39 employees were awarded departmental prizes as well as prizes from legislative and executive authorities: • 2 employees were awarded departmental prizes, • 29 employees were awarded prizes from executive authorities of St. Petersburg, • 8 employees were awarded prizes from legislative authorities of St. Petersburg. 273 employees were awarded the Vodokanal certificate of honour and gratitudes. 225 Organization of Recreation ONE OF THE SOCIAL POLICY PRIORITIES OF VODOKANAL IS ORGANIZATION OF RECREATION FOR ITS EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES The Centre for the Implementation of Socio-Economic Programmes has been a branch of Vodokanal since 2008. It organizes cultural and leisure activities aimed at ensuring proper recreation for the Company employees in Burevestnik Sanatorium 8,652 VODOKANAL in Luga (Leningrad Region). Burevestnik Sanatorium has three sites: EMPLOYEES WERE • Burevestnik; • Omchino; ACCOMMODATED • Zvyozdniy. This is a comfortable, modern, well-equipped and advanced IN BUREVESTNIK recreation and rehabilitation facility which can accommodate over 700 holiday-makers at the same time. The territory of Burevestnik IN 2014, is guarded around-the-clock. The rooms are cozy and comfortable. Due to a well-developed infrastructure, the sanatorium WHICH IS provides a wide range of modern recreation services. Hollidaymakers can use swimming pools, a Finnish sauna and a Russian 4% MORE steam room, fitness facilities, a gym, tennis courts, outdoor playgrounds for badminton, volleyball and basketball. There THAN IN 2013 is a library, a café, cinema and concert hall. For those who prefer horseback riding there is a riding hall. 226 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Burevestnik has an up-to-date Medical Centre with the diagnostic All the conditions for children (comfortable and safe division. accommodation, leisure and cognitive activity) are arranged It applies new methods of prevention, diagnostics and in Zvyozdny. The camp territory is guarded around-the-clock and treatment of different types and forms of diseases. Burevestnik illuminated at night, day-and-night video monitoring is provided. Sanatorium is specialized in prevention of heart diseases, diseases The camp has its own fire station. The fire station hosts regular of the nervous system, digestive system, respiratory system, training lessons for children who spend their holidays in Zvyozdny locomotor system. dedicated to the basics of fire safety. In 2014, 585 health care vouchers were given to the The camp infrastructure includes the following: employees and retirees (participants and veterans of the Great 1. The multipurpose sport facilities: Patriotic War, residents of besieged Leningrad, homefront • gyms: volleyball, basketball, mini football; workers, former captives of Nazi camps). • tennis and ping-pong; A package of recovery treatment programs and diagnostic • gymnastics, trampoline and fitness facilities; techniques is developed and implemented for Vodokanal • swimming pools for adults and children; employees working in harmful and hazardous labour conditions. • computer class; Such employees are provided extra leaves (over-leaves set forth • classrooms for arts clubs; by the legislation of the Russian Federation). 151 Vodokanal • discotheque; employees had their rehabilitation holidays in the sanatorium • library; in 2014. • winter garden. In 2014, in accordance with the local normative acts, 2. The indoor riding hall for horseback riding under the Vodokanal St. Petersburg provided its employees and their guidance of instructors. Children are given a full set of equipment. families with vouchers to Burevestnik Sanatorium at a partial cost 3. Open playgrounds with up-to-date floors for playing tennis, depending on an employee’s salary. ping-pong, basketball, volleyball, badminton and football. Besides, free vouchers to Burevestnik Sanatorium were 4. The Svinechnoe Lake with comfortable beaches and bathing provided to: places for children. • former employees of Vodokanal – participants of the Great 5. The cinema and concert hall. Patriotic War; 6. The zoo where you can find a family of camels, a brown • employees of Vodokanal – veterans of the Great Patriotic bear, ostriches, peacocks, pheasants, mandarin ducks, Barbary War, residents of besieged Leningrad, homefront workers, former wild sheep, donkeys, a reindeer and a silver fox in open air captives of Nazi camps; enclosures. • former employees of Vodokanal – veterans of the Great 7. The petting zoo for children to take care of hamsters and Patriotic War, residents of besieged Leningrad, homefront chinchillas and to explore the natural diversity of the Luga region workers, former captives of Nazi camps; under the supervision of specialists. • former employees of Vodokanal given the title 8. The isolation ward and an ambulance. “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg”; A separate programme aimed at comprehensive development • employees of Vodokanal given the title “Honorary of children is elaborated for each shift in Zvyozdny. Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg”; Qualified teachers make children’s leisure activities interesting • employees of Vodokanal recognized as exposed and informative. Children participate in theme-based shifts and to radiation after Chernobyl Accident; excursions. • employees of Vodokanal recognized as combatants under In 2014, the camp’s ecology centre organized unique the law of the Russian Federation; programs dedicated to the Gulf of Finland Year. 5 ecological • employees of Vodokanal who had serious illnesses and projects, 7 environmental games, 5 excursions of different types operations and needed health improvement as certified by the and 13 practical activities were carried out in 2014 during school dispensary department of Vodokanal’s Medical Centre; holidays. • employees of Vodokanal being single parents; Spartakiada games, festivals and traditional winter and • employees of Vodokanal with two or more children. summer sports meetings are held annually for Vodokanal employees in the territory of Burevestnik Sanatorium (see more details in Support of Sports Section). DURING SCHOOL HOLIDAYS THE COMPANY EMPLOYEES 2,710 children aged Information about Vodokanal’s CAN SEND THEIR CHILDREN 6–15 spent their holidays Burevestnik Sanatorium in Zvyozdny recreation can be found on the website TO ZVYOZDNY CHILDREN’S camp in 2014. www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru HEALTH CAMP 227 Healthcare VODOKANAL ST. PETERSBURG HAS A SYSTEM OF MEDICAL CARE AIMED TO INCREASE LABOUR PRODUCTIVITY, PREVENT INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS, SUPPORT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND LONGEVITY, AND IMPROVE THE EMPLOYEES’ QUALITY OF LIFE The medical support for the Company employees is implemented by the Medical Centre Branch. The branch staff consists of 375 specialists including OBSERVATIONS OVER 4 professors, 6 doctors and 14 candidates of medical sciences, 30 physicians and 51 nurses of the highest category. THE HEALTH CONDITION 44% employees have higher professional education. In 2014, re-equipment of the Medical Centre structural OF VODOKANAL EMPLOYEES SHOW units continued. The replacement of medical equipment ensured provision of much-in-demand medical services, A POSITIVE TREND TOWARDS increase of the number of patients served and introduction of new treatment methods based on high quality up-to-date THE REDUCTION OF DISEASE RATE medical devices. For this purpose the following equipment was purchased AND DAYS AWAY FROM WORK. and put into operation: • physiotherapy equipment; SINCE 2010, THE NUMBER • laser devices and equipment for local cryotherapy; • dental and endodontal devices. OF DAYS AWAY FROM WORK HAS The Medical Centre implemented innovations including electroencephalography method and plasmolifting. BEEN REDUCED BY 21–23% Acupuncturist and chiropractic started to receive patients. 228 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility DISEASE RATE WITH TEMPORAL DISABILITY REGULAR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS (PER 100 EMPLOYEES/YEAR) AND FOLLOW-UP CARE 1300 90 Days of temporal disability 12,000 Cases (per 100 employees/year) Regular medical examinations Long-term follow-up care 68.2 66.6 10,000 70 Days of disability (per 100 employees/year) Disability cases (per 100 employees/year) 63.3 1100 58.4 8,000 1024.2 978.8 54.1 3,436 50 4,150 5,047 4,877 4,300 6,000 931.2 4,419 5,160 4,474 900 4,000 4,969 30 4,589 4,365 778.6 787.4 3,323 3,408 2,000 2,316 2,001 2,297 700 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, the Medical Centre provided medical services to the REGULAR MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS VS MEDICAL Company employees under the obligatory medical insurance EXAMINATIONS AT BUREVESTNIK SANATORIUM program as well as under the voluntary medical insurance program. 58,120 In total, over 300,000 medical services were provided 53,195 52,482 to Vodokanal employees in 2014. 49,510 50,000 An important activity of the Medical Centre is a long43,376 term follow-up care that includes medical and preventive 41,434 measures with regard to socially significant diseases. Timely 40,000 34,967 identification of such diseases allows providing proper medical services to this group of patients. In 2014, a great attention 30,000 26,426 was paid to regular medical examinations and follow-up care. 23,825 Over 8,405 employees were examined. 20,000 12,113 10,000 4,683 4,178 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Regular medical examinations, Medical examinations medical examinations for newly employed at Burevestnik Sanatorium QUANTITATIVE INDICATORS OF THE COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ VACCINATION FOR VIRAL HEPATITIS A, TYPHOID FEVER AND FLU 2,997 2500 To guarantee effective regular medical examinations and 2,284 2,350 follow-up care, the following standards were updated by Vodokanal: “Procedure of preliminary and regular medical 2000 1,900 examinations for Vodokanal employees engaged in heavy 1,787 1,758 1,573 1,700 1,656 work and in work involving harmful and (or) hazardous 1500 1,388 1,409 1,426 1,460 working conditions” and “Provision of annual follow-up care 1,225 1218 to Vodokanal employees”. 1,122 1,134 1000 963 In 2014, “a roadmap” for interaction with Vodokanal 849 729 production branches in view of the regular medical 500 500 528 559 examinations was implemented. An important area of healthcare work of the Medical 155 Centre is conduction of mandatory vaccination of 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 employees of decreed categories. Viral hepatitis A Typhoid fever Flu 229 DISEASE RATE OF VIRAL HEPATITIS A 140 124.1 St. Petersburg Vodokanal St. Petersburg 81.3 Thanks to obligatory 62 vaccination and revaccination for typhoid fever and hepatitis A no cases of these diseases have been recorded among 30.1 25 17.9 Vodokanal employees for over 21.2 10.4 7.7 9 years. 5.98 3.3 5.8 5.5 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 10,000 9,000 9,149 9,420 8,718 8,000 To prevent tuberculosis 7,000 7,455 and early detect respiratory diseases, all Vodokanal 6,000 employees undergo thoracic 5,000 5,213 organs examinations 4,890 (chest fluorography, chest 4,000 4,584 X-ray, computer tomography). 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The performance indicator of the Medical Centre is the In 2014, issuing of electronic medical records continued. percentage of healthy and apparently healthy people (I-II health Electronic memory of such records enables to process and groups). In Vodokanal St. Petersburg, this indicator is 41%. store medical reports, results of instrumental examination, Conclusion of agreements with the Federal North-West clinical-laboratory analyses. Medical Research Centre of the Ministry of Health Care, To monitor the quality of medical treatment, the Medical the Russian Research Center for Radiology and Surgical Centre developed a standard “Medical treatment quality Technologies, the Nikiforov All-Russian Centre of Emergency assessment system” which determines procedures of health and Radiation Medicine of the RF Ministry for Civil Defense, care delivery and quality assessment, and establishes an Emergency Management and Natural Disasters Response internal commission on health care quality assessment. provided effective interaction and timely high-quality medical An important element of Vodokanal social policy is the assistance to Vodokanal employees. Collective Agreement envisaging the following services In 2014, the Medical Centre continued to improve the provided by the Medical Centre in 20014: integrated database on health condition of Vodokanal • delivery of health care under obligatory and voluntary employees based on the medical information system medical insurance policies at the premises of the Medical “Avicenna” (MIS Avicenna). Centre (the Diagnostic and Treatment Centre and the dental The Avicenna system was integrated with the laboratory clinic); information system “Analytics” (LIS Analytics). The results • the right to use a voluntary medical insurance policy of health surveys carried out in the clinical diagnostic until its validity period expires, by an employee dismissed laboratory of the Medical Centre are automatically transferred on grounds of redundancy, as well as by children of the from LIS Analytics to MIS Avicenna. dismissed personnel under 18; As of the end of 2014, MIS Avicenna contained about • provision of certain types of medical and 150,000 ambulatory medical records. All data are available cosmetological services not included into the obligatory in electronic form which makes it user-friendly. It should medical insurance and voluntary medical insurance be noted that data privacy is observed. programs; Allocation and recording of patients appointed by • medical support during rehabilitation leaves for district health centres for instrumental examination in the Company employees, specified in the List of Professions X-ray diagnostics department using quotas from Territorial (Positions) enclosed to the Collective Agreement; Foundation of Obligatory Medical Insurance become • medical care for the former Vodokanal employees – automated. participants of the Great Patriotic War who have the Recording and issuing of final medical examination certificate “The Participant of the Great Patriotic War”, as well certificates and work incapacity certificates become as Vodokanal employees and former employees who worked automated. during the Siege of Leningrad at Company’s facilities. 230 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Social Responsibility Support of Sports IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMPREHENSIVE CORPORATE REHABILITATION PROGRAM AND ARRANGEMENT OF SPORTS EVENTS CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT OF HEALTHY LIFE, TEAM BUILDING, STRENGTHENING INTERPERSONAL RELATIONSHIP AND FRIENDLY TIES Spartakiada games, festivals and traditional winter and sumIn 2014, Vodokanal employmer competitions are held annually for Vodokanal employees in ees also participated in the THE MAJOR Burevestnik Sanatorium. following sports activities: In 2014, the following events took place in Burevestnik • Ping-Pong Club ChamACHIEVEMENT Sanatorium: pionship organized by the • Vodokanal winter sports competitions with the participaSociety of Sports and Physical OF 2014 WAS tion of over 500 employees; Training “Rossiya”; • sports contests “Fellowship” of the Russian water com• Mini Football Cup by VODOKANAL’S panies with the participation of teams from Nizhny Novgorod, Head of the Central District; Cherepovets, Vologda, Velikiy Novgorod, Vladimir, Ryazan as • Friendship Mini Football VICTORY IN THE well as the partner-companies (over 350 people in total); Cup organized by the Central • the festival “Family Games” with the participation of District; CONTEST FOR around 350 people; • Mini Football Champion• the Youth Games Festival allowed more than 300 young ship among veterans; THE BEST SPORTS employees to demonstrate their sports achievements; • Russian Kayak and • Vodokanal summer sports competition with the participaCanoe Paddling Championship EVENT AMONG tion of over 600 employees. among veterans; Sports are one of the most important elements of • 1st League City Football ST. PETERSBURG Vodokanal corporate activities. Sports grounds, gyms and Championship; swimming pools are rented for sports activities and physical • Volleyball Championship PRODUCTION training. The trade union of Vodokanal leases 12 swimming (amateur league); pools in different districts of the city attended by more than • World Championship COMPANIES 900 employees of the Company. Vodokanal has permanent among production companies sports teams in volleyball, football, table tennis, swimming, ski in Bulgaria, where Vodokanal race and a football team of Vodokanal veterans. took 1st place in football and Vodokanal teams took part in sports competitions arranged 3rd place in darts. by the Society of Sports and Physical Training “Rossiya” (1st place winner), the Interregional Trade Union Committee (1st place winner), the Central District of St. Petersburg (1st place winner). Vodokanal St. Petersburg organized sports competitions for the Company branches in 15 kinds of sports. Over 1,000 employees participated in such competitions. 231 232 Tariff Policy 233 Legal Framework If the Basic Principles of Water Pricing contain general provisions for Tariff on tariff regulation, limiting indices, procedure for determining the required gross revenues, water Regulation tariff regulation methods, procedure for determining utility connection fee, then the Guidelines set specific formulae and tariff calculation forms including: • procedure for determining volumes of supplied water and collected wastewater to be used for water tariffs calculations (water balance In 2014, water tariffs were regulated under the Federal Law form); no. 416–FZ “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” • provisions regulating dated 7 December 2011 and the Resolution of the Russian the calculation of the required Federation Government no. 406 dated 13 May 2013 gross revenues; “On Government Regulation of Water Tariffs” which • procedure for calculating provide for: the required gross revenues 1. pricing principles for water supply and wastewater by economically justifiable disposal; expenses methods; 2. water tariff regulation rules. comparative methods, indexing In 2014, the Regulated Water Tariffs Calculation Guidelines method, return on investment; were put into effect by the Order of the Federal Tariff • procedure for calculating Authority of the Russian Federation no. 1746–e dated hot water tariffs; 27 December 2013 (hereinafter, the Guidelines) finalizing the • procedure for calculating development of fundamental documents for water tariffs utility connection fee. regulation. It is worth noticing that in 2014 the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities of the Russian Federation put into effect the Order no. 22/pr dated 25 January 2014 “On approving the Procedure for maintaining separate accounting of expenses split by types of business activities for heat suppliers and water/ wastewater companies and the integrated cost classification system” which set the procedure for maintaining separate accounting of income and expenses spilt by types of business activities. 234 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Tariff Policy THUS, THE MAIN TARGETS OF THE ST. PETERSBURG TARIFF THE TARIFF POLICY, WHICH COMMITTEE ISSUES SEPARATE WERE DETERMINED AT THE ORDERS ESTABLISHING TARIFFS BEGINNING OF THE TARIFF FOR VODOKANAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM REFORMATION, REMAIN AND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL UNCHANGED AND INCLUDE SERVICES FOR EACH CUSTOMER THE FOLLOWING: IMPROVED GROUP AND FOR VODOKANAL’S AVAILABILITY OF CONNECTION THERMAL ENERGY FOR EACH TO WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FOR REGULATED PERIOD CONSUMERS, TRANSITION In addition, the Tariff Committee sets the fee for connection TO LONG-TERM TARIFF of newly built (reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, structures, and other facilities) to cold water and sewerage networks. REGULATION, EXPANSION OF OFFAn important event, that influenced tariff decisions taken in 2014, was that Vodokanal sent to the Russian Federal Tariff BUDGET FINANCING SOURCES Authority the statement of differences between the Company and the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee arising out of the FOR INVESTMENT PROGRAMMES, government tariff regulation set under the Order no. 501–r dated 18 December 2013 “On establishing tariffs for cold water, technical AND IMPLEMENTATION water and sewerage services to be provided by St. Petersburg Vodokanal in the territory of St. Petersburg in 2014”. The main OF RELIABILITY/SERVICE point of the stated differences was the amount of Vodokanal’s expenses in 2014 determined by the regulating authority. Upon the QUALITY INDICATORS FOR THE consideration of the statement the Russian Federal Tariff Authority issued the Decree no. 651–e dated 18 April 2014 PUBLIC UTILITIES THAT CARRY “On consideration of differences between executive authorities of the Russian Federation subjects regulating tariffs for goods and OUT REGULATED ACTIVITIES serviced provided by public utilities, local government authorities regulating tariffs and surcharges of public utilities and public utilities, between St. Petersburg Vodokanal and the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee” and on the grounds of that Decree the Under the current law, tariffs for water companies are St. Petersburg Tariff Committee adopted the Order no. 52–r dated regulated by the Russian Federal Tariff Authority (FTA). 21 May 2014 “On amending the Order no. 501–r dated The Federal Tariff Authority empowered to exercise legal 18 December 2013 of the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee”. control over the national regulation of prices (tariffs) for In 2014, thermal energy tariffs were regulated in line with services and to monitor the use thereof, determines average the Federal Law of the Russian Federation no. 190–FZ dated price change limits for the subjects of the Russian Federation. 27 July 2010 “On Heat Supply”, the RF Government Resolution At the level of St. Petersburg as a subject of the Russian no. 1075 dated 22 October 2012 “On Pricing in Heat Supply”, Federation, any tariff-related activities of Vodokanal are Procedural Guidelines for Calculation of Regulated Prices (Tariffs) in supervised and monitored by the St. Petersburg Tariff Heat Supply approved by the Decree of the Russian Federal Tariff Committee. Authority no. 760–e dated 13 June 2013 and other by-laws. 235 Tariff Policy The Federal Law no. 190– FZ dated 27 July 2010 “On Heat Supply” establishes Principles the basic principles of national heat supply policy: • availability of thermal energy (power) for customers; • heat distribution costs of public utilities shall TARIFF POLICY PRINCIPLES ARE be economically justified; • sufficient funding DETERMINED BY PROVISIONS of any measures required to ensure reliable operation OF THE FEDERAL LAWS REGULATING and development of heat supply systems; WATER SUPPLY, WASTEWATER DISPOSAL • motivation of energy efficiency and cost-efficiency AND HEAT SUPPLY of heat supply; • the regulation The Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” of heat prices (tariffs) shall provides for basic principles of national water policy: be transparent and visible • provision of potable water and sewerage services to the to any consumers including citizens is a priority task; households; • creating a good investment climate in the water sector, • control over the guaranteed repayment of private investments; observance of the legal • the balance of economic interests between water requirements regarding companies and their consumers shall be achieved and the improvement of maintained; energy saving and energy• water tariffs shall be based on economically justified efficiency for the purpose expenses of water companies; of reducing energy losses, • creating stable and non-discriminatory conditions for including requirements business in the water sector; to the development and • equal access to water services for all customers; implementation of energy• transparent activities of water companies and the federal saving/energy-efficiency authorities, authorities of RF subjects and local administrations programmes and to energy responsible for regulation of water sector. metering. 236 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Tariff Policy Tariffs for Vodokanal Services in 2014 Water tariffs for 2014 were established by the Order of the Vodokanal in the territory In 2014 the tariffs Tariff Committee no. 501–r dated 18 December 2013 of St. Petersburg in 2014” were determined with “On establishing tariffs for cold water, technical water and as amended by the Order the following calendar sewerage services to be provided by St. Petersburg no. 52–r dated 21 May 2014. breakdown: • since 1 January TARIFFS FOR COLD WATER, TECHNICAL WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES 2014, the tariffs have been OF ST. PETERSBURG VODOKANAL IN 2014 maintained at the level determined on 1 July 2013; • on 1 July 2014 the 2014 tariffs were raised for service Item providers (households) by Tariffs from 31 January 2014 from 1 July 2014 no. 3.2%; for other customers – till 30 June 2014 till 31 December 2014 by 12%. 1. Tariffs for drinking water In 2014, the annual 1.1 Service providers 17.27 17.82 average tariff grew 8.4% compared to 2013. 1.2 Households (incl. VAT) 20.38 21.03 The 2014 tariffs for 1.3 Other 19.58 21.84 thermal energy supplied by 2. Tariffs for technical water Vodokanal were determined by the Order of the Tariff 2.1 Service providers Committee no. 585–r dated 2.2 Households (incl. VAT) 20 December 2013 “On establishing tariffs for 2.3 Other 3.54 3.95 the thermal energy supplied 3. Tariffs for sewerage services by St. Petersburg Vodokanal 3.1 Service providers 17.27 17.82 to consumers located in St. Petersburg, for 2014”. 3.2 Households (incl. VAT) 20.38 21.03 3.3 Other 22.76 25.60 Note: The tariffs are shown without the value-added tax except for the Household group. TARIFFS FOR THERMAL ENERGY SUPPLIED BY ST. PETERSBURG VODOKANAL TO CONSUMERS LOCATED IN ST. PETERSBURG, FOR 2014 Tariffs for thermal energy Pressurized extraction steam Live and reduced steam Period Tariff type 1.2–2.5 2,5–7 7,0–13 over 13 kg/cm2 kg/cm2 kg/cm2 kg/cm2 Consumers paying for thermal energy production (those who receive thermal energy from the producers’ collectors) from Single-rate tariff, 01.01.2014 – 997.96 – – – RUB/Gcal till 30.06.2014 from Single-rate tariff, 01.07.2014 – 997.96 – – – RUB/Gcal till 31.12.2014 Note: The tariff is shown without the value-added tax. Since 1 January 2014, the tariff have been maintained has been reduced by 5.6%. at the level determined From 1 July 2014, the tariffs on 1 January 2014. 237 Connection Fees Fees for connection of newly built (reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, structures, and other) to Vodokanal’s cold water supply and sewerage systems in 2012–2014 were established by the Order of the Tariff Committee no. 381–r dated 29 November 2011. FEES FOR CONNECTION OF NEWLY BUILT (RECONSTRUCTED) REAL ESTATE UNITS (BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND OTHER) TO VODOKANAL’S COLD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS IN 2012–2014, RUB/M3/HOUR Contract demand Contract demand Contract demand Description < 4.17 m3/hour 4.17–41.67 m3/hour > 41,67 m3/hour Cold water supply 714,000.00 711,600.00 709,200.00 Sewerage 738,000.00 735,600.00 733,200.00 Note: Connection fees are shown without the value-added tax. Until the Rules of Cold Water of the Russian Government Decree no. 360 dated Supply and Wastewater 9 June 2007 “On approving the Rules of making and Disposal approved by performing public contracts for connection to municipal the Decree of the Russian infrastructure”, i.e. as the product of contract demand Government no. 644 dated (in m3/hour) and connection fee. 29 July 2013 came The procedure for calculating connection fees remained into effect, the amount valid until the expiry of the Order of St. Petersburg Tariff of connection fee to Committee no. 381–r dated 29 November 2011 with due Vodokanal’s network had regard to the provisions of the adopted Basic Principles been calculated in compliance of Water Pricing and the Procedural Guidelines. with clauses 14.1 and 14.2 The connection fees have not been raised since 2009. 238 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Tariff Policy Reasons for Tariff Growth In the Financial Plan of St. Petersburg Vodokanal, • forecasted price change indices officially published the total expenditures comprise the material costs by the Russian Ministry of Economic Development; calculated on the basis of: • macroeconomic forecast of social and economic • state-regulated tariffs (prices) or their projected development as approved by the government of relevant values officially communicated by a relevant tariff (price) – RF subject in consideration of the special features regulating authority; of regional development; • industry-specific forecasted price change indices; • actual price trends (the soundness of such calculation shall be confirmed by a relevant regulatory body). Transparent Tariffs Vodokanal discloses information related to water supply All information referred to in the Information Disclosure and wastewater disposal in accordance with the Russian Standards, and any information regarding establishment Federation Government Decree no. 6 dated 17 January 2013 and application of tariffs in St. Petersburg, can be found on the “ On the Standards for disclosure of information in the water official websites of Vodokanal and the St. Petersburg Tariff sector” (hereinafter, Information Disclosure Standards). Committee or in the official journal of the St. Petersburg Tariff In heat supply sector Vodokanal discloses information Committee – “Vestnik Komiteta po Tarifam Sankt-Peterburga” according to the Resolution of the Russian Federation (Order of the St. Petersburg Government no. 223 dated Government no. 570 dated 5 July 2013 “On the Standards 21 February 2011; Certificate of Mass Media no. TU 7800675 for disclosure of Information to heat suppliers, heat dated 27 August 2010). distribution network operators and regulating authorities”. The above resources are convenient official platforms Vodokanal follows a consistent transparency policy aimed for centralized, consistent and timely disclosure of information to facilitate access to the information that must be disclosed. in compliance with the Information Disclosure Standards. 239 240 Financial Statements 241 Main Financial Indicators of St. Petersburg Indicators, MRUB 2010 2011 Vodokanal 2012 2013 2014 Turnover 20,060 22,797 23,649 25,276 24,945 Operating costs 17,694 19,853 19,546 21,311 23,041 Operating profit 2,366 2,944 4,103 3,965 1,904 Net profit (loss) 379 404 1,074 (291) (4,623) Profitability of core 13.4 14.8 21.0 18.6 8.3 operations, % During 2010–2013, the the investment program. growth of the main financial Vodokanal’s operating loss indicators provided financing is caused by reduction of different actions aimed to the Company’s turnover, achieve the service quality unfavorable exchange rate targets in line with the longdifferences (due to significant term development strategy of change of the euro exchange the Company. rate at the end of the year. The indicator “profitability As of 31 December 2014, of core operations” is high the EUR/RUB exchange rate compared with that of was 1 – 68.3427 and as other municipal utilities. of 31 January 2013 it was The Company’s profit was 1 – 44.9699) and the increase used for connection to of property tax (due to the water supply and sewerage cancellation of property tax networks implemented under privileges). 242 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Financial Statements Indicator 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Current ratio 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.1 (standard: 1 to 2) Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains a rather high level of solvency which is evidenced by the fact that its profitability ratios are within the standard range meaning that the Company has sufficient funds for current payments. Indicators 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Equity to Total 0.88 0.90 0.88 0.88 0.87 Assets Financial 0.14 0.11 0.14 0.14 0.15 Leverage Vodokanal is a company with a high capital coefficient. The share of fixed assets in the balance sheet structure is over 90%. The Equity to Total Assets Ratio is high which means that the Company capital structure is stable. 243 Balance Sheet CODES OKUD as of 31 December 2014 0710001 Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2014 Organization SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg OKPO Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Type of business OKVED 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Form of incorporation/Type of ownership 1 52 42 13 State Unitary Enterprise/RF subject owned OKOPF/OKFS Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 Location (address): 42, Kavalergardskaya st., St. Petersburg, 191015 As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December Clarifications Item Code 2014 2013 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 ASSETS I. NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1 Intangible assets 1110 404,125 373,521 374,450 2 R&D results 1120 38,315 2,727 3,167 Intangible develop– 1130 – – – ment assets Fixed development – 1140 – – – assets 3–5 Fixed assets 1150 200,038,805 175,560,010 159,467,488 from Line 1150: buildings 1151 19,779,575 18,403,136 18,377,363 structures, transfer 1152 157,040,568 136,071,270 115,805,650 devices machinery and equipment, 1153 6,811,814 6,674,427 6,962,400 vehicles construction 6, 9, 10 1154 16,201,903 14,198,056 18,084,319 in progress Income-bearing investments 1160 – – – in inventories 7 Financial investments 1170 117,795 117,795 395,879 Deferred tax assets 1180 775,938 412,225 402,022 Other non-current 8 1190 385,346 403,896 413,403 assets Section I, TOTAL 1100 201,760,324 176,870,174 161,056,409 244 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Financial Statements As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December Clarifications Item Code 2014 2013 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 II.CURRENT ASSETS 9 Inventories 1210 1,790,312 1,616,451 1,329,817 from Line 1210 raw materials, 1211 1,109,371 1,000,572 784,315 materials, etc. deferred assets 1212 680,941 615,879 545,502 Value-added tax on purchased 1220 18,720 83,134 77,738 valuables 10 Accounts receivable 1230 9,175,919 8,183,767 6,629,685 from Line 1230 Accounts receivable due beyond 1231 1,266,943 928,787 1,232,155 12 months after the reporting date from Line 1231 12311 83,830 56,950 29,884 Buyers and Clients Accounts receivable where payments are expected within 1232 7,908,976 7,254,980 5,397,530 12 months after the reporting date from Line1232 12321 5,751,242 5,194,495 4,670,839 Buyers and Clients Financial investments 7 (other than 1240 – 608,000 922,000 cash equivalents) Monetary resources * 1250 2,179,091 4,708,496 5,837,699 and cash equivalents Other current assets 1260 – – – Section II, TOTAL 1200 13,164,042 15,199,848 14,796,939 BALANCE 1600 214,924,366 192,070,022 175,853,348 245 As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December Clarifications Item Code 2014 2013 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 LIABILITIES III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES ** Registered capital 1310 4,851,580 4,851,580 3,475,580 Own shares bought out from 1320 – – – shareholders Revaluation ** 1340 102,190,823 88,461,197 88,630,171 of non-current assets Additional capital ** 1350 78,517,654 69,101,465 51,025,164 (not revaluated) Special-purpose ** 1351 1,627,950 2,232,445 7,234,434 receipts ** Reserve fund 1360 86,339 86,339 86,339 Undistributed ** profit 1370 (2,770,324) 1,741,289 2,015,848 (uncovered loss) Section III, TOTAL 1300 184,504,022 166,474,315 152,467,536 IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES 11 Borrowings 1410 9,287,959 8,480,338 9,860,025 from Line 1410 Loans repayable beyond 1411 9,287,959 6,486,338 7,866,025 12 months after the reporting date Credits repayable beyond 1412 – 1,994,000 1,994,000 12 months after the reporting date Deferred tax liabilities 1420 693,199 608,480 485,406 Estimated liabilities 1430 – – – Other liabilities 1450 4,199,183 2,068,252 918,442 Section IV, TOTAL 1400 14,180,341 11,157,070 11,263,873 V. SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES 11 Borrowings 1510 3,854,618 3,905,642 2,860,483 from Line 1510 Loans repayable within less than 12 1511 1,849,247 3,894,765 2,850,129 months after the reporting date Credits repayable within less than 12 1512 2,005,371 10,877 10,354 months after the reporting date 11 Accounts payable 1520 8,958,383 7,370,387 6,653,107 246 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Financial Statements As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December Clarifications Item Code 2014 2013 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 from Line 1520 suppliers and contrac1521 2,993,969 3,251,549 2,320,394 tors payroll debt 1522 191,938 182,359 156,934 debt to state ex1523 80,185 78,470 71,188 tra-budgetary funds tax arrears 1524 1,426,094 1,130,061 1,146,007 advances received 1525 4,094,011 2,579,057 2,810,608 other creditors 1526 172,186 148,891 147,976 Deferred income 1530 2,830,832 2,565,255 2 061,092 12 Estimated liabilities 1540 596,170 597,353 547,257 Other liabilities 1550 – – – Section V, TOTAL 1500 16,240,003 14,438,637 12,121,939 BALANCE 1700 214,924,366 192,070,022 175,853,348 * Cash Flow Statement ** Statement of Changes in Equity Director________________________________________________________________________________ O.N. Zharkova (signature) (name) Chief Accountant______________________________________________________________________ G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 27 March 2015 247 Income Statement CODES OKUD as of 31 December 2014 0710002 Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2014 Organization SUE Vodokanal of St. Petersburg OKPO 03323809 Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Type of business OKVED 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Form of incorporation/Type of ownership 42 13 State Unitary Enterprise/RF subject owned OKOPF/OKFS Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 ClarifiItem Code 2014 2013 cations Revenue 2110 24,945,533 25,271,878 Cost of sales 2120 (23,041,299) (21,325,178) Gross profit (loss) 2100 1,904,234 3,946,700 Commercial expenses 2210 (–) (–) Administrative expenses 2220 (–) (–) Sales profit (loss) 2200 1,904,234 3,946,700 Income from participation in other 2310 687 1,115 organizations Interest receivable 2320 17,628 79,462 Interest payable 2330 (603,612) (260,678) Other income 2340 663,976 651,828 Other expenses 2350 (6,884,130) (3,984,624) Before-tax profit (loss) 2300 (4,901,217) 433,803 Current profit tax 2410 (–) (591,337) incl. constant tax liabilities (assets) 2421 (698,778) (611,482) Change of deferred tax liabilities 2430 (84,931) (122,922) Change of deferred tax assets 2450 366,396 16,017 Other 2460 (3,573) (6,065) Net profit (loss) 2400 (4,623,325) (270,504) 248 ANNUAL REPORT’14 Financial Statements ClarifiItem Code 2014 2013 cations Result of non-current assets revaluation not included into the net profit (loss) 2510 13,912,762 – of the period Result of other transactions not included 2520 – – into the net profit (loss) of the period Cumulative financial result of the period 2500 9,289,437 (270,504) For reference Base profit (loss) per share 2900 – – Diluted earnings (loss) per share 2910 – – Director________________________________________________________________________________ O.N. Zharkova (signature) (name) Chief Accountant______________________________________________________________________ G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 27 March 2015 249 Contact Information STATE UNITARY ENTERPRISE THE UNIVERSE OF WATER MUSEUM COMPLEX “VODOKANAL OF ST. PETERSBURG” 56, Shpalernaya str. (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”). 42, Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg, 191015, Russia. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-75, 275-43-25, 438-43-01. Tel.: +7 (812) 372-58-28, Fax +7 (812) 274-13-61 Open hours: Wednesday–Sunday 10:00 a.m. –7:00 p.m. (Documents Division). Tickets can be bought till 6:30 p.m. E-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru Website: www.vodokanal-museum.ru E-mail: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru – Personnel Department (for CVs). YOUTH ENVIRONMENTAL CENTER Website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru 56, Shpalernaya str., (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”). Hot Line Service: +7 (812) 305-09-09. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-96. E-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru Website: www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTRE Lit. A, 21, Gakkelevskaya str., St. Petersburg. Tel.: +7 (812) 702-12-98 – Reception room, BUREVESTNIK SANATORIUM Website: www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru Fax: +7 (812) 438-47-96 and billerc@vodokanal.spb.ru – Office in St. Petersburg: Common fax number and e-mail to submit meter readings 7, Zelenkov per. (underground station “Vyborgskaya”). since 1 October 2013. Tel./Fax: +7 (812) 438-44-85. Send a request to billerc@vodokanal.spb.ru Tel.: +7 (812) 329-34-84, 329-34-40, +7 (921) 965-65-50. to receive a meter readings submission form. Open hours: Monday–Thursday, 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m., Tel.: +7 (812) 633-02-76 – consultancy on calculations. Friday, 9:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-17 – consultancy on prolongation and Office in Luga: amendment of the agreements on potable water supply, 16, Zapadnaya Street. wastewater and pollutants collection (“unified” agreements). Tel.: +7 (813-72) 4-33-03, 2-36-60, +7 (921) 362-18-69. Open hours: Monday–Friday 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Open hours: аll week, 9:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m. The detailed contact information can be found at the official website of the Company: www.vodokanal.spb.ru in “For customers” page. MEDICAL CENTER BRANCH E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru Website : www.med-vdk.ru CONNECTIONS DEPARTMENT Treatment & Diagnostic Center Tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-11; +7 (812) 438-44-27 – Lit. Ya, 42, Kavalergardskaya str. consultancy on connection to the networks. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-44-20, +7 (812) 326-52-78. Open hours: Monday–Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 5:15 p.m. Open hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m. Treatment & Diagnostic Center (including X-Ray Diagnostics Department): Block 2 H, 103, Moskovskiy pr., St. Petersburg. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-47-77, 326-52-78. Open hours: Monday–Saturday, 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m. (X-Ray Diagnostics Department – up to 9:30p.m.). Dental Clinic: Lit. AK, 56, Shpalernaya str. Tel.: +7 (812) 326-53-19. Open hours: Monday–Thursday, 9:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m., Friday 9:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. 250
