Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact TABLE OF CONTENT STG IN BRIEF ..................................................................................................................................... 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT ........................................................................................................................ 5 ABOUT SUDATEL TELECOM GROUP .................................................................................................. 6 BUSINESS PLACES............................................................................................................................. 8 IMPLEMENTATION OF GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIBLES ..................................................................... 9 HUMAN RIGHTS ............................................................................................................................... 11 LABOUR .......................................................................................................................................... 16 ENVIRONMENT ............................................................................................................................... 18 ANTI-CORRUPTION ..........................................................................................................................20 Page 2 of 22 STG IN BRIEF Company Name Sudatel Telecom Group (STG) Address Sudatel Tower Khartoum, Sudan P.O.Box: 55111 Tel.: 0183797400 – 012012001 Fax: 0183775686 0183782322 Email: info@sudatel.sd Number of employees Country Sudan Contact name Mohamed Elfatih Eltigani Contact Position Chief Enterprise Affairs Contact telephone 0123000027 no. COP Report Period of Dec. 2014 – Dec. 2015 Coverage Page 3 of 22 CEO MESSAGE It is with great pleasure that we as Sudatel Telecom Group (STG), go forward in our commitment to the board of the local compact network, and remain committed for the continuous support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These being in the four main streams of the compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. STG is submitting its first COP this year as a token of faith that it will do so every year on an annual basis. In this report, STG shows how our business benefited from integrating and applying the GC principles in our immediate and medium term strategy and in our everyday business activities. STG also takes up this strategy on the long run and to apply these principles. STG is fully committed to insure that all our shareholders/ stakeholders/ Supply chain are well informed and aware of the UN global compact principles. Yours sincerely, Tarig Hamza Zainelabdin CEO Page 4 of 22 ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting purpose This is the first report of STG on the progress of implementation of the UN Global Compact. STG seeks to make available -in a transparent manner -its implementation results achieved in 2015 to stakeholders through this report and continue meaningful communication with them by consolidating their opinions. Reporting period and scope This report is prepared based on data from Dec. 2014 to Dec. 2015. Part of quantitative data of 3 ~ 4 years are presented together for trend analysis. The quantitative and qualitative data required for the report broadly covered the achievements in implementing the 10 major UNGC principles and track record CSR activities of all the domestic business places of Sudatel Telecom Group in Sudan. Reporting for all our geographical places of work will be covered in next COPs. Reporting principle This report is prepared by taking into account the GC guidelines. Inquiries on the report Additional information related to this report will be found at www.sudatel.sd. For more details, please contact: CSR Team, STG Sudan, Sudatel Tower Khartoum, Sudan. P.O.Box: 55111 Fax: 0183775686 – 0183782322 Email: info@sudatel.sd Page 5 of 22 ABOUT SUDATEL TELECOM GROUP Sudatel Telecom Group (STG) is one of the leading telecom companies in the region, serving the needs of customers in Sudan and Africa. Since its foundation on 13th September 1993, STG has grown steadily from local to regional markets, setting a good example for privatization policy. STG is the bridge for telecommunication movement between the Arab world, Africa and the rest of the world. STG offers various telecom services and keeping its competitive edge with other companies. STG main services include provision of mobile services, fixed-line services, as well as carrier and wholesales services. STG provides services in 2G, 3G, and NGN technology levels. STG services are expanded into many cities and rural areas, achieving the widest coverage and most significant presence. STG’s infrastructure integrates well together in harmony with all the modern elements of modern communications in optical fiber networks, copper and wireless networks so that all these networks are based on a common technology base which is the best and most modern in the field of communications. Sudatel contribute 13% in the submarine cable to east Africa extending from Port Sudan to cape Town linking 13 countries in the eastern coast of Africa and owns 50% of SAS1 and SAS2, which are huge projects for transmission linkage between Port Sudan and Jeddah, in addition to Sudatel Contribution at the continental cable ACE with 9% that links the western coast countries extending from Cape Town to France. Sudatel is also linked with Ethiopia and Egypt via the fiber optic. Page 6 of 22 STG is the first Sudanese company to be listed on the regional stock markets. On 4th July 1997, it was enlisted on Khartoum Stock Exchange. On 6th November 2000, it was enlisted on Bahraini Stock Market and on Abu Dhabi Stock Market on 31st March 2003. STG deals with investors from Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Qatar, Bahrain, Iran, Oman and Jordan and with more than 14 Local and Regional Banks as well as more than 80 Sudanese and Regional Companies. Since it is foundation STG paid more than 36 million dollar for the social responsibility activities to cover the needs in education, health, water projects. Page 7 of 22 BUSINESS PLACES STG is running now a telecom business (telecom operators) in five African countries (Sudan Mauritania – Senegal – Ghana and Guinea Conakry) covering the areas of Mobile, fixed, Internet and broadband services. Page 8 of 22 IMPLEMENTATION OF GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIBLES General Note: STG basic concept of social responsibility is based upon an integrated system for social rights all people in wealth and money. In our traditions, solidarity, which is a main pillar within this framework, extends beyond materialistic aspects to include the spiritual ones wherein STG has learnt from the good mankind experiences and the fruits of the international criteria defined by specialized humanitarian institutions in line with its values and ethical criteria. Sudatel affirms its resolute adherence to the ethical principles and reliable work practices in all its dealings and transactions. Sudatel has considerably contributed in realizing sustainable development, improved the living standards of its workers and their families as well as local communities and the society as a whole, and After being a member of the Global preserved the environment and has taken full compact, we are working on commitment of communal service as a streamlining our basic and original strategic option. concept for the CSR to go with the TEN After being a member of the Global compact, PRINCIPLES of the GC. For us, it’s a we are working on streamlining our basic and matter of renaming things, and original concept for the CSR to go with the TEN redistributing tasks among different PRINCIPLES of the GC. For us, it’s a matter of departments. renaming things, and redistributing tasks among different departments. Page 9 of 22 Within its social responsibility, Sudatel has exerted great efforts towards the shareholders: society, government, stockholders, subscribers, workers, importers and civil society organizations. Sudatel has adhered to the principle of transparency and governance as an integral part of responsibility. These efforts have resulted in the following achievements: STG considers social responsibility at the core of its duty. STG has been involved in communal support since 1999 when its first program of this type was launched. At first it allocated 2 million dollars each year for this purpose, and then it was raised to 4 million dollars per year. The unique Community Support Program of STG is a 7-year-old activity with a 2 million USD annual sum available to meet pressing community needs. The program focuses on social issues such as hygiene, medical, learning, water supply, peace, information technology and orphan support. The program yielded fruitful projects all over the country especially in remote and peripheral areas. Page 10 of 22 HUMAN RIGHTS Business should support and respect the protection of PRINCIPLE 1 internationally proclaimed Human rights Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights PRINCIPLE 2 abuses Other relevant information: We are in the process of developing and uploading our policies in our website. The Comittment STG respects the human rights of individuals and observes domestic and foreign laws related to human rights and labor in all its business places. Our obligation is to avoid involvement in the maltreatment of people or violation of human rights in countries where laws/regulations and ethical standards are not applied. The key technologies of STG will help in promoting a democratic society, creating economic opportunities, and improving the quality of life. The System: Actions and Measures Respect for human rights of employees STG has established a code of business ethics which comply with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. It is asking the board of directors, management, and employees to act based on honesty and ethics. In addition, an “Open Door Policy” is well established within the company culture. Employees find it very easy to access any level of management to hear and resolve the grievances of employees. STG is operating a unit exclusively in charge of safe working environment for and health of employees in its business places. Implementation Activities Plans for CSR employee education are set for the coming year with some sessions to be done by Global Compact representatives. We shall not be satisfied with the current level, however. Page 11 of 22 Instead, we shall further explore diverse systems that can uphold better the human rights of employees in their working lives. Community Service Communications service is a project for social responsibility because it contributes in developing other sectors and achieves sustainable development. Sudatel has established large communications networks whose fabric network only exceeds 10,000 kilometers in length, connected with neighbouring countries of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Ethiopia and more connections are under way with other countries. Sudatel takes part in major telecom projects in Africa such as the Eastern Africa Submarine cable System (EASSY), and ACE in West Africa, as well as SAS 1 and SAS 2 that connect Sudan with Saudi Arabia across the Red Sea. All these projects are in favour of sustainable development and filling the digital gap to make Africa cope with the knowledge community. Moreover, Sudatel has been allocating $2 million since 1999 to support vulnerable segments of the population and to build partnerships with institutions through implementation of valuable projects in the fields of health, education, orphan sponsorship and development in general. Sudatel is always very generous in providing direct support to the needy and weak people, widows, and the sick people. It has been providing services across the country throughout the years. Indicators: 2014 projects: Sudatel has allocated $ 4 million for the year 2011 whereby a number of distinguished projects have been implemented as follows: Page 12 of 22 1. Health services The development of any community is based on its health services infrastructure. Sudatel Telecom Group has decided to participate in developing such important sector as a national duty. Sudatel has participated in supporting national hospitals and health centers all over Sudan to help in providing high quality health services to citizens. Sudatel has provided modern medical devices and apparatus in the center and in rural areas. For instance Sudatel Telecom Group has provided support to Khartoum Teaching Hospital, Ear, Nose and Mouse Unit, Khartoum Dental Teaching Hospital, Rural Ambulance Services, national campaigns to eradicate Malaria, providing telecommunication services to national ambulance services and supporting huge numbers of patients to get medication outside Sudan. Sudatel Telecom Group has spent 10,858,607 Sudanese pounds to implement 91 health service projects all over Sudan Page 13 of 22 2. Water Service Sudatel has paid great attention to water services, particularly in rural areas which are suffering from thirst and shortage of water. Sudatel has implemented 55 projects including construction of water plants, networks, reservoirs and water pumps. These projects contribute to the stability of these areas because the people settled around them in the rural areas, something help in providing other services to them. Water is an essential factor for comprehensive development. 3. Orphans care The good society is the one in which orphans are treated with kindness. Sudatel Sponsorship Programme supports 1500 orphans every month through 23 voluntary national organizations. The philosophy of selecting national organizations is to rehabilitate them to assume their role in the best manner, benefiting from Sudatel support to realize the values of solidarity and benevolence among the society members. Page 14 of 22 4. Education Services Investing in human is the real capital for development where new horizons of growth and development are opened. Therefore, Sudatel has paid great concern to education. Sudatel has implemented qualitative projects touching up the dire need of the society in this respect: the students’ seating project where more than 16,000 students have been seated, 13 school integrated labs have been implemented in high secondary schools in Khartoum and the states, science and lab teachers have been trained on them, 510 university female students have been sponsored and mosques have been established in schools within the framework of “a mosque for each school” project. Also, Sudatel has supported the lab of Education, Science and Arts faculties in the University of Khartoum with modern 75 computers and now preparations are being made to provide equipment and devices for radio and TV studio in the media department in Omdurman Islamic University. Facilities have been provided for persons with disabilities such as movement equipment. A number of drinking foundations have been implemented in universities and schools. School uniform is provided from more than 4,000 orphan students and some classes have been rehabilitated and built in some schools. 5. Development projects Voluntary organizations have been supported and houses of the disabled have been rehabilitated. Direct support has been provided for more than 1000 citizens for serious treatment cases and surgeries which the patients were unable to cover their expenses. Page 15 of 22 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the PRINCIPLE 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and PRINCIPLE 6 occupation. Whilst adequate recruitment tools may improve the hiring process, it is understood that the decision to hire a candidate remains in the hands of the responsible manager supported by the HR staff. Under no circumstances should the decision to hire or not to hire be left in the hands of an outside consultant or expert. Only relevant skills and experience and the adherence to the above principles will be considered in employing a person. No consideration will be given to a candidate’s origin, nationality, religion, race, gender or age. The Comittment STG is committed to fully endorse and to respect a series of principles and international conventions concerning employee’s rights, the protection of children against child labour and other important issues. These principles are to be respected everywhere and under all Page 16 of 22 circumstances. The management will implement the necessary processes to ensure that these principles are enforced at all levels. Employees who are not abiding with these principles cannot be maintained in employment and will be requested to leave the organisation. Also our main suppliers and providers of outsourced services should be informed of these principles and should comply with them. STG is encouraging employees to establish or join organizations peacefully and legally and of their own volition and to exercise their right to collective bargaining. It respects the equality and diversity of employees in business and prohibits compulsory labor and discrimination. In addition, the Company has declared related regulations and internal policies for all aspects of labor such as service, working hours, employment, evaluation, and diversity for observance by all employees. The System: Actions and Measures Many activities are considered to be a continuation of an extended projects that started many years ago. But for the last year the major thing is the issuance of the HR Policy. It has been distributed to all employees and throughout the supply chain. Measures are the distribution lists reserved within the HR department. In our policy, we take care of the following: SUDATEL Group is committed to developing a workforce able to enhance the ability to serve customers efficiently and effectively, and this is done through the following:  Recruitment is based on the highest ethical standards such as merit, integrity, honesty and respect  STG always takes action, and design meaningful activities to develop an institutional culture that is supportive of openness, respect and justice  STG ensure a high level of health, safety and welfare of workers  Policies that foster an environment that allows employees to excel in their performance, and enable them to learn and develop for the purpose of providing high quality services to the community  Increase loyalty and institutional links among workers which affects productivity.  We are committed to good citizenship, and communicate with the community and serve it on gentle persuasion, honoring it, appreciate it and do not allow neither child labor nor forced employment, and working to protect the environment and do not participate in corrupt practices  Recruit people with special needs in the group Page 17 of 22 ENVIRONMENT Business should support a precautionary approach to PRINCIPLE 7 environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental PRINCIPLE 8 responsibility, and; Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally PRINCIPLE 9 friendly technologies. The Comittment SUDATEL Group is committed to minimizing the negative effects on the environment, and the impact on climate change, and at the same time strengthening the positive effects. STG is committed to nurture its staff to care and protect our environment. We incorporate environmental protection in our strategic decisions and conduct our business in manner that balances the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. STG is committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees, subcontractors and visitors; minimizing harm and risk to the environment and communities in which we live and work. We are observing the Sustainability Policies in order to contribute to the sustainability advancement of society and provide products and solutions delivering high environmental performance. The System: Actions and Measures This is done through the following:  Provide planning and operation of real estate adaptable, sustainable and at the same time meet the needs of people and environment.  Take the necessary steps to manage carbon emissions (direct and indirect) to reduce our effect on the climate change.  Do, during the day to day operations, the best procedures of waste management all over the group (reduce, reuse and recycle).  Support and promote bio-diversity and quality of the local climate through cooperation with the concerned authorities in the fight against environmental crimes and unethical behavior, as well as to contribute to the implementation of legislation relating to wildlife and the implementation of initiatives related to crimes directed towards Wildlife. Page 18 of 22  Adopt specific policies to enforce the purchase of sustainable products and services, and encourage suppliers and supply chains and all stakeholders to follow this approach.  Conserve energy and improve its quality in internal processes, and to make every effort, to the use of environmentally sound energy resources.  Working to reduce the wasteful use of water by sticking to the policy of water conservation and the use of materials and assistive devices.  Planting trees, and work to maintain this behavior, to increase green areas.  Raise environmental awareness among workers and customers/subscribers to maintain the environmental resources and encourage them to it perfect. Our Intention is to compile, draft, review and issue the first version of STG Environmental Policy, in the coming months and post it in the office notice board. Our measure of performance will be the policy distribution lists and trainings performance results. Page 19 of 22 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including PRINCIPLE 10 extortion and bribery  Establishment of the Bribery, Fraud and Mal practice policy.  Distribute dto all employees.  Distributed to supply chain. The Commitment STG considers honesty and ethics to be the most important key values in corporate activities, and it is trying to deal with customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other stakeholders based on mutual trust as well as on such values. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. Our purpose is to: set out our responsibilities, and of those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption; and provide information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. The System: Actions and Measures Corporate Communication Dept and CSR Team are drafting and developing the CSR Charter which is based on our commitment twards our all circles of contacts. Those circles include: Staff, Society, Environment, Workplace, Partners and Suppliers Our action and measure in this direction is to issue the charter and make it clear regarding the following points: SUDATEL Group is committed to selecting partners with all honesty and integrity to fulfil strategic objectives, and is committed to respecting the ethics, transparency and clarity in the work. It’s also committed to encouraging and motivating partners to withstand social responsibility. This is done through the following:  Follow a management approach that includes clear and specific criteria for the selection of partners.  Ensure that all partners adhere to business ethics. Page 20 of 22  Put a specific mechanism to evaluate the performance of companies in order to take decisions on their partnership continuation.  Implementation of a number of meetings and brainstorming sessions to clarify partners' needs and how to deal with it, as well as to get feedback on the proposed initiatives regarding social responsibility.  Commitment to clarity and transparency in dealing with all partners according to a specific governance approach in the group Page 21 of 22 Our Last Achievement Sudatel wins the Best Data Center in Africa Award On Tuesday, Sudatel Telecom Group, the pioneer telecommunication company in Africa, has won the best data center in Africa award which was announced in Paris. The award, which is organized by Media Capacity the famous media group focusing on telecommunication sector, is one the big awards in telecommunication industry . The nomination for the award included Sudatel Group, Liquid Telecom and WIOCC, which have strong presence in Africa. The award ceremony was honored by the presence of Sudatel Data Center Director Dr. Ahmed Al Magzoub and International Relations Director Mr. Magdi Maki. “The award is a recognition to Sudatel leading role in Africa and will encourage the Data Center to expand its service inside and outside Sudan,” said Dr. Ahmed Al Magzoub. Liquid Telecom has extended warm congratulation to Sudatel International Relations Director Mr. Magdi Maki and expressed interest to explore joint cooperation between the two giant telecommunication groups. It to be noted that the over 170 nominations were competed to win 30 awards in various telecommunication services. The awards ceremony was widely attended by international telecommunication companies. Sudatel Data Center is considered as one of it is kind in Sudan and one of the top in Africa. With the cost of 45 M $, the specifications of this Data Center are designed of the highest standards “Tier IV”, most secure and reliable in all of North, East and West Africa. Page 22 of 22
