Building Towards A Sustainable Future NATPET Sustainability Report (Communication on Progress COP) Year 2015 LB-084 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Page S. No. Description S. No. Description No. No. 1.0 NATPET’S VISION AND MISSION 03 2.4.5.10 Office Environment Policy 13 2.0 NATPET COMMITMENT 04 2.4.5.11 Equal Opportunities Policy 14 President & COO Declaration of Support of 10 2.1 Principles of UNITED NATION GLOBAL 04 2.4.5.12 Equal Pay Policy 14 COMPACT-UNGC The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global 2.2 05 2.4.5.13 Equal Opportunities relating to Disability Policy 14 Compact 2.3 Support to Responsible Care® Global Charter 06 2.4.5.14 Environmental Policy 15 2.4 NATPET Policies 07 2.4.5.15 Maternity Policy 15 NATPET’S HISTORY AND A BRIEF 2.4.1 IMS (QEHSS/RC) Policy 07 3.0 16 BACKGROUND 2.4.2 Product Stewardship Policy 08 3.1 NATPET in Brief 16 2.4.3 Community Awareness & Education Policy 09 3.2 Corporate Strategy 16 2.4.4 NATPET Sustainability Policy 10 3.3 An Organization with Solid Policies 16 2.4.5 Social Compliance Policies 11 3.4 Market Sense and National Awareness 17 2.4.5.1 No Discrimination Policy 11 4.0 RECOGNITIONS 18 2.4.5.2 Punishments and Appeal Policy 11 5.0 INSPIRE STAKEHOLDER CONFIDENCE 19 2.4.5.3 Harassment and Abuse Policy 11 6.0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES 20 2.4.5.4 Grievance Policy 11 7.0 NATPET SUSTAINABILITY 22 2.4.5.5 Policy on Dealing with Harassment Complaints 12 7.1 Environmental Sustainability 22 2.4.5.6 Disciplinary Policy 12 7.2 Social Sustainability 23 2.4.5.7 Whistleblowing Policy 12 7.3 Economic Sustainability 27 2.4.5.8 Anti-Bribery Policy 13 2.4.5.9 Employee of the Month Policy 13 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 2 1.0 NATPET’S VISION AND MISSION: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 3 2.0 NATPET COMMITMENT: 2.1 President & COO Declaration of Support of 10 Principles of UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT-UNGC: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 4 2.2 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: 2.2.1 The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Principal -1 Human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principal -2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10 Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 5 2.3 Support to Responsible Care® Global Charter: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 6 2.4 NATPET Policies: 2.4.1 IMS (QEHSS/RC) Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 7 2.4.2 Product Stewardship Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 8 2.4.3 Community Awareness & Education Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 9 2.4.4 NATPET Sustainability Policy NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 10 2.4.5 Social Compliance Policies 2.4.5.1 No Discrimination Policy: At NATPET, we shall not discriminate with regards to workers based on race, religion, beliefs, gender, marital or maternal status, age, political affiliation, national origin, disability, sexual orientation or any other basis. Clarifications: As a policy, our decision based for hiring, salary, fringe benefits, promotion, termination on the workers individual skills and ability to do the job. 2.4.5.2 Punishments and Appeal Policy: NATPET shall not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, threats of violence or other forms of mental or physical coercion and shall not make use of public warning and punishment systems. Clarifications: Reprimands for breach of duty or misconduct shall be a private matter between the employer and the employee and/or his/her representative. The employees have rights to appeal reprimands/disciplinary actions/dismissal. 2.4.5.3 Harassment and Abuse Policy: NATPET shall not engage, support or allow any form of harassment or abuse in the workplace. Clarifications: Harassment can be any offensive act, comment or display that humiliates, insults or causes embarrassment, or any act of intimidation or threat. This includes but is not limited to: Serious or repeated rude, degrading or offensive remarks, Displaying sexist, racist or other offensive pictures, posters, threats, intimidation or retaliation. 2.4.5.4 Grievance Policy: The NATPET believe that all employees should be treated fairly and with respect. All employee have rights to raise a formal grievance that should be concerned with the way in which an employee have been treated by the organization or managers acting on its behalf. Clarifications: Grievances may be concerned with a wide range of issues, including the allocation of work, working environment or conditions, the opportunities that employee have been NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 11 given for career development or the way in which he/she have been managed. 2.4.5.5 Policy on Dealing with Harassment Complaints: The NATPET is committed to ensure equal opportunities and fair treatment in the workplace for all its employees. NATPET ensure that no employee or other worker within the organization is subjected to any form of harassment or bullying. The NATPET shall treat all complaints of harassment seriously and investigate them promptly, efficiently and in confidence. The NATPET provide a framework for resolving complaints of harassment or bullying and for stopping any behaviour, which is causing offence or distress. Clarifications: The aims is to enable the organization to provide a working environment in which all staff feel comfortable and in which everyone is treated with respect and dignity, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, transgender status, marital or family status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origins, creed, culture, religion or belief, age, disability or any other personal factor or quality. 2.4.5.6 Disciplinary Policy: NATPET employees shall not ordinarily be dismissed for a first disciplinary offence. The NATPET reserve the right to implement the policy at any stage as set out taking into account the alleged misconduct of an employee. Matters that the NATPET view as amounting to disciplinary offences include but not limited to:  persistent bad timekeeping;  unauthorized absence;  minor damage to the NATPET’s property;  failure to observe the organization’s procedures;  abusive behavior;  unreasonable refusal to follow an instruction issued by a manager or supervisor;  poor attendance; and  smoking in non-designated areas of the Head Office and plant's premises. Clarifications: Employees have the right to be accompanied at a formal disciplinary hearing by colleague or Human Resource of their choice. 2.4.5.7 Whistleblowing Policy: The NATPET encourages all employees to raise their concerns under this policy in the first instance that they may have about the conduct of others in the business or the way in which the business is run. This policy is for disclosures about matters and sets out the way in which individuals may raise any concerns that they have and how those concerns NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 12 will be dealt with. Clarifications: All employees of the NATPET including other individuals performing functions in relation to the NATPET are encouraged to use it wrongdoing within the organization (for example, financial irregularities or health and safety concerns). 2.4.5.8 Anti-Bribery Policy: NATPET shall not tolerate any form of bribery by, or of, its employees, contractor’s workers, agents or consultants or any person or body acting on its behalf. Senior management is committed to implement effective measures to prevent, monitor and eliminate bribery. Clarifications: Any breach of this policy is likely to constitute a serious disciplinary, contractual and criminal matter for the individual concerned and may cause serious damage to the reputation and standing of the NATPET. 2.4.5.9 Employee of the Month Policy: The objective of the employee of the month scheme is to give recognition to employees who have performed particularly well each month. The scheme is an essential part of the reward strategy of the organization. It aims to motivate employees to achieve high standards, encourage innovation, promote high levels of customer service and celebrate success. Clarifications: The determination of the employee of the month is based on a variety of factors, Such as:  Productivity: exceeding output expectations.  Customer Service: going the extra mile for a customer.  Exceptional Effort: giving an exceptional level of support to the organization.  Creativity: being particularly innovative.  Being Proactive: taking charge of a situation or solving a difficult problem. 2.4.5.10 Office Environment Policy: The NATPET shall ensure that significant risks to the environment associated with office-based activities are assessed and minimized. The NATPET provide suitable and sufficient information, instruction, training and supervision to employees regarding impacts on the environment and to ensure that control measures are properly used. NATPET ensures that adequate arrangements are in place to deal with accidents, incidents and emergencies related to contamination, spillages or other adverse environmental effects. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 13 Clarifications: This policy outlines the company's commitment to minimize the environmental impact of office-based activities. 2.4.5.11 Equal Opportunities Policy: The NATPET is committed to provide equal opportunities and to avoid unlawful discrimination in employment. Striving to ensure that the work environment is free of harassment and bullying and that everyone is treated with dignity and respect, which is an important aspect of ensuring equal opportunities in employment. Clarifications: It is unlawful to discriminate directly or indirectly in recruitment or employment because of age, disability, sex, gender reassignment, pregnancy, maternity, race, sexual orientation, religion or belief, or because someone is married or in a civil partnership. 2.4.5.12 Equal Pay Policy: The NATPET is committed to the principle of equal opportunities for all employees and intended to set out how the NATPET will demonstrate its commitment to equal pay. NATPET believe that its male and female employees should receive equal pay for:  the same or similar work;  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation study; or  work of equal value. Clarifications: Equal pay means all forms of contractual remuneration (including contractual bonus payments, overtime rates, end term benefits and holiday pay) and non-cash contractual benefits such as company car, mobile phone, etc. 2.4.5.13 Equal Opportunities relating to Disability Policy: NATPET is committed to an active equal opportunities policy from recruitment and selection, through training, development, appraisal and promotion to retirement for all employees including those with a disability. NATPET shall recruit solely on the basis of work criteria and the applicant's abilities and individual merit. A disability will not of itself justify the non-recruitment of an applicant. Clarifications: Disabled employees have equal access to all benefits and facilities of employment. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 14 2.4.5.14 Environmental Policy: The NATPET is committed and accepted its environmental responsibilities and recognize its obligation to reduce the impact of business activities on the environment. The NATPET achieve this through a policy of continual improvement in environmental performance. Clarifications: Each employee is responsible for his/her adherence to the principles of the Environmental policy. 2.4.5.15 Maternity Policy: NATPET is firmly committed to protecting the rights of expectant mothers. This policy is to treat women affected by pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions in the same manner as other employees unable to work because of their physical condition in all employment aspects, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotion and benefits. Clarifications: When the employee returns to work, she is entitled to return to the same or equivalent job with no loss of service or other rights or privileges. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 15 3.0 NATPET’S HISTORY AND A BRIEF BACKGROUND: 3.1 NATPET in Brief National Petrochemical Industrial Co. (NATPET) is a Joint Saudi Joint Stock Company, established in 1999 and producer of 400,000 MT/year propylene/polypropylene located at Yanbu Industrial City (Madinat Yanbu Alsenae’a), on the west coast of Saudi Arabia. This Plant is producing a wide range of polypropylene product mix of (Homopolymers, Random & Heterophasic Copolymers) that is suitable for a wide variety of applications. Alujain, Xenel and GOSI are the major stockholders. NATPET PP plant is using the state-of-the-art LyondellBasell licensed Spheripol technology producing a market-defined range of distinguished quality of PP resins. The plant is enjoying the sustainable advantage of producing its own high quality main raw material, Propylene, through an integrated Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) plant. NATPET’s PP products, with the brand name Teldene®, are sold in more than 90 countries covering all the major regions around the world. The sales are carried out through NATPET’s competent Marketing and Sales division and off-takers with defined territories. NATPET is considered to be an aggressive market competitor aiming to achieve the highest profitability with the highest quality product in the market. NATPET in a short period of its existence has received outstanding acclamation from its customers for its sustainable product quality and after sales support. Accordingly, NATPET puts extra emphasis to keep its goodwill in the downstream market afloat through constant improvement of its operations. 3.2 Corporate Strategy Focus is the pillar of development at NATPET; this is precisely what drives it towards success. Quality products, customer care, maintenance and promulgation of ethical conduct in the industry, development of sustainable processes, respect for not just the employees but tireless efforts for the well-being of the community as well – NATPET focuses in the growth of multiple areas to stand out from the crowd and has received due acknowledgment through various accolades. These have been achieved in a very short span as NATPET started its commercial production in 2010 and now has gone in to achieve the status of an outstanding provider of sustainable product quality and after sales support. 3.3 An Organization with Solid Policies For NATPET, to be recognized as an astute business worldwide, formulation and implementation of best practices in accordance with policies has been the core to its functioning. NATPET has acquired certifications for Responsible Care/RC 14001:2013, ISO 9001:2015 Quality, ISO 14001:2015 Environment, ISO 22000:2005 Product Safety, OHSAS 1800:2007Occupational health and safety and ISO 17025:2005 – laboratory test reliability and calibration. Through such accreditations, the organization has kept itself abreast in the following areas: 3.3.1 Reduced cost of waste management through savings in consumption of energy and materials NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 16 3.3.2 Lower distribution costs 3.3.3 Improved corporate image among regulators, customers and the public 3.3.4 Define, establish, and maintain an effective quality assurance system for manufacturing and service industries. 3.3.5 An effective safety management system which can be integrated with other management systems and help organizations achieve better occupational health, safety performance and economic objectives. 3.4 Market Sense and National Awareness When NATPET claims continuous improvement, it does not mean the fancy industrial clichéd term to impress the stakeholders but justifies through actions like learning incessantly, enhancing consensually, developing systematically, implementing ethically and responsibly. The organization has been recognized to follow international and national accreditations; as a consequence its plant currently enjoys sustainable advantage of producing its own high quality main raw material, Propylene, through an integrated Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) plant. NATPET now appears as an effective performer in the industry keeping a keen eye on the responsible competitiveness. NATPET emphasizes in market research and understanding the market before going about choosing its technology and product grades. It is well-versed with all these guidelines as it works to diligently to cater to the requirements of major markets such as the GCC, MENA, Asia and Europe in particular. The company’s basic strategy is to focus on the client’s entire value of the product, and the company doesn’t see itself as a commodity company in this respect, but as a valuable supplier who believes in financial gains through ethical conduct. The Company has established a new division to motivate investors to invest in plastic business. Recently, two projects have been implemented while others are in the process of development and approval. The organization has warm-heartedly entered into a joint venture with a British company called Low & Bonar to produce geotextile materials made from polypropylene. The Bonar/NATPET joint venture intends to produce geotextile products for the fast-growing civil engineering markets in the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. NATPET-Schulman Engineering Plastic Compounds is a joint venture. This will build an efficient, cost-effective and state-of-the-art manufacturing facility to produce and globally sell polypropylene compounds for durable goods & automotive industry by the end of 2015. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 17 4.0 RECOGNITIONS: 4.1 NATPET Stood 1st Position in King Khalid Award RCI 2014 4.2 NATPETWon Arabia CSR Award -2014 4.3 GPCA Responsible Care Award 2015 The GPCA Responsible Care® Awards have been developed to recognize and share the experiences of the companies and individuals that have exemplified leadership and outstanding performance based on the implementation and execution of the Responsible Care program. NATPET has been nominated for the following Categories: 4.3.1 “Best Responsible Care® Champion” 4.3.2 “Best Responsible Care® Project” 4.4 EBA Best Enterprise Award 2014 4.5 The BIZZ Award 2014 4.6 CFI-UK Oil & Gas Award 2014 4.7 Value Chain Leadership Award 2013 4.8 Marafiq Sustainability Award 2012 4.9 Best Saudi Company to work for – 2012 NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 18 5.0 INSPIRE STAKEHOLDER CONFIDENCE: NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 19 6.0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES: 6.1 NATPET Social Responsibilities programs are strategically designed for the improvement of the local environment and other social issues. For example, NATPET’s environmental improvement project, Community Awareness and Education (Story of Waste), has been established to create environmental awareness at schools level. Further, NATPET has organized so many programs in past three years, few of them is described below. 6.1.1 Community Awareness and Education at Schools (ongoing; started in Sep 2013): 6.1.1.1 NATPET’s volunteers and Local Partner (NGO) organized a series of 180 minutes workshop “Story of Waste” for school students. A total of 200 workshops at different schools were completed with an encouragement competition at the end among participant schools in accordance to green school’s standard. 6.1.2 Beach Cleaning Campaign – Yanbu KSA (Nov 2015). 6.1.2.1 Beach cleaning campaign conducted in Yanbu in collaboration with Royal commission environmental department where school children, NATPET employees and other stakeholders participated. 6.1.3 Waste Free Environment Day, at Jeddah corniche to clean the seabed and raise public awareness of the current waste issue. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 20 6.1.4 Earth Day 2015 6.1.4.1 The National Petrochemical Industrial Corporation (NATPET) was a Platinum sponsor of Jeddah Earth Day Event that was organized with the collaboration of Local NGO “AL-NABTA” during the 30th of April and the 1st of May 2015. The purpose of this project was to promote environmental awareness in the community through a range of programs which aim to instill enhanced environmental behavior values. 6.1.5 World Environment Day – June 12, 2015 6.1.5.1 NATPET celebrated World Environment day along with collaboration of Royal commission Environmental department at DANA MALL. This event was fully sponsored by NATPET. NATPET successfully celebrated this Community awareness Environmental program where briefly described about NATPET products history and the various awards owned by the Company. General guidelines for protection the environment addressed to public. During this session various gift hampers distributed to school going children. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 21 7.0 NATPET SUSTAINABILITY  Environmental Sustainability  Social Sustainability  Economic Sustainability 7.1 Environmental Sustainability 7.1.1 NATPET pollution reduction programs help in managing environmental responsibilities, comply with the applicable local/ Royal Commission, improved material utilization and reduced wastes and releases. The engineering and technical experts of the NATPET contribute in the way of proposing new materials, equipment modification, recycle/reuse of waste. 7.1.2 NATPET has initiated major project on converting a Hazardous industrial waste as raw material to other industries e.g., research on transforming NaHS a hazardous waste to become an active agent for the leather industry, previously the company was investing SR 1 Kg to environment friendly disposition now as a saleable product. 7.1.3 NATPET took an effective role with the environmental authorities to educate mass media through various programs and seminars on environmental and social challenges and sponsorship a CD called Two Drops an initiative supported by GPCA. 7.1.4 Primary School Level 7.1.4.1 NATPET Environment section organizes environmental awareness and excellence competition in primary schools of RC, Yanbu in collaboration with the local environmental regulatory authority, Royal Commission Environment Control Department at Yanbu and RC primary education department. 7.1.4.2 NATPET had recently received and granted a prestigious 2013 GOLD AWARD in Occupational Health and Safety from The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). This shows that we had been demonstrating a socially responsible attitude among our employees which leads to developing a strong safety culture and enhanced safety performance in the entire plant. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 22 7.1.5 Environmental Major Milestones  Zero violation of local & national Environmental Regulation.  100% compliance to set parameter for wastewater discharge to MARAFIQ IWTP.  No Groundwater contamination as per groundwater sampling report.  Continuous Emission Monitoring of stack Emissions.  NOx and SOx emissions from stacks far less than RC limit.  No incident of leakage for radioactive sources.  RC 14001:2013 valid certification and accredited with ANAB by ABS-QE, USA.  ISO 14001:2015 valid certification and recognition for RCMS by GPCA  Zero Fatality on occupational health & safety incident.  No Major Fire incident or explosion.  Member of ROSPA (Royal Society of Prevention of Accident)  Member of Responsible Care  NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) membership  ASSE (American Society of Safety Engineers) membership 7.2 Social Sustainability 7.2.1 Social sustainability is the idea that future generations should have the same or greater access to social resources as the current generation (“inter-generational equity”), while there should also be equal access to social resources within the current generation (“intra-generational equity”). 7.2.1.1 Our People – Making a Difference NATPET employees are the key enabler for making a difference, both within the company and to the lives of people, we touch with our meaningful initiatives and community programs. Through the Accelerate! program, NATPET is addressing structural change, focusing on execution, reducing overhead costs, investing in growth – and adopting a new company culture. This cultural shift is being driven by a new set of behaviors designed to help us unlock our full potential – Eager to win, Take ownership and Team up to excel. 7.2.1.2 Community Engagement NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 23 In parallel to our daily business focus on customers and markets, we also continue to encourage our people to engage with their immediate wider community. As part of our commitment to sustainability, NATPET supports volunteer activities as a way of giving back to our communities. Employee volunteering embraces NATPET’ mission to improve people’s lives not only through our philanthropic activities, but also through our employees and our shared belief that each of us can touch the lives of those around us, making our world a better place. A key initiative in this respect is our Schools program. , NATPET employees (Jeddah Proactive team) have volunteered to upgrade lighting in local schools and educate the children on energy efﬁciency and best use of environment, but the program goes much further. The Human Capital (HC) Plan establishes a framework of policies and practices that will guide our efforts in meeting these workforce needs. It contains interdependent improvement goals and action strategies that will transform how we assess, plan for, and respond proactively to our human capital challenges and needs. NATPET invests in skills to prepare economies and labor markets for the demands and changes of increased global competition. NATPET also offers training opportunities and create learning potential and became learning organization in which workers have the opportunity to develop professional and social competences through peer learning. NATPET is working to develop locals and releasing them in local market as talented workforce, for this reason around 150 students were selected form Yanbu industrial college they were provided two years OJT and these workforce were available for local/international market so helping government to provide their customers/people respectful job and social challenges of employment. 7.2.1.3 Donation At NATPET our responsibility never completed until we assure the donations and charities are utilized effectively, our philosophy to invest in the community either donation or sponsorship. CSR Targets for the year 2015 are as follows:  Associated Office of Call & Guidance – Islamic Donation  World Assemble of Muslim Youth (Monthly Contribution)  Association Francaise “Islam et Occident” NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 24  Waqf Ilmi For King Abdul Aziz Year Dedicated Budget University  Jamia Marakiz Al Ahya  Al Mabdaoon Center for Studies 2012 Budget SAR 1.8 Million & Research 2013 Budget SAR 2.0 Million  Jeddah Institute for Speech & Hearing 2014 Budget SAR 2.2 Million  Maktab Al Tawani  Al Falah School Donation Budget SAR 2.4 Million 2015  Kidney Centre  Contribution to School 2016 Budget SAR 2.5 Million 7.2.1.4 CSR – Al Nabta’s & NATPET joint work Project with Al Nabta, local NGO for spreading Environmental awareness in community schools at Jeddah. “Story of Waste” designed to spread awareness among students on how and why they should recycle and safe the environment. This program targets intermediate and secondary school students (both genders).Total 04 schools were selected in 2013 for awareness and this project will be continued in 2015. 7.2.1.5 IMAX Arabia A sense of mission --to build a bridge of understanding between the cultures of East and West and in doing so to encourage greater tolerance among all peoples. NATPET – is among the major player in producing the film and contributed around SR 1.250 Million as social responsibility to provide clear picture of east, a nation of love and Islam a religion of Peace. In 2005 California film maker Greg McGillivray took up the challenge of creating the first ever feature film to be shot entirely in Saudi Arabia , and five years later he has brought his creation to the screen. Following a series of openings at IMAX theaters in north America at the beginning of 2010, Arabia went on to a royal premiere in London in the presence of Prince Charles, and a round of international showings in Istanbul, Quebec, Mexico City, Berlin, Valencia, Kuwait, Shanghai and Hong Kong. To date Arabia has been seen by more than 700,000 people, picking up three GSCA Achievement Awards in September 2010 from the prestigious Giant Screen Cinema Association of America, the Oscars of the IMAX world. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 25 7.2.1.6 Training and Career Development To backup manpower turnover/succession & increase national workforce. A Six year Strategic Succession Plan (2010 to 2016): Phase 1 (2010 to 2012):  80 Ex. On-Job-Trainees (Maintenance/Lab. Tech and Operators) are now full charge in their respective departments cost centers.  21 PDP engineers’ (Saudi) have successfully completed training & working in their respective departments for more responsibilities Phase 2 (2013 & 2014):  51 scholars are being trained at YTI,will be available in 2016 as OJT  10 OJT (B) Saudis are progressing in their training development Program. Fresh Recruitment is on the go.  11PDP engineers’ (Saudi) are progressing in their development program. Fresh Recruitment is on the go Phase 3 (2015 to 2016):  Total 50 OJTs 20 PDPs recruitment proposed from 2015 to 2016. 7.2.1.7 The Official ICC CEO G20 Advisory Group NATPET President Mr. Jamal J. Malaikah is the member of ICC G20 CEO Advisory Group http://www.iccwbo.org/globalinfluence/g20/advisory-group/g20-ceoadvisory-group-members/ We identity the Socio-Economic, environmental and political national and international trends which could impact on business performance. These are being monitored through ICCG20 Advisory, B20, OECD, PMC. NATPET is also the active member of GPCA International Trade committee. One of the purpose of the committee is to: “To facilitate co-operation relating to international trade in petrochemical and chemical products within the GCC region”. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 26 7.2.1.8 World Day for Occupational Safety and Health (28 April, 2015) NATPET ISD Department in collaboration with the Royal Commission (Yanbu) celebrated the World Day for Occupational Safety and Health on April 28, 2015. Awareness on occupational safety and health is one of the most important objectives of NATPET. The purpose of program is to promote a culture of safety in the workplace. 7.2.1.9 Academia Collaboration with KFUPM In continuation to our activities of academia collaboration, NATPET has close coordination with Center of Excellence in Petroleum Refining and Petrochemicals (CRP), KFUPM. 7.2.1.10 Support for the healthy activity “Engagement of football stadium for employees recreation” for the whole year. 7.2.1.11 Sponsoring best students from top universities in international forums “GPCA – Responsible Care Conformance, UAE”. 7.3 Economic Sustainability At NATPET, we utilize existing resources optimally so that a responsible and beneficial balance can be achieved by using the assorted assets of the company efficiently to allow it to continue functioning profitability over time. 7.3.1 Steam Re-mapping – Energy Recovery 7.3.1.1 PDH-REC Turbine Power Enhancement Current operation of REC steam turbine lacks in power demand by REC compressor especially during RED steps (Turbine power output is 21.5 MW against maximum design of 25.6 MW). NATPET identified existing Turbine efficiency can be improved to achieve 23.5 MW against existing compressor requirement of 23.2 MW by: (1) Replacing the HP steam with LP steam at Boiler de aerator (Confirmed with Thermax); (2) Directly routing the LP steam to PP plant; The above two options will avoid letting down of HP steam to LP steam thru letdown stations and thus 2MW energy saving can be achieved. The same change will be implemented during shutdown 2015. 7.3.2 Propylene recovery – PP project A post condenser Exchanger is successfully commissioned in the vent gas in PP plant. Certain of Propylene along with Hydrogen is removed during high MFR grades NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 27 production. It is expected to gain 70-80% flaring of propylene in PP plant during high MFR grade production. 7.3.3 Biodiversity 7.3.3.1 NATPET policy continues to focus on:  Continuing to reduce the impact of our operations through our Green Manufacturing 2015 program, focusing on CO2 emissions, water, waste and restricted and hazardous substances  Continuing our EcoDesign activities, resulting in Green Products  NATPET Lab Participated in ASTM-PTP(2012-2013) Lab Got 20 Excellent (< 1 σ) and 6 Very Good (< 2 σ). 7.3.4 Corporate Governance NATPET believes that good corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business success. The ﬁndings of internal and external audits are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee. Internal auditors monitor the quality of the business controls through risk-based operational audits. As part of the Business Control Frame work, NATPET with other MNCs have implemented set of standards for internal controls. NATPET – Sustainability Report – Communication on Progress – Year 2015 28
