Dai-ichi Life DSR Report CONTENTS Message from the President ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 1 About DSR Management From Management Quality to DSR Management・ ・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 3 Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group・ ・・・ ・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 4 DSR Management Promotion System ・ ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 7 Status of DSR Management Promotion ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 8 Participation in External Initiatives ・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 12 Stakeholder Communication The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders ・ ・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 14 Stakeholder Dialogue ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 16 Customer Feedback ・ ・ ・・ ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 19 Relations with shareholders and investors ・ ・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 26 Corporate Governance and Internal Control Corporate Governance・ ・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 28 Internal Control ・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 35 For Customers Products and Services ・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 49 Connections with Customers ・ ・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 56 Insurances Benefit / Claim Payments ・ ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 59 Our Role as an Institutional Investor Basic Policy ・ ・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 67 ESG Investment and Lending ・ ・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 68 Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code・ ・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 73 Exercise of Voting Rights ・ ・・ ・ ・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 75 For Society and the Environment Social Contributions ・ ・・・・・・ ・・ ・ ・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 76 The Environment ・ ・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 88 About Employees Employees Status ・ ・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 102 Human Resource Development・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 104 Human Rights Awareness ・ ・ ・ ・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 112 Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion ・ ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 114 Developing an Accommodating Work Environment ・ ・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 126 Employee Mental and Physical Health ・ ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 128 Initiatives at Group Companies Domestic Group Companies ・ ・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 131 Overseas Group Companies・ ・・・・ ・ ・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 132 DSR Report Editorial Policy・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 136 Referenced Guidelines ・ ・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 136 Index GRI Guidelines Version 3.1・ ・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 138 GRI Guidelines and Financial Services Sector Supplement ・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 149 ISO26000 ・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・ ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 151 Social Responsibility > Message from the President I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to our stakeholders for their support of The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited ( Dai-ichi Life, the “Company” or the “Group”). In 2013, the Group established the management philosophy “By your side, for life” as the group mission to increase its corporate value. We have rediscovered that our mission, our raison d’être, is for each company in the Group to contribute to the comfort and peace of mind of our customers and the development of local communities in their respective region by standing by the side of our customers and those they love, for life. Taking into account the establishment of this Group mission, we have decided to issue the Dai-ichi Life Annual Report as an integrated version with the Dai-ichi Life DSR Report from the fiscal year under review. Although we issued the Annual Report, which mainly covered financial information, and the Dai-ichi Life DSR Report that centered on non-financial information and summarized our efforts to fulfill our social responsibilities in the past, we have decided to combine them into an integrated report*1. By presenting both financial and non-financial information together, we will report our initiatives to continuously create corporate value for our stakeholders, including our customers and shareholders as well as people in local communities, in an easier-to-understand manner. *1: An integrated report is a report prepared by the company in order to communicate to investors and other stakeholders financial information such as revenues of Dai-ichi Life and non-financial information including a wide variety of issues ranging from consideration of the environment and society, intellectual assets, corporate governance and mediumand long-term management strategies. Continuous Creation of Corporate Value: DSR Management To practice our Group mission of “By your side, for life,” we undertake DSR Management by sharing the Dai-ichi Life Group’s corporate action principles (DSR Charter)*2, values held in high esteem by our officers and employees, and setting a goal of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. DSR stands for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility, with D in Dai-ichi Life as the initial letter to express Dai-ichi Life’s own efforts that extend far beyond the framework of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in general terms. Our recent efforts in DSR Management include: a social action program on themes such as the invitation of nursery centers to use real estate owned by Dai-ichi Life to reduce the number of children on the waiting list, promotion of diversity and inclusion to increase the share of women among those employees being promoted to management level to 30%, efforts in corporate governance in accordance with the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors or “Japan’s Stewardship Code” and participation in the United Nations Global Compact, which is the global framework for realizing sustainable growth of society. We will continue to provide our stakeholders with value, continually aiming for higher value, by complying with a plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle in all of our activities, including those to increase customer satisfaction, improve compliance, improve health and promote environmental protection, in addition to the initiatives above. *2: For details on the Dai-ichi Life Group’s corporate action principles (DSR Charter), please refer to Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group . 1 Social Responsibility > Message from the President Looking back on the first year of our medium-term management plan: Action D In fiscal 2013, the Group started its medium-term management plan: Action D, setting up collective challenges to achieve further growth as a Group-wide initiative. Consolidated business results for fiscal 2013, the first year of the three-year medium-term management plan: Action D, enjoyed higher revenues and income for the third consecutive year after two upward forecast revisions. Consolidated ordinary revenues reached ¥6 trillion, on par with a record high level for the first time in the 14 years since fiscal 1999, with premium and other income hitting a record high of ¥4.35 trillion and net income also reaching the highest level since our public listing in 2010 on a consolidated Basis. The increase in revenues was attributable to positive factors such as the continued strong performance of insurance sales in growth areas of medical insurance, savings-type products and overseas business, sales of products by Dai-ichi Life in the third sector, such as medical and nursing care insurance, sales of savings-type products by The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Dai-ichi Frontier Life”) through financial institutions, and increased sales at TAL in Australia. As a result, new policy amount reached a record high at Dai-ichi Frontier Life, and the annualized premium of policies in force at TAL was ranked first in the industry in the Australian life insurance market at the end of December 2013. Income increased significantly primarily due to improvement in the net investment income of Dai-ichi Life on a non-consolidated basis, thanks to the continued weakening trend of the yen and the solid stock market. The negative spread, which had been a financial challenge, turned to a positive spread of ¥32.3 billion*3, reflecting the effect of additional policy reserves that Dai-ichi Life has been putting aside, in addition to an increase in interest and dividends. These results led to an increase in the Group’s embedded value, which represents the corporate value of a life insurance company, to ¥4.2 trillion; also hitting a new high since the listing. Taking the above into account, Dai-ichi Life updated the medium-term management plan in May 2014 and has decided to upwardly revise the top-line target from the initially planned value. In fiscal 2013, we believe that we were able to show solid improvement in the Group’s income structure. *3: The sum of Dai-ichi Life and Dai-ichi Frontier Life. By your side, for life – With You Project, a growth strategy in Japan, launched In the domestic business, we launched a growth strategy, By your side, for life – With You Project, in December 2013. Its purpose is to provide our customers with security and peace of mind and quality health support through life insurance products and services with the heartfelt purpose to stand by our customers’ side for life, with strong teamwork of all officers and employees of the Group, who possess a high level of expertise. To provide security and peace of mind under the By your side, for life – With You Project, we released a comprehensive insurance product, Bright Way, and nursingand medical-care-focused insurance called Crest Way in December 2013 to raise the level of main products in the sales representatives’ channel. To provide rewarding health support, we also in May 2014 entered into a comprehensive collaborative agreement with the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center (NCVC) on the provision of information about cardiovascular diseases. With the conclusion of this agreement, Dai-ichi Life created an information network on cancer and cardiovascular diseases across the board, including three major illnesses for the first time in the industry. Utilizing this network, we will provide our customers with high-quality services. With respect to our initiatives to develop new markets through a new subsidiary that we announced in February 2014, we are advancing preparations for provision of products and services adapting to changes in society by introducing easy-to-understand product features and simplified procedures and plans to begin offering new products and services in the second half of fiscal 2015. Given that the role of life insurance companies in the industry (the second largest in the world), which complements the social security system of the government, is becoming increasingly more important due to the aging population and declining birth rate in the Japanese market, we will meet diversified customer needs at a high level. Aiming to become a global insurance group In our overseas businesses, we made PT Panin Life (now PT Panin Dai-ichi Life) (“Panin Dai-ichi Life”) our associate company in October 2013 and reached an agreement with Protective Life Corporation (“Protective Life”) in the United States in June 2014 on the commencement of procedures to welcome Protective Life to the Dai-ichi Life Group as a wholly owned subsidiary. As a result of acquiring the business in the U.S., the world’s largest life insurance market, a tripolar system consisting of Japan, the U.S. and Asia-Pacific (Vietnam, Australia, Indonesia, India and Thailand) has been constructed, and we have taken a big step forward toward becoming a global insurance group. In light of progress made in multiple business lines associated with the increase in the Group companies, we will further strengthen the Group’s business management framework by establishing a controlling function in North America and Asia-Pacific to achieve appropriate capital allocation inside the Group and quick decision-making in the Group companies. In April 2015, Dai-ichi Life will celebrate the fifth anniversary of its new founding through demutualization. Even at the moment of this milestone, we will vigorously push forward with our goal of achieving continuous growth in order to show steady progress toward a global insurance group by continually challenging ourselves to take a greater leap forward with concerted efforts as the Group and providing all our stakeholders with value. As we pursue these initiatives, we hope we can continue to count on our stakeholders’ support and patronage. 2 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > From Management Quality to DSR Management From Management Quality to DSR Management The basis for our management framework has been to aspire to reach a higher level of management quality while implementing the Plan-DoCheck-Action (PDCA) cycle in order to realize our management philosophy and basic management policy in a consistent manner. Our management focuses on what we refer to as DSR, or Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility, because our unique initiatives do not completely fit into the conventional framework of corporate social responsibility. We utilize the PDCA cycle for all of our activities as a means to taking our initiatives to the next level. These activities include our various customer-centric responses, human resource development, visualization of business risks (internal control self-assessments), compliance promotion, administrative process improvements, and initiatives aimed at improving customer and employee satisfaction. 3 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group The Dai-ichi Life Group will contribute to lives of comfort with peace of mind of people and the development of local communities in their respective regions through providing life insurance and related services by sharing the Group principles (Mission, Vision and Values) we established in August 2013. We will strive to maximize Group value by sharing the Group’s strategies with each company to align our efforts. Group Mission: By your side, for life As a part of the Dai-ichi Life Group, all our companies will contribute to lives of comfort with peace of mind of people and development of local communities in respective regions by standing by the side of our customers and their loved ones, for life. 4 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group Group Vision:Thinking People First We will aim to become a company that thinks of people first, more than anyone else, from the following four perspectives, in order to become an insurance group that is the leader in trust and support of its customers. ●First in Quality ●First in Productivity ●First in Vital and Energetic Employees ●First in Growth Potential 5 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group Group Values: Dai-ichi Life Group’s Corporate Action Principles (DSR Charter) The Dai-ichi Life Group will help build a sustainable society by adopting its corporate action principles, Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter), so it can continue to meet the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors, and employees. What is DSR? DSR stands for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility (the social responsibility of the Dai-ichi Life Group). It is part of our management framework to fulfill our social responsibility to each stakeholder and increase the corporate value of the Dai-ichi Life Group through continual improvement of our management quality across the group by complying with a Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle. 6 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > DSR Management Promotion System DSR Management Promotion System Our DSR management initiatives are promoted by the “Committee for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility Promotion,” chaired by the president. Under the committee’s umbrella, four special committees have been established to address core challenges in DSR Management to increase the effectiveness of each initiative. Furthermore, as part of efforts to improve management quality through the PDCA cycle, we have set up “Branch DSR Committees” at each of our branch offices, and “Unit Office DSR Committees” at each of our unit offices. 7 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Status of DSR Management Promotion Status of DSR Management Promotion Quality Assurance DSR Management Promotion Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target Index 2011 2012 2013 Percentages of responses “satisfied” and “somewhat satisfied” in the 86.0% 86.1% 91.1% ─*1 Result of total satisfaction in the questionnaire given to individual nationwide customer customers satisfaction survey (individual customers) Percentage of response “very satisfied” Fiscal 2014 in the questionnaire given to individual ─ ─ ─*1 14.3% customers Improvement in Customer feedback The number of complaints among the 78,803 68,174 44,691 fiscal 2014 from Number of customer complaints customer opinions reported fiscal 2013 *1: Due to change of assessment index in fiscal 2014. Corporate Citizenship and Environmental Activities DSR Management Promotion Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Explanation of the Index Target Index 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of volunteer activity Percentage of community contribution 76.0% 94.0% 100% 100% involvement involvement (head office and branches) Fiscal Total CO2 emissions*2 from investment 153,000 146,500 144,000 2015 CO2 emissions property, business-use property, and welfare t-CO2 t-CO2 t-CO2 158,000 property*2 t-CO2*3 Total amount of paper used at Group Fiscal Total paper usage companies (photocopy paper, pamphlets, 9,922t 9,849t 8,116t 2015 insurance design documents, etc.) 8,851t*3 *2: Calculated based on the provisions of Article 7, paragraph 3 of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (“Energy-saving Act”). Total emissions in each fiscal year have been recalculated by applying the fiscal 2009 coefficient. *3: Targets in the 2013-2015 Medium-term Environmental Effort Plan. The targets were exceeded, and the Company continues to promote the activities for further reduction. 8 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Status of DSR Management Promotion Promoting Health DSR Management Explanation of the Index Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Target Promotion Index Percentage of employees with a BMI* score of less than 25 *BMI (Body Mass Index) Percentage of Fiscal 2015*4 is a measure of a Men: 68.2% Men: 69.7% Men: 69.8% employees maintaining a Men: 69.1% person’s body shaped Women: 78.7% Women: 78.2% Women: 77.9% desirable body weight Women: 79.2% based on their height and weight (BMI 25 and above are categorized as obese) Percentage of employees continuing Percentage of Fiscal 2015*4 more than 30-minute Men: 24.4% Men: 24.6% Men: 25.8% employees doing regular Men: 27.3% exercise twice or more Women: 13.6% Women: 13.9% Women: 14.4% exercise Women: 18.4% per week for one year or more *4: The targets were calculated back from the goals for year 2022 in the Health Japan 21 (2nd) project promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) and determined proportionally for the period. Employee Satisfaction and Diversity & Inclusion DSR Management Promotion Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Explanation of the Index Target Index 2011 2012 2013 Percentages of responses “satisfied” and Results of employee satisfaction “somewhat satisfied” in the questionnaire 69.4% 69.9% 66.6% ─*5 survey survey given to the Company’s employees Percentage of women in managerial positions Fiscal 2016: Percentage of female managers (department head or equivalent, section chief 17.6% 18.2% 18.4% 20.0% or higher or equivalent, and office chief) Percentage of employees with Percentage of employment as of June 1 of 2.03% 2.06% 2.13% ─*6 disabilities each fiscal year *5: The employee satisfaction survey is positioned as a tool to help quantitatively understand the current situation and effect of activities and facilitate problem solving. *6: The percentage of employees with disabilities is in compliance with the statutory rate of disability employment. 9 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Status of DSR Management Promotion Fiscal 2013: Assessment of the Dai-ichi Life Group by Society and Major Awards Received Month and year of Organizer Assessment / Award Assessment / Award Quality Assurance Toyo Keizai, Inc. Ranked 2nd financial institution in CSR Corporate Ranking Mar. 2014 3-star certified and awarded “FY2013 HDI help desk ranking” HDI (Help Desk Institute) –Japan Nov. 2013 (Contact Center Control Dept.) Awarded Best Fund in Alternative & Balanced Fund Division Morningstar of Morningstar Award Jan. 2014 “Fund of the Year 2013” (DIAM) Awarded best of Japanese Mid and Small Caps Equity Fund (5-year assessment period) in Lipper Fund Awards Japan 2014 (DIAM) Lipper Mar. 2014 Lipper Fund Awards 2014 Awarded best of Global Healthcare/Biotechnology Funds in Lipper Fund Awards 2014 (Janus Capital Group Inc.) Received “Corporate Social Responsibility Award” (Dai-ichi Asia Insurance Review Nov. 2013 Life Vietnam) Received Vietnamese “Prime Minister Award Certificate” Vietnamese Government Jan. 2014 (Dai-ichi Life Vietnam) Rice Warner Awarded the “Life Company of the Year” (TAL) Aug. 2013 Awarded the “2013 Life Insurance Company of the Year” Australian Banking & Finance Oct. 2013 (TAL) Core Data Awarded the “Risk Provider of the Year Award” (TAL) Dec. 2013 Received Indian Insurance Award (Technology Maturity) Fintelekt Jun. 2013 (Star Union Dai-ichi Life) Received “Excellence in Financial Reporting” (Star Union Indian Accounting Associations Feb. 2014 Dai-ichi Life) Received “The Prime Minister’s Insurance Award 2012” Sep. 2013 Thailand Office of Insurance Commission (Ocean Life) (3 consecutive years) 10 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Status of DSR Management Promotion Corporate Citizenship and Environmental Activities Awarded the Best in the “8th Excellent Material Awards concerning Consumer Education for Companies and National Institute on Consumer Education May 2013 Organizations” (Life Cycle Game II—Recommending a Total Life Plan) Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Selected as Good Practice in insurance category (measures Mar. 2014 Century against declining birthrate) Corporate ranking in Nikkei Environmental Management Nikkei Inc. Survey Jan. 2014 15th financial institution (1st in life insurance industry) Japan Federation of Construction Contractors Received 54th BCS Award (Dai-ichi Life Shin-Oi Office) Jul. 2013 Received Judge’s Choice Award in the “5th Sustainable Institute for Building Environment and Energy Architecture Award” (office architecture category) Feb. 2014 Conservation (Toyosu Cubic Garden and Dai-ichi Life Shin-Oi Office) Promoting health Fiscal 2013 Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award for Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare distinguished service related to nutrition (excellent specified Sep. 2013 (MHLW) catering facility category) 2nd “Let’s Extend Healthy Life Expectancies!” Award MHLW Awarded for excellence by the Director of Health Service Nov. 2013 Bureau, MHLW Employee satisfaction and Diversity & Inclusion Received Special Jury Prize in Ikumen Company Award MHLW Oct. 2013 2013 Certified for 2nd Frog Star Gender Equality Bureau, Cabinet Office (Employee Contribution Pension Center of Group Pension Feb. 2014 Service Dept.) Inclusion in the SRI Indices Dai-ichi Life is included in domestic and overseas socially responsible investment (SRI) indices (stock price indices) such as the FTSE4Good Index Series (UK) and the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI ) (Japan) (as of September 30, 2014). 11 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Participation in External Initiatives Participation in External Initiatives Dai-ichi Life promotes activities aiming to achieve a sustainable society through participation in domestic and overseas initiatives. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) The UNGC is a set of principles on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, proposed by the former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It encourages participating companies to behave as good members of society, aiming to achieve sustainable growth. Dai-ichi Life joined the initiative in May 2014. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 12 Social Responsibility > About DSR Management > Participation in External Initiatives Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) The WEPs are a set of principles of corporate behavior created jointly by UN Women, a UN organization working for gender equality and women’s empowerment, and the UNGC. The WEPs specify the development of a labour and social environment in which women are able to fulfill their potential and improve their abilities, with their efforts fairly appraised. Dai-ichi Life signed a Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles in December 2012. http://www.weprinciples.org/Site/ Principles for Financial Action Towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century provide action guidelines for the overall CSR of financial institutions wishing to play a role and take responsibilities necessary for the formation of a sustainable society. Dai-ichi Life participated in the development of the principles as a member of the draft committee and signed up in November 2011. http://www.env.go.jp/policy/keiei_portal/index-en.html 13 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders We understand our customers, communities, shareholders, investors, and employees as stakeholders who are deeply involved in our organization. In our basic management policies we aim to maximize customer satisfaction, secure social trust, create sustainable corporate value and foster employee‘s potential. We work to improve the quality of our management by reviewing our business activities through communication with all of our stakeholders and the application of the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle. Maximize customer satisfaction We work to improve our products and services through opinions and requests obtained through various contact points with customers including sales representatives (Total Life Plan Designers), contact centers, contact counters at head office and branch offices, and our website. Furthermore we hold roundtable conferences with customers at branch offices on a regular basis so that we can listen to the opinions and requests of our customers directly. Customer roundtable Create sustainable corporate value We work to communicate with shareholders and investors through measures such as holding financial results briefings and management briefings, holding meetings with institutional investors in Japan and overseas, participating in Investor Relations events, and holding Q&A sessions at shareholders' meetings. Shareholders' Meetings Secure social trust We work to communicate with local communities through measures such as volunteer activities by employees, the provision of internships for teaching staff and high school students, and the provision of open courses. In addition, we have continually held a Consumer Issues Study Group in which opinions are exchanged with specialists on matters such as corporate consumer support and the ideal form of customeroriented management. Consumer Issues Study Group 14 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders Foster employee‘s potential To achieve mutual communication between executives and employees, we have established a Network President's Office that utilizes our intranet and conduct a Talking Session with Executives at departments and branches across Japan. Talks with Executives 15 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Stakeholder Dialogue Stakeholder Dialogue Overview of Stakeholder Dialogue The Dai-ichi Life Group invited Ms. Yukiko Furuya, an executive advisor to the Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists, and held a Stakeholder Dialogue on the theme of the Group Vision “Thinking People First.” The participants were 10 employees selected from Dai-ichi Life Group companies. The members held a spirited debate on what they should work on to achieve the vision. They were split into two teams and discussed who the “customers” of the Dai-ichi Life Group are, what kind of value the Group can provide customers with, and how it could be possible. This was an important opportunity for the members, with widely ranging duties and areas of work, to take notice of the views of others that may be normally overlooked. Keynote Speech by Ms. Furuya At the beginning of the dialogue, Ms. Furuya gave a keynote speech titled “Thinking of the future based on your company and social trends surrounding the company.” Ms. Furuya suggested the need for each employee of the Dai-ichi Life Group to understand the essence of the “Customer First” philosophy and the vision of “Thinking People First,” and apply more specific ways to put them into practice. She emphasized that it was important, after ensuring such understanding and practice, to examine the past cases of non-payment or failure to pay insurance proceeds and other companies’ or industries’ cases, such as fraudulent food labeling, in view of the relationship between consumers and sellers, and to think of the causes of such incidents and reasons for failure in preventing them. She also mentioned the importance of paying attention to the latest trends and social changes such as accidents that have recently occurred in the area of consumer affairs and enacted laws, and asked the members to consider these aspects in their discussions. 16 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Stakeholder Dialogue The important thing is Communication with Customers and InformationSharing in the Company and Group Shun Mitsuogi (DIAM) Yumiko Seo (Contact Center Control Dept.) Ikuyo Kitaoku (Dai-ichi Frontier Life) Koji Arioka (Group Pension Service Dept.) Makiko (Metropolitan Consulting Sales Nakamura Center) Those we consider customers of the Dai-ichi Life Group include agents, shareholders, the media, and employees of Group companies, in addition to direct policyholders and their families. A participant who is in charge of sales emphasized the importance of potential customers by arguing that all people to whom insurance products could be offered should already be treated as customers. Meeting varying demands of customers requires the pursuit of simplicity in aspects such as products, product procedures, and explanations, and the unity of the Group and cooperation in its responses to customers. The members unanimously agreed that active communication was an essential factor in increasing the value provided to customers. Information-sharing among employees and building a unified customer information management system within the Company and Group are also necessary, and equally important is the creation of a work environment that allows employees to work in a lively and energetic manner. Each individual Must be Capable of Creating Value, which in turn Will Enhance the Value of the Entire Group. (Dai-ichi Life Information Sei Sugita Systems) (IT Business Process Planning Noriko Sato Dept.) (International Business Keitaro Inoue Management Dept.) Ayako (Toshin Sogo Branch Office) Kawaguchi (Separate Account Management Rei Yamamoto Dept.) We held discussions from many different perspectives. Prospective customers included business partners and employees, in addition to direct policyholders, and even overseas Group companies. A participant engaging in system development also mentioned system users. Opinions about issues of the entire Group included, “we should recognize that we need to provide not only insurance, but total consultation services including asset management and healthcare” and “overseas Group companies need to make use of one another’s strengths.” In the final summary, there was an ambitious opinion that “each individual must offer a valuable presence and become capable of creating new value,” and we strongly felt the significance of working for both customers and ourselves in our daily life. We consider that we need to think of what value we can provide our customers with and act accordingly in our individual departments and positions. 17 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Stakeholder Dialogue Ms. Furuya’s Comments We all had a very active discussion and the wide-ranging views regarding customers were highly positive. One more factor you should pay attention to, however, is the relationship between customer and seller. For product information, for example, the customer must depend on what the seller provides, which makes for an unbalanced relationship between customer and seller. I suggest that you strongly recognize the gap in the information provided to consumers and put the range of ideas raised today into practice from the perspective of creating a better society together with your customers. Summary of the Dialogue What do we need to work on to become a company that “thinks people first”? Of course this question cannot be answered easily but it is important to listen to third-party opinions and share a common understanding across the Group in order to create value for the Dai-ichi Life Group as a whole. Implementing the Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle while conducting repeated trial and error will surely lead us to the achievement of the Group Mission “By your side, for life.” We will resolutely share the issues brought by the participants in each department, think how to achieve our ideals, and continue to take action. 18 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Customer Feedback Customer Initiatives for Understanding Disclosure of Feedback from Feedback Utilizing Customer Customer Consumers Customer Satisfaction Feedback Feedback Customer Feedback Roundtable conferences with customers We routinely hold roundtable conferences with customers at our branch offices around the country and listen directly to opinions and requests from customers in order to improve our products and services. Roundtable conferences held in fiscal 2013 focused on gathering feedback with regard to the activities of Total Life Plan Designers and product development. Customer roundtable Continual improvements to business processes Examples of improvements realized from customer feedback Causes of customer dissatisfaction and Examples and results of improvements inconvenience ●Launch of Assist Seven and Assist Seven Plus We launched Assist Seven, a medical rider that provides coverage against seven major risks, including cancer, heart attack, stroke, disability, nursing care, and death. At the same time, we also released ●I want an insurance product that can cover a broad Assist Seven Plus, which in addition to the payment requirements of range of risks. Assist Seven provides broader coverage for more risks, such as when a policyholder is recognized as having a physical disability between level one and four or when recognized as requiring level one nursing At the care under the public nursing care insurance system. (January 2014) time of contract ●Launch of Crest Way We launched Crest Way, a nursing care annuity that provides ample lifetime nursing care coverage for an affordable premium, with the ●I want to be able to pay less for medical insurance goal of significantly reducing the cost of premiums by eliminating but have lifelong nursing care coverage. policy cancellation fees. Additionally, insurance payments are made based not only on our own requirements, but also those of public nursing care insurance as well, providing a broad range of benefits that are easy to understand. (January 2014) 19 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Customer Feedback ●Previously we had required submission of the insurance policy to make a ●Name change procedures require various name change, but this is no longer the case, as we reissue the policy with the documents, making the process very new name or we send out a statement of changes to the contract. (January tedious. 2014). ●It takes a great deal of time to process During the withdrawals of policyholder loans, contract accumulated dividends, or insurance period benefits held on deposit after payout ●We started a quick telephone withdrawal service where customers can without having my Dai-ichi Life insurance make a single call to the Dai-chi Life call center to complete procedures card or Dai-ichi service passport. instantly following voice guidance. (September 2013) ●It’s really inconvenient when you have to fill out all sorts of paperwork when you want to withdraw funds quickly but forget your insurance card password. ●Conventionally, we needed between one and three business days after the payment amount was finalized to process the payment and remit the funds to the customer’s designated bank account, but we made changes to our ●I want to receive my insurance benefits remittance operations and now can remit funds as early as the same day. or claims faster. This makes it possible for us to respond to the needs of customers who want to receive their insurance benefits or claims even faster than before. (June 2014) At the time ●We launched the Insurance Proceeds Quick Reception Service which of remits funds to the designated bank account on the same day the customer payment completes the application process for requesting a death benefit that meets ●I want to use a death benefit to pay for certain requirements. funeral expenses or medical costs incurred Additionally, we created a new service, the Simplified Death Benefit prior to death, but it takes a lot of time to Receiving Service, where up to five million yen of a death benefit is delivered prepare the documentation. first simply by providing the prescribed claim form, death certificate and copy of the applicant’s personal identification documents. Using these services makes it possible to receive money even faster than before to meet urgent needs after the loss of a loved one. (June 2014) Appreciative feedback shared by customers Examples A customer whose condition worsens suddenly and passes away during the process of applying for hospitalization benefits. After the procedures were completed the family sent a letter that stated, “Thanks to you taking notice of our father during his hospital stay, the claim process went smoothly and we were able to receive the insurance benefit. You are the first person to show appreciation to us for taking care of our father during his long fight against illness. We are very thankful for your honest and warm-hearted services.” Received a call during the death benefit claim process. The customer said, “When my husband passed away and I started the claim process, two of your staff members helped, providing prompt, considerate and easy-to-understand explanations. Therefore, I wanted to call to convey my appreciation. They were very mindful of me and my daughter’s somber mood and dealt with the situation in a very gentle and caring manner. I feel like they helped save us from sadness. I’m very glad that my husband chose Dai-ichi Life. Thank you very much.” One day during a regular visit the customer opened up and said “I have cancer and don’t think I will live much longer.” As a result we met with her daughter, who was the beneficiary, to explain the insurance policy. We visited the daughter again one month later after she called to notify us that her mother had passed away. After the claim process was completed, the daughter said, “Thank you very much for taking the time to explain the process that one time. I will be sure to use the insurance money my mother left me wisely.” 20 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Customer Feedback During one of my regular visits, when going over the details of their policy, I found that the family had thought their insurance had already expired since they enrolled such a long time ago. The beneficiary had also passed away, so we changed the name on the policy and carried out the procedures for an assignee claim agreement. I received a letter from not only the policyholder, but the entire family that said, “Thank you very much for coming by to explain the details of the life plan report that was sent out, since we don’t normally look over its contents when it is sent out.” This experience happened during one of my regular visits. The customer was working, so we had communicated mainly by postal mail because it was hard to find time to meet. As a result of my continual visits, the customer made time for me and we had the chance to meet. During my explanation of the policy, the customer informed me that they had eye surgery about six months earlier, so I immediately initiated a claim. The customer never filed a claim because they were too busy and they thought no benefits would be paid. This time, however, they were able to receive a benefit and they were very appreciative. There was a call from the head office because of a question about the documents submitted for a hospitalization benefits claim. As a result, I called to apologize because there were no additional benefits available under their policy. However, the customer said, “Dai-ichi Life is the only one to actually call us and explain the situation, instead of just sending out a letter in the mail. Thank you very much for your kind and helpful explanation. I am very happy that you took notice of my wife's situation.” 21 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback Customer Initiatives for Understanding Disclosure of Feedback from Feedback Utilizing Customer Customer Consumers Customer Satisfaction Feedback Feedback Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback We respond to complaints promptly after they are received, giving priority to confirmation of the facts in each individual case. We also respond to customer feedback provided during each phase of the insurance value chain, from the time of contract initiation, throughout the duration of the policy and the payout of actual insurance claims and benefits. Our aim is to become the most highly regarded life insurance company by customers. In 1992, we built a system to incorporate the customer feedback received from all over Japan into the way we manage our company and have been continually improving the system ever since. The system collects and analyzes customer opinions received through customer contact points, using them to improve corporate management and operational processes. We analyze the feedback from customers at monthly meetings of the VOC※ Committee, and identify and organize problem areas. Project teams then develop and execute specific improvement measures, and their initiatives are reported to the Executive Management Board, etc. When considering improvement measures, we employ a Consumer Focus Group and other similar systems to collect consumer perspectives, opinions, and advice to further respond to customers’ needs. In this system we are improving our products and services to further increase customer satisfaction. ※ VOC：Voice of Customers 22 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Understanding Customer Satisfaction Customer Initiatives for Understanding Disclosure of Feedback from Feedback Utilizing Customer Customer Consumers Customer Satisfaction Feedback Feedback Understanding Customer Satisfaction Each year, we calculate customer satisfaction as an indicator to measure the degree to which we are attaining our goal of Maximize Customer Satisfaction, as set forth in our basic management policy. We objectively determine customer satisfaction through a survey, performed by an outside agency, covering individual and corporate customers including current policyholders as well as customers who have surrendered their insurance policies. We include the overall satisfaction level of customers uncovered in the survey as one of the targets in our medium-term management plan. We reflect survey results in initiatives conducted by departments at the headquarters and use them for initiatives of the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee and other organizations to improve customer satisfaction. Evaluations from the nationwide survey of customer satisfaction Total satisfaction: The number of customers responding ‘Satisfied’ or ‘Somewhat satisfied’. Number of surveys distributed and the number of responses received Number distributed Number of responses received Individual customers 50,401 customers 12,721 customers Corporate customers 1,941 companies 706 companies 23 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Disclosure of Customer Feedback Customer Initiatives for Understanding Disclosure of Feedback from Feedback Utilizing Customer Customer Consumers Customer Satisfaction Feedback Feedback Disclosure of Customer Feedback Since October 2006 we have posted the number of customer feedback instances and the number of complaints that were resolved on our corporate website. The status and number of customer inquiries we receive is published for each month, while cumulative totals are also published for the full fiscal year. Beginning in May 2007, we started highlighting our specific initiatives by publishing the actual examples of improvements achieved through the use of customer feedback. ※ Certain changes have been made to published data effective April 21, 2014. Number of customer inquiries (complaints, grateful voices, opinions and requests) Number and Breakdown of Customer Inquiries Fiscal 2013 Complaints 44,691 Grateful voices 107,817 Opinions and 1,459 requests Total 153,967 Breakdown of Customer Inquiries (Fiscal 2013) 24 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Customer Feedback : Feedback from Consumers Customer Initiatives for Understanding Disclosure of Feedback from Feedback Utilizing Customer Customer Consumers Customer Satisfaction Feedback Feedback Feedback from Consumers Advisory Committee for Business Quality We have established the Advisory Committee for Business Quality as an advisory board to the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee for receiving opinions from a consumer-based perspective. More specifically, we consult with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality on issues discussed at the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee, with the opinions of its members reflected in improvements to our business operations. The Benefits and Claims Payments Screening Committee was merged with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality in fiscal 2012 and now the committee also addresses matters concerning the management of insurance payouts. Consumer Focus Group To listen to opinions from consumers, we have been operating the Consumer Focus Group since 1984 and have experts in consumer issues, advisers at consumer centers and advisory specialists for consumers’ affairs assist us as consumer monitors. We receive opinions and advice from various perspectives on our products and services through roundtable conferences in major cities around the country and reflect them in the improvement of our business operations. ※Advisory Specialists for Consumers’ Affairs: Persons accredited by the Prime Minister of Japan and Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry to develop human resources that can serve as a pipeline between companies and consumers. We have been an active proponent of this accreditation program, with 332 employees currently holding the designation (As of April 2014). Consumer Focus Group roundtable session Primary themes of Consumer Focus Group roundtable sessions held during fiscal 2013 ●Leaflets, pamphlets and contract summaries prepared for newly offered insurance products ●Documentation needed for seniors to receive payments from an annuity insurance product ●Pamphlets, enrollment application and administrative procedural documents for group insurance ●Procedures carried out with the “DL Pad”, a mobile tool used by Total Life Plan Designers ●Policy guide and disclosure statement ●The Dai-ichi Life corporate website ●Life insurance policies Obtaining Consumer Opinions from Visits to the National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan General Managers and CS Promotion General Managers of our branch offices regularly visit some 180 locations of the National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan to provide information on life insurance and Dai-ichi Life as well as obtain information on inquiries and complaints related to life insurance brought up locally, and to receive feedback from consultants. 25 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Relations with shareholders and investors Relations with shareholders and investors Investor Relations Policy The Company, through its IR activities, strives to provide information, including information about its management strategies, financial condition, and financial results, to shareholders, investors, and securities analysts (collectively, “Investors”) in a fair and timely manner. By making efforts to accurately deliver information, the Company strives to earn the trust and an appropriate evaluation from the financial markets. The Company is committed to fair disclosure in accordance with (1) laws and ordinances including the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (the “Act”) and (2) Securities Listing Regulations (the “Regulations”) of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Company will also make fair and timely disclosure of information that is not required to be disclosed by such laws and regulations, ordinances, and the Regulations, but which it believes helps the Investors achieve a better understanding of the Company. Requests and opinions obtained from Investors will be reported to the Company’s management to be considered and shared within the Company to improve its corporate value. Communication with Shareholders and Investors, and Corporate Dividend Policy Communication with shareholders and investors We place great value on our communications with shareholders and investors. The Company provides an opportunity for its senior management to communicate directly with these stakeholders at its results briefings held four times a year, at its management meetings held twice a year, and in meetings with institutional investors (more than 300 were held in the most recent year, of which more than 100 were overseas). To offer more insight into the Company, senior management also participates in IR events for individual investors, such as the Nikkei IR Fair 2013, as well as company information sessions. The Company has set up a page for shareholders and investors on its website and posts useful information for shareholders, investors, and security analysts, such as news releases, briefing documents, videos, and voice clips. We also provide clear explanations about our market share, management strategies, and embedded value, so that individual investors can develop a better understanding of the Company. Shareholders’ Meeting We held our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for the Fourth Fiscal Year on June 24, 2014 (Number of shareholders attending: 1,702. Duration: 2 hours and 27 minutes). At the meeting we reported our business results and passed a resolution on three proposals. In reporting our business results, in particular we improved the presentation to help our shareholders better understand the explanations of our business operations in fiscal 2013 and the progress of the Medium-term Management Plan and Future Growth Strategy. We held a questionand-answer session on our proposals and business operation of the Group to further improve our communications with shareholders. We also displayed panels describing our efforts to solve social issues in our DSR management and Salaried Workers’ Senryu at the venue and distributed a questionnaire to shareholders in attendance. We sent a notice of convocation to shareholders well in advance (three weeks ahead) of the meeting and posted it on our website a week before the mailing in an effort to give enough time to our shareholders to consider the proposals. As part of our efforts for active information disclosure, after the meeting we posted a video reporting our business operations, progress of our Medium-Term Management Plan, and future growth strategy, as well as a summary of questions received from shareholders and results of voting. 26 Social Responsibility > Stakeholder Communication > Relations with shareholders and investors Corporate Dividend Policy We regard providing stable dividends to shareholders as the basis of our shareholder returns. Specifically, we aim to increase our returns to shareholders in tandem with growth in our profits by setting as a medium-term target a total payout ratio of around 30% based on our consolidated adjusted net income. ※ [Consolidated adjusted net income] Consolidated adjusted net income is the indicator showing our effective real profitability, which is calculated by adding back to our consolidated net income items such as a provision for a contingency reserve in excess of the statutory amount (after-tax). ※ [Total payout ratio] Total payout ratio = (Total dividends to shareholders + Total amount of the Company’s own stock repurchases) / Consolidated adjusted net income 27 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Basic Stance of towards Corporate Governance Basic Stance of Corporate Information Other Related Corporate Governance Disclosure Information Governance System Basic Stance of Corporate Governance Based on its management policy of always putting the customer first, Dai-ichi Life views customers, communities, shareholders and employees as stakeholders, and as our basic management policy we aim to maximize customer satisfaction, secure social trust, create sustainable corporate value, and foster employees´ potential. We work to improve its corporate value by increasing the satisfaction of these various stakeholders. In addition, Dai-ichi Life’s Basic Policy on Internal Control stipulates its basic stance and initiatives concerning internal control. This basic policy is intended to develop an internal control system and stipulate basic matters concerning operations to ensure the appropriateness of business in an effort to put basic management policies into practice and contribute to the fulfillment of social responsibilities as a life insurance company. Corporate Governance Report（283KB） 28 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Corporate Governance System Basic Stance of Corporate Information Other Related Corporate Governance Disclosure Information Governance System Corporate Governance System Operational execution Board of Directors The Board of Directors makes major management decisions and supervises operational execution. To further strengthen management functions, Dai-ichi Life has assigned Outside Directors with a position that is independent from operational execution. As a general rule, the Board of Directors is held every month and may also be held on an ad-hoc basis as required. Furthermore, to even further improve the transparency of management, Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee composed of the Chairman, President, and outside committee members have been established as discretionary consultative committees for the Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee confirms the adequacy of candidates for directors and the independence of candidates for outside officers based on the Company's independence standards, while the Compensation Committee deliberates the executive compensation system for directors and executive officers. Furthermore, the Advisory Board composed of corporate managers and experts has been established as an optional organization for the purpose of advancing the Group even further through strengthened and enhanced governance and improvement of the Group's corporate value by gaining direct advice on a wide variety of viewpoints and themes concerning all aspects of management in consideration of changes in the external environment based on a medium to long-term perspective. 29 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Corporate Governance System Number of Directors 13 (as of July 1, 2014) Number of Outside Directors 2 (as of July 1, 2014) Number of meetings of the 17 times (fiscal 2013) Board of Directors Outside directors comment on the issues being deliberated as necessary based on their knowledge and experience, principally concerning government agencies, corporate ethics and management ethics, and sociology. The reasons for the selection of outside directors are as follows. Name Reason for selection, expected role Mr. Funabashi has many years of experience at administrative agencies and expertise in corporate ethics and business morality. The Activities of Outside Directors Haruo Funabashi Company anticipates that he will offer advice on management from an objective and neutral viewpoint. In addition, he attended 17 of the 17 meetings of the Board of Director held during fiscal 2013. Ms. Miyamoto has knowledge and experience as a sociological expert, and the Company anticipates that she will offer advice on Michiko Miyamoto management from an objective and neutral viewpoint. In addition, she attended 16 of the 17 meetings of the Board of Director held during fiscal 2013. Operational Execution Dai-ichi Life has established an Executive Officer System to separate decision-making and auditing functions from operational execution and to strengthen these functions. Executive officers are assigned by the Board of Directors to execute operations based on the responsibilities stipulated by decisions by the Board of Directors. An Executive Management Board composed of the president and executive officers designated by the president is held twice a month as a general rule to deliberate important management and operational execution issues. 30 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Corporate Governance System Corporate audits Audits by the Audit and Supervisory Board Dai-ichi Life maintains an Audit and Supervisory Board, which conducts audits on the work conducted by the directors and executive officers, audits on response to risk management involving compliance and management in general at the Group and its subsidiaries, and audits on the state of business and financial condition through participation in the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board and hearings held with directors, executive officers, and various departments. When selecting candidates for Audit and Supervisory Board Members, independence based on the Company's standards for the independence of outside officers is confirmed in addition to confirmation of the adequacy of the candidates. The Audit and Supervisory Board discusses important matters concerning these audits. In addition, employees to assist the Audit and Supervisory Board have been assigned to the Audit and Supervisory Board Member's Center in order to secure independence from the directors through means such as holding discussions on the transfer and evaluation of such employees with the Audit and Supervisory Board. Number of Audit and 5 (as of July 1, 2014) Supervisory Board Members Number of Outside Audit and 3 (as of July 1, 2014) Supervisory Board Members Number of meetings of the Audit 12 times (fiscal 2013) and Supervisory Board The three Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members make statements based on, their respectively, professional knowledge and experience as an attorney-at-law, wealth of experience as a corporate manager, and research performed into ways to improve productivity and management quality. The reason for selection of outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members is as follows. Name Reason for selection, expected role Mr. Omori has advanced and expert knowledge and experience as a judge, a prosecutor, Director-General of the Cabinet Legislation Bureau, a member of the National Public Safety Commission, and an attorney-at-law, and the Company anticipates that he will audit the Masasuke Omori performance of duties by directors from an objective and neutral viewpoint. In addition, he attended 17 of the 17 meetings of the Board of Directors and 12 of the 12 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Activities of Outside Audit and Board held during fiscal 2013. Supervisory Board Members Mr. Wachi has extensive experience as a corporate manager and deep knowledge on corporate management, and the Company anticipates that he will audit the performance of duties by Directors Takashi Wachi from an objective and neutral viewpoint. In addition, he attended 16 of the 17 meetings of the Board of Directors and 12 of the 12 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Board held during fiscal 2013. Mr.Taniguchi has experience gained by conducting research studies and making recommendations on the improvement of productivity and management quality at Japan Productivity Center, and the Company Tsuneaki Taniguchi anticipates that he will audit the performance of duties by Directors from an objective and neutral viewpoint. In addition, he attended 17 of the 17 meetings of the Board of Director and 12 of the 12 meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Board held during fiscal 2013. 31 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Corporate Governance System Director Remuneration Remuneration for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) is comprised of basic remuneration, remuneration linked to company performance, remuneration linked to department performance, and stock options as stock-linked compensation (stock acquisition rights). Remuneration for Outside Directors is comprised of basic remuneration. Our policy is to use independent surveys of compensation of corporate management in Japan to set the level of this remuneration. This policy was determined by the Board of Directors upon consultation with the Compensation Committee. Remuneration for Audit and Supervisory Board Members is comprised of basic remuneration. Our policy is to use independent surveys of compensation of corporate management in Japan to set the level of this remuneration. This policy was determined by deliberation among Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Total compensation for each category of Director and Audit and Supervisory Board Member, breakdown of total compensation, and number of Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members (Unit: Millions of yen) (1) Directors (excluding Outside Directors) Total compensation: 636 (of which, basic remuneration: 507; stock options: 120; other: 8); 12 individuals (2) Audit and Supervisory Board Members (excluding Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members) Total compensation: 70 (of which, basic remuneration: 69; Other: 0); 2 individuals (3) Outside Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members Total compensation: 54 (of which, basic remuneration: 54); 5 individuals Notes:1. Neither directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members, outside directors or outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members receive total consolidated compensation of more than 100 million yen. 2. Directors do not receive remuneration as employees or any other consideration for execution of their duties. 3. There is an annual remuneration limit of 840 million yen for directors and 168 million yen for Audit and Supervisory Board Members. 4. The above figures include one director who retired on June 20, 2013. Operational Audits We have established an Internal Audit Department to conduct operational audits on operational execution and sales agencies from the perspective of compliance and risk management. To serve a control function and ensure the effectiveness of operational audits, the Internal Audit Department has been established as a body that is independent from operational execution and sales agencies. Independence Standards for Outside Officers As part of its approach to strengthening corporate governance, Dai-ichi Life has established its own standards to determine the independence of its outside directors and outside Audit and Supervisory Board Members. Standards for the Independence of Outside Officers (52KB) 32 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Information Disclosure Basic Stance of Corporate Information Other Related Corporate Governance Disclosure Information Governance System Information Disclosure Basic Information Disclosure Policy Dai-ichi Life believes in measures to strengthen corporate governance (a key item which is recognized and by which we are judged), by disclosing information in a timely and appropriate manner, as well as increasing the transparency of management to society, customers, shareholders and investors. We have established a basic policy of information disclosure, in addition to the internal company regulations on publication disclosure when inappropriate events occur. Basic Information Disclosure Policy We disclose information in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange as well as the Financial Products and Exchange Laws, and other laws and regulations. In addition to the above, we disclose information that is determined to be important for society, customers, shareholders and investors, in a timely and appropriate manner. We are committed to fair information disclosure for society, customers, shareholders and investors. Enhancing Information Disclosure The Company will work to further enhance information disclosure in accordance with the Basic Information Disclosure Policy. News Release 33 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Corporate Governance : Other Related Information Basic Stance of Corporate Information Other Related Corporate Governance Disclosure Information Governance System Other Related Information Condition of Equity holding (As of March 31, 2014) Equity holding excluding those held solely for the purpose of investment Number of companies:11 Sum of carrying amount:202.7 billion yen Equity holding for specified purpose Number of share holding Carrying Amount Company Name (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 255,691 52.1 Resona Holdings, Inc. 55,241 28.1 NKSJ Holdings, Inc. 5,734 14.5 IBJ Leasing Company, Limited 2,930 7.5 Equity holding contributed to the retirement benefit trust Number of share holding Carrying Amount Company Name (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 69,208 14.1 NKSJ Holdings, Inc. 4,492 11.9 (Note) The information is an extract from the Company's securities report (unofficial translation). For detail, please refer to the Company's securities report (Japanese only). 34 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Internal Control Policy Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Internal Control Policy Dai-ichi Life has established a Basic Internal Control Policy that stipulates its basic stance and initiatives concerning internal control. As part of efforts to develop an internal control system, Dai-ichi Life has established the Internal Control Committee. The Internal Control Committee serves as a body that assists the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board to develop and manage the internal control system in accordance with the Basic Internal Control Policy. It also serves as the supervising body for the Compliance Committee, Risk Management Committee, and Antisocial Forces Handling Committee to confirm and deliberate matters such as those concerning compliance, information asset protection, risk management, and response to antisocial forces. Basic Internal Control Policy Conduct business activities in compliance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, social standards, and rules in the market Ensure insurance sales comply with laws and regulations and conduct appropriate insurance sales management Protect and manage information appropriately, including customer information, shareholder information, material facts, and other unique information Manage risks effectively in accordance with the characteristics of those risks Block any relationships with antisocial forces to prevent any damage that might occur Ensure appropriate operations at subsidiaries Ensure the reliability of financial reporting and disclose reports appropriately in a timely manner Check the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control through operational audits Click here for more about the Basic Internal Control Policy (52KB) 35 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Risk Management Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Risk Management Basic Recognition To ensure sound and proper business operations and to ensure that Dai-ichi Life fulfills the obligations arising from its insurance policies, we identify and evaluate potential risks, take appropriate action based on the specific characteristics of each risk and comprehensively manage those risks. We are committed, on a Company-wide basis, to improving soundness through the management and control of the financial base, including risk volume and capital. We have also established a crisis management system and a risk management system to respond to catastrophes and large-scale disasters in addition to our everyday risk management system. Risk Management Policies and Regulations Our Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Basic Internal Control Policy include our basic philosophy and policies regarding risk management. The approach used to manage each type of risk is developed in line with our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. In addition, each of the risk management regulations and standards is translated into practical rules, following our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. Risk Management Structures For risks arising from operations at the discretion of the departments responsible for executing the related operations, the departments responsible for risk management activities monitor the operations for each risk category, in accordance with our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. To strengthen our risk management structure, we have established a Risk Management Department, which manages risks comprehensively, on a Company-wide basis. The Group Risk Management Unit has taken a central role in strengthening the risk management system of the Group by monitoring the status and soundness of the Group’s overall risk management and its financial soundness. Management shares information regarding individual risks at regular meetings of our ALM Committee, Operational Risk Management Committee and System Risk Management Committee, and uses the shared information to guide its decision making. Moreover, our Internal Audit Department examines the effectiveness and appropriateness of our risk management functions. The status of risk management is reported to the Board of Directors, the Executive Management Board and the Group Management Headquarters’ Meetings. Our Audit and Supervisory Board Members inspect overall risk management, including those taken by our management. 36 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Risk Management Integrated Risk Management Initiatives Integrated risk management is an approach in which the Company controls the risks it is exposed to in its overall operations, including in the flow of business such as underwriting insurance and setting premium rates, by considering risks, including potentially significant ones, as a whole and comparing them against its capital. The Company ensures its financial stability by integrating various risks on an accounting and economic value basis and comparing them against its capital. The economic value basis is a valuation standard that is consistent with Embedded Value, one of the indicators that represent the corporate value of a life insurance company. To ensure sound management and conduct Asset Liability Management (ALM) appropriately, the Company has established an ALM Committee, and encourages the refinement of its management system and the improvement of financial soundness. The Company has also established an Operational Risk Management Committee and System Risk Management Committee to curb its operational and system risks and strengthen its management system. In addition, when formulating the Company’s investment policy taking liability characteristics into consideration, developing new products and setting appropriate assumed rates of return, the departments in charge of risk management check the various risks involved in insurance underwriting and investments and examine the adequacy of those operations. 37 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Risk Management Promotion of ERM The Company promotes Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), a risk management approach to promote business activities, by formulating a management plan and capital strategies in accordance with its capital, risk, and profit situation. When formulating a management plan and capital strategies as a risk management measure related to ERM, the department in charge of enterprise risk management examines the adequacy of the plan and the strategies, properly controls capital, risks, and profits by setting and managing risk tolerance, taking into consideration the source, types, and characteristics of risks, and promotes the enhancement of the Group’s risk management. Implementation of Stress Tests To recognize and determine events that cannot be captured by quantifying risks, Dai-ichi Life implements a stress test, assuming a worst-case scenario based on past events, such as disruptions in the financial market and large-scale disasters, as well as the Company’s future outlook to analyze the effect on the Company’s financial soundness. Stress test results are regularly reported to the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board so that management can check market conditions, strengthen its monitoring, and consider and implement managerial and financial measures as necessary. CSA (control self-assessment) initiatives Dai-ichi Life has continued to work towards improving management quality in an aim to be a company that will continue to be trusted and selected by customers. As part of these efforts, a CSA (control self-assessment) is carried out by all head office departments and branches according to standardized and systemized risk identification and analysis methods, covering primarily administration risks, system risks and other operational risks. CSA consists of activities that promote risk control and business improvement by implementing the cycle displayed above that starts with the identification of risks inherent in our business. A wide range of risks is covered, including administration risks, system risks, and compliance risks. As part of our DSR management efforts, the entire Group implements activities to promote risk control and operational improvements as it works to gain further trust and support from customers. 38 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Risk Management Efforts at head office departments The level of risks for each operation is assessed by identifying the risk for each operation, assessing the materiality of these risks by considering the impact on customers and the scale of losses in the event that the risks arise, and also assessing the systems for preventing such risks. After conducting this process, countermeasures are established and implemented to prepare for the occurrence of such risks and in consideration of the scale of risks as part of our risk control and business improvement efforts as we promote appropriate business operations. Efforts at branch offices Because the operations of each branch are fundamentally the same, the head office identifies and summarizes the risks to be targeted by CSA, while each branch focuses on the assessment of systems to prevent the occurrence of risks and the implementation of countermeasures. Business Continuity Plan Dai-ichi Life has established the Large Scale Disaster Risk Management Committee to constantly prepare for the future to ensure that risks are managed individually and that services provided to our customers can be continued even after a major earthquake or other large-scale disaster strikes or a pandemic caused by a new influenza virus. Specifically, we have drawn up regulations and standards on crisis management including business continuity planning, and multiple redundancies have been used to backup system and customer data to ensure insurance administrative processes remain working and payouts can be made smoothly even if the head office or branch offices suffer damage. We also provide training and hold drills to achieve continual improvements in our business continuity management. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011, we immediately set up a Disaster Response Headquarters led by the President of Dai-ichi Life, in accordance with our business continuity plan created before the earthquake, and each organization of the took the time to confirm the safety of employees and assist damaged branches get back up and running in a prompt manner. At the same time, we mobilized Total Life Plan Designers, agents, as well as staff from our branches and head office to check the safety of customers using a company-wide effort and to open temporary contact points for customers in the disaster zone to respond to customer needs locally. Additionally, in order to stably provide customers with services including payments of claims and benefits and maintain operations even during pandemics of influenza with high levels of pathogenicity, the Group has established the Pandemic Influenza Countermeasure Action Plan and the Pandemic Influenza Countermeasure Basic Manual to stipulate measures concerning business continuity, and efforts are also being made to accumulate mitigation materials such as masks and antiseptic solution. We will continue to reinforce our security measures and preparations for large-scale disasters and further promote business continuity management. 39 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Compliance initiatives Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Compliance Initiatives Dai-ichi Life understands that complying with laws and regulations, its Articles of Incorporation, social standards, and rules in the market is the basis for conducting business activities. To fulfill its social responsibilities and public mission as a life insurance company, Dai-ichi Life is developing systems to promote compliance in all of its operations, including insurance sales and investment. Policies and Regulations Designed to Promote Compliance Organizational Systems Associated with Compliance Policies and Regulations Designed to Promote Compliance Dai-ichi Life has established basic policies and regulations, including Compliance Regulations that outline its basic approach to the compliance system and the details of that system, under the Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and the Basic Internal Control Policy. Under its Basic Management Policies, the Company has also established the DSR Charter, the Dai-ichi Life Group’s corporate action principles, which outline the specific principles of its actions as a company, and the Code of Conduct, which outlines specific principles for the behavior of directors, executive officers and employees. The Company has created a Compliance Manual that includes explanations of laws and regulations and points to keep in mind when performing operations, in addition to the internal rules for promoting compliance. By distributing the manual to all directors, executive officers, and employees, and providing them with training programs, the Company seeks to keep them informed of the internal rules, laws, and regulations, as well as other important points. The Compliance Committee holds preliminary discussions regarding important regulations and manuals, the Executive Management Board discusses them, and the Board of Directors makes decisions. Organizational Systems Associated with Compliance The Compliance Committee (consisting primarily of relevant directors and executive officers), under the Internal Control Committee, discusses important matters relating to compliance and consults with the Executive Management Board, the President, and the Board of Directors. The Compliance Control Department develops and promotes the company-wide compliance system. To ensure compliance, especially in the area of insurance sales management, Dai-ichi Life has established a cooperation system between the Compliance Control Department and the Quality Management Promotion Department, which provides branch offices that engage directly in insurance sales with instructions and support. The Company assigns Compliance Officers to the Compliance Control Department to provide direct compliance support at head office departments and branches, as well as Quality Officers to the Quality Management Promotion Department to give direct instructions and support for further advances in business quality, such as the promotion of compliance at branch offices, from a customer-based perspective. In doing so, the objective is to manage compliance and insurance sales in cooperation with the compliance managers as the head of each department or branch. The Company establishes a system to handle and resolve important matters associated with compliance in the most appropriate manner. These matters that arise in departments and branches are reported through the compliance managers to the Compliance Control Department. The Company has also established an internal hotline (in the Compliance Control Department) and a consultation service (with outside lawyers) in accordance with the Whistleblower Protection Act to act as a channel through which employees can directly report and consult on compliance matters. The Company operates these systems with full respect for privacy so that those who duly blow the whistle or consult are not subject to unfavorable treatment resulting from their whistleblowing or consultation. To check whether compliance is being promoted effectively and appropriately, the Internal Audit Department regularly conducts internal audits. The Company is endeavoring to develop and strengthen its compliance system as a Group, taking into account the attributes of each company, by establishing a Group Compliance Unit at the Group Management Headquarters. 40 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Compliance initiatives 41 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Ensuring Appropriate Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Ensuring the Appropriate Operations at Subsidiaries Dai-ichi Life focuses on monitoring the supervision of decision making by the Boards of Directors and operational execution at subsidiaries and confirms the status of operational execution. Furthermore, we develop the required internal regulations and rules in order to ensure appropriate business among subsidiaries, and the departments responsible for internal control at subsidiaries report on the status of business operations to bodies including the Board of Directors, Executive Management Board, and Internal Control Committee as necessary. 42 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Handling of Antisocial Forces Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Handling of Antisocial Forces Basic Recognition Under the basic management policy of Securing Social Trust, all Dai-ichi Life organizations are united in their resolve to reject any coercion from antisocial forces that threatens the order and security of civil society or that disrupts sound economic and social development or corporate activities. Dai-ichi Life is fully committed to halting the development of any relationships with these forces in all of its transactions, including insurance contracts, to prevent any damage from occurring. Policies and Regulations. Associated with the Handling of Antisocial Forces In accordance with the Basic Internal Control Policy, which establishes basic approaches and policies to halt the development of any relationships with antisocial forces in order to prevent any damage, Dai-ichi Life has established regulations regarding antisocial forces. Moreover, based on its Code of Conduct Guidelines, which establishes specific principles for the behavior of officers and employees, Dai-ichi Life thoroughly abides by the basic principles of “don’t be afraid, don’t provide money, and don’t use anti-social forces,” based on the recognition that supplying funds to such forces causes social ills. Furthermore, we have created a detailed standards sheet on handling anti-social forces, which clearly articulates rules for directors, executive officers, and employees, as well as specific steps to halt the development of any relationships with antisocial forces and prevent any damage. Systems for Handling Antisocial Forces In an effort to hold company-wide deliberations with a wide range of participants about the handling of antisocial forces, Dai-ichi Life has established an Antisocial Forces Handling Committee. It has also designated the General Affairs Department as the department in charge of streamlining and strengthening systems to block the development of any relationships with antisocial groups in daily business operations or to prevent damage that may occur. Dai-ichi Life also has developed a system in which each department and branch office appoints a manager in charge of the handling of antisocial forces and a person who promotes the appropriate handling of antisocial forces. Under this system, if a department or a branch office is contacted by antisocial forces, receiving undue claims and/or other demands, the manager and the designated person of that department or office play the leading role to take an appropriate response against such forces by cooperating with the General Affairs Department. In addition, to ensure that we haves no relations with and to prevent damage related to antisocial forces, Dai-ichi Life is permanently committed to developing close cooperative systems with external specialist organizations, such as local police offices, the National Center for the Elimination of Bōryokudan (Organized Crime Groups), and lawyers. 43 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Handling of Antisocial Forces Organizational system for eliminating relationships with and preventing damage from anti-social influences Insurance policies contain clauses against organized crime We have incorporated a clause against organized crime* in our insurance policies since April 2012 in order to clarify conditions for the surrendering of insurance transactions with anti-social forces. This enables insurance policies to be surrendered in case the policyholder is found to be a member of organized crime or anti-social forces after the insurance agreement has been concluded. * A contract clause that enables Dai-ichi Life to cancel the insurance policy if the policyholder is found after the conclusion of the contract to belong to an antisocial force (crime syndicate, member of a crime syndicate, a quasi-member of a crime syndicate, or companies affiliated with a crime syndicate) on the grounds that damage was caused to the relationship of trust making it impossible to fulfill the obligations of the policy. 44 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Internal Control over Financial Reporting Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Internal Control over Financial Reporting An internal control system concerning financial reporting has been developed and implemented based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Dai-ichi Life prepare an Internal Control Report stating that based on the results of assessments of the effectiveness of key processes relating to financial reporting and internal control on the financial report preparation system it has been determined that internal control on our financial reporting is effective, and submit this report together with our financial statements. In addition, to confirm the effectiveness of the Internal Control Report, an internal control audit is conducted by an accounting auditor. The Company will continue efforts to ensure reliability going forward through assessments on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 45 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Verifying the Adequacy and Effectiveness of Internal Control through Internal Audits Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Verifying the Adequacy and Effectiveness of Internal Control through Internal Audits Development of internal audit system To ensure sound and appropriate business operations, internal audits are conducted to verify the adequacy and effectiveness of our internal control system. The following systems have been developed as required. Development of policies and internal regulations concerning internal audits The basic policy on internal audits is stipulated in the Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Basic Internal Control Policy. In accordance on these polices, the Internal Audit Regulations that define the basic items covered in internal audits and the Internal Audit Operational Regulations that include the implementation guidelines have been stipulated. Operational audit system Dai-ichi Life has established the Internal Audit Department as an independent organ with a verification function for those departments receiving an operational audit. The Internal Audit Department examines the appropriateness and effectiveness of Dai-ichi Life and its Group companies’ compliance, internal controls including risk management, and business operations in their overall management activities, discovers and points out problems, assesses their internal controls, makes proposals for improvements, and reports the results of operational audits to the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board. 46 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Information Property Protection Internal Control Risk Management Compliance Ensuring the Handling of Policy Initiatives Appropriate Antisocial Forces Operations at Subsidiaries Internal Control Verifying the Information over Financial Adequacy and Property Reporting Effectiveness of Protection Internal Control through Internal Audits Basic Recognition Information property refers to items such as information and information systems held by the Company. We aim to secure the confidence of customers and society through the preservation of information property. Information includes customer information and personal information. Customer information consists of information acquired through business operations including insurance transactions and financial transactions that can be used to identify individuals and corporations. Personal information consists of information that can be used to identify specific individuals such as names, birth dates, and other descriptions. Information Property Protection and Control Policy and Regulation System The Basic Internal Control Policy and Information Property Protection and Control Policy have been stipulated to adequately protect customer information and other information property. In addition, the Information Property Protection and Control Basic Manual has been stipulated as a standard for concrete safety measures based on basic policy and regulations. Furthermore, the Personal Information Protection Policy stipulates matters such as the purpose of use of personal information and protection and control measures, and is released on Dai-ichi Life's website. 47 About Us > Corporate Governance and Internal Control > Internal Control : Information Property Protection Organizational Systems Associated with the Protection of Information Property The Compliance Committee (composed of executives and general managers) has been established as a cross-organization body for promoting compliance and following up on the status of implementation in order to develop and strengthen management systems for information property protection. The Information Property Protective Measures Sectional Meeting that is a subcommittee of this committee conducts concrete deliberations on various issues concerning information propertyprotection. In addition, exclusive jurisdiction organizations have been established to develop, strengthen, and implement information property protection and control systems. Employees responsible for legal compliance and the implementation of legal compliance have been designated for each department and branch to implement adequate protection and control of information property for each organization. Furthermore, the Internal Audit Department conducts regular internal audits to confirm whether these systems are effectively functioning throughout the Company and reports the results of internal audits to the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board. Implementation of Information Property Protection and Control In addition to developing information property protection and control systems in consideration of factors including the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and guidelines for the protection of personal information in the field of finance, the Company also conducts the following measures in an aim to further enhance these efforts. Ensuring that employees have a thorough understanding of the rules for handling information through regular employee training Implementation of regular checks concerning information property protection Enhancement of technical control safety measures during the use of the Internet, email, and external storage media Enhancement of control systems for contractors Handling of Requests for Disclosure of Personal Information If a customer makes a request for the disclosure of their own personal information, the Company will make a prompt and appropriate response after confirming that the person making the request is the individual involved or their authorized representative. Note that information concerning requests for disclosures based on the Act on the Protection of Personal Information is also provided on Dai-ichi Life's website. Handling of Comments Dai-ichi Life responds promptly and appropriately to any comments. about the handling of customer information or personal information. 48 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Individual Customers For Individual For Corporate Customers Customers For Individual Customers Product Lineup Each and every one of our customers has a different living environment and family composition, meaning the type of security they require also differs. As a result, the Company is working hard to develop products that can flexibly respond to the unique and varying needs of its customers. Sales of Bright Way and Crest Way were commenced in January 2014 as products that concentrate the product development know-how the Company has accumulated over the years with a focus on coverage for living. Bright Way is an insurance product that can provide broad coverage for seven risks that include the three deadly diseases, states requiring long-term care, physical disabilities, and death by combining riders such as Asset Seven, Asset Seven Plus, Income Support, and Premium Waiver Rider (2013). Crest Way is an insurance product with economic insurance premiums that provides comprehensive long-term care coverage throughout the life of the policyholder and pays a pension to the policyholder until the end of their life if grounds for payment apply. 49 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Individual Customers Product Development Flow In product development, the Company works to develop outstanding new products and continuously validates and reviews existing products through the PDCA cycle from three perspectives. In addition, the Company works to enhance and integrate application procedures and services when a policy is entered, during the policy period, and when payments are made and to enhance employee education so that employees can provide sufficient explanations. Furthermore, the Company aims to ensure and improve product quality through committees discussions by management levels consisting of Executives and General Managers. The Three Perspectives of Product Development Product development is conducted so that customers can feel reassured and satisfied at every stage, including when a policy is entered, during the policy period, and when payments are made with an awareness of the three perspectives. 50 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Individual Customers Product Quality Control and Check System Quality confirmation using a checklist ●Confirmation of the work flow when a policy is entered, during the policy period, and when payments are made; employee education; and the quality of explanations to customers during solicitation New product Deliberations and checks by committees development ●Deliberation and checks of the policy management including underwriting, receipts, and preservation; the insurance payment work flow; and decisions on administration and system development by management ●Deliberation and checks of employee education and the quality of explanations to customers during solicitation by management Continuous validation by Company-wide study committees ●Follow-up and data collection/analysis by related organizations Existing ●Understanding challenges and identifying products to consider abolishment or revision products Deliberations and checks by committees ●Deliberation and checks of the stance towards product abolishment or revision by management Perspectives towards Medical Yell and Medical Switch development ●Customers want to subscribe to a product with economic insurance premiums that is specialized for medical coverage. Products without dividends or cancellation refunds ●Customers want to prepare medical coverage for their children. Customer ●Customers want to secure medical coverage for the rest of their lives. needs Products that can be subscribed to from age 0 to 80 (term life products for customers age 0 to 49, and whole life products for customers age 50 to 80) ●Customers want the latest medical coverage, but cannot make revisions due to health reasons. System that allows medical riders that have been subscribed to be changed to Medical Yell (Whole Life) without a medical examination or health condition notice Simplified products that are easy to understand ●Coverage that is simple and easy to understand Reliable Products that allow for reliable benefit requests and payment benefit payments 51 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Individual Customers Products following incorporation in April 2010 Name Period Contents Products A product without dividends that provides comprehensive medical Medical Yell (Term Life) (Whole Life) January 2011 coverage with economic insurance premiums Corporate product that can provide medical coverage to executives Medical Yell Group Plan July 2011 and employees A savings product that does not require medical examination or Grand Road August 2011 notice in response to the need for products that can be subscribed to with simplified procedures Educational endowment insurance product that is easy to subscribe Mickey (Plan Without Premium Waiver April 2013 to for people with uncertainties towards their health and Benefits) grandparents without premium waiver benefits for policyholders Comprehensive coverage insurance that can flexibly support a Bright Way January 2014 variety of risks for a wide range of ages Long-term care and medical treatment focused insurance that Crest Way January 2014 provides coverage including whole-life long-term care insurance at insurance premiums that are even more economic than in the past Product that provides long-term coverage up to the age of 99 with Top Plan Success U EX99 May 2014 improved product appeal through means such as the introduction of dedicated coverage enhancement discount rank Riders Rider that reflects the latest medical treatment conditions and Ino Ichiban Neo September 2010 achieves benefits that are easy for customers to understand Rider that adds the three diseases of liver disease, pancreatic 8 Lifestyle Disease Hospitalization Rider D September 2010 disease, and kidney disease to the lifestyle diseases the Company has covered in the past. Rider for insurance payments in the event of being diagnosed for conditions such as carcinoma in situ as an additional grounds for Shield Plus Rider October 2012 payments as a shield rider in preparation for the three deadly diseases Rider for benefit payments when advanced medical treatment is received Non-Dividend Advanced Medical Treatment Note: Because advanced medical treatment that is eligible for October 2012 Rider insurance payment is limited to treatment that fulfills the prescribed requirements when treatment is received in some cases it may not be possible to pay benefits depending on factors such as the medical practice, medical symptoms, and medical institutions. Rider that allows customer to be more reassured in making claims Designated Substitute Claimant Rider October 2012 for insurance payments and benefits by expanding the scope of substitute claims and substitute claimants compared to the past. Rider providing coverage for seven risks that include the three Assist Seven January 2014 deadly diseases, states requiring long-term care, physical disabilities, and death 52 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Individual Customers Rider for insurance payments in the event of being diagnosed for Assist Seven Plus January 2014 the condition of carcinoma in situ as a grounds for payments in addition to the seven risks covered by Assist Seven Rider that allows for the exemption of insurance premium payments Premium Waiver Rider (2013) January 2014 after the three deadly diseases, physical disabilities, or states requiring long-term care apply Other System that allows medical riders that have been subscribed to be Medical Switch January 2011 changed to Medical Yell (Whole Life) without a medical examination or notice An easy-to-understand discount system in which discounts are Coverage Enhancement Discount March 2012 conducted by policy unit with a uniform discount rank and discount amount regardless of the insurance type Bone Marrow Donor Benefits October 2012 Benefits that are paid when bone marrow stem cells are taken 53 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Corporate Customers For Individual For Corporate Customers Customers For Corporate Customers We respond to the expectations of corporate customers by supplying consultations for benefits programs and retirement benefit systems with accurate support, products that respond to the needs of these customers, and a rich lineup of administrative services and seminars. Group insurance Launch of Group Credit Life Insurance Specific Condition Compensation Rider We have developed a group credit life insurance specific condition compensation rider that significantly expands the coverage of group credit life insurance in order to meet the diverse needs of customers. Sales of this product were launched from October 2013. Key Points Concerning the Group's Riders Based on the concept of providing group credit insurance for living, in addition to death cover or prescribed advanced disability covered by the main policy, insurance payments are paid and the mortgage balance is reduced to zero yen in the event of a policyholder suffering from the three deadly diseases, suffering from 16 specified conditions, or requiring long-term care as prescribed (linked to public long term care insurance level 2 or above or the equivalent). Note that product development for this rider was conducted with the cooperation of Resona Bank and Saitama Resona Bank. These banks have introduced the rider for sales as a set with mortgages. Examples of cases in which an insurance payment is made ・If a policyholder is bothered by discomfort in their stomach and an inspection at the hospital reveals that they have stomach cancer as prescribed ・If kidney function has been permanently lost due to kidney disease and artificial dialysis is received ・If a policyholder is diagnosed with arrhythmia and receives a permanent cardiac pacemaker ・If a policyholder damages their spine while playing sports and requires long-term care (if a prescribed state requiring long-term care continues for 180 days) Group Pension Plans Expansion of lineup of performance-based products and service for defined benefit plan Since April 2014, we have been selling a new product, Separate Account No. 2 General Fund, to meet customer needs for controlling the downside risk of investment performance and achieving stable income. The No. 2 General Fund is a next-generation balanced fund with three major investment strategies: thorough diversification of risks, containment of losses when the market collapses, and focus on income gains. In May 2014, we commenced agency and intermediation services for our corporate pension customers to enter into discretionary investment contracts with DIAM, our Group company. Product features (image) 54 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Products and Services : For Corporate Customers Provision of Health Support Menus We provide corporate customers with information and services regarding their health support. 1．Field survey of welfare programs We conducted a questionnaire on the status of welfare programs introduced by corporate customers (field survey on welfare programs) including countermeasures against so-called metabolic syndrome and measures for psychological health. We compiled the survey results received from 877 companies into a report (brochure) for distribution. 2．Dai-ichi Life Health Support Desk The Dai-ichi Life Health Support Desk is an additional service provided with our products for corporate customers and sets up broad-ranging options for consultation from daily health to psychological health. 55 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Connections with Customers : Connections with Customers Connections with Expanding Customers Information Provisions Connections with Customers Connections with Customers Total Life Plan Designers At Dai-ichi Life, we refer to our sales representatives who propose life plans to individual policyholders as Total Life Plan Designers. We employ more than 40,000 Total Life Plan Designers across Japan, and theydeliver high quality face-to-face consultation services to individual customers using the DL Pad, a tablet computer for sales and business use. Our Total Life Plan Designers foster a close bond with the policyholder and their families as a lifelong partner who works with them throughout every stage of their life. Contact Centers Dai-ichi Life Contact Centers work to improve our services to customers by handling administrative procedures and inquiries from customers across the country, checking the contents of their policies and providing the latest information on our products, services and promotional campaigns. Dai-ichi Life has introduced the latest call center systems in an effort to more quickly and appropriately meet customer demands. We have also established contact centers in Sapporo, Tokyo, Osaka and Fukuoka in order to reliably handle calls even during large-scale disasters. In fiscal 2013, with approximately 1.1 million cases handled at contact centers and approximately 1.3 million cases where calls were made to customers to inform them of details and the situation of their policies, a large number of customers use these centers. The centers receive customer feedback and requests, and this information is shared inside the Company to improve our services and business processes. In fiscal 2013, we achieved a three-star rating in the HDI Customer Contact Center Ratings organized by the Japanese office of the Help Desk Institute (USA), the world’s largest membership group in the support service industry. We will continue to strive to further improve our services for customers. 56 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Connections with Customers : Connections with Customers Consulting Counters The Company’s consulting counters are spread among 82 offices across the country under the name Dai-ichi Life Insurance Shops and are used by approximately 100,000 customers annually (as of April 2014). The counters play an important role in providing total consulting in which we give advice complying with customers’ wishes in all scenarios over the course of their contract cycles, including at the time of contract, throughout the duration of the policy, and when paying insurance proceeds, and delivering the concept of “Passing On Peace Of Mind.” These staffs handle each and every inquiry and provide consultations as many times as possible until the customer is satisfied. In addition, 34 of the 82 contact centers offer extended hours on weekends and at night on weekdays to provide even greater access and convenience to customers. Many customers that have visited a contact center have made positive comments about the convenient hours of operation and the extent of time that consultants spend with the customer going over not only insurance but also related matters and fields as well. We aim to continue to improve our services at consulting counters so that customers can easily talk to us at the time and place most convenient for them (consultation appointments can also be booked online 24 hours a day). Agents From the standpoint of further improving customer convenience and responding to increasingly diversified customer needs, Dai-ichi Life embarked on a full-scale initiative for our agent channel in fiscal 2000.Since then, we have been bolstering our efforts by improving the organizations and staff involved in our agent channel. Specifically, we began offering our insurance products through the agents of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance Inc. in fiscal 2001 (at the time Yasuda Fire and Marine Insurance Co.,Ltd.), providing access to a full range of insurance services, from life insurance to non-life insurance. As for the financial institution channel, we established a subsidiary called The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co., Ltd. to specialize in providing insurance products for banks and securities companies and commenced sales there in October 2007. Total Life Plan Report Every year we deliver a Total Life Plan Report to our policyholders that contains information about their coverage and the performance of the company. The Total Life Plan Report contains the payment requirements and the payment status of claims or benefits for each individual policy to ensure that the policyholder is able to receive the correct and proper claims and benefits from their individual policies. In addition, after the Total Life Plan Report is sent out a Total Life Plan Designer visits directly with the policyholder to review their insurance policies and coverage. Total Life Plan Designers take advantage of this opportunity to review coverage based on daily changes in living environment and medical technologies and by providing information on health, medicine, nursing care and lifestyles, Total Life Plan Designers are continually working to benefit their customers as a lifelong partner. Website Through its corporate website, Dai-ichi Life provides information on its insurance products and services, allows customers to carry out various claim procedures, delivers consulting on insurance and annuities, and discloses information about its business activities and performance. We constantly strive to improve the convenience of our website for customers, shareholders and the investment community by delivering even more information. ATMs Dai-ichi Life customers can use partner ATMS at convenience stores or banks to withdraw policyholder loans, accumulated dividends, or insurance benefits on deposit, or to make a payment on a policyholder loan. With 85,000 ATMs nationwide as of April 2014, we offer the largest network of ATMs and functions of any firm in the insurance industry. We were also the first in the industry to introduce a cutting edge security system on our ATMs, delivering an added level of security to customers using our ATMs. We will continue to work toward enhancing both convenience and security going forward. 57 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Connections with Customers : Expanding Information Provisions Connections with Expanding Customers Information Provisions Expanding Information Provisions The development and introduction of the DL Pad, a tablet computer for sales and business use In August 2012, the Company introduced the DL Pad, a tablet computer mainly for sales and business use, to approximately 40,000 Total Life Plan Designers (sales representatives) to enhance their consulting capabilities. The DL Pad is a highly portable LCD tablet equipped with high-speed communications to allow users to quickly make proposals and handle procedures for customers. We have also installed an advanced security system to protect important customer information. When consulting with customers, we can design the best insurance plan together with customers, and DL Pad customers can confirm the content of their benefits in detail. In addition, the DL Pad allows us to explain a wide variety of information through illustrations and video comments, including information on health, medical services, and the social security system, as well as the process to ensure the receipt of services and insurance claims and benefits after enrollment. In this way, we are working to improve our consulting services through two-way communications with our customers. The Medical Support Service offers information on health and medical services, child care, and nursing care With Partner provides a loyalty rewards point program The Medical Support Service provides advice and information on health and medical services, child care, and nursing care, and is available for policyholders and insured people with individual insurance* and their family members via telephone and online 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (excluding when systems are undergoing maintenance). Meanwhile, to meet the consulting needs and requests of customers, in March 2013 we began providing the comprehensive the Specialist Physician Exam – Second Opinion Support service, where dedicated consultants (nurse or public health nurse) assigned to individual customers set up telephone consultations with a specialist physician, notify customers of specialist hospitals and physicians, or inform customers about receiving a second opinion. Additionally, in December 2013 we started the new service called Nursing Care Service Wide and Double, which adds existing brokerage and referral services to complement our existing nursing Medical Support Service screenshot care telephone consultations. As a result, the Medical Support Service provides consulting and information on health and medical, child care, and nursing care services available for policyholders, form referrals to specialist physicians, to educating consumers about receiving a second opinion. This service provides daily peace of mind to policyholders and their family members and an added level of peace of mind when policyholders require medical or nursing care treatment. We offer the With Partner loyalty reward points program for all policyholders* enrolled in individual insurance. Policyholders are able to receive preferential treatment useful for their health, medical care and living, and use services celebrating their life events using points calculated by premiums paid and the number of years the policy has been held. * Policyholders only enrolled in asset-accumulation insurance cannot use this service. Dedicated Internet Service for Policyholders Total Life Plan My Page This is a website exclusively for policyholders and provides various information and services as well as confirmation of coverage and procedures, all online. The website can be accessed from the Total Life Plan Support CD or the official website. Total Life Plan My Page screenshot 58 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Correct and Fair Procedural When Insurance Disclosure of Insurance Support Systems Claims or Payment Status Payouts Benefits are Not Paid Out Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts We make various efforts to contact the policyholder during various phases of the insurance process, from claim receipt to payment assessment and post-payment, in order to inform customers if their situation fulfills the payment requirements for other insurance benefits. Based on feedback from customer surveys and the views of outside experts, we will strive to continually reinforce our payment management system. Providing Regular Information on Insurance Benefit Payouts Every year we send a Total Life Plan Report to policyholders which provides a list of payment requirements for each customer, payout records for the previous 10-year period, and instances where special attention is required. Payment information is also provided to customers through brochures, our website, and various notifications that are sent out. Proper Understanding of Claims and Correct Payment Procedures We use our proprietary navigation system to inform policyholders about the claims documents required for the applicable payment requirements whenever they submit a claim for an insurance benefit. We have also established a dedicated inquiry desk at our head office for our Total Life Plan Designers who receive claims called the Insurance Proceeds Help Desk. Dedicated staff with expert knowledge of our insurance and claims processes also assist customers during the claims process. During the payment process double checks are performed between persons in charge, while important information on medical certificates is input into the system by several workers to further improve correctness through a rigorous data entry and verification process. Follow-up System for Customers after an Insurance Benefit is Paid In principle, the details of all benefits paid out are rechecked on the next business day after the claims procedures have been completed. The Payment Information Integration System is used to digitize all medical certificates, check for the possibility that a claim may meet other payment requirements, and inform customers about the claim process. 59 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts At the time of contract / During the contract period Sufficient notification of insurance contract and coverage ●Customers are provided with insurance design documents (contract summary) ●An overview of contract terms and conditions is published on the Dai-ichi Life website ●The contract guide and brochure “Insurance Claim Procedures and Payment Examples” have been integrated together ●Customers are given a CD-ROM with the terms and conditions of their policy ●A copy of “Submitting Insurance Claims without Omission” is enclosed with the insurance policy ●Terms and conditions have been simplified Regular information provisions and reminders to policyholders ●Payment requirement for each of the policyholder’s contracts are explained using the Total Life Plan Report ●Total Life Plan Reports are provided online using the Dai-ichi Life website ●A policyholder’s claims and benefits history is included in their Total Life Plan Report ●Reminder messages are included with various notifications Making the claims process easier for policyholders ●Dai-ichi Life covers the cost of medical certificates for which a claim or benefit was not eligible for payment (¥6,000) ●Our product lineup is continually revised and simplified Informing customers upon receipt of a claims application and of claims documents Correctly understanding details of claims ●Upgraded the claims application receipt process ●Customers provided with a manual that contains easy-to-understand commentary on payment requirements for disability benefits ●Total Life Plan Designers’ DL Pad mobile device comes equipped with a navigation system for insurance claims and benefits ●A dedicated contact center for the receipt of insurance claims and benefits applications has been set up ●The Insurance Proceeds Help Desk handles inquiries on claims from Total Life Plan Designers ●The medical treatment report contains a list of disease names that are eligible for payments in each policy Informing customers of claims procedures ●Automatic name-based aggregation for policies when creating claims documents ●Requirement to confirm the disease name at the time claims documents are prepared ●The claims and benefits application confirmation sheet, which contains customer application information received by Dai-ichi Life at the start of a claim, is provided to customers ●The treatment report and supporting documents sheet, which contains clear explanations of the documents required to submit a claim, is provided to customers In-house training and guidance for ensuring reliable notifications ●A dedicated group has been established for employee training and education within the Claims Department ●An administrative and underwriting academy has been established as a human resource development program for broadening expertise in payment operations and other work processes 60 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts At the time of payment assessment and post-payment Correct payment assessments ●Implemented new payment assessment work flow system ●Medical certificate information is digitized and used during the payment assessment ●Implemented entry and verification system where multiple persons in charge enter medical certificate information into the system, which in turn checks the information for errors or omissions ●Reinforced system support functions for assisting the payment assessment process ●Upgraded the payment system for group insurance Reconfirmation of payment details ●Payment details are checked the next business day after procedures have been completed to prevent payment omissions Courtesy and reliable claims reminders ●The Payment Information Integration System is used to inform customers who may be entitled to additional benefits ●The payment statement contains a reminder message to check for any insurance benefits or claims that have not been filed ●After the payment of hospitalization benefits, a policyholder is informed of making a claim for hospital visit benefits Improved explanations to customers regarding payment details ●Payment statements contain more details and a dedicated contact center has been established for customer inquiries about payment details ●Insurance claim and benefit statements contain the date the claim was received 61 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Procedural Support Systems Correct and Fair Procedural When Insurance Disclosure of Insurance Support Systems Claims or Payment Status Payouts Benefits are Not Paid Out Procedural Support Systems Accurate and courteous guidance upon request At the Dai-ichi Life Contact Center, officers with specialized knowledge directly respond to customer inquiries regarding insurance claims and benefits, providing accurate and courteous guidance concerning their inquiries. Facilitating insurance requests Instead of having to submit a medical certificate, we have created other ways for customers to request insurance claims and benefits, such as submitting reports that they can fill out themselves and copies of receipts. Making requests more convenient Requests for insurance claims, etc. are handled at the Dai-ichi Life Contact Center, as well as by Total Life Plan Designers and at Dai-ichi Life Insurance Shops. For customers who are usually out during the day or who live far away, we can send claims documents directly from the head office at their request. Customers can then return the prepared documents in a dedicated envelope. Support for payment procedures when the claim is difficult to submit We have introduced the Proxy Request System in which a proxy who has met the predetermined requirements is able to make a claim for insurance on behalf of the claimant if there are exceptional circumstances in which the claimant is unable to request the payment of insurance claims and benefits. In January 2014, we also introduced Adult Guardianship Support as a new service for introducing, as an intermediary, a judicial scrivener who can support legal procedures for a customer who needs the appointment of an adult guardian, so that the beneficiary will be able to assuredly receive insurance benefits even if the policyholder is unable to use the Proxy Request System for certain reasons. Initiatives for customers to receive their insurance claims and benefits faster The Company created the Insurance Proceeds Quick Reception Service so customers can more quickly receive death proceeds that meet certain requirements if they urgently need to pay funeral and other expenses when a loved one passes away. Since June 2014, customers have been able to receive their insurance benefits on the day of performing request procedures if they use this service. We also provide a Simplified Death Benefit Reception Service in which customers are able to receive a death benefit of up to five million yen by submitting a predetermined request form, death certificate and copy of an identification document, even if it takes time to prepare public documents such as a residence certificate, as well as the Death Benefit Delivery Service in which our staff delivers the customer’s death benefit in cash. Payment of insurance claims and benefits, using a life insurance trust To meet customer needs for ensuring that insurance benefits can be left to those with an uncertain ability to manage property, the Company provides an intermediary service as a trust contract agent for Omoi no Teikibin (regular death benefit payment service), a trust product of Mizuho Trust & Banking. In the life insurance trust, the policyholder customizes the use of his/her death benefit before his/her death, and a trust bank receives the death benefit when the policyholder passes away and pays it to a person predetermined by the customer (policyholder) with the decided-upon specifics, while safely managing the death benefit. 62 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Procedural Support Systems Improvement of information provision and consulting when customers receive a payment When a death benefit is paid out, we provide information on the survivor pension system and inheritance tax system and give consulting on the inherited property including the death benefit. When hospital expense benefits are paid out, we provide information on the high medical cost subsidy system and medical expenses deduction. 63 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : When Insurance Claims or Benefits are Not Paid Out Correct and Fair Procedural When Insurance Disclosure of Insurance Support Systems Claims or Payment Status Payouts Benefits are Not Paid Out When Insurance Claims or Benefits are Not Paid Out Head Office Payment Department Customers denied the payment of a claim or benefit and who are unclear about the reason can consult with the Payment Inquiry Counter. These inquiries are handled directly by dedicated staff from the Payment Department who provide detailed explanations to the customer. Customers who are not satisfied with the explanation can go to the Dispute Counter (a different department from the Payment Department), use the Outside Lawyer Consultation System, or go before the Payment Examination Committee (a third-party organization). Dispute Counter Customers who are not satisfied with the explanation of the Payment Inquiry Counter can go to the Dispute Counter. All matters are handled by dedicated staff who belong to a different department than the Payment Department. Outside Lawyer Consultation System Customers who are not satisfied with the explanation can request to use the Outside Lawyer Consultation System to consult with a lawyer with no contractual ties to Dai-ichi Life free of charge. Payment Examination Committee In addition to consultations with an outside lawyer, customers can choose to appear in front of the Payment Examination Committee, which deliberates on the results of payment assessments from an objective and neutral perspective. The Payment Examination Committee comprises only outside professionals, such as lawyers, physicians, and experts in consumer issues, to ensure objectiveness. Flow of Explanations and Consultations when Insurance Proceeds Cannot be Paid Out (individual insurance) 64 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : When Insurance Claims or Benefits are Not Paid Out Status of Utilization of Each System Outside Lawyer Consultation Payment Examination Dispute Counter System Committee Fiscal 2012 202 cases 6 cases 6 cases Fiscal 2013 172 cases 11 cases 8 cases 65 Social Responsibility > For Customers > Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments : Disclosure of Payment Status Correct and Fair Procedural When Insurance Disclosure of Insurance Support Systems Claims or Payment Status Payouts Benefits are Not Paid Out Disclosure of Payment Status The disclosure of payment information closely relates to the customer-centric procedures in our quality assurance declaration and to the fair, correct and prompt payment of insurance claims and benefits. Therefore, we continually disclose information on insurance payouts using the uniform standards for payments and non-payments created by the Life Insurance Association of Japan in order to foster greater trust and support from our stakeholders. Insurance Claims and Benefits Paid Out in Fiscal 2013 Number of Insurance Claim and Benefit Payments Death / Disability Hospitalization Benefits Total / Specified Disease Insurance and Surgical Insurance Number of cases in which payments were 1,062,668 82,066 980,602 made Number of cases in which payments were not 33,787 3,701 30,086 made Cases that do not meet payment 32,085 3,278 28,807 requirements Cancellations due to violations of the duty 1,141 112 1,029 to disclose Cases that fall under immunity grounds 556 311 245 Other 5 0 5 * Does not include maturity proceeds or living benefits, etc. Insurance Claims and Benefits Paid Amount Total ¥1,743.6 billion Death / Disability / Specified Disease Insurance ¥435.4 billion Hospital Expenses and Surgical Insurance ¥126.6 billion Maturity Proceeds / Living Benefits / Annuities, etc . ¥1,181.5 billion 66 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > Basic Policy Basic Policy Asset Management: Basic Policy and Process With the primary objective of providing for stable pension, insurance claims, and insurance benefits payments over the long-term, and while taking into consideration the characteristics of life insurance policy liabilities, the Dai-ichi Life Group conducts asset management focused on fixed interest-bearing assets based on Asset Liability Management (ALM). In addition, upon sufficiently establishing the soundness of management, we seek to manage assets effectively by holding equities and foreign securities with acceptable risks. Moreover, we use our finely tuned risk management system to monitor risks and improve the efficiency of asset management. Our asset management process incorporates analysis and verification as appropriate, utilizing feedback on information relating to asset management risks and returns. In addition, we work together with the Product Development and Management Unit in a framework that ensures liability information is constantly reflected and ALM is thoroughly implemented. Status of Assets During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, Dai-ichi Life continued to position fixed income investments, including public and corporate bonds, as a core of its asset portfolio, following its medium to long-term investment policies. Meanwhile, Dai-ichi Life accumulated policy reservematching bonds, centered on super-long-term bonds, in an effort to promote ALM and enhance its profitability. From fiscal 2012, Dai-ichi Life continues to appropriately manage the risk associated with its risk assets, such as domestic stocks and foreign securities, which it acquired primarily to diversify its investment portfolio and achieve higher profitability. In doing so, the Company takes market trends into account. 67 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > ESG Investment and Lending ESG Investment and Lending As an institutional investor that controls approximately ¥30 trillion in capital, the Dai-ichi Life Group's approach to asset management focuses not only on stability and profitability, but also on the benefits for society and the public. With interest growing around the world in asset management that considers environmental (E), social (S) and governance (G) issues, the Dai-ichi Life Group has drawn up its own set of principles of behavior, known as the Three Arrows, by incorporating the ESG perspective and taking into account its contribution to the government's growth strategies. Arrow 1 – E: Protecting the environment through asset management We have set a goal of providing up to ¥200 billion in financing for growth sectors during the three-year period of our medium-term management plan for 2013-2015. As part of this initiative, we plan on expanding investments in the environmental and infrastructure sectors. Based on the idea that environmentally friendly asset management of Dai-ichi Life as an institutional investor leads to sustainable development of all of society, we plan to increase investment and lending in the environmental and infrastructure sectors, which are expected to have high demand for capital. Financing development of infrastructure for utilizing renewable energy Given society's need for a stable supply of electric power, there is strong funding demand in Japan for large-scale solar power plants and biomass power generation that utilize renewable energy. In response, we invested or loaned a total of ¥30 billion in fiscal 2013 (see table below). Investments and lending in the renewable energy projects are an asset class that is relatively resilient to market volatility and are expected to generate stable, long-term income. Therefore, life insurance companies, which are oriented toward mediumto long-term asset management recognize this asset class will form an important aspect of their portfolios going forward. Examples of Dai-ichi Life's investments and loans (fiscal 2013) Sector Type Total Amount Biomass power plant project Loan ¥3.0 billion Loan ¥7.5 billion Mega solar power plant project Equity investment ¥4.8 billion Securitization ¥3.7 billion Thermal and renewable energy project Private equity fund ¥3.0 billion (public-private partnership infrastructure fund) Investment in overseas infrastructure fund PE fund ¥5.0 billion Green Loan Loan ¥3.0 billion Contribution to the Private Finance Initiative Promotion Corporation of Japan Contribution ¥0.5 billion Total ¥30.5 billion 68 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > ESG Investment and Lending Providing finance for large-scale solar power plant projects We have provided financing to various large-scale solar power plant projects. This financing has taken on the form of loans, securitization and equity investments, among others, in the construction of mega solar power plants across Japan, from Aomori and Yamanashi to Hyogo, Kagawa and Yamaguchi prefectures. Example mega solar power plant (computer generated conceptual image upon completion; Rokkasho Village, Aomori Prefecture) Taka District Chitose Daira Kita District Courtesy of: Eurus Energy Holdings Corporation Involved in Japan's first-ever Public-Private Infrastructure Fund We made a ¥3 billion investment in Japan's first-ever public-private infrastructure fund targeting a wide range of power and energy sectors in Japan. Contribution to the Private Finance Initiative Promotion Corporation of Japan We made a contribution to the Private Finance Initiative Promotion Corporation of Japan, which was established in order to promote the development of public facilities using private funding and expertise. This corporation is responsible for a major component of the government's growth strategy and we are supporting this strategy through our investment. Tokyo Square Garden (construction started March 2013) Dai-ichi Life works to save energy in both the hardware and software aspects of buildings. In terms of hardware, we are improving environmental performance with the use of high efficiency equipment for new build, remodeling or reconstruction projects. We are also promoting the use of greenery on and around buildings. As for the software aspects, such as daily building management, we are working closely with property management companies to make continual improvements and achieve greater energy savings. Environmentally friendly real estate investment We are helping to roll out the latest technologies to protect the environment in various facets with an eye on the future and we created a green space of approximately 3,000 m2 called Kyobashi no Oka to help reduce the urban heat island effect. The Kyobashi Environment Station was also placed in the building as an advanced initiative to promote energy conservation in the area as a whole. It presents information on area energy management and environmental technologies. This building construction project was selected by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure Transport and Tourism as a leading housing/building project in CO2 control, and also has been recognized by many organizations. (See table below.) Tokyo Square Garden (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) 69 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > ESG Investment and Lending Main awards and recognition for environmental initiatives Fiscal Building name Award or commendation Awarded by year Quasi-top-level place of business (place of business recognized for outstanding countermeasures taken Harumi Triton Square against global warming) as based on the Tokyo Tokyo Metropolitan Government Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation) Selected as one of the top 30 low carbon buildings 2011 Tokyo Square Garden Tokyo Metropolitan Government in Tokyo Nikkei, Inc. Received New Office Promotion Award at the 24th Toyosu Cubic Garden New Office Promotion Association Nikkei New Office Awards Others Shin-Oi Business Office Received S-rank (highest ranking) under CASBEE Top-level place of business (place of business recognized for outstanding countermeasures taken Art Village Osaki Central Tower against global warming) as based on the Tokyo Tokyo Metropolitan Government Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation) 2012 Japan Federation of Construction Toyosu Cubic Garden Received the 53rd BCS Award Contractors Received Platinum rank (highest ranking) under Tokyo Square Garden The Development Bank of Japan DBJ Green Building certification Japan Federation of Construction Received the 54th BCS Award Contractors Received First Prize in the General Architecture Category in the 56th Kanagawa Prefecture Kanagawa Prefecture Architecture Competition Shin-Oi Business Office Received the Executive Director's Award in the Organization for Landscape and Rooftop Greenery Category in the 12th Rooftop, Urban Green Infrastructure Wall and Special Greenery Technology Competition Received Honorary Mention from the Judges Institute for Building Environment 2013 Committee in the Office Architecture Category at the and Energy Conservation 5th Sustainable Architecture Awards Received the Executive Director's Award in the Organization for Landscape and Rooftop Greenery Category in the 12th Rooftop, Urban Green Infrastructure Wall and Special Greenery Technology Competition Toyosu Cubic Garden Received Honorary Mention from the Judges Institute for Building Environment Committee in the Office Architecture Category at the and Energy Conservation 5th Sustainable Architecture Awards Lease condominiums Received First Prize in the Collective Housing Tokyo Association of Architectural “PATH” Category of the 39th Tokyo Architecture Awards Firms 70 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > ESG Investment and Lending Arrow 2 – S: Social contribution through asset management Dai-ichi Life proactively supports the professional careers of women and efforts to resolve Japan's declining birthrate, even though its asset management operations following its Policy for Corporate Citizenship, by practicing Diversity & Inclusion, which encourages mutual acceptance. ESG Fund – Investing in companies emphasizing the ESG perspective For the first time in the life insurance industry, a Socially Responsible Investment (SRI*1) fund was established*2 in October 2010 for asset management in Dai-ichi Life. This fund selects and invests in companies recognized for their diversity, governance, environmental protection, etc. (approximately 100 companies as of the end of June 2014). Investment in the fund was increased from an initial ¥1 billion to ¥3 billion yen in fiscal 2013, and it was renamed the ESG Fund. The Company is also raising the weight of diversity assessment such as the level of participation of female employees (percentage of females who are managerial level and percentage of female employees taking childcare leave) as one of the criteria for selecting companies in which to invest. *1: SRI is generally a type of investment that concerns aspects such as legal compliance, information disclosure, consideration for employees, clients' labor conditions, contribution to local communities, and consideration for the environment, in addition to financial matters. *2: This fund is managed in-house (not outsourced) and focuses on investments in domestically listed companies. Initiatives to eliminate the issue of waitlisted children at nursery centers Since 2011, we have been working to invite nursery centers to open in many of the real estate properties we own as an institutional investor through a partnership with daycare operators JP Holdings and Poppins Co., Ltd., which represents the first initiative of its kind in Japan (per research conducted by Dai-ichi Life) aimed at solving the increasing number of waitlisted children at nursery centers. This initiative requires more efforts than typical tenant invitation activities because of the need for discussions with the local government and daycare operator, ensuring legal requirements are met in terms of facilities, carrying out the necessary safety improvements, and giving consideration to existing tenants. Nevertheless, we have persisted with our efforts and as of July 31, 2014 we have invited a total of 10 nursery centers to open at our real estate properties (see the Poppins Nursery School Tabata table below). (Tabata Asuka Tower) In March 2014, some 190 financial institutions that are party to the Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century), established by voluntary efforts of financial institutions and led by the Ministry of the Environment, selected Dai-ichi Life for its good practices in the field two years running in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013. Our goal is to help open nursery centers that will accommodate up to 2,500 children, or about 10% of the waitlisted children in Japan. 71 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > ESG Investment and Lending Number of daycare/nursery centers invited (As of July 31, 2014) Max. number of children Property Name Location Center's Name accepted Makuhari Techno Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture ASK Kaihin Makuhari Daycare 59 Garden Nakano Honcho Dai-ichi Nakano-ku, Tokyo Daycare Baby Salon Shin-Nakano 30 Life Bldg Omori Bellport Bldg E Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo ASK Minami Oi Daycare 70 Shin-Koenji Dai-ichi Life Suginami-ku, Tokyo Pinocchio Preschool Shin-Koenji 28 Bldg Tabata Asuka Tower Kita-ku, Tokyo Poppins Nursery School Tabata 40 Tokyo Square Garden Chuo-ku, Tokyo Kids Square Tokyo Square Garden 30 Sakuradai Nerima Nerima-ku, Tokyo Poppins Nursing Mama Room Sakuradai 15 Branch Sora Branch, Takeno Nursery School, Social Kobe Tarumi Branch Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture 20 Welfare Corporation Yokokai Dai-ichi Life Mitaka Bldg Mitaka City, Tokyo Poppins Nursery School Mitaka-Minami 70 Dai-ichi Life Yurigaoka Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Poppins Nursery School Yurigaoka 60 Bldg Prefecture Total 422 Arrow 3 – G: Corporate governance through asset management As an institutional investor, Dai-ichi Life promotes activities that improve the corporate governance of companies in which we have invested, and publicly accepts the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors: Japan's Stewardship Code. We have a team of more than 10 equity analysts, representing the largest among all major Japanese life insurers. This team researches and analyzes more than 2,000 investment targets from various perspectives, including growth and stance toward ESG, among others. We have already held regular dialogue with companies that have ample room for enhancing corporate value or providing greater returns to shareholders concerning management goals and the idea of returns to shareholders, and appropriately exercise our voting right for all proposals submitted to the general meetings of shareholders of those companies, based on our internal standards.* There are increasing international expectations for institutional investors to play the role of promoting growth and improving corporate governance of companies in which they invest. To meet such expectations, Dai-ichi Life will continue to improve its dialogue with invested-in companies in which we invest and the standards for exercising our voting rights. *The idea and process of exercising the Company's voting rights are found on our website. Exercising Voting Rights（322KB） 72 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code Dai-ichi Life agrees with and publicly accepts the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors: Japan's Stewardship Code. We have established the following policies based on principles one through seven of the Code. Principle 1 Institutional investors should have a clear policy on how they fulfill their stewardship responsibilities, and publicly disclose it. Dai-ichi Life has established the following Stewardship Policy based on its acceptance of Japan's Stewardship Code and we will fulfill our responsibilities as an institutional investor following this policy. Stewardship Activities Policy (146KB) Principle 2 Institutional investors should have a clear policy on how they manage conflicts of interest in fulfilling their stewardship responsibilities and publicly disclose it. We have established the following policy to ensure that the interests of our shareholders and policyholders are not unreasonably damaged during stewardship activities, such as the exercise of voting rights. Based on company rules, only the department in charge of investment can determine whether to agree with a proposal for enhancing the stock value or governance of a investee company when exercising voting rights.(*) Only the department in charge of investment can create or revise this company rule. *Excluding subsidiaries, affiliates and strategic tie-ups,etc. Principle 3 Institutional investors should monitor investee companies so that they can appropriately fulfill their stewardship responsibilities with an orientation towards the sustainable growth of the companies. Dai-ichi Life periodically confirms the business conditions of companies that it invests in and makes efforts to conduct dialogs on a routine basis in order to accurately understand the situation of these companies and share information regarding issues. Periodic management checks and daily dialogue include not only short-term corporate performance, but also a broad range of non-financial information as well, such as the company's strategy, medium-term management plan, and policy on shareholder returns, which will enable us to assess mediumto long-term growth potential. Principle 4 Institutional investors should seek to arrive at an understanding in common with investee companies and work to solve problems through constructive engagement with investee companies. To enhance the stock value of investee companies over mediumto long-term viewpoint, we strive to engage investee companies in constructive engagement with regards to business strategy, financial strategy, and policy on shareholder returns. We emphasize this constructive engagement and by continuing with this dialogue we are working to share common vantage points with our investee companies and striving to resolve issues. This dialogue is not intended to obtain material undisclosed facts. If in the unlikely event a material fact is disclosed, we manage this information appropriately in accordance with our company rules. Principle 5 Institutional investors should have a clear policy on voting and disclosure of voting activity. The policy on voting should not be comprised only of a mechanical checklist; it should be designed to contribute to the sustainable growth of investee companies. We exercise voting rights in accordance with company rules. The results of voting rights are made public in a summary table. Reference: We do not engage in stock lending that overlaps with the rights base date related to the voting shares of investee companies. Dai-ichi Life's Exercise of Voting Rights (Summary of the Exercise of Voting Rights) (322 KB) Results of Exercise of Voting Rights for General Meetings of Shareholders Held From April to June 2014 (164KB) 73 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code Principle 6 Institutional investors in principle should report periodically on how they fulfill their stewardship responsibilities, including their voting responsibilities, to their clients and beneficiaries. Our Stewardship Activities Policy, Summary of the Exercise of Voting Rights, and Results of Exercise of Voting Rights for General Meetings of Shareholders are regularly reported through our website. Principle 7 To contribute positively to the sustainable growth of investee companies, institutional investors should have in-depth knowledge of the investee companies and their business environment and skills and resources needed to appropriately engage with the companies and make proper judgments in fulfilling their stewardship activities. Dai-ichi Life works to develop highly specialized human resources so that it can conduct stewardship activities based on a deep understanding of matters such as the companies invested in and the business environment. Furthermore, the Stewardship Activities Policy is regularly reviewed in consideration of factors including social trends in an aim to achieve stewardship activities of a consistently high level. 74 Social Responsibility > Our Role as an Institutional Investor > Exercise of Voting Rights Exercise of Voting Rights Dai-ichi Life's Exercise of Voting Rights (Summary of the Exercise of Voting Rights)（322KB） 75 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Basic Policy Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Basic Policy We strive to build a better society and more enriched, comforting lives through our life insurance business, which is important for both its societal and public aspects. Under our management philosophy of securing social trust, we are working to contribute to the continuous development of local communities as a good corporate citizen. We support our employees’ voluntary involvement in society and undertake corporate citizenship activities using a unified approach that involves both the company and employees. Dai-ichi Life’s corporate citizenship activities focus on the following themes. (1) Promoting Health (2) Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society (3) Environmental Preservation※ We aspire to provide even more value-added activities by regularly reviewing and making changes in light of society’s needs and Dai-ichi Life’s unique capabilities. ※Our Basic Environmental Policy forms the foundation for our environmental preservation activities. 76 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Promoting Health Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Promoting Health With the sustainability of social security systems fast becoming a societal issue, the need has risen to promote the health of people and reduce the burden placed on society in order to maintain these important systems. As an insurance company, Dai-ichi Life plays a complementary role to social security and as a result, we carry out various initiatives to support health promotion and ensure customers have peace of mind and maintain good health. Public Health Award The Public Health Award was created in 1950, a time when health and hygiene were worsening after the war, to honor and express gratitude to those involved in improving public health and hygiene in Japan. We have presented the award each year, with additional support provided by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In 2014, the award was presented for the 66th time, making the Public Health Award our social contribution activity with the longest history. An awards ceremony is held each autumn, and award winners receive an audience with the Emperor and Empress of Japan. The award recognizes measures that address a broad range of issues arising in Presentation ceremony for the 65th Public Health Award conjunction with the changing times, including overseas healthcare activities, measures to address lifestyle-related illnesses, and welfare activities for the elderly and the disabled. To date, the award has been presented to 644 organizations and 331 individuals throughout Japan, for a grand total of 975 awardees. Learn more (Japanese) View the video (Japanese) The Cardiovascular Institute Dai-ichi Life founded The Cardiovascular Institute (CVI) in 1959 for the purpose preventing, diagnosing and treating various cardiovascular diseases through medical research. CVI has continually announced countless clinical research outcomes that have contributed to the development of successful treatments, while at its attached hospital CVI employs a leading staff of medical professionals who perform cardiac catheterization procedures and cardiovascular surgeries, delivering advanced, cutting edge care. In February 2011 CVI relocated to Nishiazabu, Minato Ward in Tokyo, where it continues to deliver superior quality treatment and services thanks to the adoption of the latest, and most cutting edge medical equipment. We will continue to proactively contribute to the development of Outside appearance of the Cardiovascular Institute clinical medicine for cardiovascular diseases through our support of CVI. Link to the Cardiovascular Institute’s website 77 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Promoting Health Efforts to promote our customers’ health Dai-ichi Life conducts a host of activities to respond to its customers, hoping to improve their health. We provide individual customers with Medical Support Service including consultation and supply of information for health, medical, childcare and nursing care issues. Additionally, we concluded comprehensive information sharing agreements with the National Cancer Center in January 2012 and the Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research in February 2013. Furthermore, we concluded a comprehensive information dissemination agreement with the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center in May 2014. Through these agreements, we are able to receive the latest information on prevention with regards to the three major illnesses, or cancer, acute myocardial infarction, and stroke. We deliver educational information about various diseases, prevention methods and medical exams to our customers through seminars and the daily sales activities of Total Life Plan Designers. For corporate customers, we have been providing healthcare information and services since 2013. This includes the Dai-ichi Life Health Support Desk service offering consultations on a wide range of topics from daily healthcare to psychological health and a Survey on Welfare Benefits reporting the results of a questionnaire on the introduction of welfare programs. Going forward, we stand committed to providing a broad range of useful and easy-to-understand information on health promotion to our customers. Notifications about the agreements concluded with Health seminar for customers specialized medical institutions Participation in the Table for Two Program We have participated in the social contribution program run by NPO Table for Two International (TFT) since September 2013, through which we are providing a menu of healthy foods at our employee cafeteria located at the Hibiya head office in accordance with TFT guidelines. TFT is simultaneously working to improve the health of people in developing and developed countries and it makes a ¥20 donation (the cost of a school lunch in Africa) for every healthy TFT menu item eaten at the employee cafeteria. A total of 11,617 qualifying meals have been served up to March 2014, resulting in a total of ¥232,340 being donated to purchase school lunches for African countries through TFT. We will continue our involvement in this program as part of our commitment to promoting the health of our employees and making social contributions. Promoting Bone Marrow Bank Donor Registration and Blood Donations As a life insurance provider, Dai-ichi Life is promoting bone marrow bank registration and blood donations under the spirit of mutual assistance embodied by the phrase, “one for all, all for one.” We have promoted bone marrow bank registration since fiscal 2010 with the hope that more people in need of bone marrow transplants will be given this potentially life-saving opportunity. To encourage employees to donate, we have also established a Donor Leave Program that allocates special paid leave to cover the time needed to recover from making a bone marrow donation. For our many years of contributions to blood donation drives, we received a letter of appreciation from the Governor of Tokyo in fiscal 2011 and the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in fiscal 2012. 78 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Dai-ichi Life works to solve the problem of children being wait-listed for daycare/nursery centers as one of the issues in tackling the declining birthrate and to promote finance and insurance education among members of future generations, in an effort to create an affluent society for the next generation, in which everyone can enjoy a comfortable life. Initiatives to eliminate the issue of waitlisted children at daycare/nursery centers Since 2011, we have been working to attract daycare/nursery centers to open in many of the real estate properties we own as an institutional investor through a partnership with daycare operators JP Holdings and Poppins Co., Ltd., which represents the first of initiative of its kind in Japan (per research conducted by Dai-ichi Life) aimed at solving the increasing number of waitlisted children at daycare/nursery centers. This initiative requires more efforts than typical tenant attraction activities because of the need for discussions with the local government and daycare operator, ensuring legal requirements are met in terms of facilities, carrying out the necessary safety improvements, and giving consideration to existing tenants. Nevertheless, we have persisted with our efforts and as of July 31, 2014 we have attracted a total of 10 daycare/nursery centers to open at our real estate properties (see the table below). In March 2014, some 190 financial institutions that are party to the Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century), established by voluntary efforts of financial institutions and led by the Ministry of the Environment, selected Dai-ichi Life for its good practices in the field two years running in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013. Our goal is to help open daycare/nursery centers that will accommodate up to 2,500 children, or about 10% of the waitlisted children in Japan. 79 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Number of daycare/nursery centers attracted (As of July 31, 2014) Max. number of children Property Name Location Center’s Name accepted Makuhari Techno Garden Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture ASK Kaihin Makuhari Daycare 59 Nakano Honcho Dai-ichi Nakano-ku, Tokyo Daycare Baby Salon Shin-Nakano 30 Life Bldg Omori Bellport Bldg E Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo ASK Minami Oi Daycare 70 Shin-Koenji Dai-ichi Life Suginami-ku, Tokyo Pinocchio Preschool Shin-Koenji 28 Bldg Tabata Asuka Tower Kita-ku, Tokyo Poppins Nursery School Tabata 40 Tokyo Square Garden Chuo-ku, Tokyo Kids Square Tokyo Square Garden 30 Nerima Sakuradai Branch Nerima-ku, Tokyo Poppins Nursing Mama Room Sakuradai 15 Sora Branch, Takeno Nursery School, Kobe Tarumi Branch Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture 20 Social Welfare Corporation Yokokai Dai-ichi Life Mitaka Bldg Mitaka City, Tokyo Poppins Nursery School Mitaka-Minami 70 Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Dai-ichi Life Yurigaoka Bldg Poppins Nursery School Yurigaoka 60 Prefecture Total 422 Poppins Nursery School Yurigaoka in Dai-ichi Life Yurigaoka Bldg The Dai-ichi Life Foundation The Dai-ichi Life Foundation was established in April 2013 through the merger of three general incorporated foundations—namely, Toshi No Shikumi To Kurashi Kenkyusho [The Research Institute of City and Life Structures], Chiiki Shakai Kenkyusho [The Research Institute of Local Communities], and Shisei Kenkyusho [The Japan Institute of Human Posture Research]. The foundation conducts survey research, makes proposals, and provides aid, and publishes a newsletter to realize a healthy and livable society in an aging society with a falling birth rate, for the purpose of helping to create an affluent next-generation society. Through these efforts the foundation contributes to the further advancement of public interests. In April 2013, it began subsidizing newly established daycare/nursery centers and certified daycare/nursery centers as a measure to address the many children being waitlisted, which is a pressing social issue. In fiscal 2013, its first year of the program, the Dai-ichi Life Foundation provided ¥30 million in subsidies to 35 different daycare/nursery centers. Going forward, the foundation not only hopes to reduce the number of waitlisted children through its subsidies to new daycare/nursery centers and certified daycare/nursery centers for the purchase of play and exercise equipment and musical instruments, among other items, but also will contribute to the improved quality of daycare through assistance to facilities that are working diligently and seriously toward developing a sound environment for children. Link to the Dai-ichi Life Foundation’s website (Japanese) 80 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Play equipment purchased with grant money First Presentation Ceremony for projects as measures to reduce numbers of waiting children and support daycare/nursing centers Support for consumer education and finance and insurance education through Life Cycle Game II: Recommending a Total Life Plan In 2012, the Company created Life Cycle Game II: Recommending a Total Life Plan. This is a consumer education tool that helps players learn about life risks and informs them about necessary preparation and consumer contracts through the enjoyment of a sugoroku-style game (sugoroku is the Japanese version of Parcheesi). The game was awarded the 8th Educational Material Merit Award, sponsored by the National Institute on Consumer Education, making Dai-Ichi Life the first winner among financial institutions. This learning material is provided for free through our website, and through April 2014 applications for approximately 11,000 sets had been received from schools, consumer service centers, government offices and other facilities. Dai-ichi Life employees visit schools, consumer service centers, companies, among other locations, and provide classes and training using the learning material (47 times for 1,658 participants in fiscal 2013), and help promote consumer as well as finance and insurance education in schools, communities and companies. Receive an application for Life Cycle Game II: Recommending a Total Life Plan (Japanese) Information about Dai-ichi Life's outreach and training programs (967KB,Japanese) An outreach class at a junior high school Joint research through industry-academia partnerships Dai-ichi Life has been working alongside Hitotsubashi University since 2007 on joint research projects involving industry-academia collaboration. In addition, we have been providing a scholarship for mathematics to Rikkyo University’s Department of Mathematics and Graduate School of Science – Field of Study: Mathematics since 2009. 81 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society The Foundation for the Advancement of Life & Insurance Around the world (FALIA) This foundation was established in 1970 as The Foundation for the Advancement of Life Insurance in Asia, for the purpose of contributing to the development of life insurance business in the Asia region. The name was later changed to the current name given the rising number of people participating in research and seminars from outside the Asia region. The foundation sponsors research and seminars involving insurance business officials from Japan and around the world, with a total of 3,420 taking part in domestic research and more than 5,000 participating in overseas seminars as of March 31, 2014. The foundation has also started a new essay prize for international students from developing countries who are studying in Japan as part of its efforts to develop and educate human resources involved in insurance administration and business operations. Moving forward, the foundation stands committed to furthering the development of the insurance business. Link to the FALIA’s website Domestic training Internships for Teachers and High School Students We accept high school student internships to foster the early development of a view toward career and work, and we are involved in a training program sponsored by the Japan Institute for Social and Economic Affairs. Through these initiatives, we are supporting the development and education of the youth that will be the leaders of Japan’s tomorrow. Konan High School in Kagoshima Workplace experience and learning Seminars on consumer issues We have organized seminars on consumer issues since 1985 with the purpose of gathering experts in specialized fields to discuss ways in which companies work with consumers and approaches to customer-centric management. Details of discussions are published and provided to consumer centers and consumer groups throughout Japan. In March 2013, we published Consumer Society and the Role of Companies and Consumers, compiling discussions from the 12th seminar. This latest publication has received a very positive response. Yellow Badge program The program of giving so-called Yellow Badges along with traffic accident insurance to children entering elementary schools began in 1965 to help prevent such accidents. Dai-ichi Life joined the program in 2003, and it is currently being operated by Mizuho Financial Group, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Meiji Yasuda Life and Dai-ichi Life. By 2014, the 50th time the program was held, around 1.12 million children were presented with Yellow Badges, bringing the cumulative total of recipients to 61.11 million. 50th Yellow Badge Presentation Ceremony Traffic safety class 82 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Environmental Preservation Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Environmental Preservation Dai-ichi Life supports development of urban greenery and sustainable communities to facilitate safe and healthy living by contributing to the environmental conservation of local communities and global environmental protection. The Green Environmental Design Award The Green Environmental Design Award was created in 1990 with the aims of supporting the creation of urban environments with abundant greenery, providing people who live in urban areas a chance to come in contact with nature, and encouraging community development. The award is presented to outstanding environmental designs submitted from around the country, and provides a grant to carry out the awardwinning plan. In 2009, standards for evaluating plans that actively incorporate the green-belt functions necessary for harmony between urban and natural environments were adopted in order to enhance environmental support. Since the award was established, green spaces have been created at 144 locations in 39 prefectures nationwide, including schools, medical and welfare institutions, shopping districts, and areas in front of train stations. Learn more (Japanese) 23rd Green Environmental Design Award Minister of Land, Infrastructure Transport and Tourism Prize Houtoku Kindergarten Green City Award This award is presented to outstanding organizations including citizen groups and privateand publicsector groups who are actively involved in activities aimed at “greening” public spaces with trees, flowers, and water features, improving local scenery, revitalizing regional communities, and nurturing young people, and whose contributions to the improvement of the environment and society have yielded positive outcomes. It was established in 1981 with the aim of creating comfortable and earth-friendly living environments by promoting and conserving green spaces in broad urban areas. Four prizes are 33rd Green City Award awarded: The Prime Minister Prize, The Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Prize, The Minister of Land, Infrastructure The Chairman of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Prize, and the and Transport and Tourism Prize Encouragement Prize. The winners of each prize are selected from all applicants. Kofudai Flower and Greenery Association Learn more (Japanese) Kofudai Garden Ecocap Campaign As part of its environmental education activities, we together with our customers are involved in the Ecocap Campaign at our business sites nationwide in Japan. This initiative, which was launched at certain business sites and branch offices in fiscal 2005, is now being spread nationwide. As of March 31, 2014, we had collected a total of 90 million bottle caps, which have been used to fund donations for vaccines for approximately 105,000 people through the Ecocap Movement. 83 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Volunteer Activities Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Volunteer Activities As members of their local communities, Dai-ichi Life employees from Japan and abroad take part in various forms of social contribution activities. Volunteer Activities in Japan Employees of Dai-ichi Life across Japan voluntarily contribute to local communities through ways such as cleaning, charity bazaars and fund-raising. To assist and promote the contribution of employees to their local communities, we have introduced the Matching Gift Program, in which the company adds a certain amount to the funds raised by its employees through donations or sales when they donate the funds to organizations. Dai-ichi Life also introduced the Action Gift Program in 2010, in which it contributes a certain amount to activities that do not directly result in donations, such as community cleanups, with the amount donated depending on the number of participants in each activity. Example from the Agency Sales Promotion Department The Agency Sales Promotion Department started a joint social contribution activity project with a business partner in fiscal 2013. So far both companies have planned and carried out a number of activities, including collection of ecocaps, neighborhood cleanups, CPR certification, and support for the disaster-affected areas from Japan’s 2011 earthquake and tsunami. These volunteer activities have not only served to make a difference in the community, but also has brought the two companies closer together. Creating corsages to give to elementary school students in disaster-affected areas Example from the Ota Branch Office The Ota Branch Office, which until now had continually carried out neighborhood cleanups and other volunteer activities closely rooted in the local community, created a project team for social contribution activities as part of initiatives to celebrate its 25th anniversary as a branch in fiscal 2013. This team is helping to take initiatives to the next level. Employees work together to focus on sustained activities that benefit the local community, such as regularly supporting welfare facilities for children and volunteering for traffic safety efforts. Presenting gifts to welfare facilities for children Example from the Tokyo Branch Office The Tokyo Branch Office’s activities involve not only employees but also customers and the local community, spanning from the collection of ecocaps and stamps to a charity bazaar, among others. A charity bazaar was held after meeting with donation recipients in advance to set goals for the type of donations to make. Based on these specific goals, preparations and sales were made in a systematic fashion, which helped generate sales that exceeded the target. A charity bazaar 84 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Volunteer Activities Ongoing Support for Disaster-affected Areas Dai-ichi Life continues to support those areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. From 2011 to 2012 we provided support to aquaculture industries in the Karakuwa district of Sendai City in Miyagi Prefecture, with a total of 140 employees taking part during this time. In 2013, we were involved in the Fukushima Organic Cotton Project, which aims to create a new agricultural industry in Fukushima Prefecture, and 63 employees helped weed fields and harvest the cotton. In addition to activities locally, we held promotional events at our head office to promote sales of products made in the disaster-affected areas. Fukushima Organic Cotton Project Activities at Group companies Initiatives at Group companies 85 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Basic Policy Promoting Health Creating an Environmental Volunteer Affluent Preservation Activities Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. VOCA Exhibition and Dai-ichi Life Gallery Dai-ichi Life has been assisting the Vision of Contemporary Art (VOCA) Exhibition at the Ueno Royal Museum since its premiere in 1994 to help foster and support young artists under the age of 40 who have a bright international future in the field of two-dimensional arts. Previous exhibitors have included Miran Fukuda, Miwa Yanagi, and Mika Ninagawa, making this initiative a gateway to success for up-andcoming young artists in recent years. The 21st VOCA Exhibition in 2014 featured the works of 33 young artists from across Japan and particularly excellent works were presented with an award. Dai-ichi Life not only sponsors the exhibit each year, but it also stores the works of VOCA Award and VOCA Honorable Mention prizewinners and regularly exhibits them in the first floor lobby of its Hibiya Head Office and at the Dai-ichi Life Gallery (also at the Hibiya Head Office). In addition, the Dai-ichi Life Gallery provides continual assistance to prizewinners by exhibiting their individual works and providing a place for prizewinners to introduce their artistic activities after winning the award. Such activities were recognized and in 2000 the Company received the Japan Mécénat Award from the Association for Corporate Support of the Arts, which honors companies and foundations that contribute significantly to the promotion of arts and culture. Learn more (Japanese) VOCA 2014 VOCA Award Dai-ichi Life Gallery Monookuri By Nozomi Tanaka Supporting NPO Triton Arts Network (TAN) In 1952, Dai-ichi Seimei Hall, which was used as a meeting place within the Dai-ichi Life head office, was opened up to the public and began to host a variety of musical recitals, theatrical performances and Rakugo comedies as one of the first private-sector halls for rent in Japan. In this manner, the hall greatly contributed to cultural promotion and advancement in post-war Japan. In 1989, the hall was closed for restoration and remodeling work after 37 years of hosting audiences. In 2001, the hall reopened in Harumi, Tokyo. Dai-ichi Life established the NPO Triton Arts Network (TAN) to restore the Dai-ichi Seimei Hall, aiming to promote community-oriented art activities by supporting TAN. In addition to performances held at the hall, TAN has been steadily expanding community-based music-oriented activities such as outreach for delivering quality music to people at schools and welfare institutions who have not had the opportunity to visit the hall frequently. The activities of TAN have been supported by individual and corporate members, civic supporters, and company volunteers from an early stage, helping to spread musical activities closely rooted in the local community. Such initiatives were recognized, and in 2009 Dai-ichi Life received the Japan Mécénat Award at the Mécénat Awards sponsored by the Association for Corporate Support of the Arts. Link to the Triton Arts Network website Link to the Dai-ichi Seimei Hall website (Japanese) 86 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >Social Contributions : Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Dai-ichi Seimei Hall Dai-ichi Seimei Hall (exterior) Dai-ichi Life National Tennis Competition for Elementary School Students Dai-ichi Life sponsored the very first competition held in 1983 and provided its clay tennis courts located in Sengawa, Tokyo as the event venue, based on its shared belief with the Japan Tennis Association in the importance of strengthening athletes from a young age in order to develop the international starts of tomorrow. The year 2014 marked the 32nd time this competition was held, and over the years it has produced some of Japan’s most famous tennis stars, including Naoko Sawamatsu, Ai Sugiyama, Kei Nishikori, and Go Soeda. In recognition of this long-standing competition, in 2014 we received our third Special Corporation Prize from the Japan Tennis Association. 31st Dai-ichi Life National Tennis Competition for Elementary School Students Public Policy Recommendations Dai-ichi Life issues recommendations for various public policy challenges through economic and other organizations in order to contribute to the development of Japan’s economy and an improved standard of living. Specifically, some of Dai-ichi Life’s executive officers serve on the board of the Japan Business Federation and are also involved in many of its committees. Through this presence, we are helping find solutions to various policy issues, such as the sustainability of social security and measures against the declining birthrate. The Tsuneta Yano Memorial Society This foundation was established in 1953 to honor the achievements of Mr. Tsuneta Yano, the founder of Dai-ichi Life. The foundation carries out various public interest projects, including spreading and raising awareness about statistics through the publication of Japan Statistics and World Statistics, the promotion and subsidizing of academic research, a scholarship program, and administration of an award for agricultural promotion (the Yano Award). Link to the Tsuneta Yano Memorial Society (Japanese) Japan Statistics (cover) World Statistics (cover) 87 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Basic Policy Basic Policy Environmental Prevention of Helping Create a Environmental Medium-Term Global Warming RecyclingProtection and Plan and Conscious Environmental Environmental Society Management Accounting Basic Policy In order to promote our DSR management, Dai-ichi Life has established its Basic Environmental Policy, where all executives and employees are working together to protect the environment, aiming to help achieve social and economic development, harmony with the global environment, and the building of a sustainable society. Basic Environmental Policy Basic Policy As a member of society, Dai-ichi Life considers protection of the local and global environment and building of a recycling-oriented society, based on its basic management policy of Securing Social Trust, to be part of the Company’s social responsibility, and works to continually protect the environment on a daily basis in accordance with the following action guidelines. Action Guidelines Implementation of environmentally conscious activities in life insurance businesses We are committed to being environmentally conscious at all times, following charters, agreements, and guidelines that Dai-ichi Life has agreed to as well as laws and regulations related to environmental preservation in our business activities. Reduction of environmental impact from business activities We are committed to promoting resource conservation, energy conservation, resource recycling, and green procurement in reducing environmental impacts resulting from resources used, energy consumption, and waste generated in our business activities. Promotion of activities that raise environmental awareness We will help raise awareness of environmental issues among our officers and employees alike through comprehensive implementation of these action guidelines, as well as by making wide-ranging social contributions through our commitment to activities that raise environmental awareness, such as providing donations and support for environmental preservation activities. Promotion of sustainable environmental improvement We are committed to developing rationales and goals for all environmental initiatives, as well as examining and proactively disclosing results of these initiatives along with their approach and progress status in addressing environmental improvement on a continual basis. These guidelines are disseminated internally as well as disclosed publically. 88 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Basic Policy Promotion Framework In order to promote our Basic Environmental Policy for continued environmental conservation and improvement, the President and Representative Director has been appointed as the chief executive of the company's environmental initiatives and the following promotion framework has been adopted: This framework includes the Special Committee for Social Contribution and Environmental Activities Promotion chaired by the Environmental Management Officer appointed by the President and established as a subcommittee under the Committee for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility Promotion, consisting of executive officers as members. This committee deliberates on important topics pertaining to the promotion of environmental initiatives for the company as a whole. Subsequently, in promoting the approved initiatives by the committee, various policies are implemented across offices by the Environmental Initiatives Promotion Office in collaboration with relevant project teams and working groups. In addition, environmental CSA (control self-assessment) has been adopted throughout the Group, and environmental audits are regularly conducted for each department in accordance with the Group's unique criteria. 89 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Basic Policy Environmental Prevention of Helping Create a Environmental Medium-Term Global Warming RecyclingProtection and Plan and Conscious Environmental Environmental Society Management Accounting Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Implementation of the 2013-2015 Medium-Term Environmental Effort Plan The Dai-ichi Life is implementing the 2013-2015 Medium-Term Environmental Effort Plan in an aim to become a global insurance group that contributes to the creation of a sustainable society over the medium to long-term. The plan incorporates numerical targets and qualitative targets based on indicators including Efforts to Prevent Global Warming (Energy Saving) and Efforts to Build a Recyclable Society (Resource Saving), Corporate Efforts for Environmental Protection, and Establishment of Environment Management Promotion System. Medium-Term Environmental Effort Plan Target Targets Target setting value CO2 emissions tons-CO2 6% reduction compared to fiscal 2009 157,920 Energy saving 1,000 Electricity use 6% reduction compared to fiscal 2009 309,166 kWh 30% reduction compared to fiscal Total paper usage tons 8,851 2009 Resource saving 10% reduction compared to fiscal General waste output※ tons 189 2012 Green procurement Maintain 80% Over 80% ※For three business locations: Hibiya Head Office, Toyosu Head Office, and Fuchu Office 90 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Targets Specific initiatives Actively studying environmental finance Continually reviewing the future vision for SRI funds Promoting environmental consideration Introducing high-efficiency equipment in accordance with the in asset management Medium to Long-Term Real Estate Conservation Plan Fundamental review of the Green Environmental Design Award Contributing to forest conservation organizations using the Environmental protection Supporting the preservation of matching gift system biodiversity Promoting the activities of volunteer employees Establishing Group purchase standards for suppliers Promoting environmental initiatives Requesting some of our suppliers to adopt the Group's Green through the supply chain procurement standard Assessing and disclosing the environmental load of domestic Group companies Deployment to Group companies Assessing and disclosing the environmental load of overseas Group companies Assessing and disclosing the quantity of CO2 emissions from Assessing and disclosing the quantity commuting and business trips Environmental of indirect CO2 emissions Considering the expanding the scope of items for assessment management and disclosure Deciding whether to sign international initiatives Improving external evaluations Strengthening initiatives to adopt environmental indices Expanding the scope of environmental disclosure items Establishment of an Environmental Initiatives Month Employee awareness activities Improving employee awareness through training 91 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Environmental accounting initiatives In the promotion of environmental management at the Dai-ichi Life Group, we work to accurately understand and analyze the amount of investments relating to environmental protection and the related costs, and to implement the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle on the return on investment and cost-effectiveness as we promote environmental accounting that is reflected in corporate management. Status of environmental accounting Environmental preservation costs (millions of yen) fiscal 2013 fiscal 2012 fiscal 2011 Classification※1 Invest Invest Invest ment ment ment Costs Costs Costs amo ※2,3 amo ※2,3 amo ※2,3 unt※ unt※ unt※ 2,3 2,3 2,3 Updating and adopting inverters for air conditioning Purchasing green power certification 1.Energy Saving Using a power consumption management system 686 12 1,530 8 909 8 Updating servers (conserve energy by using fewer units) ※3 Promoting the recycling of sensitive documents and forms 2.Resource Properly disposing of general and industrial waste 0 101 0 100 0 104 Saving Promoting the recycling of IT equipment 3.Environ Supporting and contributing to the preservation of mental 0 55 0 44 0 40 biodiversity Protection 4.Environ mental Disclosing environmental information 0 5 0 20 0 1 management Total 686 173 1,530 172 909 153 ※1 Classifications are based on “the Environmental Medium-Term Initiative Plan” of Dai-ichi Life Insurance. ※2 The target is in principle The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited (entity). However, the amount of investment as well as waste disposal and recycling costs include only those from Hibiya Head Office, Toyosu Head office, Shin-oi Office, and Fuchu Office. ※3 The amount of investment for replacing servers (energy conservation through reduced number of servers) is proportionally distributed from the total investment amount based on factors such as the purpose of use and number of man hours. 92 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Prevention of Global Warming Basic Policy Environmental Prevention of Helping Create a Environmental Medium-Term Global Warming RecyclingProtection and Plan and Conscious Environmental Environmental Society Management Accounting Prevention of Global Warming Dai-ichi Life is working to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by cutting back on the energy it uses during its business activities in order to help prevent global warming. Following our Medium Term Environmental Effort Plan for fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2015, we are making steady progress toward our goal of further reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Initiatives to Reduce Power Consumption and CO2 Emissions We have made facilities more energy efficient by switching to high efficiency air conditioners and lighting and promoting energy conservation efforts at the employee level through our Warm Biz and Cool Biz dress codes. As a result, in fiscal 2013 we were able to reduce power consumption by 2.8% year on year and our CO2 emissions by 1.7% year on year. ※ Calculated based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Article 7 Item 3. Numbers indicate total energy consumption by properties in which we have invested, properties which we operate, and public welfare properties. Emissions volumes for each fiscal year were recalculated using the fiscal2009 coefficient. Response by executives and employees Facility improvements at offices 【Hibiya Head Office】 Conserve electricity of office equipment Installed people detection sensors for bathroom lighting Use more moderate temperature settings for heating and Installed inverter-driven turbo chillers cooling Replaced parking lot lighting Make rules aware to all for managing work to avoid Replaced electric motor drive of air-conditioning units and overtime fans Turn off lights in meeting rooms, bathrooms and staff Installed inverter-driven air-conditioning unit in Measures kitchens when not in use underground computer room Turn off all/most lights during lunch hour Installation of central monitoring equipment Turn off most lights between 12 to 1pm and after 7:30pm (Fuchu Office) 【Fuchu Office】 Changed power supply system facilities Installed energy efficient vending machines Moderated temperature settings in computer room Reduced number of servers and uninterruptible powersupply systems by replacing with different models ＜Matters required for disclosure by businesses that are party to the Greenhouse Gas Measures Reporting System under the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation＞ Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Environment “List of Businesses and Published Data Search Results from Reports” (Japanese) 93 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Prevention of Global Warming Real Estate Investment Considerate of the Environment With some 272 investment properties located nationwide in Japan (as of March 31, 2014), Dai-ichi Life is working to conserve energy from both the hard and soft aspects of these buildings. In terms of hardware, we strive to improve environmental performance by installing high efficiency equipment whenever buildings are constructed, remodeled or rebuilt, and we are committed to building greenery efforts as well. Additionally, in terms of the soft aspects, or daily property management, we work side by side with The Dai-ichi Building Co., Ltd. and other property management firms to continually make improvements and increase energy conservation performance. Energy Conservation Measures at Investment Properties Performance data for the common use spaces of the 118 properties managed by The Dai-ichi Building Co., Ltd. are presented below. Energy Usage Gas Usage Cold and Hot Water Usage CO2 Emissions （kWh） （m3） （MJ） （tons of CO2） Fiscal 2007 69,462,350 2,848,516 37,108,100 34,950 Fiscal 2008 65,487,758 2,271,968 36,075,800 32,066 Fiscal 2009 61,724,716 1,946,962 32,991,000 29,728 Fiscal 2010 61,142,743 2,020,680 31,623,194 29,602 Fiscal 2011 55,036,483 1,944,162 26,945,040 26,852 Fiscal 2012 51,351,722 1,925,106 25,129,778 25,307 Fiscal 2013 51,717,715 1,903,953 27,427,450 25,518 Fiscal 2007-2013 25.5% 33.2% 26.1% 27.0% Ratio of reduction Example of Tokyo Square Garden (completed March 2013) We are helping to roll out the latest technologies to protect the environment in various facets with an eye on the future and we created a green space of approximately 3,000 m2 called Kyobashi no Oka to help reduce the urban heat island effect. The Kyobashi Environment Station was also placed in the building as an advanced initiative to promote energy conservation in the area as a whole. It presents information on area energy management and environmental technologies. This building construction project was selected by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure Transport and Tokyo Square Garden (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Tourism as a leading housing/building project in CO2 control, and also has been recognized by many organizations. (See table below) 94 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Prevention of Global Warming Main Awards Received for Environmental Measures Fiscal Building Name Award or commendation Awarded by Year Certified as Quasi-Top Level Facility by the Tokyo Harumi Triton Square Metropolitan Government’s Top Level Facilities for Tokyo Metropolitan Government Global Warming Measures Program Selected as one of the top 30 low carbon buildings in Tokyo Square Garden Tokyo Metropolitan Government Tokyo 2011 Nikkei, Inc. Received New Office Promotion Award at the 24th Toyosu Cubic Garden New Office Promotion Association Nikkei New Office Awards Others Shin-Oi Office Received S-rank(highest ranking) under CASBEE Top-level place of business (place of business recognized for outstanding countermeasures taken Art Village Osaki Central Tower against global warming) as based on the Tokyo Tokyo Metropolitan Government Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation) 2012 Japan Federation of Construction Toyosu Cubic Garden Received the 53rd BCS Award Contractors Received Platinum rank (highest ranking) under DBJ Tokyo Square Garden The Development Bank of Japan Green Building certification Japan Federation of Construction Received the 54th BCS Award Contractors Received First Prize in the General Architecture Category in the 56th Kanagawa Prefecture Kanagawa Prefecture Architecture Competition Shin-Oi Office Received the Chairman’s Award in the Rooftop Organization for Landscape and Greenery Category in the 12th Rooftop, Wall and Urban Green Infrastructure Special Greenery Technology Competition Received Honorary Mention from the Judges Institute for Building Environment 2013 Committee in the Office Architecture Category at the and Energy Conservation 5th Sustainable Architecture Awards Received the Executive Director’s Award in the Organization for Landscape and Rooftop Greenery Category in the 12th Rooftop, Wall Urban Green Infrastructure and Special Greenery Technology Competition Toyosu Cubic Garden Received Honorary Mention from the Judges Institute for Building Environment Committee in the Office Architecture Category at the and Energy Conservation 5th Sustainable Architecture Awards Lease condominiums Received First Prize in the Collective Housing Tokyo Association of Architectural 「PATH」 Category of the 39th Tokyo Architecture Awards Firms 95 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Prevention of Global Warming Reducing Distribution Energy Dai-ichi Life not only uses energy at its real estate properties, but also consumes a large amount of energy from the daily shipment of contracts, manuals, applications, invoices and customer notifications between its nationwide network of offices. As part of our measures to prevent global warming, starting in fiscal 2010 we examined both energy usage and cost of distribution between our offices, changed our in-house distribution operations (changed the size of shipping boxes and reduced distribution volume) and decoupled our parcel depots. Use of Renewable Energy Dai-ichi Life has installed small photovoltaic power generation systems at certain business offices (Toyosu Head Office and Shin-Oi Office, etc.) and investment properties (Tokyo Square Garden, etc.) on a trial basis. Solar power generated from these systems is being used to power these offices. Water Conservation Initiatives We closely monitor water usage at our primary business offices, including the Hibiya Head Office, Toyosu Head Office and Shin-Oi Office. We are also working to continually reduce water usage at these business offices by installing water conservation equipment. At the same time, these business offices are also actively making use of reclaimed water. （Tons） Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 (Reclaimed (Reclaimed (Reclaimed Total usage Total usage Total usage water) water) water) Hibiya 60,292 22,575 64,680 21,627 66,881 17,923 Toyosu 41,817 15,590 63,239 21,844 69,211 23,833 Shin-Oi 12,700 3,492 19,289 8,448 22,350 8,911 ※1 Data indicates usage for the entire building in which our offices are a tenant. ※2 The Shin-Oi Office began full-scale operations in December 2011. 96 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society Basic Policy Environmental Prevention of Helping Create a Environmental Medium-Term Global Warming RecyclingProtection and Plan and Conscious Environmental Environmental Society Management Accounting Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society Dai-ichi Life uses a large amount of paper and other resources in its business activities. This is why we are working from every level of the company, from each individual employee to the entire company’s organization, to reduce paper usage, increase the amount of recycled paper used, promote the green procurement of office consumables, and encourage recycling of waste products, as part of our broader effort to conserve resources. Measures to Reduce Paper Usage Dai-ichi Life consumes a large amount of paper to send out various notices to its customers. We were able to reduce total company-wide paper usage in fiscal 2013 by 1,733 tons compared to fiscal 2012 by promoting the digitization of printed materials. We stand committed to further reducing our paper usage as we move forward. Measures to Reduce Paper Usage in Office Equipment Since fiscal 2009 we have stepped up our company-wide efforts to reduce the amount of paper used in office equipment and photocopier paper. Specific measures include voluntary efforts from employees, such as utilizing projectors at executive and employee meetings, reducing meeting handouts, and using double-sided and 2-in-1 printing, as well as the digitization of administrative processes. 97 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society Efforts to Reduce Printing Brochures and other printed materials for customers and documents for internal use that make up approximately 60% of paper used in the entire company have been combined or eliminated and policy provisions have been replaced with electronic documents since fiscal 2008. Fiscal Results We promoted the elimination, consolidation and digitization of Promoted elimination, consolidation 2008 customer notices after evaluating volume, and in fiscal 2008 we took and digitization of customer notices steps to significantly reduce the types of distributed material. We began creating customized policy conditions that are provided to Revised the policy conditions provided 2008 customers during the term of their policy. This enabled us to reduce during the term of the policy the average paper usage per policy by some 240 pages. Starting in October 2009 we began providing policy conditions Changed policy conditions provided at provided at the time of application in a CD-ROM format. This helped 2009 the time of application to a CD-ROM us to greatly reduce the number of pages in our guide on policy format terms and conditions provided to policyholders. Starting in fiscal 2010 we changed the types of Mailbox File records, Measures aimed at reducing Mailbox 2010 which helped us reduce paper used in office equipment by about File printouts 14.4 million sheets per year. We began using thinner environmentally friendly paper and took We reduced paper usage by our product pamphlets by 808 tons 2011 to 2012 measures to reduce excessive compared to the previous year by switching to thinner paper. inventory of printed materials. We reduced paper usage by 1,733 tons compared to the previous We switched the paper used for our year by reducing inventory through cutbacks in types of specialized 2013 onward insurance design documents from paper and by reducing the unit weight of paper through the switch to specialized paper to all-purpose paper. all-purpose paper. Promoting Green Procurement We have been promoting green procurement, which prioritizes purchases of products with less of an impact on the environment, since fiscal 2009. We have established Green Procurement Guidelines and office consumables that conform to these green purchasing standards must be purchased through our in-house procurement system. 98 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society Promoting Paper Recycling We are committed to reducing our impact on the environment by making efforts to reduce paper usage and recycling certain paper waste. Each of our offices collects paper waste and sends it to the head office for processing. All of this paper is in turn sent to a paper company to be chemically dissolved for reuse in cardboard and toilet paper as recycled paper. We stand committed to further reducing our impact on the environment through greater recycling going forward. ※ Total paper waste volume includes the portion of documents that have been saved prior to 2009. Recycling Volume Fiscal 2009 4,420t Fiscal 2010 3,446t Fiscal 2011 2,688t Fiscal 2012 2,925t Fiscal 2013 2,789t Promoting Environmentally Conscious Printed Material We proactively utilize environmentally conscious recycled paper to print envelopes and our business cards as part of our efforts to conserve resources. Starting in fiscal 2009, we made changes to the paper used to print our envelopes and business cards, while at the same time reducing the large number of envelope types for the benefit of the environment. Proper Processing of Industrial Waste Used business machines, office equipment and furnishings from our business sites are disposed of as industrial waste after issuance of an industrial waste manifest in accordance with Japan’s Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act. Since fiscal 2007, our head office has been charged with the proper management of industrial waste, and as part of this effort we have been checking the issuance of such manifests at each of our offices nationwide in Japan once per year. Proper Processing of Hazardous Substances Dai-ichi Life owns a large number of real estate properties. As such, we carefully monitor our compliance with relevant laws and regulations to ensure we eliminate environmental risks and factors behind environmental impacts, such as soil pollution, asbestos and PCBs (Poly Chlorinated Biphenyl), from these properties. Managing Asbestos Dai-ichi Life re-inspected all of its properties from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2012 and took appropriate measures where required based on asbestos laws and regulations that contain rules on the prevention of asbestos related health damages. Managing PCBs We properly manage PCBs by monitoring the use of equipment containing hazardous PCB, such as capacitors and large transformers, and continually ascertaining the storage status of PCB waste. We also make reconfirmations at the time any property is sold in order to prevent the transfer of PCB waste. Disposable PCB waste is processed using proper means through contracts with disposal facilities and only after acceptance of such waste can be coordinated. 99 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Environmental Protection and Environmental Management Basic Policy Environmental Prevention of Helping Create a Environmental Medium-Term Global Warming RecyclingProtection and Plan and Conscious Environmental Environmental Society Management Accounting Environmental Protection and Environmental Management Dai-ichi Life has stipulated specific initiatives for environmental protection and environmental management that it is carrying out as part of its Medium-Term Environmental Effort Plan for fsical 2013 to fsical 2015. Details of our primary initiatives for fiscal 2013 are presented below. Promoting Pro-environmental Behavior in Asset Management As an institutional investor that controls approximately ¥30 trillion in capital, the Dai-ichi Life’s approach to asset management focuses not only on stability and profitability, but also on the benefits for society and the public. With interest growing around the world in asset management which considers environmental (E), social (S) and governance (G) issues, the Dai-ichi Life has drawn up its own set of principles of behavior, known as the Three Arrows, by incorporating the ESG perspective and taking into account its contribution to the government’s growth strategies. ESG Principles in Asset Management Three Arrows – E, S and G Initiatives for Biodiversity Dai-ichi Life supports urban greenery initiatives and sustainable community development plans in order to support comfortable and healthy lifestyles through contributions to local environmental conservation and global environmental protection. Local environmental conservation and biodiversity initiatives Ascertaining Indirect CO2 Emissions Dai-ichi Life calculates the amount of CO2 emissions it produces indirectly (Scope 3) given rising demand from society. In fiscal 2013, we calculated our indirect CO2 emissions for 3 of the 15 categories under Scope 3, including business travel, employee commuting, and upstream transportation and distribution. Going forward, we will continue to calculate indirect CO2 emissions for more of the categories. External Commendations Our environmental initiatives are among the most advanced in the industry as we were selected as the top life insurance company (15th among financial institutions) in an environmental management survey conducted by Nikkei Inc. for fiscal 2013. Awards and commendations Through our involvement in the UN Global Compact and other domestic and international initiatives we are carrying out initiatives aimed at the realization of a sustainable society. Participation in external initiatives 100 Social Responsibility > For Society and the Environment >The Environment : Environmental Protection and Environmental Management Environmental Awareness Activities for Employees Environmental Training for All Employees We hold environmental training sessions for employees during Japan’s Environment Month so that we can foster greater awareness among individual employees toward protecting the environment as well as educate them on serious environmental issues and the impacts on Dai-ichi Life, with the goal of encouraging employees to take appropriate action for the environment. Employee Self-Assessment Testing We conduct an environmental self-assessment test through our intranet system to measure the knowledge and efforts of individual employees. This self-assessment test features questions not only on our environmental initiatives, but also current environmental events to check the efforts of individual employees. This enables us to enhance knowledge while raising greater awareness. 101 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Employees Status Basic Policy All activities of the Dai-ichi Life Group are supported by our human resources, whom we consider our most important management resource. Dai-ichi Life implements various human resource development programs and promotes diversity and inclusion in order to create an exciting and rewarding workplace where each employee can fully exercise his or her abilities. Employees Status Employment Status Total Life Plan Designers Employment of in-house employees 102 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Employees Status Number of recruits, average age, and average years of service Number of recruits (End of Fiscal 2013) Category Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Avg. years Avg. age 2011 2012 2013 of service 47 years and 1 month 10 years and 6 months of Total Life Plan Designers 9,777 9,561 8,666 old service 43 years and 3 months 18 years and 8 months of Men 51 65 55 old service Sex 47 years and 2 months 10 years and 3 months of Women 9,726 9,496 8,611 old service 43 years and 9 months 13 years and 11 months of In-house employees 857 763 719 old service 45 years and 8 months 19 years and 1 month of Men 144 177 129 old service Sex 42 years and 11 months 11 years and 6 months of Women 713 586 590 old service Core positions 43 years and 7 months 19 years and 11 months of (global 114 154 111 old service employees) By Core positions 41 years and 1 month 16 years and 2 months of Duty 91 78 104 (area employees) old service 47 years and 7 months 5 years and 2 months of Other 652 531 504 old service Average Salary (Monthly) (Unit: thousand yen) Category Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Total Life Plan Designers 259 257 255 Office workers 288 292 297 Notes: 1. Total Life Plan Designers include heads of offices. 2. The number of Total Life Plan Designers employed includes those who have signed a delegation contract with the Company and also are registered as life insurance agents, totaling 1,091 as of the end of fiscal 2011, 1,181 for fiscal 2012, and 1,301 for fiscal 2013. Those with assistant duties were 678 at the end of fiscal 2011, 639 for fiscal 2012 and 603 for fiscal 2013. 3. Office workers include Branch Office General Managers, Regional Managers, and Special Staff Managers. 4. Revision of the personnel system effective July 1, 2009 merged the conventional managerial and general positions into core positions. These core positions are divided into global and area staff, depending on whether the employee can be transferred. 5. Fulltime temporary workers and contract employees are also included. 6. Average salary (monthly) is regular salary before taxes, and does not include bonuses or overtime pay. 103 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development : Total Life Plan Designers Total Life Plan General Sales Office Manager Instructors In-house Designers Personnel Trainees Employees Total Life Plan Designers Development Policy In line with our customer-centric corporate philosophy of “By your side, for life,” we strive to develop Total Life Plan Designers whose broad-based knowledge enables them to provide effective advisory services, and who are able to provide ongoing support for our customers in line with customer needs as perceived by the customers themselves. The cultivation of knowledgeable, highly-skilled personnel is a key source of competitiveness and productivity enhancement for our company. To facilitate the implementation of cultivation and training that is aimed at inculcating a high level of specialist expertise and ancillary know-how, as well as the enhancement of inter-personal skills, we are committed to strengthening our development planning, organizational framework, and instructors. Our Five-year Development Program In order to be able to provide advisory services that meet our customers’ needs, we are committed to strengthening our human resources development program, our organizational structure, and our instructors’ capabilities. While working to strengthen the integration of human resources development and market trends by developing cultivation activities and guidance suited to the special characteristics of the market, we are also working constantly to enhance the level of assistance and support that our personnel provide by basing personnel evaluation not only on sales performance, but also on the quality of service provision after a policy has been taken out, obtaining of external qualifications, etc. The first two years after joining the company is positioned as the development period. When an individual first joins the company, initially the emphasis is on group training by specialist development units, etc.; subsequently, there is a shift over to a combination of classroom training, continuing education, on-the-job training, e-learning etc. This two-year development program constitutes the basic framework for employee cultivation. Once the two-year development program has been completed, employees continue to undergo follow-up development through the company’s five-year development follow-up system, which provides long-term employee development. Enlarged view 104 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development : Total Life Plan Designers Ongoing Education and Training Following the Initial Intensive Training Period Once personnel have completed their initial intensive training period at the training center, they continue to receive ongoing education and training that is coordinated between the head office, branch offices and individual sales offices, with the aim of further enhancing their knowledge and skills. Besides knowledge and skills training, the intensive training provided at the branch office level also includes the sharing of sales-related ideas (from a customer-centric perspective), thereby helping to enhance the overall level of sales activities. At the sales office level, besides the provision of day-to-day guidance and on-the-job training by sales office instructors, a bottom-up process of “growing together through collaboration” based on our company’s unique team system helps to reinforce the results of training. From the third year onwards, there is an enhanced level of segmentation and specialization in the training topics and training subjects, with education and training centered on stratified training implemented on the basis of the Total Life Plan Designer’s level and activities, etc. In addition, in fiscal 2014 the company launched the Total Life Plan College, which is being used to enhance 2nd and 3rd year Total Life Plan Designers’ consulting skills and communication skills by making effective use of video library and e-learning resources, and the Total Life Plan Open College, which helps all instructors and Total Life Plan Designers to develop and strengthen a wide range of skills and know-how. When a policy is taken out During the duration of the policy At the time of a payout Product education focused on Education in providing customers Education regarding appropriate customers’ needs with information payment of insurance benefits, etc. ●Key products ●Implementation of periodic health ●Basic approach for handling claims ●Healthcare-related riders examinations ●Points to note when handling ●Individual annuities, etc. ●Provision of information in regard to complaints activities for which all policy-holders ●Basic grounds for payout, etc. are being contacted Our ●Handling policyholders who are company’s coming up for renewal unique ●Provision of information when curriculum customers have completed the procedures required for taking out a policy, etc. Business etiquette and consulting basics ●Business etiquette ●Hospitality ●Consulting relating to the social security system, etc. Appropriate insurance solicitation Insurance benefits payout and other forms of after-sales service ●Explanation of important points ●The importance of after-sales service ●Verifying the customer’s wishes ●Key points to note regarding security procedures ●Points to note regarding procedures ●Appropriate payment of insurance benefits for the taking out of new policies ●Handling customer complaints, etc. ●Prohibited behavior in relation to Life insurance solicitation Insurance ●Handling of data relating to Association insurance solicitation, etc. of Japan standard Safeguarding of intellectual property curriculum ●Handling of personal information, etc. Compliance ●The importance of compliance ●Overview of the legal responsibilities of life insurance sales agents ●Behavior that is prohibited by law, etc. 105 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development : General Sales Personnel Total Life Plan General Sales Office Manager Instructors In-house Designers Personnel Trainees Employees General Sales Personnel The General Sales Personnel system has been established to cultivate consulting business specialists, with the aim of enhancing the quality of Total Life Planning in line with our corporate philosophy of “By your side, for life.” Mainly targeting those who work at business enterprises and public sector organizations, and consulting through face-to-face communication with them, the General Sales Personnel provide each individual customer with the products and services most suited to their specific needs. Our company has put in place an education and training system that enables General Sales Personnel to acquire broad-based knowledge and skills. The first year after joining the company is positioned as the basic knowledge acquisition period, while in the second year, personnel work on strengthening their ability to present effective proposals to customers; the third year is positioned as the year in which personnel clarify their own individual career path, and from the fourth year onwards personnel focus on developing as a consulting business specialist or instructor, working to build up their capabilities step by step. In addition to providing education and support aimed at helping individuals to realize their career vision through group training and on-the-job training, personnel are also encouraged to upgrade their capabilities by obtaining life insurance related qualifications, etc. 106 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development: Office Manager Trainees Total Life Plan General Sales Office Manager Instructors In-house Designers Personnel Trainees Employees Office Manager Trainees Office Manager Trainees undergo a five-year training program designed to help them acquire the wide-ranging knowledge and experience required by office managers, including both managerial skills and interpersonal relationship skills, etc. On completing the training program, trainees are assigned to managerial positions at the company’s sales offices, serving as expert professional office chiefs with responsibility for the cultivation of the company’s Total Life Plan Designers; once they have accumulated the necessary experience, they have the opportunity for career progression to the roles of sales department head or branch office manager, which represent a significant step up in terms of the scale of responsibility and the level of difficulty. Dai-ichi Life is constantly working to help its personnel develop the skills needed for the cultivation of effective office managers who, in their role as market development experts, are able to formulate sales strategies and provide comprehensive sales-related guidance to our Total Life Plan Designers. Office Manager Trainees undergoing training 107 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development: Instructors Total Life Plan General Sales Office Manager Instructors In-house Designers Personnel Trainees Employees Instructors The task of developing the capabilities of our instructors (including both Unit Office Managers and Unit Office Trainers), who are directly responsible for cultivating our Total Life Plan Designers, is undertaken through close coordination between head office and the individual branch offices. As part of our company’s efforts to enhance the personnel cultivation abilities of our Instructors, periodic skill enhancement benchmarking activities (including the Instructor Skill Enhancement Seminars and Unit Office Trainer Training Sessions, etc.) are held to help instructors acquire the wide-ranging life insurance related knowledge needed to assist our customers, and to help them strengthen their interpersonal relationship skills and management skills. Furthermore, when undertaking Instructor cultivation, our company strives to integrate training led by branch office managers with our head office support program, thereby creating a sound framework for the cultivation of the next generation of instructors. 108 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development: In-house Employees Total Life Plan General Sales Office Manager Instructors In-house Designers Personnel Trainees Employees In-house Employees Policy on Human Resource Development The most important management resources for the Dai-ichi Life Group are people and the ability to secure good human resources in all sectors must be improved to achieve further growth for the Group. The Company places the concepts of professionalism and teamwork at the highest level of our HR development policy and aims for the notion of: “professional = reforming the ways individuals work” and “teamwork = increasing organizational strength.” For professionalism, each employee aims to become a human resource capable of reviewing his/her own way of working, promoting work reform to increase profit and added value, and making decisions. For teamwork, the Company will strengthen ties between supervisors and subordinates within the same departments and among different departments to create new value that considers organizational growth and total optimization. Efforts for Building Professionalism Reform of ways of working Each employee sets challenging targets for higher positions, continuously operates the PDCA cycle, and raises individual action levels through interim and year-end interviews for work review, and daily dialogue and guidance. Development of next-generation leaders Candidates for next-generation leaders are shared within the same departments and among the entire company and developed through strategic rotation and combination of off-the-job and on-the-job training. 109 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development: In-house Employees Efforts for Building Teamwork The entire organization of Dai-ichi Life is working hard to develop human resources as the Company’s management resources. One specific initiative is to place clear focus on the development of subordinates as an important managerial duty, and a new supervisor system to provide opportunities and responsibility for development has been established. Expertise of HR development was collected and standardized in a communication handbook, which is used among different departments to strengthen the company-wide HR development system. Efforts for Development of Global Human Resources Dai-ichi Life focuses on the development of global human resources to increase the value of its overseas business, a growth area, and to establish a solid positon as a global company. In addition to overseas training and overseas study, a specific initiative is the Overseas Challenge Club, in which we invite native speakers of foreign languages and provide younger employees with programs to help improve language skills and cultural understanding. The e-learning programs aim to help improve language skills and cultural understanding by improving language programs using methods such as online English conversation. Overseas Challenge Club CDP(Career Development Program) Dai-ichi Life Codifies Off-the-job Training as CDP: Career Development Program and offers the systems for all employees promote transformation of work styles and the growth of self-realization. We also prepares open-recruitment training in accordance with the needs and skills, and e-learning system that can be learned at home training. Click to see expanded view 110 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Resource Development: In-house Employees Program Program content Main initiative content This constitutes the framework for promoting ・Management training Professionalism and Teamwork understanding and adoption of DSR management, ・Training relating to the strengthening of Implementation Program reform of working practices, strengthening organizational reform management of subordinates, etc. This provides the framework for enhancing the value of human capital by deepening understanding of the Level-specific cultivation program ・Level-specific training roles required at each level, and helping personnel to identify their own strengths and weaknesses. This framework promotes global human resource ・Global Management Conference development aimed at promoting the active ・Overseas Challenge Club Global Human Resource development of overseas business that forms an ・Taking the TOEIC examination Development Program important part of the company’s growth strategy, and ・Overseas study and trainee at positioning the company as a truly global (Career Challenge system) enterprise. This provides the framework for the cultivation of the ・Next-generation Leader Seminar Next-generation Leader Cultivation human talent that will serve as the next generation of ・Next-generation Female Leader Program operational leaders. training This framework provides support for career ・Next-generation female leader training Positive Action Program development of female employees, aimed at ・Leadership training promoting the effective utilization of female talent. ・Consulting support program This framework provides support for personnel to develop a self-directed career vision, encouraging ・Internal and external trainee system Career Support Program them to take up the challenge of seeking new ・Career Challenge system positions in which they can provide a higher level of ・Mentoring system value added. This framework supports self-directed study through ・E-learning system an open recruitment model aimed at helping Business Skills Program ・Sogo Essay employees to strengthen the basic skills needed by a ・Open recruitment type training financially literate businessperson. 111 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Rights Awareness Human Rights Initiatives Basic Policy The Company works to develop employees who have an appropriate understanding and awareness of human rights and who are capable of always giving consideration to other people in any situation in their actions. The Dai-Ichi Life Human Rights Declaration (Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration) was established in 1986. In addition, matters concerning human rights are stipulated in the Code of Conduct for executives and employees with the aim of improving the awareness of employees towards human rights. Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration Dai-Ichi Life respects basic human rights and makes efforts to foster freedom under the rule of law, equality, and a spirit of mutual aid. Dai-Ichi Life works to create employees that are not only corporate citizens, but first and foremost outstanding members of society. Dai-Ichi Life works to educate human resources so that they can correctly understand the Conmpany's corporate social responsibility and act accordingly. Code of Conduct ●Employees shall make efforts to have a correct and deep understanding of human rights in general and to respect basic human rights as they fulfill their day-to-day duties. ●Employees shall not discriminate against others based on gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, religion, social status, or disabilities. ●Employees shall not conduct sexual harassment or power harassment. In addition, employees shall not allow others to conduct these types of acts. Promotion System A Human Rights Awareness Promotion Office composed of Executives, General Managers, and Managers has been established at the head office and Human Rights Awareness Committee has been established at all departments and branches in order to promote awareness of human rights throughout the Company. Human Rights Awareness Promotion System as of April 2014 ●Head of Human Rights Awareness Promotion Division (executive in charge of personnel) ●Directors (26 persons including relevant general managers from the head office) ●Secretariat (21 persons including relevant mangers from the head office) Human Rights Awareness Training We recognize the importance of persistent and repeated training in deepening proper understanding and awareness of human rights issues and tying these into daily activities. In fiscal 2013, we held training programs that covered the themes of anti-discrimination, understanding of disabilities, and harassment prevention, which included training by affiliation targeting all employees as well as training for Human Rights Awareness Committee members, and training for newly hired employees. Our human rights’ training for managers was led by Kinki University Professor Suehiro Kitaguchi, who lectured on the topic of corporate management and Human Rights Awareness Training for human rights in consideration of the current state of society. Managers (Hibiya head office) Suehiro Kitaguchi, Kinki University Professor 112 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Human Rights Awareness Human Rights Awareness Training Held In Training Program Participants April 2013 Training for Newly Hired Core Positions 149 April 2013 Training for Newly Hired Candidates for Executive Positions 45 May, June 2013 Training for Human Rights Awareness Committee Members 278 May 2013 Training for New General Managers 58 May 2013 Training for New Managers 150 May 2013 Training for New Assistant Managers 157 June 2013 Training for Dedicated Human Rights Staff at Subsidiaries 33 1,258 January 2014 Human Rights Training for Managers (252 secondees) March 2014 Training for New Deputy General Managers and CS Promotion General Managers 36 March 2014 Training for New Sales Office Managers 95 3 times per annum Human Rights Training by Affiliation All employees External activities The Company is a member of the Tokyo Industrial Federation for Human Rights, and also actively participates in workshops held by government agencies and organizations in an effort to contribute to human rights awareness. Initiatives to prevent sexual harassment and power harassment Training to prevent sexual harassment and power harassment is conducted in the various training programs including training by affiliation as we strive to prevent these forms of harassment. In addition, the booklet Vision and Rules carried by all executives and employees and various manuals state the policies and initiatives related to sexual harassment and power harassment, as well as a contact point for related inquiries as part of our efforts to make employees aware of these issues. Special efforts have been made to establish a system that allows people to feel reassured in consulting about these issues by assigning three women employees to the sexual harassment contact point so that quick and appropriate action can be taken. In addition, steps have been taken to ensure the protection of the privacy of people who make consultations and training and education is being conducted so that consultation and cooperation concerning such matters does not result in prejudicial treatment. 113 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Basic Policy Basic Policy Promoting the Achievements of Global Diversity Work-Life Active Employees with Balance Participation of Disabilities Female Employees Basic Policy Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion We aim to realize our group vision of Thinking People First by practicing DSR Management, while sharing the Dai-ichi Life Group's Corporate Action Principles (DSR Charter) among all the employees of the Dai-ichi Life Group, to practice our mission of ”By your side, for life.“ We also believe that it is important to create new values as an organization on the whole by mutually accepting diversity (inclusion) and active roles played by various individuals will become the basis for creating these new values,. 114 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Basic Policy Promotion of Core Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives By incorporating diversity and inclusion initiatives as part of management efforts, we facilitate changes in awareness among executives and employees and changes to the corporate culture. The Special Committees for ES and Diversity & Inclusion Promotion The executive officer responsible for Human Resources serves as the chairman of the Special Committees for ES and Diversity & Inclusion Promotion, which verifies the indicators used to determine progress in diversity and inclusion using a Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle. The work of the committee is reported to and shared among all employees through the Committee for Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Promotion led by the president and the Company intranet. Messages from the President The president sends out regular messages to employees on diversity and inclusion through the company intranet,. 115 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Promoting the Active Participation of Female Employees Basic Policy Promoting the Achievements of Global Diversity Work-Life Active Employees with Balance Participation of Disabilities Female Employees Promoting the Active Participation of Female Employees Status of promotion As one of the initiatives for Diversity and Inclusion, Dai-ichi Life is working to reform employee awareness and improve the HR development system to provide more opportunities for female employees, who comprise a large part of the Company, to make achievements. The Medium-term Management Plan (fiscal 2013–fiscal 2015) aims to increase the percentage of female on managerial level to 20% by 2016, and various efforts have been made for both Total Life Plan Designers and office workers. As a result, the first female Special General Manager of the Company was appointed on April 1, 2014, and 30% of those newly appointed to management positions were women. Female leaders are also working at more than 40% of the Company's unit offices in more than 1,200 locations across Japan. Female Managers (as of April 1, 2014) April 2013 April 2014 Position No. of females Percentage of females No. of females Percentage of females Managers (equivalent to Managers*) or higher 632 16.8 667 18.4 * Senior General Managers, Special General Managers, Genreal Managers of Department or Branch Office, Managers of Department or Section,Regional Managers of Branch Office or District Office, Unit Office Managers etc. Total Life Plan Designers Two career paths (Professional Course and Management Course) are available to Total Life Plan Designers, tailored to their career plans and suitability, expanding the fields in which female employees can actively participate. As part of the career development process, leaders who are future candidates for management positions undertake group training at headquarters according to their level for the acquisition of knowledge and skills as well as to foster awareness about upper management and the acquisition of certifications. For details on human resources training programs 116 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Promoting the Active Participation of Female Employees Initiative for In-house Employees As the majority of our female employees are area employees (especially area-limited employees who have traditionally served as administrative and support staff), we have been working on an ongoing basis to promote the full participation of female employees to achieve certain results by taking on challenges that directly tie into our growth strategies (diversification of duties) and enhance the functionality of their efforts (work style reforms). In addition to these efforts, in fiscal year 2014, individual female employees in each area in Japan began setting high, value-added goals (the same as global employees) that directly tie into growth strategies. We are also strengthening our efforts to promote the next generation of female leaders as follows. Strengthening of on-the-job training in each department Each department creates its own staff development plan, clarifies the requirements for promotion and, through appropriate work assignments and work experience, encourages the broadening of the responsible work duties. Cross-department study sessions and the like are also held. Strengthening the Development of Potential Ability As a positive action program, we have in place a stratified training program for female employees seeking career enhancement. This program provides role models and, for each management level, provides the necessary skills and knowledge and build awareness and motivation. We also offer both internal and external training as a career support program. External training includes not only financial industry training but other programs to expand horizons that will lead to changes in awareness and increased motivation. About the Positive Action Program Next-Generation Female Leader Training (for Managers of Department or Section) In addition to participating in high-quality MBA courses for skills development, line section managers are mentored by executive managers and get the opportunity to learn directly from top management, which gives them the perspective of upper management and engenders further management awareness. Next-Generation Female Leader Training (for Managers) Through a total of five group training sessions, section manager review fundamental management principles and enhance the perspective and communication skills required for middle management, as well as learn the basics of marketing and develop their sense of business from a managerial perspective. As a final project, participants give a presentation regarding their awareness towards business problems from a management perspective that showcases what they have learned during their training. Next-Generation Female Leader Training (for Senior Assistant Managers) Three group training sessions (including assessment training) develop awareness needed for career planning and higher positions, and foster understanding of management that places importance on people for achieving results. Participants develop an action plan, reviewing with superiors to take actions from a management perspective, and develop both organizational management and human resource skills to build a basic managerial foundation. 117 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Promoting the Active Participation of Female Employees Next-Generation Female Leader Training (for Chief Associates) This training fosters awareness needed for higher-level positions and develops the organizational awareness not by position but rather from an overarching company perspective to strengthen abilities to identify and solve issues. Participants learn communication techniques for bringing in others to achieve results and enhance their awareness and motivation. Leader Challenge Training This program provides the understanding needed for the roles required of Chief Associates, capturing a wide business perspective. Using a logical thinking framework, participants are able to organize their own thinking, clarifying their rationale and reasoning to develop the skills necessary to properly explain themselves. Building and Strengthening Internal and External Networks Dai-ichi Women's Executive Leaders (D-WEL) was developed for building an internal network for exchange and sharing information based on experience to encourage the personal growth of female executives. An important role of members is to serve as role models and support the development of the next generation of female leaders within the Company, partly through serving as instructors for the management training at different levels. Dai-ichi Women's Executive Leaders With a view to building an external network, we actively participate in external training programs for (D-WEL) female leaders and cross-industry exchange events. 118 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Achievements of Employees with Disabilities Basic Policy Promoting the Achievements of Global Diversity Work-Life Active Employees with Balance Participation of Disabilities Female Employees Achievements of Employees with Disabilities Not only do we proactively employ persons with disabilities, but we are also engaged in several activities geared toward ”normalizing“* the employment of persons with disabilities. We strive to create a comfortable working environment for persons with disabilities by conducting follow-up meetings with employees after they join the company and holding training courses on human rights awareness in order to deepen all employees' understanding of people with disabilities. As of June 1, 2014, we employe 909 people with disabilities nationwide, or about 2.16% of our entire workforce. * Normalization: The concept that it is normal for a society to fully include both people with disabilities and those without, respecting and supporting each other, and living together in harmony with each other and with the community. Initiatives of Dai-ichi Life Challenged Co., Ltd. Dai-ichi Life Challenged was established in August 2006, and employs mainly people with intellectual and/or mental disabilities. Dai-ichi Life Challenged's scope of operations includes document printing and dispatching, cleaning, laundry, and cafeteria operations. With more than 150 employees, including more than 100 with disabilities, Dai-ichi Life Challenged fosters the professionalism of each employee through initiatives to encourage independence, face challenges, and capitalize on individual strengths. 119 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Achievements of Employees with Disabilities In the document dispatching group at the Tabata Division, employees of Dai-ichi Life Challenged and the Call Center Management Department of Dai-ichi Life work together on the same floors. The ”DL Café,“ operated by Cafeteria Division, opened on the first floor of our Hibiya Headquarters in November 2012. People from outside the company as well as our group employees enjoy the DL Café. We don't limit the scope of employees' work according to their disabilities, but rather encourage all employees to try various duties including cash register operation, visiting suppliers, and telephone communication with customers. This approach increases employees' motivation toward work, which leads to their own development. On March 15 and 21, 2014 at the Abilympics* for Tokyo, a Dai-ichi Life Challenged employee took first place in the tea service skills competition, while another employee placed third in the building cleaning competition. It was the second consecutive year that one of our employees won the tea service competition. * Abilympics: Competitions for people with disabilities, who compete using skills learned through their daily jobs. It aims to improve the vocational skills of persons with disabilities as well as to promote the employment of persons with disabilities by creating greater awareness and understanding among businesses and society in general. These initiatives have been recognized by society, and on October 1, 2009, Dai-ichi Life Challenged became the first company in the life insurance industry (including subsidiaries) to be recognized as an Outstanding Employer for Disabled Persons* by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. * Heartful Ribbon Mark Concept The tying together of three ribbons that represent persons with disabilities, companies, and society symbolizes the strong bonds that have led to the achievement of normalization. 120 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Global Diversity Basic Policy Promoting the Achievements of Global Diversity Work-Life Active Employees with Balance Participation of Disabilities Female Employees Global Diversity Global Management Conference The Dai-ichi Life Group held the Global Management Conference as an opportunity for exchange and development of executives inside and outside Japan to increase the entire Group's international competitiveness. The conference was attended by members of overseas Group companies and hosted presentations and discussions of various companies on their activities on commonly shared themes such as ERM. Through such efforts, the Group works to create synergy and develop human resources who will contribute to the Group's management. Global Management Conference Hiring of International Students We hire newly graduated international students from Japanese educational institutions as part of our proactive efforts to develop global human resources. These employees bring diverse cultural backgrounds and values that enrich the workplace and help us to improve our organization and the Group's international competitiveness Other Initiatives Overseas Challenge Club (developing language skills and improving intercultural understanding) Dispatch of employees overseas for study or training 121 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Work-Life Balance Basic Policy Promoting the Achievements of Global Diversity Work-Life Active Employees with Balance Participation of Disabilities Female Employees Promoting Work-Life Balance To create an environment that encourages the realization of diversity and inclusion, we are committed to promoting work-life balance in two core ways: enriching our Family-Friendly System and working to transform work styles. Instituting and Promoting the Use of the Work-Life Balance Support (Family-Friendly System) We are enhancing work-life balance support so that female workers feel secure continuing to work as they experience various life events (such as pregnancy, childbirth, and childcare) and provide care to others. In addition, we have acquired the Kurumin Mark (certification that recognizes the support we provide to our employees for childrearing) four times (2007, 2009, 2011, and 2013) as our measures have been recognized as action plan initiatives in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. General Business Owner Action Plan (2013-2014) We aim to improve acquisition rate of childcare leave by male employees and create a work environment that makes it easy for both men and women to raise children. We aim to achieve a work-life balance through focused work by promoting the acquisition of annual paid leave and flexible ways of working. 122 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Work-Life Balance Some of the systems are introduced Providing Paid Prenatal and Postpartum Leave We provide the full normal salary during prenatal and postpartum leave. Parental leave This system allows employees to take a maximum of 25 months of leave, to the end of the first April or first October, whichever is earlier, from the month following the day the child reaches an age of one year and six months. Gradual entry into nursery school is also supported by allowing leave until the end of April or the end of October. Number of employees utilizing parental leave system Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 889 1,019 1,056 Shorter Work Hour System for Childcare The usual seven-hour work shift can be reduced to six hours or five hours until the end of the first April following elementary school entry. Number of Employees Utilizing Shorter Work Hour System for Childcare Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 229 256 303 Childcare Subsidy This is a system in which a portion of costs are covered if childcare services such as daycare centers are used. Number of employees receiving childcare subsidy Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 3,784 3,582 3,912 123 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Work-Life Balance Grandparent Leave A special leave of three days is granted in addition to standard paid leave for the birth of an employee's grandchild. A maximum of 9 consecutive days of leave can be taken if taken together with paid leave or weekends. Family Transfer This system normally allows for the transfer of stationary area employees (employees limited to specific regions) to a department in commuting distance if a request is made due to reasons such as the relocation of a spouse and recognized by the company. Number of employees utilizing family transfer system Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 42 38 35 Nursing Care Leave A total of 365 days of nursing care leave can be taken so that a balance can be achieved between providing nursing care to family members and work. Number of employees using nursing care leave Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 235 250 250 Shorter Work Hours for Nursing Care The usual seven-hour work shift can be reduced to six hours or five hours for up to 365 days for providing nursing care to family members. Work Style Reform We conduct initiatives such as promoting the reduction of total working hours and acquisition of leave because we believe that reforms aimed at achieving a working style with a balance between work and life for all employees, both male and female, are important in order to become an organization that allows for the lively participation of a diverse set of employees. Reduction of Total Working Hours We work to reduce total working hours through measures such as establishing finishing time targets and establishing days for early work completion. Encouraging the Use of Paid Leave We have taken measures that make it easier to acquire annual paid leave such as the planned leave system with rules that stipulate the systematic acquisition of six days of annual paid leave per year, as well as the adoption of work-life balance leave for childcare, school events, and providing nursing care to family members and health improvement leave. Paid Leave Utilization Ratio Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 67.7％ 64.3％ 65.9％ Promotion of Male Employees Taking Childcare Leave We actively promote the acquisition of childcare leave by male employees, which we refer to as Papa Training Childcare Leave. We have held family work visit days since Fiscal 2008 to improve awareness towards the participation of male employees in childcare and to deepen the understanding of the children and family of employees towards the company and the work that we do. In 2014, more than 200 children and family of employees at Hibiya head office and Toyosu head office participated in the family work visit days. 124 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion : Work-Life Balance Hibiya Head Office Toyosu Head Office Work from home system We have adopted a work from home system as part of our efforts to provide a flexible working environment. 125 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Developing an Accommodating Work Environment Determining Employee Satisfaction The company has conducted an employee satisfaction (ES) survey since fiscal 2003. This survey is used both to gauge current ES and to consider any measures to be undertaken in response to challenges. An accommodating work environment is being developed by the identification of challenges and by the implementation of responses to them. Career Support Desk The company supports employee career development by having specialist career advisors who can offer suitable advice to employees. Such advice promotes the self-resolution of issues by employees themselves. These activities are undertaken to both improve human capital of every employee, and also to respond to the wide range of consultations requested by employees regarding career-structuring issues. Internal Communications President's office network Utilizing the company's intranet, the ”president's office network“ has been established as an initiative that connects directly the president and employees. The network is operated so that the management vision can be shared throughout the entire company. It can also pass along messages and official speeches made by the president on special occasions such as on anniversaries of the company's founding, etc. This initiative provides interactive communication in that employees are also able to convey to the president their questions and concerns regarding day-to-day operations. The feedback that the president's responses generate can also be shared with the entire company, etc. Converse with Executives ”Converse with Executives“ gives top management a genuine opportunity to listen to employee views. Within this framework, executives visit both head office departments and branch offices nationwide. In addition to the executives being able to share with employees the background and views associated with various business challenges, the framework also allows management to directly field employee questions and opinions. Internal communications are invigorated through such direct discussions, and this framework also works to create an organization brimming with a sense of unity. Knowledge Sharing Teamwork activities The Total Life Plan Designers employed nationwide are assigned to teams, with each team working independent of one another in sharing sales know-how among themselves and cultivating new employees. To further energize the small group activities of each of these teams, ”teamwork activities“ have been undertaken since 1993. These activities are based upon the two concepts of ”all team members participating and independently thinking outside the box“ and ”cooperating together, encouraging one another, and developing while learning together.“ My Total Life Plan The ”My Total Life Plan“ framework aims to improve activity and proposal skills by sharing throughout the entire company both favorable examples of consulting undertaken by Total Life Plan Designers and favorable examples of other service activities. By sharing throughout the entire company positive sales examples that feature consulting in accordance with the Total Life Plans of individual customers, we are working to cultivate many Total Life Plan Designers who can both view consulting proposals from a customer's perspective and win over their trust. 126 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Developing an Accommodating Work Environment Research Committee on Positive Recruitment, Training and Consulting Measures The first two years of education after an employee has joined the company are particularly important in terms of developing the human capital of Total Life Plan Designers. To improve the effectiveness of this education, in addition to ensuring that the practical training centers, sales offices and branches responsible for training carry out their duties in a manner that is standardized throughout the entire company, while engaging in mutual cooperation, it is also important to add independent thinking to the training mix. The Research Committee on Positive Recruitment, Training and Consulting Measures meets annually as a forum that benchmarks examples of independent thinking. In addition to sharing the content of numerous measures up until now on a nationwide basis, there have also been examples of such measures being standardized and incorporated into the operations of the entire company. Value Creation (VC) Activities By streamlining operations and strengthening measures designed to reduce the absolute quantity of existing operations, Value Creation (VC) activities were commenced from fiscal 2014 for the purpose of building a system that allows for operations with higher levels of added-value. All departments and employees are working together, under the belief that the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle conducted by each individual employee will lead to satisfaction and feelings of personal growth by each employee and will contribute to the growth of the group and the realization of DSR Management. Relations with Labor Unions The Dai-ichi Life Labor Union employs a union shop system whereby both back-office staff and sales employees are union members. There are some 50,700 people (as of April 1, 2014) to whom the conditions of union membership apply. The company and union engage in an active exchange of opinions via discussions held in various committees to realize a wealthier and more cheerful lifestyle for union members, and to create a satisfying and positive workplace for them. 127 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Employee Mental and Physical Health Employee mental and physical health Basic Policy Health advancement has been positioned as an important management issue for Dai-ichi Life so that the company can fulfill its social responsibilities when responding to customers who are hoping to improve their health. This is based upon the awareness that Group officers and employees need to possess a high level of personal interest in health and medical matters. A broad range of measures are being implemented for the purpose of improving employee consciousness regarding the improvement of their own health and the prevention of lifestyle diseases. The specific measures being implemented include the following: 1. The Group Health Declaration, 2. The construction of an internal plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle system, 3. Lifestyle improvement measures, 4. Health promotion campaigns, 5. Anti-smoking measures. The above-mentioned measures have been highly regarded at the 2nd Smart Life Awards sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) which were held in July 2013, and Dai-ichi Life was awarded the Health Services Bureau Director-General's top prize.* The Smart Life Awards is an award system that recognizes distinguished contributions and measures taken with respect to health advancement and the prevention of lifestyle diseases, which centers upon three key themes (suitable exercise, suitable diet and no smoking). These three themes have been established by the Smart Life Project. * This project involves the participation of businesses, organizations and community associations, etc. Smart Life Project Website (Japanese) The 2nd Smart Life Awards Ceremony. Pictured at the center of the photo is Ms. Ayaka Hirahara, who serves as an Active Health Goodwill Ambassador. The Group Health Declaration and Construction of an Internal PDCA Cycle System Dai-ichi Life announced the Dai-ichi Life Group Health Declaration entitled ”Iki Iki Dai-ichi 110“ in July 2011. In April 2013, in addition to the ”Health Promotion“ principle being added to the Dai-ichi Life Group's Corporate Action Principles (DSR Charter), the Basic Policy on Health Promotion was newly established. Furthermore, the Health Promotion Specialist Subcommittee was established under the Committee for DSR* Promotion, which in turn is under the direct control of the president. The Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle is also being used to strongly promote the principles of health management. *DSR: Dai-Ichi's Social Responsibility (the social responsibility of the Dai-ichi Life Group) 128 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Employee Mental and Physical Health *By your side, for life – With You Project: This is a customer-oriented domestic growth strategy. Lifestyle-improvement Measures (thorough medical checkups, etc.) By thoroughly recommending the undertaking of further medical examinations (hereinafter ”secondary examinations“) after regular medical checkups, and by also acting as a company that fully supports special checkups and special health guidance sessions conducted by the health insurance association in response to metabolic syndrome, Dai-ichi Life has worked to lower the prevalence of abnormal findings* discovered during the regular medical checkups of its employees. These actions have resulted in the prevalence of abnormal findings discovered during regular medical checkups declining for three years in succession among both male and female employees. Thus, the health of the company’s employees is improving steadily. Dai-ichi Life is also placing emphasis on encouraging its employees to undergo screening for various forms of cancer. In particular, as a result of mobile screening centers for breast cancer called, ”MammoBus,“ that have operated in approximately 320 locations nationwide, the employee screening rate is approximately 40%,twice of the national average. Through the screening conducted by Dai-ichi Life, each year approximately 30 employees have benefited through the early detection of breast cancer. *prevalence of abnormal findings: The numbers of people identified as ”requiring consultations,“ ”requiring retesting“ ”requiring detailed testing“ or ”undergoing treatment.“ divided by the total number of people undergoing medical checkups. Prevalence of Abnormal Findings by Gender (Statutory Items Only) Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Males 63.5％ 62.8％ 60.7％ Females 59.1％ 57.3％ 56.1％ A ”MammoBus“ mobile screening center that operates nationwide. 129 Social Responsibility > About Employees > Employee Mental and Physical Health Health Promotion Campaigns The ”Health Promotion Campaign“ is conducted in autumn of each year as an opportunity for employees to improve their lifestyles. It is carried out jointly by Dai-ichi Life, the health insurance association and the labor union. The event has grown from approximately 4,000 people participating in Fiscal 2010, the campaign grew to approximately 6,000 participants in Fiscal 2013. Additionally, the company also proactively promotes the improvement of health through employee-targeted seminars. These include the ”parent, child exercise and food seminar“ which is held on children's visiting the workplace day, and the ”beautiful posture and walking seminar,“ etc. The ”parent, child exercise and food seminar“ The ”beautiful posture and walking seminar“ Anti-smoking Measures The 22nd day of each month has been established as a ”smoking-free day“ and activities that raise anti-smoking awareness are conducted. Such activities include closing of some of the smoking rooms within the corporate headquarters and other offices. Posters that highlight the importance of quitting smoking are also displayed. Additionally, in January of each year a quit smoking campaign is conducted, with measures being taken to reduce the percentage of employees who smoke. Due to such measures approximately 190 employees successfully quit smoking each year. Furthermore, progress has been made in helping employees quit smoking, such asthe increase of maximum subsidies paid to offset out-ofpocket expenses when seeking outpatient treatment to quit smoking to 20,000 yen. A smoking room closure notice A ”smoking-free day“ poster displayed throughout the company 130 Social Responsibility > Initiatives at Group Companies > Domestic Group Companies Domestic Group Companies Dai-ichi Life Information Systems Co., Ltd. Dai-ichi Life Information Systems is the only IT and administrative services company within the Dai-ichi Life Group. Dai-ichi Life Information Systems processes upwards of 1.9 million online requests every day and 10 million business transactions annually from the Dai-ichi Life's network of more than 1,300 business sites, including its head office, branches and unit offices. The company promotes a rigorous approach to visualization of its internal business processes to continually improve based on a clear understanding of the operational risks and challenges it faces. Dai-ichi Life Information Systems achieves continual business process reform by implementing the Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) cycle, which provides added peace of mind to customers. It has stepped up company-wide security measures given the recent number of information incidents happening in industry. Dai-ichi Life Information Systems is committed to giving back to society and fulfills its social responsibilities through ongoing activities rooted in the local community that help to create a society and lifestyles that are more secure and comfortable.Dai-ichi Life Information Systems has provided a full range of support to the Ashigarakami District Female Youth Ekiden Marathon Event (Kanagawa Prefecture) since the very first marathon in 1994. This has included tabulating times and presenting participant prizes and merchandise as the sponsor of the event. Additionally, many of the company's employees give blood on an annual basis as well as volunteer for community clean-up events and assist with various fundraising drives. Learn more about Dai-ichi Life Information Systems CSR initiatives (Japanese) The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance sells lump sum whole life insurance nationwide through banks, securities companies and other financial institutions. Having received a great deal of support from its customers ever since its founding, the company surpassed 500,000 policies at the end of fiscal 2013. Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance is working to strengthen its customer service system so that it can respond to policyholder needs in a more prompt and accurate manner. For example, it is not only increasing the number of operators at its call centers, but also continually working to strengthen its instructor development and training systems with a focus on improving the quality of its responses to customers. At the same time, in fiscal 2014 Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance established a dedicated team for handling policy maturities to maintain the integrity of payment management. Although the rush of maturities will occur further into the future, by setting up a dedicated team at an early stage, Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance will be able to build up knowledge for the future and an administrative system to ensure it can respond seamlessly when the number of payments does increase. In this manner, Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance strives continuously to enhance the quality of its services to further improve customer satisfaction. Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. Dai-ichi Life Research Institute is a think tank that engages in a wide range of research covering the fields of economics, lifestyles, health and government policy, among others. The institute carries out surveys, provides information and training employees to enhance the Dai-ichi Life Group’s abilities to disseminate information, make policy recommendations, and provide consulting services. The institute's research outcomes appear in regular publications such as the ”Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Report“ (monthly) and the ”Life Design Report“ (quarterly), and are also published on the company's website so that they can be shared widely with society. Researchers from the institute appear on TV and write articles that appear in newspapers and magazines and author books. Additionally, they take part in lectures on the economy as well as various seminars, such as the Well Life Seminar supporting the health management of corporations, and Yoyo Jinsei no Susume, which provides life planning advice for after retirement. In this manner, the institute strives to share its findings and other useful information with society through these various opportunities. 131 Social Responsibility > Initiatives at Group Companies > Overseas Group Companies Overseas Group Companies Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam, Limited TAL <TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd > PT Panin Dai-ichi Life Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Limited OCEAN LIFE INSURANCE PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam, Limited In January 2007, Dai-ichi Life became the first Japanese life insurance company to conduct business in Vietnam. With the life insurance market in Vietnam growing rapidly, the premium income of Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam has increased faster than the market since the acquisition, reaching 5 times its pre-acquisition level reached in fiscal 2006. The company's market share has also expanded from 4.4% in fiscal 2006 to 8.0% in fiscal 2013. Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam is active in the life insurance business and also focuses energies on social contribution programs. We have worked together with the company since 2008 to provide surgeries free of charge to cataract sufferers in Vietnam who cannot afford the surgery. Through these efforts, we have supported approximately 3,000 cataract sufferers. In addition, Dai-ichi Life Vietnam continues to give back to the community through its involvement in disaster relief activities, blood collection drives, and donations of clothing to those living in the country's mountainous region. For its contributions to Vietnam's economy and society, in fiscal 2013 the company had the honor of receiving the Prime Minister's Award, which is presented to individuals or corporations carrying out prominent initiatives in business, social contributions, environmental protection or education. Dai-ichi Life Vietnam also became the first life insurance company in Vietnam to receive the CSR Award from Asia Insurance Review magazine, which recognized its donation of water purification systems with UV-sterilization made to 24 schools in November 2013. Support for cataract sufferers Top of Page 132 Social Responsibility > Initiatives at Group Companies > Overseas Group Companies TAL <TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd> In May 2011, TOWER Australia Group Limited, an associate company of Dai-ichi Life, became a wholly owned subsidiary through a friendly acquisition scheme, and subsequently changed its corporate name to TAL Limited in June 2011. In June 2012, we transferred the function of TAL Limited to its holding company TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd to improve management efficiency. We have also worked to continually increase the corporate value of TAL by promoting improvement of its sales channels, including the acquisition of NFS Group, an online broker in Australia and made it a wholly owned subsidiary in October 2013. TAL has recently created “A Gift for Life”, its sponsorship and corporate social responsibility program. This program aims to make a positive contribution to the Australian community and began with a gift to the Australian public of rare paintings of Australia’s native flora and fauna – the TAL and Dai-ichi Life Derby Collection. It has since included donations to various charities including Assistance Dogs Australia (ADA), the Melanoma Institute Australia (MIA), which focuses on skin cancer research, and the Australian Paralympic Committee. TAL has also encouraged and subsidised participation in charity fun runs – the Mother’s Day Classic, which benefits the National Breast Cancer Foundation, and the world renowned JP Morgan Corporate Challenge. Public exhibition of the TAL and Dai-ichi Life Derby Support for Assistance Dogs Australia Collection Support for the Melanoma Institute Australia Mother’s Day Classic – charity fun run benefiting the National Breast Cancer Foundation TAL also focuses on environment, society and governance activities. In terms of the environment, TAL has set its printers for automatic double sided printing, it participates in Earth Hour (an event sponsored by the WWF in which people from around 150 countries around the world refrain from using power on the same day and hour to help prevent global warming and protect the environment), uses motion-sensing lights, proactively recycles garbage, and cuts back on business travel by using web meetings and voice chats. TAL also promotes flexible working hours and offers the TAL Family Program to support employees who are caring for children or an elderly family member. As part of World Health Week, TAL holds in-house events to raise awareness about mental health, which is a growing social issue in Australia. To raise awareness about cultural diversity the company holds in-house events as part of World Day for Cultural Diversity. Through these activities and more, TAL is strongly committed to diversity and inclusion. World Day for Cultural Diversity 133 Social Responsibility > Initiatives at Group Companies > Overseas Group Companies PT Panin Dai-ichi Life In October 2013, Dai-ichi Life made PT Panin Life and PT Panin Internasional, the parent company of PT Panin Life, affiliated companies. In November 2013, PT Panin Life changed its corporate name to PT Panin Dai-ichi Life. PT Panin Dai-ichi Life, a life insurance company in the Panin Group, a leading local financial group, is currently growing its business through multiple sales channels, including individual agents, bancassurance, and direct sales, while diversifying into other sales channels. PT Panin Dai-ichi Life has been expanding its presence in the Indonesian market, as it increased its premium income by 45.7% from the previous fiscal year, a higher growth rate than the market, and boosted its industry ranking from 15th in 2009 to 11th in 2013. PT Panin Dai-ichi Life focuses on social contribution activities. In 2013 it organized a blood drive collection event involving employees, individual agents, and customers, and also held seminars on the prevention of diabetes as part of its efforts to improve the health of Indonesian society. In 2014, employees and individual agents helped hold charity events to benefit those affected by the eruptions of Mount Sinabung and Mount Kelud, with donations presented to those areas in need. Blood drive event Supporting those in need following eruptions in Indonesia Top of Page Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company is a joint venture life insurance company established with two leading public sector banks in India. Operations began in February 2009, when Dai-ichi Life became the first Japanese life insurance company to enter the Indian life insurance market. Star Union Dai-ichi Life primarily sells insurance through its joint venture partners, which are two of India's major banks, and in its fifth year in business the company recorded 7,375 million rupees in annualized premium income for fiscal 2013, ranking it 10 out of 23 private sector life insurance companies in India in terms of first-year premiums. Star Union Dai-ichi Life carries out a wide range of diversity initiatives and employs a diverse pool of human resources that work as professionals in their individual fields. In recent years, female employees are playing an even greater role within the company and as of March 31, 2014 there was a 51% year-on-year increase in female employees and 92% increase in mid-level female managers. Nearly one-third the company's individual agents are also women and female employees make up a majority of staff at some unit offices, demonstrating the company's commitment to hiring women. Star Union Dai-ichi Life is also committed to social contribution activities. It supplied vegetables, rice and other foodstuff as well as water to Mopli Village (located about 450km east of Mumbai) in Maharashtra State following a serious drought in March 2013. The in-house events in Independence Day Support to Mopli Village Top of Page 134 Social Responsibility > Initiatives at Group Companies > Overseas Group Companies OCEAN LIFE INSURANCE PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED In July 2008, Dai-ichi Life agreed to take an equity stake in Ocean Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and form a strategic business alliance. With the conversion of the company from a private limited company to a public limited company in July 2012, the company name was changed to OCEAN LIFE INSURANCE PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED.(”Ocean Life“). Since our investment in 2008, we have been cooperating with Ocean Life on an ongoing basis, in ways such as improving the sales abilities of individual agents, to increase the corporate value of Ocean Life. In fiscal 2013, its total premium was ranked eighth out of 24 life insurance companies in the industry. Ocean Life has continually made donations of both office supplies and funds to schools in order to support children affected by the record floods that struck the country in 2011. Ocean Life also made charitable donations to the victims of the typhoon that struck the Philippines in 2012 and encouraged all employees to donate blood as part of the efforts. These initiatives demonstrate the company's active commitment to social contributions. Ocean Life works with Dai-ichi Life to host interns from the perspective of developing human resources in the life insurance business, providing a place for university students to learn practical skills. This year, the third of the program, two university students are working at Ocean Life alongside employees seconded from Japan. Blood drive Hosting of internships 135 Social Responsibility > DSR Report DSR Report 2014 PDF Download Index (GRI and ISO26000) Previous DSR Reports Editorial Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group is issuing this Dai-ichi Life DSR Report 2014 to communicate to all of our stakeholders the initiatives we are taking to fulfill our social responsibilities. From fiscal 2014, the Dai-ichi Life DSR Report (DSR Report) will only be provided in an online format. A print edition will no longer be available. The Dai-ichi Life Annual Report (DSR Report Integrated Edition) will be published in a print edition as an integrated report* in order to convey the Dai-ichi Life Group's efforts to created sustainable corporate value in an easy-to-understand manner. To ensure information is provided more widely to stakeholders, we will also enhance the content of our corporate website and instead of annual updates we will post the latest information regularly as needed. * An integrated report refers to a report created for investors and other stakeholders that contains financial information, such as sales and other performance data, as well as non-financial information, including consideration for the environment and society as well as management strategy covering intellectual assets, governance and mediumto long-term corporate planning, among others. Annual Report 2014 Referenced Guidelines ●”Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1“ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ●ISO 26000 ”Guidance on Social Responsibility“ ●The United Nations Global Compact ”Guidance on preparing COPs“ ●”Award Criteria 2013“ (Japan Quality Award Committee) Scope of the Report Period Primarily activities carried out during fiscal 2013 (April 2013 to March 2014), with some reporting of fiscal 2014 activities and approaches. Organization The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited as well as its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Significant changes during the reporting period none Publication Date December 2014 Previous publication: December 2013 Next scheduled publication: November 2015 (planned) * This report consists of our official website as of the end of November 2014. 136 Social Responsibility > DSR Report Inquiries Please direct any inquiries regarding this report to the contacts listed below. The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Promotion Center 13-1, Yurakucho 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8411, Japan Tel: +81-3-3216-1211 Fax: +81-3-5221-3340 137 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 GRI Guidelines GRI Guidelines ISO26000 Version 3.1 and Financial Services Sector Supplement GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 The ”Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1“ and the ”Financial Services Sector Supplement“ from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were referenced during the compilation of the Dai-ichi Life DSR Report 2014. Published Categories Indicators (Online) 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 1.1 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance Message from the President of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Annual Report 2014 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Company Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Annual Report 2014 Operational structure of the organization,including main divisions, Company Profile 2.3 operating companies,subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Annual Report 2014 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Company Profile Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically Overseas Group Companies relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company Profile Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 2.7 Annual Report 2014 and types of customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number of employees; Number of operations; Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for Company Profile 2.8 public sector organizations); Investor Relations Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: The location of, or changes in operations, including facility 2.9 openings, closings, and expansions; and Referenced Guidelines Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Status of DSR Management Promotion 138 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. DSR Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). DSR Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) DSR Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Inquiries Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: Determining materiality; 3.5 Prioritizing topics within the report; and DSR Report Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 3.6 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary DSR Report Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Not Applicable Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Not Applicable comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 3.9 Prevention of Global Warming applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.10 Referenced Guidelines (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Not Applicable boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 3.12 Index report. Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report 3.13 accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis Stakeholder Dialogue of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 139 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, Corporate Governance System such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 4.2 an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the Corporate Governance System organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance System that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Corporate Governance System recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 Corporate Governance System departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 Disclaimer conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 4.7 Corporate Governance System committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group social performance and the status of their implementation. DSR Management Promotion System Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Risk Management organization's identification and management of economic, Ensuring the Appropriate Operations at Subsidiaries 4.9 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and Handling of Antisocial Forces opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Basic Policy Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own DSR Management Promotion System 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, Corporate Governance System and social performance. 140 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Commitments to External Initiatives Risk Management Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental principle is addressed by the organization. Accounting Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Participation in External Initiatives endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 Participation in External Initiatives Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4.15 The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders engage. Stakeholder Dialogue Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 4.16 The Dai-ichi Life Group's Stakeholders engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback Stakeholder Dialogue Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Relations with shareholders and investors 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Developing an Accommodating Work Environment 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic About Us Disclosure on Management Approach Annual Report 2014 Relations with shareholders and investors Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and Investor Relations EC1 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to Relations with shareholders and investors capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 ― organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report 2014 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ― 141 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared EC5 ― to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 ― suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management EC7 ― hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 ― including the extent of impacts. Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach The Environment Aspect: Materials Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Accounting Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Accounting Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Prevention of Global Warming Prevention of Global Warming EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Prevention of Global Warming EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society achieved. Aspect: Water Core EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Prevention of Global Warming EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not Applicable EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ― 142 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent EN11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ― protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Initiatives for Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Environmental Preservation Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental EN14 on biodiversity. Accounting Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of ― extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Prevention of Global Warming EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental Accounting EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ― Prevention of Global Warming Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 Environmental Medium-Term Plan, Environmental achieved. Accounting EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Applicable EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not Applicable EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ― EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, EN24 Not Applicable and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting ― organization's discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 Prevention of Global Warming services, and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN27 ― reclaimed by category. 143 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect : Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EN28 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws Not applicable and regulations. Aspect : Tra nsport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other EN29 goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and Reducing Distribution Energy transporting members of the workforce. Aspect : Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by EN30 Environmental accounting initiatives type. Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach About Employees Aspect : Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1 Employees Status region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 ― turnover by age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Work-Life Balance LA3 temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of Developing an Accommodating Work Environment operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Relations with Labor Unions Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Relations with Labor Unions agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including LA5 ― whether it is specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management–worker health and safety committees that help ― monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA7 management–worker health and safety committees that help ― monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or Employee mental and physical health community members regarding serious diseases. 144 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade LA9 ― unions. Aspect: Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by LA10 ― employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong earning that support LA11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in Human Resource Development managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 Human Resource Development development reviews, by gender. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ASPECT : EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Employees Status employee category, by significant locations of operation. Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights Awareness Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements HR1 and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights ― concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions ― taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, Human Rights Awareness including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions HR4 ― taken. Aspect: Fr eedom of Association and Collective Barg aining Core Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be HR5 ― violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 145 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect: Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant HR6 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to ― the effective abolition of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Core Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 ― contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Human Rights Awareness relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous HR9 ― people and actions taken. Aspect: Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject HR10 ― to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Aspect: Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and HR11 ― resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society Risk Management Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Initiatives Public Policy Recommendations Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 ― engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on SO9 ― local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with SO10 ― significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Aspect: Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 Risk Management related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption SO3 Compliance Initiatives policies and procedures. 146 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Domestic Group Companies Aspect : Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SO5 Public Policy Recommendations and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 ― politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Add Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, SO7 Not Applicable and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and Not Applicable regulations. Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach For Customers Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of PR1 Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products ― and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect : Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and PR3 percentage of significant products and services subject to such Products and Services information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Products and Services labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 Understanding Customer Satisfaction surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect : Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising Salesmanship Policy (Japanese) promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Not Applicable advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 147 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines Version 3.1 Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect : Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 Information Property Protection customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and ― services. 148 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines and Financial Services Sector Supplement GRI Guidelines GRI Guidelines ISO26000 Version 3.1 and Financial Services Sector Supplement GRI Guidelines and Financial Services Sector Supplement The ”Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1“ and the ”Financial Services Sector Supplement“ from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were referenced during the compilation of the Dai-ichi Life DSR Report 2013. Published Categories Categories (Online) Impact of products and services on fields Disclosure of management approaches unique to the financial services industry Aspect: portfolio of financial products and services (composition and details) Policies with specific environmental and social components applied Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group FS1 to business lines. Participation in External Initiatives Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social FS2 Risk Management risks in business lines. Processes for monitoring clients'implementation of and compliance FS3 with environmental and social requirements included in agreements ― or transactions. Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the Human Rights Awareness Training FS4 environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to Environmental Awareness Activities for Employees business lines. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding FS5 ― environmental and social risks and opportunities. Performance Indicators for the Finance Industry Aspect: portfolio of financial products and services (composition and details) Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size FS6 Annual Report 2014 (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a FS7 specific social benefit for each business line broken down by Our Role as an Institutional Investor purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a Our Role as an Institutional Investor FS8 specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down ESG Investment and Lending by purpose. Aspect: Audit Corporate Governance System Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of FS9 Risk Management environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures. Compliance Initiatives 149 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : GRI Guidelines and Financial Services Sector Supplement Published Categories Indicators (Online) Aspect: Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting FS10 ― organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues. Our Role as an Institutional FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. Investor Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting FS12 Exercise of Voting Rights organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Social Area Financial Services Sector-Specific Society Performance Indicators on Product Responsibility Social Performance Indicators Aspect: Community Overseas Group Companies FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type Connections with Customers FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people ― Disclosure of management approaches unique to the financial services industry Performance Disclosure Items of Product Responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Correct and Fair Insurance FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Payouts Financial Services Sector-Specific Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Creating an Affluent FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary Next-Generation Society *Translations of indicators provided by Cre-en Inc. and Mr. Toshihiko Goto (Chief Executive, Sustainability Forum Japan) 150 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : ISO26000 GRI Guidelines GRI Guidelines ISO26000 Version 3.1 and Financial Services Sector Supplement ISO26000 The DSR Report features an index of information for readers based on ISO26000. Core Subjects and Issues Location 6.2 Organizational governance Message from the President About DSR Management Corporate Governance Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion 6.3 Human rights Issue 1 Due diligence Human Rights Awareness Issue 2 Human rights risk situations ― Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group Participation in External Initiatives Issue 3 Avoidance of complicity Handling of Antisocial Forces Promoting Pro-environmental Behavior in Asset Management Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Issue 4 Resolving grievances Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback Human Rights Awareness Issue 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion Issue 6 Civil and political rights Human Rights Awareness Promoting Health Issue 7 Economic, social and cultural rights Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Human Rights Awareness Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion Issue 8 Fundamental principles and rights at work Relations with Labor Unions ESG Investment and Lending 151 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : ISO26000 Published Categories Indicators (Online) 6.4 Labour practices Human Rights Awareness Issue 1 Employment and employment relationships Our Stance on Diversity and Inclusion ESG Investment and Lending Human Rights Awareness Issue 2 Conditions of work and social protection Work-Life Balance Relations with Labor Unions Issue 3 Social dialogue Relations with Labor Unions Issue 4 Health and safety at work Employee mental and physical health Issue 5 Human development and training in the workplace Human Resource Development 6.5 The environment Basic Policy Issue 1 Prevention of pollution Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society ESG Investment and Lending Basic Policy Issue 2 Sustainable resource use Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society ESG Investment and Lending Basic Policy Issue 3 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Helping Create a Recycling-Conscious Society ESG Investment and Lending Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of Issue 4 Initiatives for Biodiversity natural habitats 6.6 Fair operating practices Principles of Dai-ichi Life Group Issue 1 Anti-corruption Participation in External Initiatives Compliance Initiatives Issue 2 Responsible political involvement Public Policy Recommendations Issue 3 Fair competition Internal Control Issue 4 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ― Issue 5 Respect for property rights ― 152 Social Responsibility > DSR Report > Index : ISO26000 Published Categories Indicators (Online) 6.7 Consumer issues Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Expanding Information Provisions Issue 1 contractual practices Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Issue 2 Protecting consumers’health and safety Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Issue 3 Sustainable consumption Expanding Information Provisions Expanding Information Provisions Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute Issue 4 When Insurance Claims or Benefits are Not Paid Out resolution Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts Information Property Protection Issue 5 Consumer data protection and privacy Handling of Antisocial Forces Issue 6 Access to essential services ― Expanding Information Provisions Issue 7 Education and awareness When Insurance Claims or Benefits are Not Paid Out Correct and Fair Insurance Payouts 6.8 Community involvement and development Issue 1 Community involvement Social Contributions Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Issue 2 Education and culture Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. Issue 3 Employment creation and skills development Human Resource Development Issue 4 Technology development and access ― Issue 5 Wealth and income creation ― Issue 6 Health Promoting Health Promoting Health Issue 7 Social investment Creating an Affluent Next-Generation Society Arts, Culture, Sports, etc. 153
