HP 2014 Living Progress Report Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report see page 8 see page 23 see page 58 see page 69 see page 120 Contents 3 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 48 Building careers 89 Products and solutions 4 Executive summary 49 Diversity and inclusion 90 Design for the Environment 50 Rewards and recognition 95 Life cycle assessment 51 Wellness 96 Innovation in 2014 51 Health and safety 108 Product return and recycling 109 Our approach 8 Governance 54 Social investment 56 Data 112 Social investment 9 HP profile 114 Data 10 Living Progress strategy 11 Materiality update 13 Stakeholder engagement 14 Living Progress governance 58 Economic Progress 120 About this report 15 Company separation and 59 Overview Living Progress Economic impacts across the 60  121 Overview 16 Corporate ethics value chain 123 Independent Accountants’ Report 16 Ethics and compliance 65 Social investment United Nations Global Compact 126  19 Anti-corruption 67 Total social investment spend index 21 Public policy 68 Data 127 Material issues 22 Data 129 Global Reporting Initiative index 69 Environmental Progress 23 Human Progress 70 Overview 24 Overview 71 Our footprint 26 Human rights 74 Supply chain environmental impact 28 Supply chain responsibility 75 Greenhouse gas emissions 30 Our approach 78 Water 33 Workers’ rights 78 Waste 35 Audit results 80 HP operations 39 Conflict minerals 81 Management and compliance 42 Privacy 81 Greenhouse gas emissions 45 Our employees 85 Waste and recycling 46 Engaging our people 87 Water Share with colleagues Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 3 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Letter from Meg Whitman Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Hewlett-Packard HP Living Progress is our framework for thinking about how we do business. It’s the way we integrate sustainability into our business strategy, building on a commitment we articulated in our company objectives in 1957 and have reaffirmed every year since. We consider human, economic, and environmental impacts across our entire value chain as we develop our products, services, and solutions, manage our operations, and drive interactions with our customers, partners, and communities. As you explore this year’s Living Progress Report, you will see many examples of how our actions and innovations are helping solve some of the world’s most complex challenges. I’m incredibly proud of our accomplishments, and even more excited for the opportunities ahead as we separate into two new companies — Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. Both companies will share a proud legacy and an unwavering commitment to sustainability and community. Please enjoy the report and continue to follow our progress as we work to create a better future for everyone. Regards, Meg Whitman 4 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman • Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Executive summary Living Progress, the framework HP adopted last year for thinking about how we do business, has galvanized our citizenship efforts and empowered our people to pursue human, economic, and environmental progress in all of our work. We believe in the talent and creativity of our people to develop and harness technology and services that can stimulate economies, elevate people from poverty and sickness, and help solve the world’s environmental challenges. We achieve this by fully integrating citizenship into our business strategy. In just the first year since the adoption of Living Progress, HP launched and nurtured an extraordinary array of Governance citizenship initiatives across our value chain and in comLiving Progress strategy munities around the world. Unprecedented innovation in our products—such as the HP Apollo 8000 System and We embedded Living Progress thinking across HP, engaging HP PageWide Technology—enabled significant advances widely with our external partners and stakeholders. in energy efficiency as well as computing and printing • CEO Meg Whitman and Chief Progress Officer Gabi power. The possibilities for consumers and customers Zedlmayer promoted our new strategy and HP’s to capitalize on our progress to deliver economic growth contributions toward a low-carbon economy at major and social change are tremendous. events including the launch of the CDP 2014 S&P 500 report in New York City, during Climate Week. We believe goals galvanize actions, and we extended the scope of our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets • HP teams engaged with customers across the globe across all three parts of our value chain by adding a new to meet green procurement requirements amounting to goal for HP products and services. We maintained our more than $24 billion of existing and potential business record for exceptional transparency in reporting, recogrevenue. nized by the highest possible score for disclosure and • Our Corporate Affairs team launched HP’s Living Progress performance from the CDP. Our policies and standards Exchange, where through a blend of face-to-face and are the foundation from which our actions flow, and we virtual engagements, we crowdsourced solutions to regularly review and tighten these in response to emerghuman, economic, and environmental challenges from a ing issues. This year, we introduced our Foreign Migrant global community of experts and thought leaders. Worker Standard to provide better protection for this • HP became the first global information technology (IT) vulnerable group in our supply chain. company to set GHG emissions-reduction goals for all three parts of its value chain by adding an ambitious Compelling examples of human, economic, and environproducts goal. mental progress across our value chain—as well as advances in the way we govern ourselves as a • HP was honored to receive the highest possible CDP company—follow: carbon disclosure score—100 points—and an A rating on carbon-reduction performance. 5 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Corporate ethics Human rights Letter from CEO We adhere to the highest ethical standards by supporting We take an uncompromising stance on human rights in Meg Whitman our employees in making the right decisions. While our our own operations, and we make compelling arguments • Executive summary industry-leading practices and policies in this area are to others to do the same. Over the course of the last well-known, each year we strive to make even greater year, HP was proud to contribute to multi-stakeholder Governance progress. This year brought several notable examples: initiatives led by the Global Business Initiative on Human Progress Human Rights, the Electronic Industry Citizenship • HP’s Ethics and Compliance team completely revamped Economic Progress Coalition, Social Accountability International and BSR. its internal communications mechanisms to find new Environmental Progress and innovative ways to engage employees and expand Privacy About this report HP’s culture of compliance. We implement rigorous policies and procedures to • HP’s former Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer won safeguard personal data that we hold or process, and the title of Chief Compliance Officer of the Year for 2014 we support these priorities through a rigorous profrom the global Women in Compliance Award organizagram designed to train our employees and engage tion, recognizing her leadership and achievements, both external stakeholders. By way of example, in 2014, at HP and within the wider compliance community. HP helped lead efforts to develop the Unified Ethical Frame for Big Data Analysis, a groundbreaking initiaPublic policy tive from the Information Accountability Foundation, We advocate with transparency and integrity to promote which has met with unheralded support from regulalaws and regulations that encourage economic growth and tors, companies, and the privacy community. innovation in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. In 2014, the HP team: Employees • Supported negotiations on trade agreements including We aim to attract, motivate, and empower the most the Trans Pacific Partnership, Transatlantic Trade talented people in the fast-moving and ultra-competitive and Investment Agreement, and Trade in Services IT industry with compelling career development opporAgreement, as well as U.S. legislation to renew Trade tunities, a supportive work environment, recognition, and Promotion Authority rewards. Toward that end, in 2014, we: • Deepened our partnership with the World Economic • Achieved 80% participation of all employees worldwide Forum to build upon the Principles for Cyber Resilience, in our Voice of the Workforce survey, which found that a set of guidelines for organizations of all kinds to overall employee engagement remained strong at 70% contribute to overall levels of cyber risk mitigation • Worked with the Rainbow PUSH coalition as well as • Helped secure successful passage of copyright law numerous other experts and organizations to address revisions in Indonesia, improvements to counterfeit issues of diversity and inclusion in our industry and legislation in the UAE, and increased penalties for deepened our long-standing commitment to transparbreaches of Brazil’s new intellectual property law ency in continuing to publish comprehensive employee diversity data • Completed nearly 5.3 million employee training hours, Human Progress 97% through flexible, virtual sessions or self-paced online courses Supply chain responsibility • Held our first Global Day of Service to mark our 75th We motivate and empower suppliers and other stakeholders anniversary, with more than 20,200 HP employees to enhance labor conditions, support human rights, worldwide using their paid volunteer time to support and improve environmental performance at supplier community nonprofits production facilities. Over the course of the last year, HP: • Became the first IT company to require direct employment Social investment: Human of foreign migrant workers in our supply chain through the We invest strategically in partnership with diverse organiHP Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker Standard zations to improve the lives and prospects of individuals and communities worldwide. Two noteworthy initiatives • Conducted 200 audits and assessments, the largest this year included: number in our program’s history. Since our first pilot social and environmental responsibility audits in 2004, • Partnering with the United Nations Children’s Fund we have conducted or commissioned 1,294 audits and (UNICEF) and the Chinese government to pilot the assessments of production and nonproduction supplier Maternal and Child Health Management Information facilities around the world System, designed to electronically capture and store • Achieved 15% improvement in Social Accountability health information about every newborn child in China International’s Social Fingerprint benchmark, placing • Deploying 29 eHealth Centers to serve villages in rural HP in the top tier of companies assessed India and receiving more than 65,000 patient visits • Achieved 84% of workers related to HP production at through February 2015 final assembly sites working fewer than 60 hours per week on average, with fewer than 4% working more than 72 hours per week 6 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Economic Progress Environmental Progress Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Economic impacts across the value chain Products and solutions • Executive summary We leverage HP’s far-reaching economic impacts to advance We continually innovate to reduce the environmental Governance a future where jobs are plentiful, economies thrive, and footprint of products and solutions across our portfolio, people have the skills and resources they need to contribute proactively developing technologies that help to solve Human Progress to society. In keeping with those efforts, HP: some of society’s most serious environmental challenges. Economic Progress This year alone, HP launched: • Enabled organizations to protect sensitive data and Environmental Progress economic assets against increasingly sophisticated • An ambitious research project at HP Labs called The About this report cyber threats. With 10 Security Operations Centers Machine, which is designed to reinvent the basic archiworldwide and more than 5,000 credentialed security tecture of computers to enable transformational leaps professionals on staff, HP Enterprise Security Systems in performance and energy efficiency managed 23 billion security events a month in 2014 • The water-cooled HP Apollo 8000 System, which uses • Supported hundreds of thousands of jobs through HP’s 28% less energy than air-cooled servers, saving up to global supply chain purchasing at supplier sites audited 3,800 tonnes of CO2e annually1 through our Supply Chain Responsibility program • FSC-certified HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper in North America, • Expanded HP Future Cities, which deploys big data 25% thinner than typical office paper and fully compatible collection and analysis, cloud services, mobility, and with the HP printing fleet security, enabling local governments to improve ser• PageWide Technology business printer HP OfficeJet vices, reduce public costs, and drive economic growth Enterprise X that offers a step-change in materials use, generating up to 94% less supplies and packaging waste Social investment: Economic than comparable laser printers2 We make strategic social investments that enhance the Economic Progress of individuals and communities Product return and recycling worldwide. In 2014, HP and the HP Company Foundation: We provide an extensive network of product take-back • Launched Matter to a Million, our global employee programs in 733 countries and territories. This year, we: engagement initiative providing capital to low-income • Added a new closed loop process for polypropylene to entrepreneurs in partnership with a nonprofit microour existing recycling programs, enabling us to produce lender. In 2014, each HP employee received a $25 credit new inkjet cartridges entirely from material recycled by from the HP Company Foundation to loan to borrowers our customers to buy essentials such as tools, livestock, and supplies. Almost 120,000 employees used their credits through • Incorporated some recycled plastic in more than 75% of December 2014. Combined with additional HP Company HP inkjet cartridges shipped for commercial sale by the Foundation contributions, this equaled more than end of 2014 $5.9 million in loans • Recovered 157,500 tonnes of hardware (including HP • Addressed the underrepresentation of women in and non-HP products) and supplies. Of this amount, we technology, committing $1 million over four years in the recovered 4.2 million computer hardware units weighing United States to support the National Center for Women 39,100 tonnes for reuse and remarketing and recycled & Information Technology’s Aspirations in Computing 118,400 tonnes Collegiate Program HP operations We relentlessly pursue reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste, water, and paper consumption in our worldwide operations. Compared to 2013, this year we: • Reduced GHG emissions from operations by 5.5%, decreased total waste by 11.5%, and cut water consumption by 3.1% • Increased on-site renewable energy capacity by 150% to 5.9 MW. Our solar installations now avoid an estimated 5,700 tonnes of CO2e emissions annually 1 HP internal estimate; savings is per HP Apollo 8000 system vs. an air-cooled data center with 3 megawatts of IT. An industry-standard sustainability formula was used to derive CO2e savings in tonnes using the KW-hr savings based on real-world data center analysis. 2 The HP OfficeJet Pro X576dn generates up to 94% less waste per 15,000 pages compared with major in-class competitors’ color laser MFPs <$1,000 and color laser printers <$800 as of July 2014. Tested by Buyers Lab Inc. and commissioned by HP. The HP OfficeJet Enterprise X585dn generates up to 90% less waste compared with the majority of color laser MFPs ≤$3,000 based on market share as reported by IDC as of Q3 2013. 3 As of October 31, 2014. 7 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supply chain environmental impact Our promise Letter from CEO We lead industry efforts to reduce GHG emissions, Meg Whitman waste, and water withdrawal in our supply chain. Among In October 2014, our Board of Directors announced the • Executive summary this year’s accomplishments are the following: decision to separate HP into two companies, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. This strategic step provides Governance • Achieved an 18% reduction in first-tier manufacturing each new company with the focus, financial resources, and Human Progress and product transportation-related GHG emissions flexibility to adapt quickly to market and customer dynamintensity from 2010 through 2013 Economic Progress ics while generating long-term value for shareholders. Environmental Progress • Helped production suppliers cut GHG emissions by 600,000 tonnes CO2e (cumulatively) since 2010, toward This shift also presents a unique opportunity to examine About this report our goal of a 2 million tonne reduction between 2010 the full breadth of our Living Progress impact worldwide and 2020 and to streamline our strategy to optimize return on our • Expanded our supplier Energy Efficiency Program in China citizenship investments. In 2014, we began conducting a and Southeast Asia to include 70 new HP supplier sites strategic review of our Living Progress initiatives to ensure we are maximizing capacity, providing for future growth Social investment: Environmental opportunities, and enabling continued contributions to society. We build partnerships to apply the transformative power of technology to help solve environmental challenges. Building on our 75 year heritage and more than a decade of We are particularly proud of our partnership with reporting, citizenship will continue to be integral to both Conservation International. This partnership, called HP companies. We believe a purpose-driven strategy is Earth Insights, collects, manages, and analyzes data essential to spur innovation, improve operational perforon species trends at 18 tropical forest protected areas mance, and engage employees. in Asia, Africa, and Latin America creating a first-ofits-kind big data early warning system for threatened From the beginning, our founders, Bill Hewlett and Dave species. We are also pleased to note that this year, Packard, believed their company should create great our employees recorded more than 80,000 hours of products and help make the world a better place. This time spent volunteering for environmental causes. commitment is fully integrated in HP’s strategy and culture, as we work ever harder to create new possibilities for technology to move people, businesses, governments, and society forward. We are Living Progress. Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance HP profile Living Progress strategy Corporate ethics Public policy Data Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Governance What we do and how we do it matters 9 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress HP profile Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance Who we support: individual consumers, smalland medium-sized businesses, large • HP profile enterprises, and governments worldwide. Living Progress strategy What we deliver: a comprehensive portfolio of products, software, and services Corporate ethics delivering innovative, transformative solutions for the complex challenges facing Public policy Data our customers and society. Human Progress Economic Progress Key aspects of our business model HP corporate summary Environmental Progress Supply chain: A supply chain spanning six continents • #17 on Fortune 500 (U.S.) 2014 and #50 on About this report and comprising hundreds of production suppliers and Fortune Global 500 2014 tens of thousands of nonproduction suppliers.1 • Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer: Meg Whitman Operations: Operations that include offices, data centers, and manufacturing facilities in countries worldwide • Employees: Approximately 302,000 worldwide2 where our 302,0002 talented employees work. • Incorporated in the State of Delaware, United States Products and solutions: Products and solutions, • Ticker symbol: HPQ on New York Stock Exchange from personal computers, printers, and servers to • Corporate headquarters: Palo Alto, California, services and software, designed and developed United States with the customer and the environment in mind. • FY14 net revenue: $111.5 billion How citizenship is integrated A summary of HP’s business model is presented in Living Progress is how we do business. It is the the diagram. way our people and technology come together to solve society’s toughest challenges. HP business model HP Living Progress Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Stakeholders Suppliers and Supply chain Operations Consumers, SMB, Enterprise, Our employees Products and solutions their workers Government, and Communities Extraction, Facilities, Products Printing and Personal transportation fleet, manufacturing, Printers Systems R&D centers transportation Printing supplies Notebooks Extraction, Facilities, Desktops transportation fleet, Workstations Enterprise Group manufacturing, Tablets transportation R&D centers, data centers Accessories Servers Networking Solutions Software Facilities, R&D centers Storage Mobility Software Cloud Big data Security Services Support Enterprise Services Facilities, data centers IT Outsourcing Applications Technology consulting Financing HP Financial Services Facilities Leasing Asset management 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing, and also assemble HP products. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel) but exclude logistics service providers. 2 As of October 31, 2014. 10 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance HP profile • Living Progress strategy Corporate ethics Public policy Data Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Living Progress strategy Corporate citizenship has always helped guide how HP does Living Progress informs everything we do and how we business. Today, everything we do seeks to address societal do it. It is reflected in how our leaders engage on critichallenges in ways that benefit our company while also cal business and citizenship issues. It is evident in how delivering wider human, economic, and environmental value. we govern our company, including our unwavering commitment to high standards of business conduct. It This approach is rooted in Living Progress, launched in incorporates our strong commitment to the human rights 2013 to put purpose at the heart of our corporate strategy. of employees, workers in our supply chain, and customers As our framework for thinking about how we do business, using our products. It is demonstrated in how we inteLiving Progress inspires us to find transformative solutions grate environmental considerations into the design and that both address some of the world’s toughest challenges performance of our products and solutions. By engaging and create new market opportunities for HP. This wholly in public policy discussions with governments around the integrated approach means that we consider human, world, we help shape policies that promote innovation economic, and environmental impacts as we develop and access to technology that support Living Progress. products, services, and solutions, manage our operations, and interact with our customers, partners, and communities. Our goal in pursuing Living Progress is simple: to create a better future for everyone through our actions and innovations. Living Progress Creating a better future for everyone through our actions and innovations Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Advancing the overall health Helping businesses and Making the environment stronger and well-being of people economies thrive as we grow 11 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Progress in 2014 Across the company, we worked closely with enterprise and public sector customers to extend the benefits Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2014, we made strong progress toward developing, of Living Progress to them, while creating business value implementing, and scaling approaches and social investfor HP. Some of these efforts are discussed in Stakeholder Executive summary ments that further human, economic, and environmental engagement. • Governance progress. In September 2014, we announced a goal to HP profile reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity of For an overview and examples of the significant and • Living Progress our product portfolio1 by 40% by 2020 compared to 2010 growing business value that Living Progress generates for strategy levels2. By applying Living Progress to the design and manHP and our stakeholders globally, see Economic impacts ufacturing of all products, HP is the only global IT company across the value chain. Corporate ethics to have set GHG reduction targets for all three parts of its Public policy value chain. During the year, CEO Meg Whitman and Chief Materiality update Data Progress Officer Gabi Zedlmayer promoted our new stratHuman Progress egy and HP’s contributions toward a low-carbon economy Economic Progress at major events including the launch of the CDP 2014 S&P 500 report in New York City, during Climate Week. In 2014, we updated our 2012 materiality assessment to Environmental Progress ensure HP focuses and reports on the most pressing About this report Our commitment to Living Progress and performance in sustainable development issues that impact, and can be this area earned us recognition in 2014. We received the affected by, our company. highest possible CDP disclosure score—100 points—and an A rating on performance. Our placement on the Climate Working with the external consultancy BSR (Business Disclosure Leadership Index and Climate Performance for Social Responsibility), we reviewed HP documents, Leadership Index demonstrates our transparency and interviewed internal Living Progress and business progress on reducing climate change impacts. We were leaders, and considered major external developments also named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in sustainability over the past two years. We also conWorld Index and North America Index and were one sidered new, industry-specific materiality frameworks of six companies listed as a leader in the “Computer & from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Peripheral and Office Electronics” industry. The EVCOM (SASB) and the Global eSustainability Initiative. Clarion Awards, the leading awards for recognizing best practice in communicating the importance of corporate Our updated matrix categorizes issues into the three social responsibility, recognized HP with a Best Printed Living Progress pillars of human, economic, and enviMaterial award for our 2013 Living Progress Report. ronmental progress along with governance. The issues in the white boxes are above the materiality threshold We also shared our Living Progress story broadly through for the purpose of this report. We also present in grey social media. To drive stakeholder engagement, we critical issues that may not meet the materiality threshold launched a customized Living Progress Twitter platform currently but require regular monitoring. Additional and participated in Twitter chats with media partners information about issues on the materiality matrix such as Triple Pundit and CSR Wire. We also engaged including their definitions, corresponding Aspects from actively in Twitter chats at major conferences, like South the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability by Southwest Eco and Sustainable Brands. Social media Reporting Guidelines, and the boundary of each also amplified the impact of our Living Progress Exchange Aspect is available here and throughout this report. (LPX), where we crowdsource solutions to challenges that hold back human, economic, and environmental progress from a global community of experts and thought leaders. Material issues and trends Just like the world around us, Living Progress is The refresh of our materiality assessment largely not static. In 2014, we took concerted steps to both validated our 2012 results. The application and attributes ensure our strategy’s impact today and explore its of our products and solutions remain top issues both continued evolution. Activities included updating our from the perspective of sustainable development and materiality assessment to reflect evolving priorities our business performance. Ethics, anti-corruption, proper within the company and among stakeholders. To help business relationships, and data security remain highly further refine the Living Progress framework and important to our business success, and issues related increase its resonance, we held several internal and to environmental management and our supply chain external stakeholder consultations and exchanges. remain highly important to HP’s stakeholders. Intellectual property protection became a new material issue this year. 1 Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, HP Moonshot and HP Apollo. 2 Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. The unit of output was determined per product line as follows: printer output represents carbon emissions from printing one A4 image; each personal system represents one unit of output; for servers, each unit of output equals a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards. 12 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Several overarching themes emerged from this process engagement, and workplace practices. We also need Letter from CEO that influence our thinking and evolving strategy: to continue reducing environmental impacts from Meg Whitman energy, water, and materials use in operations. Developing products and solutions that benefit society Executive summary as well as our customers is a priority. HP technology Addressing risks and opportunities across our supply • Governance addresses social and environmental challenges such as chain supports both sustainability and our business HP profile enterprise development, access to healthcare and success. We have a robust risk-sensing process to identify • Living Progress education, climate change, and biodiversity. Our Design for emerging supply chain issues such as increasing IT labor strategy the Environment approach to how we make our products is shortages and regional political unrest. We must continue geared toward continually reducing environmental to invest in the resiliency of our supply chain and properly Corporate ethics impacts across the value chain. Read more in Products manage such risks, while also reducing environmental Public policy and solutions and Social investment-Human, -Economic, impacts from the production and transportation of our Data and -Environmental. products. See Supply chain responsibility and Supply chain Human Progress environmental impact for more information on our approach. Protecting our customers’ privacy is extremely Economic Progress important in our data-rich society. HP integrates Applying emerging management frameworks and Environmental Progress strong privacy controls into all of our business models can help us drive Living Progress. We apply the About this report activities and provides customers with transparency UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights— and choice regarding the personal information they through policies, impact assessments, and management provide. Read more about our efforts in Privacy. systems—to help us address many of our material issues. Strong intellectual property rights regimes support Managing our operations responsibly is a core innovation and protect consumers and businesses alike. expectation. We must maintain the highest standards of governance, corporate ethics, public policy HP 2014 materiality assessment Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress High Non-GHG air emissions Energy and GHG emissions in Product energy efficiency operations and supply chain Responsible paper sourcing Product life cycle management Waste and hazardous materials in Access to technology operations and supply chain IT as a sustainability solution Freedom of expression Water in operations and supply chain Social application of IT Use of substances of concern in products Labor practices in supply chain Supply chain codes, standards, Privacy and engagement Responsible sourcing of minerals Relative importance to sustainable development Biodiversity impacts Public policy engagement Ethical behavior and business partnerships Human trafficking in supply Board structure and independence chain Transparency, accountability, Intellectual property protection and reporting Responsible marketing Bribery and corruption Product transport and logistics Diversity and inclusion Packaging Cyber security Sale and misuse of IT products and services Executive compensation Employee volunteerism Occupational health and safety Lobbying and political contributions Supplier diversity Workforce management Employee travel Network resilience Employee training and development Circular economy Supply chain resilience Employee wellness and benefits Natural disaster relief Levels of taxation Relationships with law enforcement agencies Collaborative economy Low Relative importance to HP’s business success Low High 13 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Stakeholder Contents leaders from diverse industries and organizations to Letter from CEO brainstorm ways to create a better future. Facilitated by third-party organizations such as GlobeScan, these engagement Meg Whitman conversations focus on solutions to pressing global probExecutive summary lems that impact human, economic, and environmental • Governance progress. Our goal is to discover fresh ideas and ways to HP profile Living Progress is only possible through open dialogue pool our expertise and resources to create Living Progress. and collaboration with stakeholders such as employees, • Living Progress suppliers, customers, public policy makers, industry bodies, strategy Since launching the LPX at Sustainable Brands in June nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and sector experts. 2014, we hosted nine in-person sessions at five events Corporate ethics around the world, and two global, online sessions. The Public policy HP maps and engages stakeholders involved in our ideas shared during these forums have helped inform Data most material issues and in 2014, we worked with BSR our Living Progress strategy discussions as HP plans to to update our stakeholder mapping. Feedback from separate into two independent publicly traded companies. Human Progress stakeholders on key topics is fed back to HP’s global Read our summary report from the first global online Economic Progress citizenship leaders who evaluate specific issues and exchange. For an example of a live, in-person LPX session, Environmental Progress their influence on our overall strategy. See examples watch this video from the 2015 Sundance Film Festival. of how we engaged with stakeholders throughout the About this report year around our material issues, in the table below. For a more complete list of organizations HP engages with, see Affiliations and memberships. In 2014, we also launched a new method for receiving stakeholder feedback. The HP Living Progress Exchange (LPX) brings together creative thinkers and sustainability Issue Groups engaged Types of engagement Examples of engagement in 2014 Human Progress Labor practices in NGOs, industry Capability building, We participate in industry-wide collaboration to raise labor standards. supply chain associations and orgaaudits, assessments, In 2014, we worked with the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition to nizations, suppliers, and training revise language regarding freedom of association in the industry code governments of conduct. Read more in Raising industry standards. Responsible Businesses, Audits, capability We actively participate in the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), sourcing of NGOs, governbuilding, mentoring, providing leadership through work groups focused on expanding the minerals ment agencies, HP white papers, conferCFSI-identified 3TG smelter list. Read more in Conflict minerals. production suppliers, ence and workshop multi-stakeholder attendance groups, in-region sourcing projects Diversity and Employees, partner Sponsorship, partnerIn the United States, we work with organizations such as Leadership inclusion advocacy organizations ships, conferences, Education for Asian Pacifics and the National Action Council for employee surveys Minorities in Engineering to foster an inclusive culture throughout HP. Read more in Diversity and inclusion. Privacy Governments, NGOs, Training and guidance, We took a leadership role in developing the Unified Ethical Frame for customers, employees collaboration on Big Data Analysis, a groundbreaking initiative led by the Information industry initiatives Accountability Foundation (IAF) and backed by regulators, companies, and working groups and the privacy community. Read more in Privacy. Economic Progress Social application NGOs, governments, Partnerships, sponIn 2014, the HP Company Foundation launched a five-year, $7 million of IT academia, peer compasorships, community global employee engagement program—Matter to a Million—with Kiva, nies, customers, social engagement and a nonprofit microlender. By way of the KIVA online lending platform, entrepreneurs, thought volunteering, cash and our employees offer loans provided by the HP Company Foundation leaders, employees, in-kind donations in the form of $25 credits, to farmers, shopkeepers, and other small communities business owners in more than 85 countries. Read more in Social investment: Economic. Cyber security NGOs, industry Training and guidance, In 2014, we collaborated with the World Economic Forum to build upon associations and orgacollaboration on the Principles for Cyber Resilience, a multi-stakeholder initiative derived nizations, customers, programs and initiafrom dialogue across multiple regions and sectors and intended to help governments tives, white papers improve systemic resilience to cyber risks. Read more in Public policy. Environmental Progress Product energy Regulators, customers, Partnerships, We work with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to regularly efficiency suppliers consumer educaupdate standards. Read more in Design for the Environment. tion, collaboration on industry initiatives continued 14 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Issue Groups engaged Types of engagement Examples of engagement in 2014 Letter from CEO Product life cycle Governments, financial Partnerships, During 2014, we engaged regulators to explore the impact of current Meg Whitman management institutions, NGOs, lobbying/ advocacy, and future regulations on the classification and management of used vendor partners, sponsorships, thirdIT. We support the objectives of the Basel Convention on the Control of Executive summary customers party audits Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal. • Governance Read more in Product return and recycling. HP profile IT as a sustainCustomers, NGOs, Marketing, partnerIn addition to the Earth Insights initiative, HP provides Conservation • Living Progress ability solution communities ships, sponsorships, International (CI) with HP Explore cloud-based analytics technology strategy collaboration on to track CI’s social media campaign #NatureIsSpeaking and the programs and conversation it is generating online. Read more in Social investment: Corporate ethics initiatives Environmental. Public policy Data Human Progress Economic Progress Living Progress rights, privacy, sustainability, and corporate social responEnvironmental Progress sibility) and the impact of HP’s operations on employees, About this report customers, suppliers, partners, and communities worldgovernance wide, as well as review HP’s annual Living Progress report. In addition, the committee may review, assess, report, and provide guidance to management and the board Strong leadership, sound governance, and active relating to activities, policies, and programs with respect employee participation throughout HP are the foundato public policy matters. The committee may also identify, tion of Living Progress. Our Vice President of Living evaluate, and monitor social, political, and environmental Progress and Chief Progress Officer leads the effort, trends, issues, concerns, legislative proposals, and ensuring that we engage stakeholders in making Living regulatory developments that could significantly affect the Progress a positive driving force for our company. public affairs of HP; and oversees the HP Political Action Committee and the policies relating to, and the manner in which HP conducts, its government affairs activities. HP Board of Directors’ Nominating, Governance and Social HP’s Executive Council, led by our CEO, retains overall responsibility for global citizenship as part of our Responsibility Committee business strategy. Senior leaders reporting to HP’s Executive Council in various business and global funcIn 2013, the HP Board of Directors’ Nominating and tions including Corporate Affairs, Human Resources, Governance Committee expanded its prior oversight of Supply Chain, Ethics and Compliance, and Global Real global citizenship efforts at HP. The committee updated Estate ensure our company-wide commitment to its charter to reflect this enhanced focus and changed and alignment with HP’s global citizenship objectives its name to the Nominating, Governance and Social and are responsible for advancing HP Living Progress Responsibility Committee to formalize the change. company-wide. Senior leaders from the Ethics and Compliance Office and Corporate Affairs organizations Among its responsibilities, the Nominating, Governance provide the interface to the Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee may review, assess, and Social Responsibility Committee of the board and report, and provide guidance to management and the other relevant Executive Council-level committees. board regarding HP’s policies and programs relating to global citizenship (which include, among others, human Global citizenship governance HP Board of Directors Nominating, Governance, and Social Responsibility Committee assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to HP's public policy, government aﬀairs, and global citizenship (including human rights) activities HP Company Foundation HP Executive Council Board HP Company HP Global Citizenship Leaders Foundation Stakeholder engagement Corporate Supply chain Social Human rights Privacy HP people Environment ethics responsibility investment 15 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Company Contents Letter from CEO separation and Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance HP profile • Living Progress Living Progress strategy On October 6, 2014, HP announced plans to separate into Corporate ethics two independent publicly traded companies.3 Public policy • Hewlett Packard Enterprise comprising our enterprise Data technology infrastructure, software, services, and financing businesses, enabling business outcomes for Human Progress enterprise customers with secure, market-leading infraEconomic Progress structure, software and services that help run traditional Environmental Progress IT better and seamlessly move to the New Style of IT. About this report • HP Inc. comprising our printing and personal systems businesses, empowering people to create, interact and inspire like never before at home, at work, and on the go. As we create new possibilities for technology to have meaningful impact, citizenship will continue to be integral to both companies. From the beginning, our founders, Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, believed their company should create great products and help make the world a better place and this commitment is fully integrated in HP’s strategy and culture. The separation does present a unique opportunity for each company to examine the full breadth of our Living Progress impact worldwide and refine how purpose-driven strategies will drive innovation, improve operational performance, and engage employees moving forward. Each new company will also determine how it will report its sustainability performance as a separate entity. 3 The separation is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, obtaining final approval from HP’s Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable opinion and/or rulings with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes and the effectiveness of a Form 10 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The separation is expected to be completed by the end of FY15. Under the separation plan, HP shareholders will own shares of both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. The separation will better position the two new companies to generate long-term shareholder value and accelerate performance. 16 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance HP profile Living Progress strategy • Corporate ethics Public policy Data Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Corporate ethics At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. Our corporate values, policies, and training courses set clear expectations for employees and demonstrate Ethics and our commitment to the highest ethical standards. We are responsible for our actions, accountable for their consequences, and serious about our efforts. compliance Integrity is the foundation of our global business and our HP’s Ethics and Compliance program provides promise to customers and communities. We hold our guidelines to ensure that employees, business partleadership, employees, suppliers, and business partners ners, and suppliers worldwide engage in lawful and to the highest ethical standards and require their compliethical business practices. As demonstrated by our ance with applicable laws and regulations at all times. Anti-corruption program, HP does not tolerate corrupt These expectations are clearly described in our Standards behavior and prohibits bribes or kickbacks under any of Business Conduct (SBC) and supported by additional circumstances. We respond swiftly to violations and targeted codes of conduct, robust governance structures, have systems in place for reporting and resolving ethical ethics and compliance trainings, tailored communications, concerns, in line with our policies and local laws. and reporting and investigation procedures. Beyond our own operations, we use our global scale and influence to encourage and support ethical behavior by our suppliers, partners, and the broader IT industry. Read more in Supply chain responsibility and Human rights. HP codes of conduct Employees Suppliers HP’s Standards of Business Conduct (SBC), available in HP Supplier Code of Conduct 25 languages, sets clear expectations of behavior for Partners employees, including guidance on what to do in difficult situations. Additional codes of conduct support the SBC. Partner Code of Conduct (available in 26 languages) Human rights U.S. public sector employees Global Human Rights Policy U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct Contingent workers Contingent Worker Code of Conduct (available in 25 languages) 17 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Governance HP’s Ethics and Compliance Committee provides executive level oversight and guidance on the design Letter from CEO Meg Whitman HP’s Board of Directors, led by Board Chairman Meg and implementation of HP’s ethics and compliance Whitman, who also serves as HP President and CEO, is program. This committee reports to the Audit and Executive summary responsible for ethics and compliance at HP. Along with HP Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility • Governance committees of the Board. HP’s Ethics and Compliance executives, the board sets a top-down tone of commitHP profile ment to good governance for HP employees worldwide. Office, within the Office of the General Counsel, manLiving Progress ages ethical issues on a day-to-day basis across our strategy The board’s Audit Committee provides nonexecutive input global operations. The office oversees implementation and guidance to our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of our SBC as well as our Global Human Rights Policy • Corporate ethics and designs processes aimed to prevent, mitigate, and regarding our ethics program. The Nominating, Governance Public policy remediate related impacts to and across our business. and Social Responsibility Committee is responsible for Data overseeing, making recommendations, and reporting to A human rights program management office works Human Progress the full board regarding HP’s policies on corporate social with business units and global functions to conduct due responsibility and global corporate citizenship. diligence and seeks to mitigate potential human rights Economic Progress impacts relating to consumer and employee data privacy, Environmental Progress supply chain management, labor relations, employee About this report health and safety, and global trade, for example. 7. Ethics andand Ethics compliance compliance governance governance structure structure See HP’s Governance page for more information about the board’s composition, its committees and Board of Directors their respective charters, our company bylaws, and our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Audit Committee Independent Director Reporting ethics concerns Open door approach Ethics and Compliance Committee HP encourages employees to raise ethics concerns and ask questions about the best course of action in any circumstance, without fear of retaliation. We Chief Ethics and Compliance Oﬀicer provide guidance on how to do so in our SBC and related training course, our corporate policy directory, Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice and our internal ethics and compliance website. We provide formal, confidential reporting channels for employees and third parties, including via email, an Compliance Council Global Ethics Team online form, and a global 24-hour toll-free hotline with translators available. Where allowed by law, reporting can be anonymous. The hotline and corporate compliEthics and ance email channels provide two-way communications Compliance Oﬀice Anti-corruption Oﬀice for anonymous sources so we can respond promptly and follow up as needed. On specific ethical issues, employees Regulatory Compliance can also talk to their immediate manager or more senior Review Board SBC Leadership Team managers, seek advice from our ethics and compliance experts, or consult regional or business SBC liaisons. In Market Knowledge 2014, employees and third parties reported 1,208 items Business, Regional, Board and Global Functions to our Global SBC team or other compliance functions. SBC Liasons Privacy and Data Read more about how to ask a question or report a concern. Protection Board Local SBC Network Social and Environmental Responsibility Operations Council 18 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Items reported to Global SBC team or other compliance functions, 2010–2014* [percentage of total] Training, communications, and Letter from CEO Meg Whitman recognition Total number of reported items in 2014: 1,208 Executive summary 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Everyone at HP is accountable for their actions, regard• Governance Human 44% 42% 39% 40% 31% less of their position in the company. To support ethical HP profile resources behavior across our workforce, we maintain a program of training, communications, and recognition. Living Progress Misuse of assets 11% 10% 12% 18% 26% strategy Conflicts of 6% 8% 13% 9% 10% Key initiatives in 2014 • Corporate ethics interest • Mandatory SBC annual refresher course A record Public policy Fraud 10% 9% 8% 7% 8% 99.9% of active employees, including every senior Data officer and executive, completed a one-hour training Anti-corruption** 3% 3% Human Progress course in 2014 covering our SBC and key policies, Confidentiality 5% 6% 4% 4% 3% procedures, and high-risk issues. The “Tone from the Economic Progress Top” Leadership Challenge encouraged senior leaders Customer 2% 3% 4% 4% 3% Environmental Progress relationships to act as role models for ethics and compliance and About this report to complete their SBC training ahead of schedule. We Sales channel 3% 3% 1% 2% 2% require board members to complete SBC training every violations two years. New hires completed a comprehensive SBC Financial and 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% training course within 30 days of joining HP. public reporting • Internal communications strategy We completely Competition 1% 3% 3% 1% 1% revamped our internal communications to better Workplace secu9% 11% engage employees on ethics and compliance issues, rity and theft * using a range of communications that inject creativity without undermining the seriousness of our message. Other 15% 14% 14% 1% 1% * Some • Ethics Champions Recognition Program We recsegments do not add up to total due to rounding. **The ognized eight employees during 2014 through this Anti-corruption and Workplace security and theft categories were separated from the Other category beginning in 2013 to increase quarterly program, which celebrates individuals or transparency. The Anti-corruption category is broadly defined and includes teams that demonstrate ethical leadership or display allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks, and certain Global Business HP’s values in ways that contribute to the company’s Amenities Policy violations, as well as alleged corruption related to foreign public officials. success. Each quarter, we profile one such employee in the Integrity Matters newsletter, which is circulated Investigating concerns company-wide. We take all alleged violations of company policy seriously. • Leadership recognition Ashley Watson, HP’s former We respond promptly and conduct investigations when Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, won the title of appropriate. These investigations may involve local, Chief Compliance Officer of the Year for 2014. This global regional, or corporate-level employees and other relevant Women in Compliance Award recognized Ashley’s leaderfunctions, including regional human resources teams. ship and achievements, both at HP and within the wider The Office of General Counsel’s dedicated investigations compliance community. team oversees all escalated, corporate-led investigations. • Approach to high-risk countries Our Ethics and Details and results of investigations are confidential and Compliance Office provides specific guidance and shared only on a need-to-know basis. We take appropritraining in higher-risk countries, including face-to-face ate disciplinary or remedial action, when required. training for sales, marketing, and function employees, and training materials to channel reseller partners that HP uses a global case management system to record participate in the Legal and Regulatory Partner Due allegations of ethical violations. This approach enables Diligence Program. us to identify geographical hotspots and trends and determine whether additional training or controls would be valuable in a specific region or area of risk. Investigation process review 8. Investigation cycle Assess: Investigate: Analyze: Review: Conclude: review allegation gather and review data, make findings, prepare review investigation close case, implement and open case conduct interviews investigation summary findings and recommendations recommendations • Determine whether there • Conduct fact finding to obtain • Matter closed due to “substance • Multiple reviewers and review • Outcomes may include human is suﬀicient information to and assess relevant information found,” “no substance found,” points ensure fairness and resources disciplinary actions investigate or “inconclusive” consistency across and process recommendations investigations • Investigate only on the basis of concrete allegations from anonymous sources, employees, or third parties 19 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Anti-corruption Contents We work closely with our business partners to guard Letter from CEO against corruption. In 2014, HP expanded controls related Meg Whitman to third party due diligence, including those covering Corrupt behavior undermines the values on which suppliers, global logistics service providers, and the Executive summary HP is built, the principles of fair competition, and the rescreening of existing channel reseller partners. We • Governance rule of law. HP does not tolerate corrupt behavior, commissioned enhanced due diligence regarding corHP profile including bribery or kickbacks, in any circumstance. ruption for business partners with a high-risk profile. Living Progress strategy Through our Anti-corruption Compliance Program, • Corporate ethics we promote compliance with relevant laws and Training, communications, and Public policy regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt recognition Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and similar national Data laws. Our key policies in this area include: We provide a range of anti-corruption trainings and Human Progress programs to enhance employee awareness and • Our Anti-corruption Policy, which provides the guidelines Economic Progress and principles to help directors, officers, and employees understanding. In 2014, we delivered more than 45 live Environmental Progress worldwide uphold our anti-corruption commitment. (face-to-face and virtual) targeted training sessions Where national laws prescribe more restrictive rules, to more than 7,800 employees worldwide on antiAbout this report corruption, our SBC, global trade, amenities, and global these rules apply. security, including 19 presentations in high-risk countries. • Our Global Business Amenities Policy, which establishes In addition, we offer a number of online courses: limits, approvals, and requirements for employees to follow when providing and receiving business amenities • Training for new hires New hires complete antito or from third parties. corruption training as part of our mandatory ethics and compliance induction process, and anti-corruption is a In 2014, HP developed the Amenities Approval tool, a key element of the annual SBC refresher training course technology solution that streamlines the process by for all employees. which employees obtain review and approval in advance • Training for sales employees Sales employees are of giving or accepting business amenities, including required to take an additional anti-corruption course gifts, travel, and entertainment. We developed this tool every year that provides scenario-based training to 99.9% to support employees in remaining compliant with the deepen their understanding of how to apply antiGlobal Business Amenities Policy. All employees must corruption policies in their everyday work. In 2014, more also abide by our Political Contributions Policies. than 26,000 sales employees took the course. Percentage of active employees that • Tailored training Relevant employees also complete completed annual SBC training in 2014 Audits and assessments training tailored to the unique requirements of conducting business with the U.S. government. In 2014, more We use internal data and Transparency International’s than 37,800 employees completed this training. Corruption Perceptions Index to identify countries at high risk for corrupt activity and raise employee awareness of In 2014, we also launched the Anti-corruption Ambassador potential issues in these locations. We also benchmark Program, a worldwide effort to promote anti-corruption our program with those of other companies to identify communication and awareness everywhere we operate. potential improvements. This information helps us to Senior leaders designated by business unit and global prioritize employee education and training efforts and function promoted ethics and anti-corruption mesfocus our audits and assessments of our own operasages and provided tactical support for key initiatives. tions as well as those of our suppliers and partners. During 2014, we conducted numerous audits1 focused on Foreign Corrupt Practices Act potential corruption risks, including audits of our own resolution operations as well as business partners. All of HP’s business units were assessed for risks related to corruption during In April 2014, HP entered into a settlement with the U.S. the year. HP continues to enhance the controls around our Department of Justice (DOJ) and Securities and Exchange anti-corruption initiatives and implement improvements to Commission (SEC) to resolve a case regarding the actions address new or changing corruption risks. of a small number of lower-level employees at three foreign Hewlett-Packard subsidiaries in Russia, Poland, and Mexico. HP had strong internal controls in place at the time of these isolated actions, and the employees at 1 These audits addressed both operational and corruption risks, with a focus on testing operational controls that also help mitigate corruption risks. 20 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents issue had received training on HP’s policies and expectaimprovement of its anti-corruption program. The SEC likeLetter from CEO tions. However, the employees ignored clear rules and wise stated that HP has “undertaken significant remedial Meg Whitman affirmatively hid their conduct from other employees. HP actions over the course of the Commission’s investigation, investigated these matters vigorously and cooperated including by implementing a company-wide screening Executive summary fully with U.S. enforcement authorities and has further process for its channel partners, training its public sector • Governance strengthened its global anti-corruption compliance sales staff on its policies for dealing with business interHP profile program and developed additional safeguards to minimize mediaries, increasing compliance-related training for its Living Progress the risk of similar misconduct going forward. The DOJ global workforce, and implementing additional enhancestrategy recognized HP’s “extraordinary” cooperation with the ments to its internal controls and compliance functions.” authorities, extensive remediation efforts, and continued • Corporate ethics Public policy Goals Data Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Corporate ethics 2014 goals Progress Continue to focus on business-led ethics and compliance messaging Achieved. and communications. Continue to emphasize and recognize Ethics Champions. Achieved. Continue to refresh and refine training and consulting programs. Achieved. Continue to improve and enhance due diligence on third parties with Achieved. whom we do business. Complete enhancements to the event, hospitality, and business Finalized the Amenities Approval tool. amenity screening tool. 2015 goals Continue to incorporate a new social media-style strategy in communication and training. Expand scenario-based anti-corruption training to a wider audience. Continue expanding due diligence to include other third parties. Deploy the Amenities Approval tool worldwide to screen events, hospitality, and other business amenities. Increase focus on ethics and compliance for new employees, to emphasize a culture of integrity at the beginning of employment. Carry forward HP’s values of integrity and winning the right way through the separation process. 21 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • Governance HP profile Living Progress strategy Corporate ethics • Public policy Data Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Public policy Public policy significantly affects our industry and its defenses and improved threat information sharing, the ability to transform how people around the world live ability to move and access data across borders, flexibility and work. As a leading IT company, HP helps shape on server location, robust privacy and data protection important regulatory frameworks related to a range of frameworks, and technology-neutral, international issues impacting our business. We share our expertise standards. We advocate for technology standards that and experience with elected officials, governments, leverage existing international collaborative processes and regulators in many countries to develop and foster with industry and encourage governments to prioritize innovation and create a better future. This approach is procurement of the best technologies from vibrant fundamental to our broader Living Progress strategy. open source communities, such as OpenStack® for interoperable and flexible global cloud infrastructure. HP’s Corporate Affairs team drives our global public policy initiatives and political engagement under the In 2014, we deepened our partnership with the World leadership of the Senior Vice President of Corporate Economic Forum (WEF) to build upon the Principles Affairs and with oversight from the Nominating, for Cyber Resilience, a set of guidelines for organizaGovernance and Social Responsibility Committee of HP’s tions of all kinds to contribute to overall levels of cyber Board of Directors. Our advocacy efforts comply with risk mitigation. We engaged with the WEF to assist all applicable national and international laws as well as their work to establish international norms on cyber our own strict Standards of Business Conduct (SBC). warfare, increase cyber resilience, and mitigate the economic and strategic impact of cyber attacks. HP belongs to several industry associations and coalitions worldwide that work to inform policy. In addition, we provided input to governments on proposed measures and trade agreement language Our public policy work focuses on five areas critical between countries regarding cross-border data flows, to our business. See a summary of our approach in cloud storage, and big data. each area, or click on the links to read more about our policy positions on Technology policy, Tax and Tax and economic incentives economic incentives, Market access, Intellectual HP promotes responsible tax policies that encourage property, Social and environmental policies. innovation, research and development (R&D), and job creation. We actively promote comprehensive federal tax reform in the United States. In 2014, we supported Policy priorities the successful extension of the R&D tax credit, an essential tool for HP to continue to make investTechnology policy ments to stimulate U.S. innovation, as well as other Technology policy has a direct and fundamental impact tax provisions critical for U.S. business. HP invested on our business growth. We support outcomes-driven, $3.45 billion in R&D in 2014, a 10% increase over 2013, consumer-friendly regulatory frameworks that enhance with the majority conducted in the United States. cyber security and encourage growth of innovative technologies such as cloud and big data. Key issues Globally, we monitor and engage with international affecting the adoption and wide-scale deployment of tax reform efforts through the G-20 and Organization the New Style of Business include: enhanced cyber for Economic Co-operation and Development. 22 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Market access Related to our products and solutions, we support Letter from CEO HP supports open markets for IT goods and services, which responsible and consistent legislation and reportMeg Whitman will encourage global innovation and access to technoling requirements in support of safer materials use ogy. We promote the use and recognition of international and promote responsible regulation of end-of-life Executive summary standards whenever possible and discourage policies that electronics. We are also a leader in the development of • Governance product environmental performance standards such promote domestic industry at the expense of access to HP profile global technologies and services. In 2014, we supported as ENERGY STAR® and EPEAT® and work alongside Living Progress negotiations on trade agreements including the Transthe Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to strategy Pacific Partnership, Transatlantic Trade and Investment promote meaningful legislation and government proAgreement, and Trade in Services Agreement, as well as curement expectations for supply chain responsibility. Corporate ethics U.S. legislation to renew Trade Promotion Authority. • Public policy • Data Intellectual property Political engagement Human Progress The protection of HP’s intellectual property, including our more than 34,000 patents, is essential to In 2014, HP contributed $1,097,601 to state and local canEconomic Progress our ongoing innovation and business success. didates, political memberships or sponsorships, and ballot Environmental Progress measure campaigns in the United States. In addition, we About this report Counterfeit IT products are more sophisticated and contributed in-kind donations to the California Republican pervasive than ever, presenting one of the most significant Party and California Legislative Black Caucus totaling global challenges to HP. We seek to eliminate counterfeit $92,743, calculated at fair market value. These contribuproducts, particularly in priority regions, by engaging tions aligned with our policy positions and complied with directly with governments, supporting public awareness HP’s political guidelines, SBC, and applicable laws. campaigns, and advocating for procurement best practices. In 2014, our advocacy helped secure successful passage HP does not make corporate contributions to federal of copyright law revisions in Indonesia, improvements to political candidates. However, eligible employees can counterfeit legislation in the UAE and increased penalties make voluntary donations to the HP Political Action for breaches of Brazil’s new intellectual property law. Committee (PAC). This separate legal entity contributes to both Democratic and Republican campaign committees, In the United States, HP supports reforms to strengthen PACs, and party committees in the United States that the U.S. patent system, improve patent quality, and share our policy views. In 2014, the HP PAC disbursed curb excessive patent litigation in the courts and at the $595,100. To encourage eligible U.S. employees to International Trade Commission. HP encourages Congress participate in the political process, in 2014, we relaunched to pass bipartisan legislation that deters abusive patent a website with voter education and registration resources. litigation and also preserves incentives to innovate. Learn more on our Corporate Affairs public policy Social and environmental responsibility website, including: HP promotes public policies that support human, • Public policy priorities economic, and environmental progress. Building on • Policies for corporate and PAC political contributions our initiative with Conservation International—HP Earth Insights—in 2014, we supported the expan• Criteria and responsibilities for approving political sion of the White House’s Climate Data Initiative and contributions promoted the adoption of big data analytics in various • List of candidates and groups that received corporate or countries with government agencies responsible for PAC contributions in 2014 biodiversity, wildlife, and protected area management. We are collaborating with the government of China—in • List of Section 527 organizations that received contribuconjunction with the United Nations Children’s Fund tions from HP in 2014 (UNICEF)—and the government of India to apply technology innovation to improving healthcare delivery The website also discloses the proportion of our trade assoand analytics. HP also works worldwide to support ciation membership fees used for lobbying purposes in 2014. technology-driven educational improvements and to advance development of IT and entrepreneurial skills. Data Public policy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Contributions to U.S. state and local candidates, political member$1,284,900 $1,136,447 $1,422,375 $1,175,636 $1,097,601 ships/sponsorships, and other ballot measure campaigns [$] HP Political Action Committee contributions * [$] $378,000 $542,000 $529,450 $359,886 $595,100 * Includes minimal operating expenditures. Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees Social investment Data Economic Progress Environmental Progress About this report Human Progress Advancing the overall health and well-being of people 24 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress • Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees Social investment Data Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview About this report HP is advancing the health and well-being of people We tailor our approach to address the issues we uncover. across our value chain. Through Living Progress, our For example, we have brought health awareness business and technology enriches people’s lives around programs using BSR’s Health Enables Returns (HER) the globe and helps to solve some of the world’s most Project to more than 55,000 workers in China, Malaysia, pressing human challenges. We are enhancing conditions Mexico, and Thailand since the program’s inception in for the workers in our supply chain, improving opportuni2007. In 2014, we responded to rising concerns about ties and healthcare for people in remote communities, mistreatment of migrant and student workers, by and promoting respect for human rights globally. Our upgrading our policies and monitoring program. commitment to our employees starts with a strong set of global human resources policies and is guided by Beyond our manufacturing suppliers, our supply the HP Way Now, our integrated system of values, core chain includes the mining of minerals used to make principles, leadership attributes, and behaviors that our products. We are working hard to ensure that together make our culture unique and compelling. these minerals are from responsible sources and are not contributing to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or other human rights impacts. Supply chain See Conflict minerals for more information. In HP’s value chain, Human Progress begins with the hundreds of thousands of people employed by our Operations suppliers who make our products, spanning six continents and more than 45 countries and territories. HP has a long-standing tradition of investing in and supporting our global community of approximately HP has worked consistently to improve the health and 302,0001 employees. We are committed to offering well-being of people working in our supply chain and opportunities for employees to excel in the workplace, ensure they have the opportunity of fair, safe, and to grow professionally and personally, and to connect voluntary work. We monitor supplier performance and with their communities. Our employee programs include collaborate with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), learning and development, volunteering opportunitraining groups, and other stakeholders to deliver our ties, and wellness benefits that enhance satisfaction capability-building programs. We engage both manageamong our employees worldwide. HP continues to ment and factory workers at our suppliers in order to show strong favorability from employee ratings across permanently enhance working conditions, from worka range of categories that measure key dimensions of ing hours and safety to anti-discrimination and the well-run organizations. In 2014, 70% of our benchmarked implementation of employee grievance mechanisms. survey questions were at or above industry benchmarks from the IT Survey Group (ITSG) Consortium. 1 As of October 31, 2014. 25 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP is committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce and creating an inclusive environment in Social investment Letter from CEO Meg Whitman which everyone can thrive. To drive accountability To further Human Progress, we also make strategic for improving workforce diversity and maintaining an social investments in critical areas such as healthcare Executive summary inclusive work environment, we set business unit targets delivery and analytics and disaster recovery and rebuildGovernance related to workforce demographics. Our dedicated ing. Working in partnership with public and private sector Human Progress employees motivate and amplify our impact through partner organizations, we leverage our people and • Overview programs that support Human Progress in communitechnology to maximize impact across the ecosystem. ties worldwide, such as the Social Innovation Relay Human rights as part of our first Global Day of Service in 2014. For example, in India HP is transforming healthcare Supply chain delivery for remote communities, enabling access to qualresponsibility ity, affordable healthcare through locally based eHealth Privacy Products and solutions Centers connected to doctors and specialists in leading Our employees hospitals. In China, through collaboration with the United In just 40 years, IT has redefined how we live and work Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Chinese governSocial investment through the Internet, big data, cloud computing, mobile ment, we are working to improve maternal and children’s Data personal devices, and digital printing. HP’s products and health through a properly integrated health management Economic Progress solutions are sold and used in most countries worldwide, information system. By mobilizing our employees we colEnvironmental Progress providing a platform for positive impact that reaches millaborated with the international hunger relief organization lions of people. The rapid evolution of data-collection and Stop Hunger Now (SHN) as a global partner for our inauguAbout this report analysis technologies brings many benefits to society, for ral Global Day of Service to mark HP’s 75th anniversary. example, transforming healthcare delivery and education. For examples of our key initiatives, see Social investment: At the same time, the exponential growth of global data Human. poses profound challenges to maintaining the privacy of personal information. We understand the importance of privacy to our consumers and the organizations that buy our products and services. HP is leading industry and civil society efforts to develop an ethical framework for The New Style of Business, including the collection and use of big data. In our own operations, we endeavor to go beyond minimum legal obligations to safeguard customers’ personal information, and train every employee in our global workforce on these topics. 26 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview • Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees Social investment Data Economic Progress Environmental Progress Human rights About this report Respecting human rights is instinctive to HP. We take risks by likelihood and severity and the leverage an uncompromising stance on human rights in our own that HP has to address each issue. The top two risks operations and work to influence others to do the same. related to labor practices in IT supply chains and data privacy for our customers, partners, and employees. Our influence extends across HP’s value chain and touches many communities worldwide. We engage extensively In 2014, we expanded the human rights risk assesswith our suppliers to protect workers and improve ment to cover our internal compliance functions. We labor standards. In our own operations, we promote a assessed 39 compliance functions and identified 15 diverse and inclusive culture and have zero tolerance risks associated with eight of those. For all 15 risks, we for discrimination of any kind among our employees. determined that correctly applying existing compliance For our customers, HP is committed to delivering a requirements would mitigate the human rights risks. data-rich society where personal privacy is protected. HP took a major step in 2014 by expanding its supply chain requirements related to preventing exploitative Managing human rights labor practices and forced labor. We are the first IT company to require direct employment of foreign HP’s approach is rooted in the UN Guiding Principles on migrant workers in our supply chain through the HP Business and Human Rights. We define our commitSupply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker Standard. By ments and expectations in our Global Human Rights insisting on direct employment, we can better monitor Policy and other human-rights related policies. and prevent issues commonly associated with migrant workers such as retention of passports or personal To put these policies into practice, we conduct risk documentation and worker-paid recruitment fees. assessments and due diligence on business activities where we have the potential to impact human rights. The use of IT can help advance society and enhance the We provide access to grievance reporting mechanisms lives of people worldwide. Such technology can also and remedies for potential parties impacted and be used for unintended purposes or in contexts that report transparently on our activities. These protocols are challenging, potentially linking their use to human ensure we monitor our activities and risks, swiftly rights impacts. HP abides by all relevant sanctions, remedy problems when they do occur, and seek conrestrictions, and embargoes in its business operations tinual improvements to our policies and practices. worldwide. In addition, we utilize our human rights due diligence process to guide HP’s actions when there is a We have determined three communities of “rights risk of human rights impacts as a result of our business holders” in relation to which HP assesses and manages relationships. Consistent with our Global Human Rights human rights risks: supplier employees, HP employees, Policy, we investigate allegations when our business and customers. In 2013, we conducted a human rights may be linked to adverse human rights impacts and risk assessment covering these groups. We analyzed strive to mitigate impacts where we have influence. 27 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents We have received inquiries alleging that we are linked to HP also participated in forums in Beijing, China, and Letter from CEO human rights impacts as a consequence of our business Jakarta, Indonesia, to share practices and challenges Meg Whitman relationship with the Government of Israel. Based on our and increase capabilities and awareness. investigations and the scope of technology and services • Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code Executive summary that HP provides, we believe we are acting consistent of Conduct—HP promoted strengthened EICC Code Governance with our Global Human Rights Policy. As with all of our of Conduct requirements on nondiscrimination. The Human Progress locations, HP’s business operations in Israel are regunew text expands protected worker classes to include Overview larly monitored by our Ethics and Compliance Office. gender identity and expression, national origin, and • Human rights covered veteran status, and prohibits discrimination HP provides access for rights holders to file and seek based on protected genetic information. These changes Supply chain resolution of grievances, including those related to are consistent with HP’s own nondiscrimination policy. responsibility human rights. We manage a publicly available anonyWe also contributed to the EICC UN Guiding Principles Privacy mous grievance mechanism, easily accessed from our Working Group. Our employees website, or by telephone or email. Learn more. • SAI Advisory Board—HP partnered with human rights Social investment We communicate transparently about our human rightsNGO Social Accountability International (SAI) to develop Data related policies, programs, and activities, across each of and implement impactful supply chain human rights Economic Progress the three communities of rights holders. See Supply chain initiatives. For example, SAI’s TenSquared program aims responsibility, Our employees, and Privacy for more detail. to achieve tangible improvements in factory worker Environmental Progress safety in less than 100 days. About this report • BSR Human Rights Work Group—HP collaborated in this Standing up for human rights forum with companies from all industries to share ideas, exchange best practices, and discuss the human rights Beyond our own operations, HP believes that we should challenges they face, including in areas such as reporting, stand up for human rights in public forums and we colgovernance, training, and grievance/remedy frameworks. laborate openly to do so with a wide range of stakeholders including governments, NGOs, and business. Advocating for human rights and demonstrating leadership on these issues has long been central to our approach. In 2014, we contributed to the following multi-stakeholder initiatives: • Global Business Initiative on Human Rights—HP contributed to meetings where members shared their approaches, practices, tools, challenges, and innovations to advance the group’s knowledge and practices. Human rights frameworks Human rights are the fundamental rights, freedoms, and Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United standards of treatment to which all people are entitled. Nations ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework”. It They are outlined in international conventions, declaraprovides a conceptual and policy framework for busitions, and treaties, including the United Nations Universal ness and human rights, as well as guiding principles for Declaration of Human Rights. In 2011, the UN Human implementation. Rights Council endorsed the “Guiding Principles on 28 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights • Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees Social investment Data HP final assembly supplier, China Economic Progress Environmental Progress Supply chain responsibility About this report HP supports human, economic, and environmental chain. That’s our ultimate commitment and we strive to be progress throughout one of the most extensive suptransparent about our successes and our challenges along ply chains in the information technology (IT) industry. the way. Our efforts also address environmental impacts Our Supply Chain Responsibility program enhances the in our supply chain, help HP meet customer and regulatory lives and protects the rights of the workers who make requirements, and have other business benefits as well. and deliver our products and services and extends to responsible sourcing of minerals at the very beginning of our supply chain. We have also expanded the reach Progress in 2014 of our program to many nonproduction1 suppliers. Advancing policies and systems HP’s social and environmental responsibility (SER) • Advanced foreign migrant worker protections by introexpectations are grounded in our advanced policies ducing industry-leading standards. HP now requires and standards, which we develop through a disciplined direct employment of foreign migrant workers, along approach and review and update regularly. Through our with other strict requirements, to further reduce the risk 14-year history of working on supplier responsibility, of exploitative labor practices and forced labor. We are we have refined systems for collecting and analyzing supporting this change with capability-building events information from many sources to identify new and and monitoring. emerging risks. Once an issue is on our radar, we determine the most effective ways to address it, emphasizing a • Researched the human health and environmental management systems approach. We build the capabilities impacts of manufacturing process substances.2 We of our suppliers by focusing on workers, investing in their used the research to introduce new requirements in development, and empowering them to be involved in our General Specification for the Environment in 2015, improving SER at their sites. including adding restrictions on benzene and n-hexane. • Achieved 15% improvement in Social Accountability HP’s supply chain is vast and ever-changing, spanning six International’s Social Fingerprint benchmark, placing HP continents, hundreds of production suppliers, and tens in the top tier of companies assessed. of thousands of nonproduction suppliers. Our Supply • Conducted 200 audits and assessments throughout our Chain Responsibility program enhances the lives of the supply chain, our largest annual total yet. hundreds of thousands of people who work in our supply 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing and also assemble HP products. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel) but exclude logistics service providers. 2 Manufacturing process substances are used in manufacturing but not included in our products. 29 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Protecting workers in the supply chain Protecting communities and the environment Letter from CEO • Confirmed that student workers represent less than • Reduced supply chain greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Meg Whitman 20% of the total HP production workforce at 94% of final intensity by 18% from 2010 levels Executive summary assembly sites with student workers3 • Since 2010, helped suppliers prevent nearly 600,000 Governance • Completed and closed corrective action plans for 74% tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emisHuman Progress of student worker nonconformances identified since sions, equaling 30% of our 2 million tonnes target by beginning student worker assessments in 2013 2020 Overview • Achieved 84% of workers related to HP production at • Since 2012, assessed more than 1,000 of our sub-tier Human rights final assembly sites working fewer than 60 hours per suppliers in China against the Institute of Public and • Supply chain week on average, with fewer than 4% working more Environmental Affairs’ list of environmental violations responsibility than 72 hours per week 3 and required corrective action plans for all findings Privacy • Reduced overall global emergency preparedness major Our employees nonconformances by 10 percentage points since 2013 Supply chain responsibility dashboard Social investment Our dashboard—first published in 2013—is a high• Found no zero-tolerance violations related to core labor level snapshot of our suppliers’ SER performance. The Data rights in Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) dashboard highlights a range of indicators representing Economic Progress code-based audits significant labor, health and safety, and environmental Environmental Progress • Expanded the number of countries where we engage impacts in our supply chain. In 2014, we achieved modest with nonproduction suppliers on SER issues from 7 in improvement in most dashboard indicators, despite bringAbout this report 2013, to 11 in 2014 ing on additional sites to accommodate business needs. We continue working with suppliers to make further • Seventy-six percent of smelters reported by HP’s supply incremental progress through our systematic approach chain are Conflict-Free Smelter Program compliant or in and efforts tailored to addressing persistent issues. process to become compliant Supply chain responsibility dashboard* 2013 2014 Working hours Suppliers’ employees working less than 60 hours per week on average ** [%] 83% 84% Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek** [%] 89% 91% Student workers Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees** [%] 96% 94% Core labor rights Zero-tolerance audit findings related to the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work: 1 0 freedom of association; forced, bonded, or indentured labor; child labor; or discrimination Critical health and safety issues Zero-tolerance audit findings related to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene *** 5 5 Greenhouse gas emissions Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions****,†,†† [tonnes CO2e] 4,500,000 3,900,000 * This table includes both company-level and facility-specific data obtained during 2013 and 2014 relating to HP’s first-tier production suppliers. Findings from our 2013 and 2014 audits are limited to those facilities audited during the year and are not representative of all facilities in our supply chain. ** Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. *** 2014 findings relate to emergency preparedness and industrial hygiene. See section. **** Suppliers represent 95% of HP’s production supplier spend. 2012 is the latest year for which data is available for use in the 2013 reporting year. 2013 is the latest year for which data is available for use in the 2014 reporting year. † The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq †† 2013 figure is revised from previous reporting. It now includes revised estimated data from one of our suppliers and extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. 2014 figure is also extrapolated. View full data for Supply chain responsibility. 3 Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. 30 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Our approach Contents HP Supply Chain Responsibility program Letter from CEO Mission Meg Whitman Executive summary Business and consumer demand for electronics products Protect and empower workers as rights holders and services is evolving rapidly, and HP is there with an Governance adaptive supply chain to support delivery of world-class Human Progress products and services to meet and exceed customer Reduce global and community environmental impact Overview expectations. From tablets and inkjet printers to servers, Human rights storage, and the supporting implementation services, Benefit HP and customers our broad portfolio requires a vast range of supplier • Supply chain capabilities—each with a unique sourcing profile. responsibility Our approach Privacy As HP moves into new markets, we on-board new supOur employees pliers, ensuring they understand our SER standards and Continually evolving policies, standards, and management system management system and meet prescribed performance Social investment levels for new suppliers. New sourcing countries have Data varying SER risks, and new suppliers sometimes have Sensing risk Addressing risk Economic Progress limited familiarity with SER management. By integratEnvironmental Progress ing our SER standards into sourcing, HP motivates suppliers from the start of our business relationship. Stakeholder Multi-industry About this report engagement collaboration Mutual feedback Our complex and dynamic supply chain underSupplier risk profiling Remediation pins our business success and HP’s Supply Chain Responsibility program helps ensure the continuity of our supply lines and quality of our products by External data Capability building identifying and addressing supply chain risks. Performance monitoring Business integration Our Supply Chain Responsibility management system Comprehensive audits On-boarding begins with industry leading policies, standards, and Targeted assessments SER scorecard practices, founded on our commitment to transparency KPI collection Integrated SER and procurement goals and desire to support workers, tackle environmental impacts, and benefit HP and our customers. We start with extensive risk sensing to keep us up to date with SER Transparency through reporting and public dialogue issues, region by region and supplier by supplier. This informs our program design, which we tailor to address specific risks and reflect regional characteristics. Our engagement in Southeast Asia enabled us to understand Supply Chain Responsibility program is illustrated in the the evolving risk of forced labor in foreign migrant worker graphic. For more detailed information on the elements populations and take action as early as 2008. In 2014, of our program, please see Supply chain responsibility: we determined that we needed to evolve our approach Our approach, a separate document on our website. to this issue to continue to protect this vulnerable worker group against forced labor conditions. Our advanced Sensing risk risk-sensing capabilities enable us to identify and react We work continuously to identify emerging risks in to emerging risks, so we often lead the industry in our supply chain at global, regional, and local levels. developing proactive approaches to emerging issues. We analyze information from our supplier-monitoring program, worker engagement, our extensive stakeholder network, and other external sources. For example, our HP’s advanced supplier performance monitoring HP uses three types of monitoring to understand and • Health and safety, including fire safety and emerinfluence supplier SER performance: gency preparedness • Audits We perform annual audits against the HP • Supplier SER management system maturity Supplier Code of Conduct and undertake follow-up • Supplier environmental performance audits when nonconformances are found. We also encourage suppliers to commission independent audits. • KPI program We require our final assembly suppliers to provide data on working hours, vulnerable workers, and • Assessments We conduct targeted assessments to GHG emissions. Suppliers track data on a weekly basis, supplement our comprehensive audits, focusing on and submit to us monthly. Such frequent monitoring helps specific risk areas including: us to quickly identify and correct problems. • Vulnerable workers, such as student, dispatch, and foreign migrant workers 31 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Addressing risk SER scorecard distribution, 2014 Letter from CEO When we identify risks to workers or the environment [percentage of suppliers]* Meg Whitman in our supply chain we develop mitigation strategies. For example, when we identified the increased risk of 56% Executive summary forced labor among foreign migrant workers in Southeast 44% Governance Asia, we launched an industry-leading policy as well as Human Progress strengthened our monitoring and capability-building Overview program. See Workers’ rights for details. Investing in capaHuman rights bility building, to improve the skills and awareness of both 0% workers and supplier management, is critical to achieving • Supply chain lasting solutions to labor issues (see Supporting workers). responsibility Privacy Our process for remediating issues also addresses risks Eﬀective or Concern or Unacceptable exceptional warning Our employees identified through supplier monitoring and industry Social investment collaboration. * Scorecard includes final assembly suppliers and suppliers of strategic commodities. Data Business integration Economic Progress The impact of our social responsibility program Benefits of supply chain responsibility Environmental Progress is increased by integration with our procurement HP’s supply chain responsibility objective is to continuAbout this report decisions. HP has long considered suppliers’ SER perously improve our suppliers’ SER performance. Strong formance when awarding business. In 2014, we made performance not only helps a supplier secure contracts two enhancements to emphasize our preference for with HP but also benefits their business by increasing suppliers that meet or exceed our SER standards. worker productivity, engagement, and retention, as illustrated by the following examples: We expanded on-site assessments to cover the onboarding of all major strategic final assembly suppliers • Launched in 2007, BSR’s HERproject—of which HP is a and key commodity suppliers. Of the 14 new suppliers participant—links multinational companies and their considered in 2014, 11 were accepted after completing supplier factories to local nongovernmental organizacorrective actions, and one was rejected due to poor SER tions (NGOs) to raise awareness of women’s health performance. (Two more were assessed but rejected issues among workers. The project has generated sigfor reasons other than SER performance.) Beginning nificant business benefits, measurably reducing worker in 2015, we will conduct on-boarding at all new major absenteeism and early leave requests, staff attrition, strategic final assembly and commodity suppliers. and mistakes assembling products.4 • In collaboration with Social Accountability International We also expanded our SER scorecard to include all types (SAI), The Rapid Results Institute, and Labor Link, HP of final assembly suppliers and also strategic commodity conducted a 100-day program at three supplier sites in suppliers. The SER scorecard rates suppliers’ SER perforBrazil to reduce worker injuries from physically demandmance on a five-tier scale and acts as a modifier to the ing work. Our supplier, Flextronics, reduced absenteeism general supplier management score. Suppliers with strong due to injuries from 8% to 4.8% over the course of the SER performance improve their opportunities for new or program, producing tangible cost savings. Given this expanded business. Suppliers with poor SER performance success, we plan to expand the program to China with a risk a reduction in the business they are awarded. focus on emergency preparedness. On-boarding program inspires changes at supplier Although our on-boarding program sometimes requires us exits, lack of fire-detection systems in key locations, and to reject a potential new supplier, more often it motivates failure to pay workers for overtime and holidays and to suppliers to collaborate with us to address issues at their provide social insurance. The supplier made significant sites. New suppliers cannot do business with us until they investments to address the issues we uncovered, and in correct the highest priority nonconformances and demonsix months we observed improvements at the site. Fire strate adequate corrective action plans for the remainder. exits were cleared, payroll issues resolved, and a firedetection system installed. As a result, we selected the For example, our initial on-boarding assessment of one supplier and continued to build its capabilities and improve potential final assembly supplier revealed issues requiring conditions for its workers. immediate attention, including locked dormitory emergency 4 http://herproject.org/downloads/HERproject_Health_Enables_Returns_The_Business_Returns_from_Womens_Health_Programs_081511.pdf 32 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP also believes that ethical business practices provide Supporting workers Letter from CEO a competitive advantage. A 2015 World Economic Our central aim is to improve the lives of workers who are Meg Whitman Forum (WEF) publication reported that those companies the focus of our capability building. We invest in worker adopting 31 proven supply chain sustainability practices skills development and empower workers to improve Executive summary can increase revenue by up to 20% for responsible SER performance. We are targeted in our approach to Governance products, reduce supply chain costs from 9% to 16% capability building and willing to innovate with new Human Progress and increase brand value by 15% to 30%. HP’s Energy methods and partnerships. See capability-building data. Overview Efficiency Program supports production suppliers to track and reduce GHG emissions through knowledge In 2014, we conducted worker-empowerment programs Human rights building and factory-based energy efficiency initiatives. at 18 sites in China, South America, and Southeast Asia, • Supply chain Participating suppliers have reported estimated savexceeding our goal of 15 for the year and reaching more responsibility ings of $50 million since the start of the program. than 87,000 workers and managers. Highlights include: Privacy Additionally, our customers frequently ask for informa• Migrant worker parent training In response to the Our employees tion about our Supply Chain Responsibility program in increasing number of migrant workers in China, we Social investment requests for proposals, and our response is factored into partnered with the Chinese NGO Inno to develop and Data appraisal of bids. For example, in 2014 our responses pilot a training program on parenting at two supplier Economic Progress influenced contract awards worth approximately $127 sites in Guangzhou, China. The program was designed million with a European public procurement agency for parents working far from home and focuses on Environmental Progress improving work-life balance, dealing with family-related and $65 million with an American multinational corAbout this report poration. Other benefits to HP include reduced supply stress, and improving communication with children. The chain disruption and improved product quality. participants reported high overall satisfaction with the trainings and success using new communication techTransparency niques. We will work with the Center for Child Rights and We are committed to transparency about the composiCorporate Social Responsibility to expand the program tion of our supply chain and its SER performance. HP to Chongqing in 2015. was the first IT company to publish a list of suppliers • Health education through HERproject BSR’s Health in our 2007 Global Citizenship Report. We continue to Enables Returns (HER) Project provides basic personal publish the list and have added details such as names, health training to female workers. We have brought addresses, information about sustainability programs, health awareness programs using the HERproject and more. In 2014, we published an interactive map of methodology to 27 suppliers across China, Malaysia, our final assembly suppliers, showing the number of Thailand, and Mexico since the program’s inception reported hourly employees dedicated to the production in 2007. We have reached more than 55,000 female of HP products at each final assembly supplier facility. migrant workers, empowering them to take ownership of their health, and selected peer-educators so that We share information about our supply chain future workers may also enjoy the benefits. performance in our Supply Chain Responsibility • Financial literacy through HERfinance In 2014, builddashboard and publish detailed results of suping on the success of HERproject, HP and BSR launched plier audits and summary information about our a HERfinance pilot project to strengthen the financial capability-building programs on our website. capabilities of workers at our supplier Flextronics in Brazil. See the case study. • Occupational health and safety (OHS) training We partnered with experts, including Dr. Kazutaka Kogi, President of the International Commission on Occupational Health and professional industrial hygienists from the Hong Kong Worker’s Health Centre, to train management from 16 suppliers on worker stress HERfinance Worldwide, 2.5 billion adults do not use formal finanin Brazil. The program launched in August 2014 with a cial services to save or borrow money. HERfinance, a BSR financial needs assessment to measure the baseline finanprogram, improves financial inclusion and literacy by cial knowledge of workers. With a reach of 1,500 women connecting workers to financial services and uses peerand men, the program is tailored to the specific financial training modules to reach a larger, broader group of facinclusion needs of the Brazilian workforce and covers toptory workers. As a longtime participant in BSR’s women’s ics such as responsible consumption, reducing debt, and health education program, HERproject, HP has embraced planning for unexpected expenses and retirement. the opportunity to pilot HERfinance at a Flextronics factory 33 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Workers’ rights Contents prevention, mental health awareness, combustible Letter from CEO dust prevention, and Participatory Occupational Safety Meg Whitman and Health Intervention (POSHI). POSHI is an on-site program that engages workers and management in Shifting socioeconomic and labor trends require us to be Executive summary the process of identifying and solving OHS issues. We alert to new risks and innovative in our approach to Governance also conducted POSHI events focusing on topics such as managing them. Political and economic pressures as well Human Progress ergonomics and machine safety. At a recent event, 90% as demographic shifts in some sourcing countries have led Overview of participants reported the training enhanced commuto higher costs and growing labor shortages, putting nication between workers and management. pressure on workers and companies. Also, in developing Human rights countries, weaker rule of law, opaque recruiting practices, • Supply chain For additional information about our capability-building and less institutional experience with SER may create responsibility programs, please see our website. additional risks. Privacy Management system In order to protect workers’ rights, we continually refine Our employees HP has developed and refined a strong management our Supply Chain Responsibility program. We remain Social investment focused on protecting vulnerable workers, reducing system for achieving continual improvement in our Data supply chain SER performance. Our supply chain manexcessive working hours and improving health and safety Economic Progress agement system is assessed every two years by Social in the workplace. We view workers as “rights holders” and Accountability International (SAI), against their rigorous, believe that the most effective solutions will be found by Environmental Progress involving them directly such as through worker interviews world-class Social Fingerprint benchmark. In 2014, we About this report achieved a 15% improvement in our results compared to and surveys during supplier monitoring, and by design2012. Our score of 3.8 put HP among the highest-scoring ing our capability-building events to empower workers SAI corporate members. The improvement reflects to be part of the solution. See Supporting workers. We investments in our Supply Chain Responsibility managealso collaborate to raise standards across our industry. ment system over the last two years, including further integration of SER into our procurement operations. Vulnerable worker groups The SAI assessment validated our efforts and also Seeking additional sources of labor, suppliers in some highlighted areas for further improvement: countries have turned to students, dispatch workers, • Business integration, including the continued evolution young workers (16and 17-year olds where legally of our SER scorecard and five-tier rating system to permitted), and foreign migrant workers—groups that ensure communication of and accountability for SER have distinct vulnerabilities to potential abuse. HP is goals in HP business groups committed to protecting all workers in our supply chain, but we recognize that certain worker groups need • Development of suppliers’ social management systems, special protection. We introduced enhanced standards, emphasizing implementation, not just documentation more focused monitoring, targeted capability build• Risk sensing, including advanced data collection and ing, and key performance indicators (KPIs) tracking analysis to uncover trends in supplier performance to provide additional protection for these groups. HP is committed to ongoing development of our manageForeign migrant workers ment systems and transparency about the results. In 2014, HP became the first IT company to require direct employment of foreign migrant workers in our supply chain through the HP Foreign Migrant Worker Standard. In addition to requiring direct employment, the standard reinforced the rights of workers to retain their passports and personal documentation and prohibited worker-paid “HP demonstrates a deep commitment to continually recruitment fees. We developed the new standard in consultation with Verité, an international nonprofit that improving its supply chain, often taking a leadership promotes safe, fair, and legal working conditions. position that encourages other companies as well. It The standard marks a major step forward in the protectargets complex challenges and works transparently tion of foreign migrant workers in our supply chain and and systematically to improve its management we are now focused on ensuring that the new protections are realized. Specialized forced labor assessments and system. Even among the leading companies that we regular monitoring will confirm supplier conformance. work with, HP is a clear stand-out.” Suppliers that do not meet our requirements must correct their practices with urgency or risk losing our business. — Alice Tepper Marlin, CEO, Social Accountability International 34 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Student workers KPI program Letter from CEO In 2013, to address the significant increase in the use of Since 2009, we have monitored suppliers at risk of Meg Whitman student and dispatch workers in China, we introduced the working hours and day-of-rest nonconformances Executive summary HP Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for Supplier through our KPI program. By frequently monitoring Facilities in the People’s Republic of China, the first such conformance, we have created modest improvements in Governance standard in our industry. We believe that student work supplier performance even though we have added new Human Progress should complement the individual’s education, so we are suppliers to our supply chain each year. Our KPI program Overview currently focused on ensuring that all student work is also fosters accountability and action in our business Human rights voluntary, local regulations on student workers are met, by maintaining focus on these important issues. The only limited numbers of student workers are used for HP program requires high-risk suppliers to report weekly KPI • Supply chain production (less than 20% of the total workforce), and sturesults, which we share with HP procurement managers responsibility dents are employed in roles that further their education. monthly and senior managers quarterly. If an issue is Privacy detected, it’s escalated to top management so we can Our employees We monitor progress through KPI tracking of student, disquickly resolve it. In 2014, we saw modest improvements Social investment patch, and young workers, which Chinese suppliers report in the percentage of workers working 60 hours or less to us monthly. KPI data shows that 94% of suppliers mainper week. We also saw only a very small percentage Data tained student worker levels at less than 20% of the total working more than 72 hours per week. The percentage of Economic Progress workforce related to HP production, a threshold we set last workers receiving at least one day of rest per week also Environmental Progress year. This tracking is separate from auditing and provides increased. See Supply Chain Responsibility dashboard. more frequent oversight of supplier progress. We also About this report undertake specific, on-site student worker assessments EICC Working Hours Taskforce and require corrective actions for any nonconformances. In 2014, we participated in the newly formed EICC In 2013 and 2014, we assessed 90% of high-risk supplier Working Hours Taskforce, which is developing a phased sites in China where we identified the use of student approach to supplier conformance with working hours workers. Of the two remaining sites, one was assessed in requirements in the EICC Code of Conduct. The taskforce 2015, and the other was identified late in 2014 as using acknowledges that achieving the 60 hours per week student workers and is scheduled for assessment. Of standard will take time and asks buyers and supplinonconformances with our student worker requirements ers to commit to steady progress. HP’s involvement found through 2014, 74% have been resolved—with in the taskforce builds upon our work as co-chair of the remaining cases under supplier corrective action the EICC working group on excessive working hours in in close collaboration with our procurement teams. 2013, which established a common industry approach to capturing and reporting working hours KPI data. Despite the significant progress made over the past two years, we still face challenges protecting student workers, especially to eliminate overtime Health and safety and nightshift work. We are committed to: • Modifying our working hours KPI program to identify and Workers have the right to a healthy and safe workplace, act on instances of student or young workers working which is why we address these issues with high-risk nights or overtime, creating faster corrective action and facilities before we begin our commercial relationship solutions and require them to demonstrate a safe workplace before production commences. The risks to work• Rolling out the EICC-sponsored student worker manageers are elevated where law enforcement is weak and ment toolkit, “Responsible Management of Student health and safety regulations are lacking or inadequate. Workers: From Compliance to Best Practice,” designed for Conformance with emergency preparedness requireelectronics manufacturing facilities in mainland China ments remains a critical ongoing issue, and we continue • Collaborating with the Labour Education and Service to expand our efforts in this area. We also monitor new Network to train Chongqing-based suppliers on the use areas of potential risk such as combustible dust and of the EICC toolkit in spring 2015 look to address these through targeted training. Emergency preparedness Working hours Rigorous attention to emergency preparedness helps prevent injury and loss of life as well as interruptions HP’s Supplier Code of Conduct states that weekly working to production. To measure conformance and drive hours must not exceed the maximum amount set by local improvements, we developed a specialized emergency law and should not exceed 60 hours, including overtime, preparedness assessment. In 2014, focusing on faciliexcept in emergency or unusual situations. Yet, the risk of ties in China, we conducted 22 assessments to evaluate excessive working hours remains high, particularly in China emergency preparedness management, evacuation where there is an increasing labor shortage and where routes and equipment, fire suppression equipment, and a large portion of IT industry production takes place. other key elements. We also increased the frequency Excessive working hours remains a top audit finding for us, of assessments for select suppliers to a quarterly and we continue to work with our suppliers and industry (rather than annual) basis. We plan to conduct quarterly partners to achieve lasting improvements in this area. fire-safety checks at major suppliers in Southeast Asia in 2015. We believe these expanded efforts have 35 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents contributed to reducing rates of emergency preparedness nonconformance in China from 69% in 2013 to Raising industry standards Letter from CEO 48% in 2014. For more information, see audit results. Many of the issues we face are large and complex and Meg Whitman Executive summary beyond the scope of any single company to solve. Because Occupational health and safety (OHS) the electronics industry supply base is broadly shared— Governance HP takes occupational health issues seriously and in 2014 such as with suppliers of optical disk drives, memory, Human Progress addressed the topic of combustible dust. Fine particles power supplies, and other commodities—collaborating Overview of dust from operations such as metal polishing can with others in our industry sends a powerful and consispresent a combustion hazard if not properly handled. tent message to suppliers. Human rights We provided training on prevention of combustible dust • Supply chain explosions and fire safety for 151 managers from 88 While we believe a common and high set of standards responsibility suppliers, including those working in metal fabrication across our industry provides the greatest protection for Privacy several tiers deep in our supply chain. Participants also workers in our supply chain, when we see gaps in guidance Our employees discussed best practices such as reducing dust through to suppliers on pressing SER issues HP often implements wet processing and ventilation in polishing areas. policies, standards, and programs ahead of industry Social investment standards. We then share our experience when advocatData Manufacturing process substances ing to raise industry standards in line with our own. Economic Progress HP has worked for many years to eliminate worker Environmental Progress exposure to hazardous substances in manufacturing. Our For example, HP has long recognized the right of workers HP Supplier Code of Conduct and auditing program require to bargain collectively, and we advocated for that right to About this report suppliers to have proper management systems to evaluate be added to the EICC Code of Conduct. In 2014, we worked substances, eliminate or manage hazardous substances, closely with EICC staff, its Board of Directors, and stakeholdand provide appropriate personal protective equipment ers on revised code language for freedom of association, and training to workers. In addition, HP provides health and including the right to collective bargaining, which passed the safety capability building, focused on worker involvement membership vote and became effective in 2015. in maintaining safe work environments. Over the past 11 years, we have actively worked to revise Recognizing that regulated substances and acceptable and strengthen other EICC Code of Conduct requirelimits of hazardous substances vary by country, in 2015 ments. Most recently, we promoted stronger language we set clear requirements for suppliers by publishing for protection of vulnerable worker groups, nondiscrimia list of manufacturing process substance restricnation, manufacturing process substances, and ethics tions, reflected in the updated version of HP’s General provisions. We also participated in working groups looking Specification for the Environment. to revise code provisions on freely chosen employment, GHG emissions tracking and reporting, wage equality, We take a science-based approach to assessing the and reasonable accommodation for religious practices. potential impact to human health or the environment of process substances and have restricted use of specific high-risk substances, including benzene and n-hexane, across our supply chain. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure new restrictions are followed and Audit results suitable alternatives are available through our alternative materials program. For more information, see Materials. We monitor the SER performance of suppliers in a variety of ways. While supplier audits alone do not deliver HP seeks to shape the industry’s approach to manufactursustained SER improvement, they are an important tool. ing process substances and is participating in a task force Audits provide the broadest measurement of conformance formed by the EICC to improve the identification, tracking, with HP’s Supplier Code of Conduct and establish whether management, and elimination of harmful substances in the supplier has systems in place to maintain and improve the electronics supply chain. performance. In 2014, we conducted 200 audits and assessments, the largest number in our program’s history. Additionally, we support workers’ right to know about We continue to expand our audit program and intend to working with and around hazardous substances. Our conduct audits or assessments at all high-risk supplier involvement with the EICC contributed to expansion of the sites annually. For an explanation of how HP determines EICC Code of Conduct, which now requires that factories “high-risk” suppliers see Supply chain responsibility: provide educational materials and appropriate trainOur approach, a separate document on the HP website. ing about such hazards. These efforts build on existing Since our first pilot SER audits in 2004, we have conrequirements that material safety data sheets be available ducted or commissioned 1,294 audits and assessments to workers. Our supplier audits verify conformance with of production and nonproduction supplier facilities. these new and existing requirements, including through worker interviews that encourage input on hazardous materials handling practices and training in the workplace. 36 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents SER audits and assessments conducted per region, 2014, we exceeded our goal to increase the proportion of Letter from CEO 2014 independent supplier EICC Validated Audit Process (VAP) Meg Whitman audits to 50% of our total of 128 audits, achieving 52%. 140 The EICC VAP program uses external auditors, and Executive summary includes separate, third-party quality control of audits for Governance added credibility. We aim to increase the number of 105 Human Progress supplier commissioned audits conducted under the EICC. Overview Results also show that the longer suppliers participate Human rights 70 in our program, the better they perform on audits (see • Supply chain graph). They also demonstrate that suppliers with responsibility high levels of involvement—such as participation in 35 Privacy capability-building programs—tend to have stronger Our employees SER performance. We focus our capability-building programs on specific audit items, worker engageSocial investment 0 ment, and management systems. This approach is Greater China Asia Pacific Americas Europe Data designed to foster broader, longer lasting SER improveEconomic Progress ment, leading to better audit performance overall. Health and safety assessments Environmental Progress About this report On-boarding assessments Supplier SER audit performance trend relative to years in SER audit program Vulnerable worker group (student and foreign worker) assessments [for audits conducted in 2013–2014] Audit score Impact of supplier Allegation investigations Excellent engagement: +21% Environmental assessments Full re-audits Difference in average audit score for suppliers Follow-up audits completing at least one HP capability-building Initial audits program1 1 Increase is compared to suppliers Over the last several years, we have progressively Poor not completing any HP capabilitytransferred audit responsibility to our suppliers, as building programs. Data covers 0 1 2 3 4 5 average audit scores (initial and full experience shows that suppliers perform better and are re-audits) of production suppliers, Number of years in SER audit program 2012–2014. more invested when they commission their own audits and take ownership of their performance, especially when Average audit score, all audits progress is rewarded through procurement incentives. In Lowest audit score observed Expanding HP’s SER standards to nonproduction suppliers IT industry SER engagement has historically focused on By engaging with our nonproduction suppliers, we influproduction suppliers that manufacture materials, compoence social and environmental business behavior across nents, and completed products. HP continued raising the many industries beyond manufacturing, improving workstandards in our industry several years ago by extending ing conditions and protecting HP’s reputation and brand. In our SER approach to nonproduction suppliers that support 2014, we expanded our nonproduction supplier engageour products post-release and provide services associated ment to 11 countries from 7 in 2013. The program now with our brand. HP nonproduction suppliers far outnumber operates in Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, India, production suppliers, employing a very large number of Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, Poland, South Africa, and workers around the globe. Turkey. Our risk sensing led to our focus on high-risk industries— Since EICC members share many nonproduction suppliincluding call centers, contract labor agencies, outsourced ers, HP proposed to the EICC that it expand the scope of technology services, reuse and recycling, branded merits work beyond production suppliers. In 2014, the EICC chandise, and facilities management—as well as pointing created the Indirect Spend Taskforce–with HP as a lead to geographical risk factors. member—to explore the potential of an industry-wide approach and cross-industry collaboration. 37 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Key findings Health and safety Letter from CEO (rates of Health andmajor safetynonconformance of sites audited) Manag Meg Whitman Our multiyear plan involves auditing all high-risk Occupational safety 42% Compa Executive summary suppliers annually as well as conducting targeted assessments in special circumstances such as supplier Emergency preparedness 45% Manag Governance on-boarding or where a specific risk requires deeper Human Progress investigation. In recent years, we began expanding the Occupational injury and illness 21% Legal a Overview scope of auditing to capture some suppliers not previHuman rights ously covered, such as nonproduction suppliers and Industrial hygiene 26% Risk as suppliers deeper in our supply chain. Many of these • Supply chain may not have mature SER management systems. Physically demanding work 14% Perfor responsibility plan an Privacy We have observed an increase in nonconformances in Machine safeguarding 21% Our employees some areas as suppliers new to our audits respond to Trainin Social investment the requirements and previously audited suppliers adjust Dormitory and canteen 32% to a tightening of our standards with new requirements, Commu Data additional required proof of conformance, and more rigorEconomic Progress ous scoring criteria. In the area of health and safety, emergency preparedness Worker Labor remains a key issue and we continue to evaluate ways Environmental Progress The most significant audit findings5 in 2014 are described Freely chosen to achieve employment further management improvements. systems In 2013, we began24%a Audits About this report here. See audit findings online for a breakdown of audit multiyear effort focused on improving supplier emergency Presence preparednessof forced labor additional capability-building0% through Correct results by region, and HP supply chain SER milestones for information about the number of workers at sites audited. programs and more frequent targeted assessments. note: change also for web-> Young identified and resolvedsystems worker protection-management This process many emergency 18% Docum preparedness issues, resulting in a decrease in the global Distribution of major nonconformances by section of Presence of child labor nonconformance rate from 55% in 2013 to 45% in 2014. 0% Supplie HP Supplier Code of Conduct, 2014* [percentage of total] Working In 2014,hours occupational safety audit findings remained 64%fairly consistent with 2013 levels with a 42% nonconformance Enviro Wages rate and benefits (compared to 40% in 2013). Issues identified included24% Environ permits and test reports, control of potential safety hazardstreatment Humane (such as electrical and other energy sources, 3% Pollutio fire, vehicles, and fall hazards), and the use of personal Nondiscrimination protective management equipment. systemsof nonconformances The majority 2% Hazard were at commodity supplier facilities, including many Presence new to our of discriminatory SER program.practices As we expand our assur8% Wastew ance program deeper into our supply chain, we expect Freedom of association 12% higher rates of nonconformance and are committed to Air emi improving conditions for workers in these facilities. Our supplier capability-building programs in 2014 included efforts to improve worker involvement in identifying and Ethics solving health and safety issues. We expect this to yield Busine improvements in this area. Health and safety 31% No imp Labor 24% Disclos Management system 22% Intellec Environmental 14% Fair bu Ethics 9% Protect * Data excludes minor nonconformances that do not indicate a systemic Respon problem but typically represent an isolated finding. Data is from audits; data from assessments is not included. Data is from production supplier audits only, Privacy as operations of nonproduction suppliers are not comparable. Year-over-year data does not necessarily represent audits of the same supplier sites. Nonret 5 Each provision of the EICC audit protocol includes a number of audit questions, each with a potential for no finding, risk of nonconformance, minor nonconformance, or major nonconformance. HP identifies the most significant nonconformance found in each provision and aggregates those results across all audits, which helps us to develop initiatives to address, and externally report, those provisions with the most frequent occurrence of major nonconformance. plan and measures 18% Machine safeguarding 21% Training 3% 38 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Dormitory and canteen 32% Communication 9% Contents Labor Management system Worker feedback and participation 5% Letter from CEO Healthofand (rates Labor major nonconformance of sites audited) safety (rates Managementof major nonconformance of sites audited) system Meg Whitman Occupational Freely chosensafety employment management systems 42% 24% Company Audits andcommitment assessments 5% 15% Executive summary Governance Emergency Presence of preparedness forced labor 45% 0% Management Corrective accountability action process and responsibility 12% 6% Human Progress Occupational worker injury and illness 21% Legal and customer requirements 17% te: change also for web-> Young Overview protection-management systems 18% Documentation and records 6% Health and safety Industrialof hygiene 26% Management system Risk assessment and risk management 24% Human rights Presence child labor 0% Supplier responsibility 23% Occupational safety 42% Company commitment 5% • Supply chain responsibility Physically Working demanding work hours 14% 64% Performance objectives with implementation Emergency preparedness 45% plan and measures Management accountability and responsibility 18% 12% Privacy Machine Wages andsafeguarding benefits 21% 24% Environmental Our employees Occupational injury and illness 21% Training Legal and customer Environmental permitsrequirements and reporting 3% 17% 20% Social investment Dormitory Humane and canteen treatment 32% 3% Industrial hygiene 26% Communication Risk assessment Pollution prevention riskresource andand management reduction 9% 24% 14% Data Nondiscrimination management systems 2% Economic Progress Physically demanding work 14% Worker feedback Performance Hazardous and participation objectives substances with implementation 5% 41% Labor plan and measures 18% Environmental Progress Presence of discriminatory practices 8% Freely Machinechosen employment management systems safeguarding 24% 21% Audits and assessments Wastewater and solid waste 15% 3% About this report Training 3% Freedom of association 12% Presence Dormitoryofand forced labor canteen 0% 32% Corrective Air emissions action process 6% 5% Communication 9% te: change also for web-> Our Young worker 2014 protection-management audits systems found no zero-tolerance violations18% of core Documentation and records 6% Worker feedback and participation 5% labor Laborrights, which include observed violations related Ethics Presence to the ILO child labor on Fundamental Principles and ofDeclaration 0% Supplier responsibility 23% Freely chosen employment management systems 24% Audits and Business assessments integrity 15% 9% Rights at Work: freedom of association; forced, bonded, Working hours or indentured Presence labor; of forced child labor; and discrimination.64% labor 0% Corrective Management No improper action processnonconformances remained low system advantage 6%in 5% The majority of findings in the area of core labor rights Environmental 2014 indicating relatively good implementation of SER Wages and benefits 24% Youngobservations were of inadequate management worker protection-management systems systems 18% Environmental permits HPreporting and 20% te: change also for web-> to prevent violations. We continue to strengthen our Documentation Disclosure systems of information and and records controls. 6% 3% continues to work with suppliers Humane treatment 3% and external partners such as SAI to improve SER managestandards Presence ofand childaudit labor tools to protect workers, and in0% Pollution Supplier Intellectual ment prevention responsibility property systems. Learn resource reduction andmore. 14% 23% 3% 2015 HP is introducing new requirements and monitoring Nondiscrimination management systems 2% techniques Working hours to protect foreign migrant and young workers. 64% Environmental Hazardous Fair business,substances advertising, and competition 41% 12% Presence of discriminatory practices 8% (rates of major nonconformance of sites audited) Environmental We have Wages andseen modest improvements in the percentage benefits 24% Wastewater Protection ofand solid waste identity 3% 5% of workers meeting our 60-hour week and day-of-rest Environmental permits and reporting 20% Freedom of association 12% requirements Humane treatment (see Supply Chain Responsibility dash3% Air emissionssourcing of minerals Responsible 5% 5% board). However, working hours remain a persistent Pollution prevention and resource reduction 14% issue, particularlymanagement Nondiscrimination continue to track supin China. Wesystems 2% Privacy 6% plier conformance through our Labor KPI Program and Hazardous substances 41% engage Ethics Presencesuppliers with ongoing of discriminatory problems through HP’s practices 8% Nonretaliation 8% procurement personnel to drive improvement. We also Business Wastewater integrity and solid waste 9% 3% developed new tools to help suppliers understand 12% Freedom of association the root causes behind working hours nonconforNo Air improper emissionsadvantage 5% mance and to identify actionable improvements. We continue working with suppliers and other industry Disclosure of information 3% partners through the EICC on additional ways to drive In 2014, the environmental audit provision with the highEthics Intellectual improvements in working hours performance. est rate of property nonconformance was hazardous substances, 3% Business integrity followed by environmental permits and reporting. 9% After working consistently with suppliers on wage issues Fair business, advertising, Nonconformances andto related competition hazardous substances 12% No improper advantage over the past few years, we’ve seen a decrease in wageremained high, at 41% due in part to our expanded 5% related audit findings in 2014. The majority of wage findings Protection of identity expectations regarding management in this area. In5% Disclosure of information 3% during the year related to ongoing challenges with full con2013, HP reclassified insufficient worker training on formance with social insurance requirements in China. We sourcing ofand Responsible materials hazardous minerals inadequate hazardous mate5% Intellectual property 3% continue to work with suppliers to achieve full conformance rial transport procedures as major nonconformances. and track improvement through corrective action plans. Privacy 6% Fair business, advertising, and competition 12% The increase in the rate of nonconformances related to Nonretaliation permits and reporting from 13% in8% environmental 2013 In 2014, our audits uncovered six instances of discriminaProtection of identity 5% tory practices. HP required corrective action by suppliers to 20% in 2014, was primarily due to the large number and conducted on-site follow-up audits to ensure these of audits performed on new suppliers, who are working Responsible sourcing of minerals 5% facilities amended the practices, improved management to improve implementation of relevant EICC standards. systems, and provided appropriate training for factory Privacy 6% personnel to prevent future cases of discrimination. Read more in Supply chain environmental impact. Nonretaliation 8% ctices 8% Wastewater and solid waste 3% 39 12%Progress Report HP 2014 Living www.hp.com/livingprogress Air emissions 5% Contents Ethics As always, we work vigorously with our suppliers to (rates correct all zero-tolerance findings, including visual Letter from CEO Ethics of major nonconformance of sites audited) Meg Whitman verification of closure. We expect to see our work with Business integrity 9% these suppliers lead to long-term improvement in Executive summary working conditions and overall SER performance. Governance No improper advantage 5% Human Progress Disclosure of information 3% Conflict minerals Overview Human rights Intellectual property 3% • Supply chain responsibility Fair business, advertising, and competition 12% The exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to fund groups engaged in Privacy Protection of identity 5% extreme violence and human rights atrocities has resulted Our employees in international concern and calls for action. Activity of Social investment Responsible sourcing of minerals 5% particular concern has been linked to the extraction of Data natural resources that are mineral precursors of the Privacy 6% metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG)—known as Economic Progress “conflict minerals.” Environmental Progress Nonretaliation 8% About this report The possibility that the manufacture of our products might be connected to the funding of armed conflict is unacceptIn 2013, we refined our audit standards regarding able to HP. We continue to work toward ensuring 3TG used ethics to verify the presence of policies, procedures, in our supply chain is not associated with conflict in the DRC. record keeping, and training. We observed a reduction in ethics provision findings from 2013 to 2014 Addressing a problem that has persisted for almost as suppliers implemented our expectations. two decades requires a fresh approach and dedicated resources. Beginning in 2010, as a part of the company’s Zero-tolerance items broader Supply Chain Responsibility program, HP Zero-tolerance items are the most serious type of nonassembled a team of internal experts to develop and conformance. They include child labor, forced labor, severe manage a comprehensive program to collect and evaluate forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing information on the use of conflict minerals across our immediate danger to life or risk of serious injury, and diverse supply chain and to encourage responsible mineral perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious sourcing. Since then, we have made strong progress. and immediate harm to the community. Our zero-tolerance policy requires auditors to escalate such items immediately. Suppliers must cease any zero-tolerance practices and report their corrective action to HP no later than 30 days A multistage supply chain after the original audit. HP will then re-examine the finding 3TG metals are found in relatively small amounts in through a site visit to confirm resolution. Zero-tolerance virtually all HP electronic products. While electronics are a items result in suppliers being downgraded on our SER significant user of tantalum compared to other sectors, scorecard. HP’s SER policy requires all suppliers to disclose the information and communications technology (ICT) a fatality, debilitating injury or any other HP Supplier Code industry is a relatively small user of the other 3TG metals. of Conduct zero-tolerance item related to manufacturing an The 3TG supply chain has many stages from mine to HP product. See HP’s SER policy for details. product and spans the globe: In 2014, we found no zero-tolerance violations related to Extraction: Conflict mineral sources from the DRC and core labor rights in our audits. We did find five zero-tolerance adjoining countries (Covered Countries) represent a small items related to health and safety issues at four commodityfraction of the world’s overall mineral deposits. In the DRC, supplier sites. Most zero-tolerance findings were at new the minerals are mainly extracted from small artisanal supplier sites that have not benefited from sustained mines with low levels of investment and mechanization, engagement with HP’s Supply Chain Responsibility program. making the work hard and often dangerous. Some mines are controlled by armed groups that extort money from • Four of the findings related to emergency preparedness the miners. The minerals are consolidated, traded, and including lack of adequate fire detection/suppression sold for export by a chain of middlemen. These steps systems, lack of appropriate evacuation drills, locked/ are also vulnerable to interference by armed groups. blocked emergency exits, blocked fire extinguishers, and Multi-stakeholder collaborations created “closed pipe” inadequate emergency evacuation preparedness. solutions to isolate and source minerals from mines • The other zero-tolerance item related to industrial that have been validated as conflict free pursuant to hygiene involving inadequate machine safeguarding. an in-region program such as Solutions for Hope. 40 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Processing: Minerals are transported to smelters and the issue in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental Letter from CEO refiners (referred to in this section as “smelters”) located Responsibility Policy, and we continue to reinforce this Meg Whitman around the world for chemical processing. They accept message annually. We communicate further expectations minerals from multiple sources and historically have mixed in HP’s General Specification for the Environment and HP’s Executive summary mineral sources with recycled and scrap materials to Supplier Code of Conduct. Governance produce 3TG metals. The Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative Human Progress (CFSI) validates smelters as “conflict free” when they comIn 2014, we identified the production suppliers Overview ply with the program protocols including undertaking due that could be supplying HP with products containdiligence, developing appropriate policies and processes, ing 3TG and require those suppliers to: Human rights and obtaining relevant information from the mineral • Supply chain • Adopt a conflict minerals policy, due diligence framesupply chain when sourcing in conflict-affected areas. responsibility work, and management system, and require the same from their suppliers Privacy Manufacturing: The metals are purchased by component manufacturers who produce parts that contribute to the • Conduct due diligence on their supply chain by engagOur employees final product after multiple development stages in the ing their 3TG suppliers using the Template to identify Social investment supply chain. This process results in many entities in the smelters in their supply chain producing necessary 3TG Data supply chain to survey. CFSI developed and maintains used in HP products Economic Progress the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (Template), • Aggregate the results of due diligence conducted on which gives companies a common data exchange format their supply chain Environmental Progress to share information about 3TG sources with business About this report partners and suppliers up and down their supply chain. • Submit a completed Template to HP identifying the unique smelters associated with their supply chain for HP products (however most Templates continue to Eliminating the risks associated represent the supplier’s entire supply chain) with conflict from our supply chain • Transition to validated conflict free smelters of 3TG (smelters on the CFSP list) or encourage the smelters Our objective is to have a supply chain that is sourcto participate in the CFSP ing 3TG only from smelters validated to be compliant with CFSI’s Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP). The HP supported production 3TG suppliers with training ICT industry has the most leverage and has achieved materials for completing the CFSI Template and reviewed the most progress related to tantalum, because it is each Template received against HP’s expectations. a significant user of that metal—about 15% of the During calendar year 2014, HP obtained responses from world’s consumption. The ICT industry is a much smaller 3TG production suppliers estimated to represent more user of tin (about 0.1%), tungsten (about 2%), and gold than 95% of our 3TG production procurement spend. (about 3%).6 Multi-industry collaboration is needed to achieve significant progress with those metals. HP offers a cloud-based software solution, which we also use ourselves, to help other companies with HP’s goal is for a majority of our 3TG production procuretheir supply chain engagement and compliance in ment spend to be DRC conflict free by the end of 2016. this area. Visit www.cdxsystem.com to learn more. Starting in 2015, we required HP suppliers to source tantalum only from smelters compliant with the CFSP. We Smelters track progress by measuring the percent of smelters in our HP’s journey toward DRC conflict free minerals depends supply chain on the Conflict-Free Smelter Program list. on growing the number of validated conflict free smelters in our supply base. Working with our production We exert influence with our supply chain by: suppliers, HP has identified smelters used in our supply • Engaging with our production suppliers of products chain and engaged some smelters directly, requesting containing 3TG that they participate in the CFSP. A smelter’s decision to participate in an assessment program to become • Encouraging smelters that purchase and process validated as conflict free is influenced by demand from mineral ores to be validated to be compliant with conflict its customers. It is very challenging for HP to influence a free by a credible industry group smelter’s decision because they are several manufactur• Supporting multi-stakeholder collaboration to establish ing steps removed from us and are not our direct supplier. secure conflict free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC HP made progress on our journey, by more than doubling Suppliers the number of relevant 3TG smelters that are compliant on HP has set clear expectations with our production the CFSP list from 60 to 152. Additionally, HP believes that suppliers regarding conflict minerals. HP first communi22 of these CFSP compliant smelters may have sourced cated its conflict minerals policy in 2011 by addressing from the Covered Countries, providing important revenue 6 “Conflict Minerals in the Compute Sector: Estimating Extent of Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten, and Gold Use in ICT Products.” Colin Fitzpatrick, Elsa Olivetti, T. Reed Miller, Richard Roth, and Randolph Kirchain. Environmental Science & Technology. December 2014. 41 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents to the region. All of the tantalum smelters reported to be in HP’s supply chain, whether or not they are sourcing Progress in 2014 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman from the Covered Countries, are compliant with the CFSP. Status of 3TG smelters or refiners reported in HP’s Executive summary supply chain HP identified the smelters and refiners on our list by a Governance survey of HP suppliers conducted between January 2014 2013 2014 Human Progress and December 2014 as a part of HP’s conflict minerals (as of January 2014) (as of April 2015) Overview compliance program. The suppliers we surveyed conNumber of % of total Number of % of total smelters smelters tribute material, components, or manufacturing to HP Human rights products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported Compliant * 60 30% 152 59% • Supply chain was identified in at least one of the Templates received In process** 21 10% 44 17% responsibility from an HP supplier. Not yet 120 60% 61 24% Privacy participating Our employees HP’s 2015 conflict minerals disclosure includes a list of all smelters reported to us regardless of whether or not they Total 201 257 Social investment source from the DRC and adjoining countries. This disclo* Smelters or refiners compliant with assessment programs: CFSI’s CFSP, Data sure continues our legacy of supply chain transparency, Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC) Chain-of-Custody Certification Economic Progress highlights the smelters that are validated as compliant Program, or the London Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA) Responsible Gold with the CFSP, and applies pressure to smelters that have Programme. Environmental Progress ** Smelters or refiners listed by CFSI as currently in the process of becoming unknown 3TG sourcing. About this report CFSP-compliant or that are Tungsten Industry-Conflict Minerals Council (TI-CMC) Category A members. Multi-stakeholder collaboration HP collaborates with other businesses, nongovernmental SEC Conflict Minerals Report organizations (NGOs), government agencies, and our In May 2015, HP filed its Conflict Minerals Report and Form extensive network of production suppliers to advance the SD with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission use of responsibly sourced minerals. Our work began in (SEC) disclosing HP’s due diligence efforts and results 2008 when we helped establish the working group that with respect to necessary conflict minerals contained was the precursor to the CFSI. In 2014, we continued to in HP products. See HP’s SEC Conflict Minerals Report. actively participate in CFSI (member ID HPQQ), providing leadership through working groups focused on CFSIidentified 3TG smelter list expansion, publicly available white papers and FAQs development, audit protocol improvement, and external speaking engagements. Additionally we engaged and contributed through industry and multi-stakeholder groups, as well as in-region sourcing projects including the Kemet Partnership for Social and Economic Sustainability, the former Conflict-Free Tin Initiative, the International Tin Research Institute’s Tin Supply Chain Initiative, IDH’s Indonesian Tin Working Group, Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, Responsible Sourcing Network’s Multi-Stakeholder Group, and the Solutions for Hope project, which establishes secure conflict free tantalum sources from the DRC. Goals Supply chain responsibility 2014 goals Progress Conduct worker-empowerment programs at 15 supplier sites in China, HP conducted worker-empowerment programs at 18 supplier sites in South America, and Southeast Asia. China, South America, and Southeast Asia in 2014. Increase the proportion of independent supplier audits to 50%. 52% of supplier audits in 2014 were independent audits. 42 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility • Privacy Our employees Social investment Data Economic Progress Environmental Progress Privacy About this report The rapid evolution in data collection and analysis brings Responsibility for delivering on our commitment to many benefits to consumers, business, and society. At customer privacy rests with our employees. Privacy the same time, the exponential growth of global data training is a key part of our mandatory Standards of poses profound challenges to maintaining the privacy of Business Conduct (SBC) annual refresher course, compersonal information. pleted by 99.9% of employees in 2014. In addition, we provide role-specific privacy training to employees who HP understands the importance of privacy to the consumroutinely handle personal information in areas such as 99.9% ers and organizations that buy our products and services. human resources and client services. We also require We are leading industry and civil society efforts to develop privacy accountability from third-party organizations an ethical framework for The New Style of Business, that have access to our customers’ personal data. Percentage of including the collection and use of big data. In our own permanent employees operations, we endeavor to go beyond minimum legal For more information about our commitment to privacy, that completed privacy obligations to safeguard customers’ personal informaread the HP Global Master Privacy Policy. training tion. Every employee in our global workforce receives privacy training, and rigorous policies and procedures safeguard the personal data we hold or process. Championing a big data code of ethics Privacy strategy and accountability HP is at the forefront of efforts to protect individual rights to privacy as new technologies and business models using HP is a recognized leader in privacy protection in the global big data evolve. Information Technology (IT) industry. Our Privacy Office oversees customer data protection, advocates globally Our work in this area complements the HP Privacy for consistent, compatible privacy frameworks, and Accountability Framework and centers on our leadership in shares best practices with peers, governments, and other developing the Unified Ethical Frame for Big Data Analysis. stakeholders. This groundbreaking initiative is led by the Information Accountability Foundation (IAF) and backed by regulators, Our privacy strategy is based on providing transparency companies, and the privacy community. HP’s Chief Privacy and choice for HP customers worldwide. We create a Officer co-chairs the project’s research team, which is chain of accountability for data privacy and security developing a code of ethics to guide companies and other throughout our business and apply Privacy by Design organizations that work with big data. In 2014, the IAF in the product development process. The HP Privacy completed the first step in this complex task, defining five Accountability Framework represents our comprehensive key values—beneficial, progressive, sustainable, respectapproach to assessing and managing the risks associful, and fair—to inform the big data ethical framework. ated with collecting and handling personal data. The framework goes beyond minimum legal requirements, Next steps include finalizing an assessment process for ensures transparent practices, and takes into account companies to use in applying the framework to their activiHP company values, ethical considerations, contractual ties, and convening a multi-stakeholder dialogue involving agreements, and local cultures. 43 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents data-protection experts, data scientists, business leaders, Employees and customers can contact our Privacy Office Letter from CEO and others. The final step, designing ethical assessment in more than 30 languages with queries, concerns, Meg Whitman screening tools for big data projects, is planned for or comments. We follow strict protocols for handling completion in 2015. inquiries and requests appropriately and promptly. In Executive summary 2014, the Privacy Office handled more than 7,100 inquiries, Governance Embedding privacy and accountability in the with queries from users about managing their privacy Human Progress application of big data preferences among the most common issues raised. Overview Category/type of data The Better Business Bureau helps track our compliance Human rights Conduct due diligence to understand the and provides independent dispute-resolution mechatype and sources of data Mitigations Supply chain nisms when customers have concerns about the security Use the following responsibility methods to help of their data. • Privacy balance the proposed Use/application use of data and Our employees Determine how the project will use and/or individual rights: Number of substantiated complaints regarding apply the data • Transparency Social investment breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer • Choice/preference Data data, 2013–2014* • Messaging • Accountability 2013 2014 Economic Progress Motivation/objective Substantiated complaints from outside 0 6** Environmental Progress Understand the motivation or objective of the organization doing the analysis parties (including customers) About this report Considerations Consider these issues Substantiated complaints from regulatory or 0 0 throughout the other official bodies assessment process: Risk assessment * Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance with existing legal • Laws/norms Assess the risk of the project—using the regulations and (voluntary) standards regarding the protection of customer knowledge gained in previous steps • Harms/rights privacy related to data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated • Fairness complaints are written statements by regulatory or similar official bodies • Anti-discrimination addressed to the organization that identify breaches of customer privacy, • Nonpredatory or complaints lodged with the organization that have been recognized as Ethics/values balancing test • Statistical parity legitimate by the organization. Apply the five key values, which help ** In two separate incidents emails containing non-sensitive data were sent define important questions for a balanced to a number of recipients in error and several customers reported this to and ethical approach to big data HP. These multiple notifications have been treated as one complaint for the purposes of this report. Risk management and compliance Global regulation and engagement We take our responsibility to protect personal data very 20 To enable us to better protect customer privacy, HP is workseriously and invest significant resources in managing ing to reform outdated and fragmented privacy laws and privacy risk across the company. The HP Privacy and Data regulations around the world. In particular, existing laws Protection Board (PDPB) oversees these efforts, assessare unclear about the governance of cloud-based services, ing risks annually and designing and leading mitigation resulting in gray areas for consumers and IT companies. strategies. Executives from across our business units and The number of countries functions sit on the board, which meets quarterly. In 2014, that sought and received Our Privacy Office works with government agencies, the PDPB focused on big data analytics, cloud computing, advice from HP on data lawmakers, regulators, NGOs, and industry groups to government access to information, and data security. and privacy regulation. encourage increased global interoperability of privacy regulations—both through regional laws and binding Compliance co-regulatory programs. Interoperability makes it easier We monitor compliance with applicable privacy law and for HP to operate as an international company and to HP privacy policies and processes using our privacy identify and manage privacy related risks. In 2014, we audit and assurance program. All relevant business units made significant progress in this area. HP has now joined are required to follow HP privacy policies and develop binding co-regulatory privacy programs in every region remediation plans when problems arise. where we operate. In 2014, HP’s business units staffed compliance offices Supporting new regulations in Europe to respond to the requirements of the new U.S. Health and Asia Pacific Insurance Portability and Accountability Omnibus Rule HP has helped develop the European Union’s (EU) Binding (HIPPA), which regulates how companies with access to Corporate Rules for Processors (BCR-P) co-regulatory protected health information manage this data. During program. In 2014, we made progress toward being among the year, these offices conducted more than 200 risk the first U.S. companies to receive BCR-P certification and assessments, implemented risk management, mitigahope to achieve this in 2015. BCR-P will enable HP to offer tion, and incident management processes, and rolled out clients a means of ensuring that the transfer and processHIPPA trainings for employees. ing of their data by our global operations is in compliance with EU law. We also continued to support plans to update 44 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents the EU Data Protection Directive, designed to strengthen In addition, we support the bipartisan Law Enforcement Letter from CEO European citizens’ online privacy rights and boost the EU’s Access to Data Stored Abroad Act, which seeks to clarify Meg Whitman digital economy. the powers that warrants issued by U.S. courts have over data stored in a foreign country and would help protect Executive summary In Asia, we received certification in another regional Americans’ personal information stored overseas from Governance system we helped develop—the Asia-Pacific Economic U.S. government access. Given the nature of a borderless Human Progress Cooperation’s (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR). internet, safeguarding data is a global issue that we will Overview continue to work on with the U.S. Congress and overseas. Updating U.S. privacy laws for the digital age Human rights We support comprehensive federal data breach and Supply chain privacy legislation that would increase protection for conPrivacy in products and services responsibility sumers, strengthen accountability, and enable consistent • Privacy compliance in place of current divergent state regulations. From design through use, refurbishment, and recycling, we Our employees strive to ensure our products and services meet the highest To this end, HP is a member of the Digital Due Process privacy standards. Employees assess the privacy safeSocial investment Coalition, an alliance of information and communications guards of in-development, new, and existing products and Data technology (ICT) companies, civil liberties organizations, services by using HP Privacy Advisor, a dynamic questionEconomic Progress and industry associations advocating for reform of the naire. Through HP Labs, we develop and collaborate on new Environmental Progress U.S. Electronic Communications Privacy Act. We support approaches to privacy protection, for example, by leading two bills before Congress that would extend the same the international Cloud Accountability Project (A4Cloud). About this report protection from government access afforded to data stored on computers in homes and offices to data stored HP placed first among information technology companies in the cloud. in the Ponemon Institute’s 2014 Most Trusted Companies for Privacy Study which polls U.S. consumer views of companies across 25 sectors that collect personal data. Goals Privacy 2014 goals Progress Maintain HP’s position as the most trusted private sector advisor to HP continued to act as a trusted advisor to regulators (see Supporting regulators by upholding an industry-leading privacy program that new regulations in Europe and Asia Pacific). anticipates trends such as big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things, and evolving consumer marketing methods. Certify HP in the new APEC CBPR system. Completed. Continue to advocate for accountability and global interoperability by In process (see Supporting new regulations in Europe and Asia Pacific). providing industry input on demonstrated, comprehensive programs and binding co-regulatory solutions. Provide industry input to the continued revisions of the draft EU Privacy HP continued to advise EU legislators on how to make the new regulation Regulation. more effective. Certify HP in EU Binding Corporate Rules for Processors (BCR-P). Progress made; certification sought in 2015. Drive the development of a Privacy Code of Ethics for the configuration The Unified Ethical Frame for Big Data Analysis completed its first phase and use of big data tools. in 2014. Advocate for frameworks that help us apply existing privacy principles HP continues to promote initiatives to bring ethics into decision making or develop new principles that support the New Style of IT, while on privacy (see Championing a big data code of ethics) and balance the continuing to protect the legitimate rights of data subjects. privacy interests of data subjects and data controllers. 45 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy • Our employees Social investment Data Team HP raises funds for the Prince’s Trust at the Palace to Palace charity cycle (United Kingdom). Economic Progress Environmental Progress Our employees About this report Our approximately 302,0001 employees worldwide are All employees can report violations of these policies among our most important assets, and their innovation, anonymously, and we investigate all concerns raised. diversity, and passion keep HP at the forefront of our For a full list of policies related to global citizenship, see fast-moving industry. In delivering the New Style of IT, Policies and standards. our people enhance business and enrich society. Our approach to employees is guided by the HP Way Now, Employee feedback our integrated system of values, core principles, leadership attributes, and behaviors that together make our culture Candid feedback from employees provides critical unique and compelling. These values are embedded in our insight to improve business performance. One critical human resources (HR) policies and reinforced through our feedback mechanism is the annual, confidential Voice engagement and professional development programs, of the Workforce (VoW) survey, available online in 28 our performance and career-management systems, and languages. The survey enables employees to share the benefits and community-engagement opportunities their views and insights about how we can improve the that we provide our employees all around the world. way we work, serve our customers better, and make a difference to the world. Each year, HP leaders assess HP’s commitment to our people starts with a strong set of survey findings and implement follow-up actions. global HR policies that demonstrate our commitment to the fair treatment of all employees. They often establish a more In 2014, 80% of all employees worldwide participated demanding standard than local laws or customs require. in the survey. HP continues to show strong favorability from employee ratings across a range of categories that • Best Work Environment Policy measure key dimensions of well-run organizations. We • Global Human Rights Policy monitor our progress relative to past performance and key technology industry benchmarks from the IT Survey Group • Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy (ITSG) Consortium. In 2014, 70% of our benchmarked • Nondiscrimination Policy survey questions were at or above the industry standard. • Open Door Policy • Standards of Business Conduct 1 As of October 31, 2014. 46 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Voice of the Workforce results, 2013–2014 Letter from CEO 100% Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy 0% • Our employees Ethics and Leadership HP work Quality Growth and Alignment and Innovation Pride in HP Rewards and inclusion environment development agility recognition Social investment 2013 Data 2014 Economic Progress Environmental Progress Engaging our Making connections About this report HP employees are natural collaborators, and we nurture connections between employees and with our partners people and customers. Internally, we support employee networks through online and in-person forums including more than 150 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) We build on our HR policies through long-term investment worldwide. We also encourage employees to engage in programs that promote engagement and satisfaction with company leaders through our intranet forums—Top among our employees worldwide. Through these opportuof Mind and CEO Perspective—as well as through town nities, our employees grow professionally and personally, hall and all-employee meetings. HP News Now (HPNN) and connect to their communities. provides employees access to up-to-date news and information on HP’s business, people, and products. Overall employee engagement, as measured through the VoW, remained strong at 70% in 2014, up from a company We also stay connected with retirees worldwide through low of 57% in 2011. In addition, 83% of employees stated our HP Continuum online community—a dedicated, retiree that their managers acted in alignment with the HP Way Now resources website with 9,400 registered users—and local leader attributes and behaviors. The result of this high level clubs and events. of engagement is more productive, committed employees and a heightened pride in HP as a great place to work. Environmental sustainability is a topic of particular interest to our employees and our customers. Dedicated groups enable us to build sustainability knowledge within HP and to help customers and other businesses adopt Engagement programs more sustainable practices. These groups include: We work to promote genuine connections among our • HP Sustainability Network With more than 30 employees and with the broader community through a range chapters, HP’s largest environmental volunteer and of employee engagement efforts, including ongoing pride engagement group helps to connect employees with building initiatives, networking, and volunteerism programs. similar interests and coordinate sustainability activities at our locations worldwide, including Earth Day celebraCelebrating pride in HP tions, community gardening projects, tree planting, and A global network of 2,100 HP employees act as our Pride on-site waste-reduction events. Builders and help to connect the HP Way Now culture • Eco Advocates Enables HP employees to learn about to employees’ daily work through team interactions, environmental issues and educate customers and local projects, and internal social media networks. business partners on the environmental benefits of HP’s products, solutions, and practices. In 2014, Eco In addition to this program, a variety of special events Advocates webcasts were viewed more than 1,200 give employees an opportunity to share their passion times, covering topics such as paper environmental for HP. In 2014, these included HP’s Take Our Children certifications and supply chain innovations. to Work program, through which more than 25,000 children attended 180 on-site events in 67 countries, Championed by HP, the WWF Living Planet @ Work as well as several global events celebrating HP’s 75th program is creating connections with more than 750 anniversary of “Thinking, Imagining, Inventing—Creating.” organizations, providing them with free tools and resources to raise the visibility of sustainability in their workplaces, identify ways to reduce their environmental impact, and engage employees. In 2014, led by HP 47 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Canada’s Managing Director, HP helped to raise more than $21,000 to support this program. A case study “Working with the Malre Team Letter from CEO Meg Whitman has been written about this award-winning program as was not merely a mentorship Executive summary a leading example of for-profit and nonprofit partneropportunity but a wonderful ships by one of Canada’s leading business schools. Governance learning experience as well. The Human Progress greatest lesson I learnt from these Overview Volunteerism2 remarkable students was the Human rights The drive to contribute to society runs deep among HP power of a great idea coupled with Supply chain employees and is embedded in our approach to doing busiresponsibility ness. We encourage employees worldwide to use four hours passion to be change agents, a Privacy of paid volunteer time per month, dedicating their energy, fighting spirit, and positive attitude.” • Our employees skills, and creativity to supporting nonprofit organizations around the world and in the communities where we live and Social investment — Purity Muchogu, Partner Business Manager, Kenya, work. In 2014, 48,500 HP employees took part in volunteerPPS Organization and volunteer for the Social Innovation Relay Data ing activities, contributing 1.6 million hours of volunteer time Economic Progress in support of the environment, education, entrepreneurship, health, and other areas that support Living Progress. To enable impact and engagement at scale, we offered Environmental Progress employees two volunteering opportunities through About this report Our volunteerism programs also have clear employee international partner organizations, Stop Hunger Now and engagement benefits. In 2014, participation in HP volunteer Junior Achievement Young Enterprise (JAYE). events correlated to a 12% lift in motivation, a 14% increase in positive feelings about HP and a 13% rise in loyalty. Launched during May as part of the GDS, our partnership with Stop Hunger Now continued throughout the year with Increasingly, we encourage employees to leverage not more than 5,100 HP employees from Brazil, Costa Rica, only their time but also their talents to support nonGermany, India, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, the Philippines, profit organizations and social entrepreneurs. Through Singapore, the UK, and the United States, packaging more skills-based volunteering, our employees have greater than 1.4 million meals to support needy households. social impact and help organizations tackle key business challenges. In addition, HP internal survey results Volunteering also occurred virtually. Through HP’s $94.4 indicate that skills-based volunteers are 38% more likely collaborative tool HP MyRoom, JAYE engaged 770 HP to have high levels of morale than nonvolunteers as employees from 25 countries as judges in the six national compared to 23% more likely for hands-on volunteers. finals of the Social Innovation Relay (SIR) that took place million1 Of the 1.6 million hours of volunteer time contributed on the GDS. Through this worldwide competition teams of by HP employees in 2014, 34% was skills-based. students, aged 14 through 18, work together to develop innovative business concepts designed to deliver both total value of employee profit and positive social impact. The winning team, the volunteering in 2014 Global Day of Service Malre Group from Kenya, designed an innovative mosquito To mark our 75th anniversary, we held our first Global trap to help protect against the transmission of malaria, a Day of Service (GDS) in May, 2014. Throughout the 1 Hourly rate based on type of disease that kills nearly 600,000 people each year. volunteering: $150/hour for board, month, more than 20,200 HP employees worldwide service corp, pro bono, and skills based; $22.55/hour for hands-on used their paid volunteer time to support commuand undetermined, adjusted using nity nonprofits through hundreds of events—from World Bank data for purchasing power differences across countries. Barcelona to Bangalore, Shanghai to São Paolo. In total, HP employees contributed nearly 92,000 volunteer hours through these activities. 2 For an employee activity to be considered as volunteering/community involvement under HP’s programs, it needs to serve the public good, be conducted through a formal or informal organization that is not for profit, and be unpaid. HP employee volunteering/community involvement can be: • Conducted during paid work time per HP employee volunteerism policy (with management approval) • Conducted on an employee’s own time, completely independent of HP • Time invested to make a cash or goods donation, such as the time dedicated to shopping for toys that will be donated, giving blood, or walking for a charitable cause • Conducted as part of an HP department or team service project • A contribution of skills or talent, such as board service, professional services, or technology support • Any other form of service that serves the public good, is conducted through a formal organization, and is unpaid, as specified in the defining criteria here. 48 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Building careers Contents and Stanford University. In 2014, nearly 300 directors Letter from CEO worldwide took part in the Align program, while Engage Meg Whitman enrolled almost 470. Executive summary Attracting, developing, and retaining top talent is fundamentally important to HP. We encourage all employees to During the year we also piloted and launched virtual Governance versions of our Welcome to Management and Management build their careers with us, and we provide comprehensive, Human Progress integrated tools and resources to help them achieve their Excellence programs, as well as an in-person version of Overview professional development objectives. Preparing for Leadership, all designed to strengthen management and leadership skills of employees at all stages Human rights of their careers. We also added a new program—Executive Supply chain responsibility Improving performance Excellence for Directors—to help employees at the director level strengthen their executive leadership style. Privacy management Altogether, about 5,800 managers participated in our core • Our employees leadership curriculum in 2014—77% more than in 2013. High-performing employees drive our business success. In Social investment 2014, we introduced two important initiatives to support Data improved performance management and job satisfaction: Professional development A new manager-employee interaction model that Economic Progress encourages ongoing performance review conversations, HP offers a range of training to help employees develop Environmental Progress and a company-wide shift to Workday, a cloud-based the skills and knowledge to excel in their current roles About this report human capital management software solution. and develop in their careers at HP. At the heart of our professional development efforts is HP University (HPU). In focus groups and surveys, more than 40% of employees HPU provides fast and easy access to the resources and nearly 50% of managers reported higher quality midemployees need to develop their careers and support the year conversations as a result of these new processes. company’s business goals. With nearly 10,000 courses Results from the VoW also indicate that our new proto choose from, employees across our 19 job functions grams, including the holistic career-development model have many options to develop their skills and knowledge. introduced in 2013, are positively impacting employees. 27% • 85% of employees report that they and their managers In 2014, HPU’s second year of operation, employees set clear goals, aligned to their team and/or unit goals in completed nearly 5.3 million training hours, 97% through 2014, up 4% since 2012. flexible virtual sessions or self-paced online courses. In addition to formal training, our learning resources include Increase in mentorship • 80% of employees report that they receive sufficient across the company conferences, seminars, and technical certifications. information regarding the organization’s goals and during the first three execution priorities, up 8% since 2012. months of the roll out of the refined • 77% of employees report that they receive ongoing Redeploying employees Mentoring@hp portal feedback that helps them to improve their performance, up 5% since 2012. When filling new or existing positions, we look first to our talented internal employees. We also do our best to support employees when business decisions such Mentoring as restructuring and realignment affect their positions. Employees are encouraged to take full advantage of In 2014, we refined and rolled out our Mentoring@hp portal available advisory resources and empowered to make globally, providing all employees access to online trainings, decisions that best support their long-term careers. tools, and a system for matching mentors and mentees. Mentorship increased by 27% across the company between In 2014, we expanded our redeployment services to May and July 2014, the first three months of the roll out. As include individual and group-based support for each of of October 2014, more than 9,400 employees were taking our businesses. In 2015, employees worldwide affected part in mentoring engagements, with 76% expressing satby workplace reduction will be able to access an enhanced isfaction. More experienced employees practice motivation redeployment portal to better position them to apply and leadership skills, while less-experienced employees for internal job opportunities. This portal will feature benefit from coaching and knowledge sharing. updated resources, including podcasts and videos, and enhanced reporting capabilities. We also continue to work with our global career transition supplier to better Leadership development position employees affected by workforce reduction. See more information about HP’s 2012 restructurThe development of established and emerging leaders ing plan on page 106 of HP’s Annual Report on Form is a key priority for HP. Our Align and Engage programs 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2014. support the next generation of HP leaders through robust learning and coaching opportunities, featuring HP executives and faculty from Harvard Business School 49 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Diversity and Contents In the United States, the Women’s Innovation Council Letter from CEO provides a forum for HP’s female executives to connect with other senior women technology leaders across the industry inclusion Meg Whitman to collaborate, drive innovation, and encourage young Executive summary women to pursue careers in science, technology, engineerGovernance ing, and math (STEM). Founded in 2013 by HP, the Women’s Human Progress HP is committed to increasing the diversity of our workInnovation Council now includes nearly 30 of the most force and creating an inclusive environment in which prominent female executives in the industry. The council’s Overview everyone can thrive. Together, our leaders and employees 2014 annual event focused on sustainability and innovation Human rights weave diversity and inclusion into the fabric of our and featured speakers from leading technology companies, Supply chain company, helping to drive new business, fuel innovation, including HP Chief Progress Officer, Gabi Zedlmayer. responsibility and attract and retain the best employees worldwide. Privacy For more information on how HP is investing in the skills Our businesses hire interns, college graduates, and development of women more broadly, see Economic • Our employees experienced individuals from a wide range of backimpacts across the value chain. Social investment grounds with the goal of assembling a talented, diverse Data workforce — about 20% of our external hires during Economic Progress 2014 were graduate hires. To drive accountability for Supporting diversity and inclusion improving workforce diversity and maintaining an Environmental Progress inclusive work environment, we set business unit targets Given the global nature of our business, supporting About this report related to workforce demographics. We also routinely a workforce that engages, understands, and reflects review our VoW survey results to understand how our a diversity of cultures and backgrounds is vital to our diverse employees experience HP’s work environment. success. We deliver this through a combination of formal and informal trainings and industry-wide initiatives. Our diversity and inclusion policies and practices, overseen by our Chief Diversity Officer, lay the foundaIn 2013, we launched Cultural Navigator, an online training tion for a positive work culture. Often, they set a higher program to increase cultural competence across our standard than is legally required in countries where we workforce. In 2014, nearly 9,400 people completed the operate. We do not tolerate discrimination or harasstraining. In 2014, our more than 150 ERGs held more than ment, and we encourage employees to report suspected 420 diversity-focused events in more than 30 countries. incidents to their human resources department or by These included a global webcast series on leadership using our worldwide, confidential 24-hour GuideLine. with HP Executive Vice Presidents, school mentorship programs, the launch of more than 50 Lean In circles HP is honored to be recognized as an industry leader at HP, and a 20-country LGBT equality campaign. in this area. In 2014, we were awarded the Corporate Citizenship Award by National Action Council for Minorities In the United States, we partner with organizations that in Engineering, and the Employer of the Year Award by help us develop a diverse workforce and inclusive office CAREERS & the disABLED magazine. See a full list of awards. culture, such as Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics (LEAP) and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME). In October 2014, HP launched an Focus on female talent effort with NACME to identify opportunities to build the pipeline for underrepresented racial and ethnic minority Reversing the underrepresentation of women in technolcomputer science professionals, particularly in Silicon ogy careers is a priority for HP. In 2014, we continued Valley. Around the globe, we support programming to support and develop a pipeline of qualified female intended to strengthen the pipeline of diverse technology engineers, designers, coders, and technology executalent. For a full list of strategic partners, visit our diversity tives within our company and throughout the industry. and inclusion webpage. Internally, HP invests in several programs and events During the past year, the technology industry has come intended to support women in technical positions at the under intense scrutiny for its lack of gender, racial, and company, and to foster the skills and relationships that are ethnic diversity, and HP has actively worked with the vital to their professional development. Our global Women Rainbow PUSH coalition, led by Reverend Jesse Jackson, in Technology speaker series is one such effort. In 2014, as well as numerous other experts and industry coalitions this series hosted bi-monthly one-hour sessions covering to address these issues. Transparency by the IT industry various career-related topics. Since the series launched in is an important component to changing the demographic January 2014, more than 10,000 women have listened to makeup of the sector. At HP, we have published comlive broadcasts or recordings of the sessions. In another prehensive employee diversity data for more than 10 example, Ascend, HP’s global sponsorship program for years. In this way, we are helping to promote substantive, high-performing female employees, had a successfact-based discussions on this important challenge for the ful second year in 2014. Thirty senior executives gave technology industry. mentoring, coaching, and networking support to 30 highpotential female vice presidents and directors for a year. 50 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Workforce demographics To view detailed breakdowns of our U.S. workforce by gender, ethnicity, and job category, see the company’s Letter from CEO Meg Whitman We track gender diversity globally and ethnic diversity 2014 U.S. EEO-1 form. Executive summary in our U.S. workforce. In 2014, 20.5% of our top executives (director level and above) globally were women. Governance Rewards and The percentage of top U.S. executives from minority Human Progress groups increased to 18.6% in 2014, from 17.6% in 2013. Overview Human rights Supply chain Employees (regular full time and part time) by region and gender, 2014 recognition responsibility Men Women Total We acknowledge and reward our people for their work Privacy Americas 66,753 33,330 100,083 through compensation, benefits, and recognition pro• Our employees grams. HP completes at least one annual review cycle for Asia Pacific and Japan 57,246 28,189 85,435 pay and benefits globally. Social investment Europe, Middle East, and Africa 47,267 21,393 68,660 Data Other * 47,822 Economic Progress Compensation Total 302,000 Environmental Progress * This row includes employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated HP makes regular investments in salaries, bonuses, and About this report subsidiaries for which this human resource data is not available to HP. other incentives. We target an overall market competitive pay position across the company. In 2014, we delivered significant bonuses for fiscal year performance, salary World workforce by age group, 2014 increases, and long-term incentive awards. Age group % of total 223,920 30 and under 23.1% At HP’s annual meeting in March 2015, HP stockholders approved a proposal in support of our executive 31–50 58.3% 73% of eligible compensation program with 95% of the voting shares employees have 51 and over 18.6% in favor. The program is performance and equity based, benefitted from with incentive awards dependent on both financial and at least one of our nonfinancial factors. recognition programs Employees (regular full time and part time) by employment type and gender, 2014 Our comprehensive efforts to explain to employees how Full time * compensation relates to performance are paying off. From Category Women % Men % Total 2010 to 2014, HP’s VoW survey showed a 51% improveExecutives 197 17.9% 905 82.1% 1,102 ment in employees’ understanding of pay practices and the link to performance. Our score continues to be well Directors 831 22.0% 2,942 78.0% 3,774 above the IT industry norm. Managers 5,086 25.9% 14,541 74.1% 19,630 Currently, more than 18,900 employees in 48 countries Professionals 53,957 29.8% 127,065 70.2% 181,115 opt into our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which Other 19,667 44.1% 24,882 55.8% 44,625 enables employees to buy HP shares at a 5% discount. In the enrollment period ending on October 31, 2014, Subtotal 79,738 31.9% 170,335 68.1% 250,246 more than 2,000 new enrollees joined the program. Part time Category Women % Men % Total Executives 0 0% 1 100% 1 Benefits Directors 7 77.8% 2 22.2% 9 In addition to base and performance-related pay and Managers 86 88.9% 11 11.3% 97 stock ownership, HP offers benefits everywhere we operate. Depending on the location, these benefits may Professionals 2,291 79.4% 593 20.6% 2,884 include retirement and savings plans, income-protection Other 790 83.9% 151 16.0% 941 insurance covering risks from injury or illness, health and wellness plans, and flexible working arrangements. Subtotal 3,174 80.7% 758 19.3% 3,932 We also look to create valuable benefits programs on a Total country-by-country basis. Other ** 47,822 Total 302,000 * In some cases, the total does not equal the sum of the segments because the employee type of some employees is uncategorized. ** This row includes employees of certain majority-owned, consolidated subsidiaries for which this human resource data is not available to HP. 51 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Recognition programs Financial wellness Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In addition to monetary compensation, we show our appreHP’s wellness initiative includes programs focusing Executive summary ciation for hard work and loyalty through the Recognition@ on financial issues, which has been identified as a key hp program. Through this program, we celebrate employemployee stressor. Financial wellness covers topics Governance ment milestones with HP, acknowledge peers’ support and such as saving, investing, retirement planning and debt Human Progress achievements, empower managers to award HP points to management. In August 2014, we hosted a webcast Overview stand-out employees, and reward nominated employees featuring one of Fortune’s 50 Most Powerful Women Human rights with cash awards to celebrate leadership. in Business, who led a discussion for nearly 6,300 HP employees in the United States and Canada on tips for Supply chain managing personal finances. Ninety-six percent of survey responsibility Wellness respondents reported that the presentation helped them Privacy identify actions to help reach their financial goals. • Our employees Social investment Our Winning with Wellness initiative is designed to Health and safety Data enhance the well-being of our employees worldwide, promote a higher level of engagement, and create Economic Progress a holistic culture of health across the organization. Environmental Progress This initiative is structured upon three foundational We have a responsibility to provide a safe working enviAbout this report pillars: physical health, stress management and ronment for our people. Hand in hand with our wellness emotional resiliency, and financial wellness. programs, our strong health and safety policies focus on risks particular to our business, and we provide training and education to help keep employees healthy, safe, and productive. Physical health 25 2014 highlights from our programs include: EHS policy and standards • Global Wellness Challenge Nearly 67,000 employees from 89 countries signed up for this annual eight-week Our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy and challenge, a 20% participation increase compared to comprehensive EHS management system are critical to ensuring employee health and safety. The managebillion 2013. Together, they walked nearly 25 billion steps. ment system aligns with the internationally recognized • Power of Prevention Employees in 41 countries Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series The number of steps participated in our preventative health programs. More (OHSAS) 18001 standard as well as the ANSI Z10 and ILO taken by HP employees than 5,500 employees received cancer screenings and OSH 2001 standards of the American National Standards during the Global education about reducing cancer risk, and more than Institute and the International Labour Organization, Wellness Challenge 700 were referred for further examination. respectively. Nine HP sites—in Colombia, Ireland, • Biometric screenings in the United States More than Romania, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, and UK—are 77% of eligible employees and spouses participated registered to OHSAS 18001. in these screenings, which provide baseline health data through a series of tests, up from 71% in 2013. In We use a health and safety data-collection and tracking addition, more than 80% of eligible U.S. employees have system to monitor injury trends regionally and at the global completed our voluntary online wellness assessment, a level, in line with the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and questionnaire that helps individuals identify and address Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases. lifestyle behaviors that may impact their health. We also monitor and seek to improve the health and safety of our contractors and that of HP employees Stress management and emotional working at non-HP locations. During 2014, we revised and reissued the HP Global Contractor Environment, resiliency Health, Safety and Security (EHS&S) Handbook, available on our intranet. We plan to improve digital access to the We offer employee assistance programs and work/life handbook for contractors outside the HP firewall in 2015. balance services to help them better manage the daily stresses of life and to provide support through personal As a global company, we stay abreast of changes in health emotional issues. In the United States in 2014, we piloted and safety legislation worldwide and standardize our meQuilibrium, a web-based tool. We also created a processes for assessing EHS risks and legal requirements High-Risk Situation Support Training and Manager Toolkit everywhere we operate. Our efforts to deploy more and site-specific trainings and offerings focused on mental efficient and effective EHS management processes are health awareness. ongoing. In 2014, we continued to review and improve our risk assessment activities, including processes to 52 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents assess legal requirements, adapting these to regional Performance data Letter from CEO and country-specific needs. For information about our We have low accident and injury rates across our offices, Meg Whitman environmental programs, please see HP operations. production facilities, warehouses, and laboratories. Executive summary Nonetheless, we continually evaluate our training proGlobal chemical management grams, policies, and procedures to identify improvement Governance In designing policies and programs, we focus on issues opportunities and ways to avoid incidents. We are commitHuman Progress that pose potential safety risks to our employees, ted to identifying the causes of accidents and taking action Overview such as chemical handling. In 2014, we continued our to prevent them. efforts to implement the Globally Harmonized System Human rights of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals worldwide. The top three categories of work-related injuries across Supply chain our facilities relate to slips, trips, and falls and to responsibility Highlights included: ergonomics, both in office settings and when handling Privacy materials. We work to continually improve in these areas • Creating teams to address regional and site implemen• Our employees through our robust EHS management system, related tation issues, including labeling requirements Social investment programs, and employee engagement. • Continuing to update site chemical inventories Data We responded to a recent increase in materials handling • Adding the newly formatted Safety Data Sheets to Economic Progress inventories cases at non-HP locations. We encouraged managers and Environmental Progress their employees who work at these locations to complete • Improving our electronic chemical management system tailored training courses that address issues that can arise About this report to enable easier chemical inventorying and container at such locations. labeling Health and safety communications and training Leading causes of lost workdays, 2012–2014 Keeping our global community of employees informed 2012 2013 2014 about health and safety issues is central to our strategy. Slips, trips, and falls 45% 38% 42% We offer more than 150 instructor-led and web-based Ergonomics—materials handling 12% 18% 10% trainings to keep employees up-to-date on key health and safety issues and to comply with regulatory requireErgonomics—office environment 11% 5% 6% ments. In 2014, we provided more than 900 instructor-led Automobile accidents 11% 18% 15% training events, up from 830 in 2013, and reached more than 37,000 enrollments in web-based training courses. Struck by/against 14% 10% 13% We continually monitor the spread of communicable Leading causes of all recordable incidents (with and diseases and develop contingency plans to safeguard our without lost time), 2012–2014 employees worldwide. When a global disease event arises, 2012 2013 2014 we conduct internal discussions, connect with external disease experts and authorities, and benchmark with other Slips, trips, and falls 35% 30% 35% global companies and health organizations. We act quickly Ergonomics—materials handling 12% 17% 10% to ensure that our employees have the best information and support possible. In 2014, we responded to the global Ergonomics—office environment 20% 16% 16% threat of the Ebola virus by restricting employee travel to Automobile accidents 10% 11% 11% certain affected countries and provided relevant health Struck by/against 15% 13% 14% and safety information to employees in targeted locations. Ergonomics continues to be an important focus, with an emphasis on reducing risks both in the office environment and in positions requiring manual materials handling. Over the past year, we maintained our focus on training and assessing and mitigating ergonomics risks and achieved a reduction from 18% to 10% of our lost workday injuries involving the manual handling of materials and equipment over 2013 levels. 53 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress 14.Lost workday case rate, 2009-2013* Contents Lost workday case rate, 2010–2014* Recordable incidence rate, 2010–2014* Letter from CEO 0.20 0.8 Meg Whitman Executive summary 0.15 0.6 Governance Human Progress 0.10 0.4 Overview Human rights 0.05 0.2 Supply chain responsibility Privacy 0.00 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Our employees Social investment Data G lobal 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.08 0.07 G lobal 0.24 0.22 0.20 0.19 0.21 Economic Progress A mericas 0.16 0.13 0.12 0.11 0.10 A mericas 0.43 0.41 0.36 0.34 0.35 Environmental Progress About this report  urope, Middle E 0.11 0.11 0.08 0.11 0.08 E  urope, Middle 0.18 0.17 0.18 0.19 0.19 East, and Africa East, and Africa A sia Pacific 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.03 A sia Pacific 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.04 0.04 and Japan and Japan * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. Rates for both metrics are calculated using U.S. OSHA definitions for recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. For lost workday case rate, the U.S. average in 2013 (the most recent year available) for the “Other Information Services”—NAICS #519 industry was 0.2. For recordable incidence rate, the U.S. average in 2013 (the most recent year available) for the “Other Information Services” industry was 0.4. For both metrics, Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama, Puerto Rico, the United States, and Venezuela. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in Australia, India, Japan, and Singapore. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Norway, Poland, Romania, South Africa, Spain, and the United Kingdom. For recordable incidence rate, Americas also includes incidents in Mexico; Asia Pacific and Japan also includes incidents in New Zealand; and Europe, Middle East, and Africa also includes incidents in Belgium, Finland, Morocco, Russian Federation, and United Arab Emirates. View full data for Our employees. 54 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Overview Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees • Social investment Data Economic Progress Environmental Progress Social investment About this report At HP, we deploy our biggest assets—people and technolhospital-based doctors. The easily deployable centers are More ogy—to advance solutions for society’s toughest challenges. To further Human Progress, we make strategic community designed to integrate into a broader healthcare network of services, or they can be deployed independently. than investments in critical areas, including healthcare delivery and analytics and disaster recovery and rebuilding. Through February 2015, we have deployed 29 eHealth Centers to serve villages in India, and received more than 65,000 We embrace this opportunity and responsibility, bringing together the right partners to better understand 65,000 patient visits. Our pioneering approach addresses urgent rural needs since most of India’s healthcare Patient visits to HP complex global and local problems and develop effective, infrastructure is in cities where only 27% of the population eHealth Centers in India1 sustainable solutions. By working with governments, lives, and villagers can normally travel more than eight nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), academic kilometers to access basic health services. In 2014, we also institutions, customers, thought leaders, and social 1 As of the end of February, 2015. opened an eHealth Center in Bhutan and began developentrepreneurs, we pool our talents and resources, scale ment of two more in the Philippines. In partnership with our initiatives, and increase our impact on human wellthe Asian Development Bank and the Philippines Disaster being. Products and solutions that bring social benefits Recovery Foundation, these centers are being deployed also support our business—through the potential for to regions still recovering from the devastating impact of commercial growth and by strengthening our reputation Typhoon Haiyan. and relationships with customers and other stakeholders. Examples of key investments that support Human E-Health Centers enable our partners, such as Narayana Progress are described here. See Volunteerism Health, to overcome challenges associated with rural for more on our activities in that area. areas including connectivity, electrical supplies, and sourcing medical teams—and to reduce healthcare costs. Transforming healthcare delivery In addition to supporting urgent care with 21st century diagnostics, in 2014 we expanded work on population and analytics health by analyzing data across the eHC network of centers and identifying patterns and issues affecting larger Through a network of leading partners and enabled segments of the population. In the future, health officials by technology, HP is transforming healthcare delivery may also use analysis of eHC-generated patient data to for remote communities and utilizing the insight from inform healthcare policies. big data to inform and improve healthcare delivery for individuals as well as entire communities. Our eHealth Centers (eHC) are equipped with the diagnostic tools that allow on-site nurses and paramedics to test for and Improving child health through treat health problems and to readily consult with leading information management specialists and doctors. Each center is also connected via HP cloud technology to data-sharing systems Without health records and integrated information across that aid treatment and to teleconsulting services with various health services, children can fall through the cracks and fail to receive the health and social services they need. HP is partnering with the United Nations 55 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Chinese government to more effective surveying of community needs at the Letter from CEO address this challenge through technology innovation in family, village, and area level by asking households to Meg Whitman the world’s most populous country. identify pictures that best reflect their circumstances—for example, pictures on a tablet might show river water, a Executive summary Together, we piloted the Maternal and Child Health communal water pump, and a household tap to signify Governance Management Information System, designed to electronidegrees of poverty. The information is available via the Human Progress cally capture and store information about every newborn cloud and helps connect the organizations providing social Overview in China and to provide critical information to the healthservices to the families that need them. In Paraguay, the care organizations that provide services to communities, nonprofit Fundación Paraguaya, which co-developed Human rights and monitor and plan for health service capacities. this solution with HP, has used the technology for five Supply chain years, helping to lift 20,000 people out of poverty. responsibility From 2011 to 2014, 1,610 health facilities in six prefecPrivacy tures and provinces were using the information system, In 2014, the Visual Survey Platform became a comOur employees with more sites to be added over the next three years. mercially available, cloud-based data-collection and This electronic system, which replaces paper-based intelligence management system. Usable across many • Social investment processes, allows newborns to be registered within days industries, including healthcare and aviation, the technolData of their birth, which, in turn, enables their registration ogy’s commercial application demonstrates the potential Economic Progress for and access to health and social welfare services at a business value of our community investment. critical time of their lives. Environmental Progress About this report HP is supporting the expansion and potential impact “The aim of this partnership is to build an of this program by developing a cloud computing solution, creating a platform for mobile applications, integrated information system that and building a national laboratory that will serve as a improves the quality of maternal and solution test bed, data center, and training center. child healthcare provision, supports management and supervision of health Partnering to meet basic needs and staff and facilities, and, through address poverty improved demand, ultimately assists People cannot make progress when their basic needs for millions of children and women to food and shelter are unmet. Recognizing this, we selected the international hunger relief organization Stop Hunger access quality health services in China.” Now (SHN) as a global partner for our inaugural Global Day of Service. In the largest meal-packaging partnership — Gillian Mellsop, UNICEF China Representative in SHN’s history, more than 5,100 HP employees from 11 countries packaged more than 1.4 million nutritious meals for vulnerable, underfed families between May and Aiding disaster recovery December 2014. The dehydrated meals, which included rice, soy, vegetables, and 23 vitamins and minerals, were People suffer and Economic Progress falters when natural sent to schools, orphanages, nurseries, and medical disasters strike. HP responds by helping affected communiclinics in Afghanistan, Cambodia, Guatemala, India, the ties recover and rebuild. Donations come from employees, Philippines, Sierra Leone, Syria, and Vietnam. Learn more. HP, and the HP Company Foundation. In 2014, these totaled $953,050 in cash, delivered through partners including the We also deploy our technology to enable development American Red Cross, International Federation of the Red and microfinance agencies to serve people’s needs more Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and Save the Children. quickly and effectively. The Visual Survey Platform is Our donations assisted in disaster relief and recovery an information management and reporting platform around the world including in the Philippines following that includes a data-collection application to use visual Typhoon Haiyan; in China following the earthquake in images, geocaching, and cloud-based analytics to enable Yunnan province; and in areas of the Balkans and Colorado, United States, affected by severe flooding. “Partnering with an innovation leader like HP allows Also in 2014, HP launched a large-scale partnership with the American Red Cross in the United States. More than 5,700 us to leverage technologies such as telemedicine HP employees at 25 sites across the country assembled and cloud capabilities. This enables us to 9,000 comfort kits, distributed to families affected by fires to meet basic hygiene needs. Almost 150 times every day, accelerate our goals of reaching more people and families across the United States suffer house and apartdelivering early detection and diagnosis to patients ment fires, and these comfort kits fulfill basic needs as families begin the recovery process. while maintaining manageable costs.” — Dr. Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, Vice Chairman, Managing Director, and Group CEO, Narayana View full data for HP social investments. Health, a major eHealth Center partner that operates 29 hospitals in India 56 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Supply chain responsibility Human Progress 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Overview Suppliers engaged in SER program [total, cumulative] 879 907 958 969 975 Human rights Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI framework [% of production 66% 82% 74% 72% Supply chain supplier spend] * responsibility Capability building Privacy Number of capability-building programs 11 12 12 12 15 Our employees Workers and managers reached through capability-building programs 42,800 62,800 189,200 131,400 91,900 Social investment , , [per year] ** *** **** • Data Number of worker-empowerment programs† 4 7 8 10 10 Economic Progress , , Workers and managers reached by worker-empowerment programs [per year] ** **** † 42,400 62,500 189,200 †† 129,100 87,400 Environmental Progress Workers’ rights About this report Suppliers’ employees working less than 60 hours per week on average ††† [%] 83% 84% Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek††† [%] 89% 91% Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees††† [%] 96% 94% Zero-tolerance audit findings related to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental 0 0 1 0 Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association; forced, bonded, or indentured labor; child labor; or discrimination Zero-tolerance audit findings related to occupational safety, emergency prepared0 0 5 5 ness, or industrial hygiene †††† SER audits and assessments conducted [total, cumulative] ‡ 684 773 921 1,094 1,294 Total initial audits 295 334 413 467 507 Total follow-up audits 321 345 390 443 492 Total full re-audits 68 94 118 150 189 Assessments 0 0 0 34 106 Status of 3TG smelters or refiners reported in HP’s supply chain ‡‡ Compliant ‡‡‡ [number of smelters] 60 152 Compliant ‡‡‡ [% of total] 30% 59% In process ‡‡‡‡ [number of smelters] 21 44 In process ‡‡‡‡ [% of total] 10% 17% Not yet participating [number of smelters] 120 61 Not yet participating [% of total] 60% 24% Total [number of smelters] 201 257 * This figure may be lower in years with larger numbers of new suppliers, which often do not publish sustainability reports; HP motivates suppliers to develop more mature SER practices, including GRI-based reporting. ** With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers and managers directly reached by our capability-building programs. These figures are rounded. *** These figures are revised from previous reporting. **** Number of workers and managers reached each year depends on the programs executed; some programs address issues broadly across suppliers and workers, other programs focus more narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable worker groups. † Worker empowerment programs strengthen workers’ ability to advocate for their rights, improve their working conditions, and enhance their well-being. †† Although this value is lower than the “Number of workers and managers reached” by all capability-building programs, they are equivalent in this table due to rounding. ††† Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. †††† 2014 findings relate to emergency preparedness and industrial hygiene. See Zero-tolerance items section. ‡ Data for past years may differ from previous reports because HP receives the details of some audits after the Living Progress Report publication deadline. Metric shows number of production and nonproduction supplier audits and assessments per type (including recycling vendor SER audits) for the period 2010–2014. ‡‡ 2013 data is as of January 2014. 2014 data is as of April 2015. ‡‡‡ Smelters or refiners compliant with assessment programs: CFSI’s CFSP, Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC) Chain-of-Custody Certification Program, or the London Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA) Responsible Gold Programme. ‡‡‡‡ Smelters or refiners listed by CFSI as currently in the process of becoming CFSP-compliant or that are Tungsten Industry-Conflict Minerals Council (TI-CMC) Category A members. 57 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Our employees Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Executive summary Women employees [% of total] Governance Americas 34.3% 33.3% 33.1% 33.5% 33.3% Human Progress Asia Pacific and Japan 33.1% 32.3% 32.6% 33.1% 33.0% Overview Europe, Middle East, and Africa 30.5% 29.8% 30.0% 30.3% 31.2% Human rights Worldwide 32.9% 32.0% 32.1% 32.5% 32.6% Supply chain responsibility Women managers [% of total] Privacy Americas 27.8% 28.7% 30.1% 30.1% 30.7% Our employees Asia Pacific and Japan 21.8% 22.3% 22.2% 21.8% 22.0% Social investment Europe, Middle East, and Africa 19.8% 20.9% 22.4% 23.3% 24.2% • Data Worldwide 24.1% 24.8% 25.5% 25.6% 26.2% Economic Progress Global new hires, by gender [% of total] Environmental Progress About this report Female 35.2% 32.7% 34.6% 36.2% 35.1% Male 64.8% 67.3% 65.4% 63.8% 64.9% U.S. new hires, by ethnicity * [% of total] White 61.7% 52.4% 64.8% 54.0% 52.1% All minorities 34.8% 31.1% 34.9% 46.0% 35.1% Black 14.5% 7.7% 10.8% 11.3% 9.8% Hispanic 7.1% 6.7% 7.5% 9.1% 6.7% Asian 10.5% 14.6% 12.6% 15.3% 15.6% Native American 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% * Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” because some people do not declare or do not fall into these categories. Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Overview Economic impacts across the value chain Social investment Total social investment spend Data Environmental Progress About this report Economic Progress Helping businesses and economies thrive 59 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress • Overview Economic impacts across the value chain Social investment Total social investment spend Data Environmental Progress About this report Overview As one of the world’s largest and most influential com• Our products and solutions help consumers fulfill panies, HP has far-reaching economic impacts. Mindful their needs and our business customers worldwide to of this opportunity, we strive to advance a future where improve competitiveness, identify new business opporjobs are plentiful, economies thrive, and people have the tunities, save money, and operate more efficiently. For skills and resources they need to contribute to society. example, HP products such as highly efficient servers and data centers reduce energy consumption, our big Through HP Living Progress, our framework for data solutions generate actionable analysis and insights how we do business, we generate positive impacts for customers, and our Managed Print Services decrease on business and society across our value chain: imaging and printing costs by 10–30%. • Our supply chain purchasing supports hundreds of We also advance economic development by making production suppliers and tens of thousands of nonstrategic social investments that support individuals, production suppliers. We also support hundreds of businesses, and communities while creating potential thousands of jobs at supplier sites audited through our commercial opportunities for HP. In partnership with Supply Chain Responsibility program alone. HP also nonprofits, educational institutions, governments, actively seeks to use the services of diverse suppliers and international agencies, we deploy our people and including small businesses and companies owned by technology in innovative programs that focus on skills women, minorities, aboriginal or indigenous people. development for businesses, entrepreneurs, and students. • Our global operations directly support local economies Our objective is to reduce joblessness and underemployeverywhere we have a presence. In FY14, we reported ment, build livelihoods, and empower people to succeed net revenue of $111.5 billion, of which approximately in a skills-based global economy. For more information 65% came from outside the United States. HP provides and examples, see Social investment: Economic. wages and compensation to 302,000 employees1, tax revenues to governments worldwide, and dividends and share repurchases to shareholders. 1 As of October 31, 2014. 60 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Overview • Economic impacts across the value chain Social investment Total social investment spend Data Environmental Progress About this report Economic impacts across the value chain As a leading information technology (IT) company operating in countries worldwide, HP advances Economic Progress in many ways. Our business contributes to economies globally through the value we create for our customers, our direct financial transactions, and the indirect impacts that result when the money we spend circulates through economies. We produce economic impacts across our value chain, advancing sustainable growth and delivering lasting gains for HP and the millions of people who benefit from our products and operations around the world. For more Visit our map to find out on the scope of our value chain, see HP profile. Purchasing impacts Globally, in 2014 our supply chain purchasing supported Supply chain hundreds of thousands of jobs at supplier sites audited through our Supply Chain Responsibility program alone, HP’s far-reaching supply chain, which spans six contiin addition to many more at nonaudited locations. Our nents and comprises hundreds of production suppliers procurement activity also generates significant indirect and tens of thousands of nonproduction suppliers, benefits since our suppliers and their employees pay supports local economies around the world by providing taxes and support local economies. Suppliers may investment and jobs. also pay dividends to investors or reinvest income from HP to improve or expand their business. Most suppliers that manufacture our products are based in developing economies, where the IT industry plays HP strategic purchasing decisions can benefit regional a central role in economic development. Of our 63 final and local economies as well as our business. For assembly sites, 44 are located in Asia, including 29 in example, we increased resiliency in our supply chain China. For more on the geographical distribution of our by locating a manufacturing facility in Chongqing, suppliers, see the map at right. Central China, an area of underemployment compared to the coasts. This move created much-needed jobs, helped open the door for other businesses and commerce to enter the region, and improved our operating margin, driving value back to shareholders. 61 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supplier and worker capability building To further improve our inclusive sourcing process for Letter from CEO HP’s supply chain responsibility objective is to continusmall and diverse businesses in the United States, we Meg Whitman ously improve our suppliers’ Social and Environmental introduced an automated supplier diversity locator tool in Responsibility (SER) performance. Strong SER perfor2014. It significantly increased our ability to provide our Executive summary mance not only helps a supplier secure contracts with small and diverse businesses maximum practical opporGovernance tunities to compete for our business and also expedited HP but also benefits their business by increasing worker Human Progress productivity, engagement, and retention. See Benefits our purchasing process. Economic Progress of supply chain responsibility for more information. We are piloting a program to further expand our global Overview scope and report local, country-level spend in the UK HP strives to enhance the skills, knowledge, and economic • Economic impacts circumstances of the people making our products. In and Ireland, as well as Canada. In the UK and Ireland, across the value chain we spent $231 million in 2014 with diverse smalland 2014, we conducted worker-empowerment programs Social investment at 18 sites in China, South America, and Southeast Asia, medium-enterprise (SME) suppliers. Our success there Total social reaching more than 87,000 workers and managers. These is due to the SMEngage program, established in 2012 to investment spend worker-centric programs cover areas such as financial develop an ongoing supportive relationship with small literacy, occupational health and safety, personal health, and medium enterprises. With a dedicated business office, Data and parenting skills, as well as support programs tailored the program helps SMEs offer their skills, innovation, and Environmental Progress entrepreneurial abilities to benefit HP’s public and private for foreign workers. We deliver these programs through About this report collaborations such as HERfinance, a BSR program that sector customers. Improved reporting also supports improves financial inclusion and literacy by connecting our expanded efforts in this area. In 2014, we spent $1.2 workers to financial services and using peer-training million with Canadian diverse suppliers in that country. modules to reach a larger, broader group of factory workers. During 2014, we piloted HERfinance at a Flextronics We also support diverse suppliers through mentoring and factory in Brazil. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. development activities that can play a pivotal role in their growth. For example, after three years of HP mentoring, Supplier diversity teamrecruiter.com won the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council’s Supplier of the Year Award. This Engaging diverse suppliers supports the economic small Canadian recruitment company, a long-standing HP strength of local communities while enhancing innovation supplier, now enjoys international success and plays an and competitive advantage in our supply chain. For 45 important role in our North American staffing activities. years—through our Global Supplier Diversity Office—HP has encouraged and supported small businesses and Each year, HP requests that our strategic suppliers report companies owned by women, minorities, veterans, their annual spend with small and diverse businesses. In aboriginal or indigenous people, as well as lesbian, gay, 2014, the number of our strategic suppliers reporting this bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals to compete spend increased by 19%, achieving our 2014 goal. for our business. We have supplier diversity programs and partnerships in Australia, Canada, China, South Africa, the UK, Ireland, and the United States. Operations In 2014, our spend on small businesses declined by 13% to approximately $3.4 billion compared to the prior year, priOur operations and resulting financial performance marily due to a decline in overall global procurement spend. provide the foundation for our wide-ranging economic In 2014, our U.S. diversity spend on minority-owned and impacts and social investment activities. In FY14, we women-owned businesses rose 7%, totaling $1.5 billion. reported net revenue of $111.5 billion and generated $12.3 billion in cash flow from operations. We support a global workforce, with approximately 65% of net revenue in FY14 coming from outside the United States. 62 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Net revenue by segment, fiscal year 2014* For more detail, see Data at the end of this section. For Net Revenue by segment,[$million] fiscal year 2013 [$million USD] more details about HP’s financial performance, please Letter from CEO Meg Whitman see our financial statements, interactive stock chart, and Annual Report on Form 10-K. Executive summary Governance Human Progress Products and solutions Economic Progress HP is a leading global provider of technology to individual Overview consumers, smalland medium-sized businesses and • Economic impacts large enterprises, including customers in the government, across the value chain health, and education sectors. HP is the world’s largest Social investment vendor of servers, laptops, commercial PCs, and printer Total social ink and toner2. Our products and solutions, including cloud investment spend services, security, big data systems, and mobility help customers become more agile and efficient, meeting their Data requirements while lowering costs. This in turn drives Environmental Progress economic growth. About this report Some examples of our products and solutions that drive Economic Progress include: Printing and Personal Systems $57,282 49.8% Actionable analytics Our big data solutions can help Enterprise Group $27,723 24.1% customers and nonprofits create positive social change. For example, we are working with the Akshara Foundation Enterprise Services $22,398 19.5% to analyze the impact and effectiveness of school education programs in the state of Karnataka, India, generating Software $3,933 3.4% information to help prioritize educational investments. Using HP’s Actionable Analytics Services and Data Labs, HP Financial Services $3,498 3.0% in 2014 we consolidated disparate data sources across more than 46,000 schools and 800,000 students. The Corporate Investments $302 0.3% solution went beyond mathematical algorithms, present* Net ing the results in clear and easily understood formats revenue by segment for FY14 is based upon an organizational change implemented by HP at the beginning of its first quarter of FY15. Please see our that were key to the project’s success. For example, HP Form 8-K filed on February 24th, 2015 for additional information. The total built a custom dashboard that provided insights includsegment net revenue, $115,136 million, includes intersegment net revenue ing the optimal pupil-teacher ratio and the ideal number and other of ($3,682 million). Total HP consolidated net revenue in FY14 equaled $111,454 million. Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. of books per child for the best educational outcomes. Akshara is working with the Karnataka government to use these findings to pilot initiatives that improve Economic impacts on employees, governments, retention and literacy and implement educational best and shareholders practices, which in turn drives Economic Progress. Given our global scale, HP’s operations have major, direct and indirect economic impacts on local econoHighly efficient data centers Rising data demands mies. We provide 302,000 employees1 worldwide with place increased pressure on the space and resources compensation and benefits, and they in turn pay taxes required by businesses and other organizations to house and generate further economic activity through their their IT equipment. The groundbreaking HP Apollo 8000 spending. In addition, we offer wide-ranging development System, launched in 2014, supports up to 144 servers opportunities to help employees advance their careers, and operates at up to four times the teraflops3 per boosting their incomes and spending power. In 2014, square foot of data center than traditional air-cooled employees completed approximately 5.3 million training servers. The heat transferred to the cooling water can hours through HP University, improving their skills and in turn be used for other purposes. Customers have knowledge. See Building careers for more information. experienced savings of up to an estimated $1 million in energy costs over five years for each MW of IT in HP paid net cash income taxes of $1.3 billion in 2014, the data center compared to air-cooled systems. See contributing to government spending and programs Servers, storage, and networking for more information. around the world. We also returned $3.9 billion of capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases potentially increasing their spending and taxes. 1 As of October 31, 2014. 2 As of Q4 2014. 3 Flops (floating-point operations per second) is a measure of computing performance. One teraflop is equal to 1,000,000,000,000 flops. 63 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP Managed Print Services HP Managed Print touch, ports and switches positioned within easy reach, Letter from CEO Services (MPS) combines our innovative hardware, and large adjustable displays. Our customer support Meg Whitman supplies, software, and services to help organizations programs incorporate assistive technologies such as optimize, manage, and improve printing and digital Telecommunications Relay Service, Video Relay Service, Executive summary workflows, saving money and resources. MPS has and Web-Captioned Telephone Service to help users Governance brought multiple benefits to our customers4, including who are deaf or hard of hearing. We also participate in Human Progress decreases in imaging and printing costs of 10–30%, the development of worldwide standards and policies Economic Progress reductions in printing-related energy usage of 20–40%, through industry and government efforts to improve the and reductions in paper waste of 25% or more. accessibility of information and technology for persons Overview with disabilities. Learn more at HP Accessibility & Aging. • Economic impacts Remanufactured products HP Renew offers customers an across the value chain extensive portfolio of completely remanufactured products Cyber security In the last five years, the annual cost Social investment and solutions, with the same reliability and performance as of cybercrime has roughly doubled and the number Total social new HP products, but for at least 15% less cost. of such attacks has risen by nearly 180%.5 With investment spend adversaries evolving and collaborating on tactics, Accessibility HP strives to create products, solutions, it’s important for all organizations, including governData and online materials that are accessible to everyone, ment agencies and businesses, to take a risk-based Environmental Progress including persons with disabilities and seniors with and adversary-centric approach to security by focusAbout this report age-related limitations. Our product design teams ing on protecting what matters most and prioritizing explore ways to enhance usability, productivity, user resources based on risk. This calls for educating users, comfort, and accessibility. Examples of accessibility accelerating detection, securing critical data, and havfeatures on HP products include buttons identifiable by ing a plan in place to mitigate potential damage. Future Cities: citizen-centered growth Through HP Future Cities, we support citizen-centered insight from big data across multiple agencies to better government that delivers public value and drives human protect vulnerable citizens and focus resources on early and economic progress. From the United States to Europe, help and prevention. Asia, and Australia, HP is using innovative IT solutions to • Improving transportation services in Auckland, New help cities put the needs of local citizens and businesses Zealand, by using HP’s integrated big data platform, at the center of decision making—from setting budgets to HAVEn, to analyze traffic patterns and trends. It in delivering public services. By deploying products and soluturn generates information that public agencies and tions that support big data collection and analysis, cloud emergency providers use to improve safety for pedesservices, mobility, and security we also help improve the trians, cyclists, and motorists, optimize traffic flow, and services local governments deliver and reduce public costs. enforce traffic laws. Our approach includes using big data to develop a detailed • HP improved city management and situational awareunderstanding of local constituencies, identify trends, ness by creating an Enterprise Virtual Operations Center and target services to citizens when and where they need (EVOC) for the City of Anaheim in California, United them. We also install systems that manage public services States. EVOC is a virtual online command center for from the cloud, improving efficiency and responsiveness. incident management and situational awareness that These innovations enable governments to be more agile consolidates safety information systems and presents and resilient, improve quality of life for citizens, and drive it in a portal interface that gives public safety officials a economic growth. Examples of Future Cities partnerships near-time presentation of police, fire, and EMS activities and projects include: in the city. EVOC handles fire and emergency medical service calls for Anaheim and the surrounding cities of • Integrating and improving the delivery of IT services for Fountain Valley, Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Norfolk County Council in the UK by migrating to cloud Beach, Newport Beach, and Orange. services with a $15 million savings over five years. HP also helped the council create actionable knowledge and 4 The following examples and figures are typical of those reported by leading industry analysts and HP client engagements. Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings one may achieve. 5 Based on internal analysis of results from the 2010-2014 Cost of Cyber Crime Study: United States reports from Ponemon Institute. http://www8.hp.com/us/en/ software-solutions/ponemon-cyber-security-report/index.html. 64 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP enables organizations to protect sensitive data and For more about our solutions, see www.hp.com/go/esp, Letter from CEO economic assets by taking a proactive approach to and for additional information about how we help customMeg Whitman security, disrupting the life cycle of an attack through ers manage risk and compliance, see HP Security Services. prevention and real-time threat detection. With marketExecutive summary leading products, services, and innovative research, HP HP also conducts innovative, industry-leading research Governance Enterprise Security Services (ESS) enables organizainto evolving cyber threats, publishing monthly Security Human Progress tions to integrate information correlation, application Briefings. Our annual HP Cyber Risk Report 2015 revealed Economic Progress analysis, and network-level defense. We help customers that well-known issues and misconfigurations contributed securely implement new technologies, such as cloud to the most formidable threats in 2014 and offered recomOverview computing, as well as support compliance with complex mendations to mitigate risk. • Economic impacts regulations governing data security and privacy. across the value chain For information on HP’s public policy positions and engageSocial investment With 10 Security Operations Centers worldwide and more ment related to data security and cyber resilience, including Total social than 5,000 credentialed security professionals on staff, our partnership in this area with the World Economic investment spend ESS manages 23 billion security events a month, enabling Forum, see Public policy. our customers to defend themselves against increasingly Data sophisticated cyber threats. Our security services can Environmental Progress detect intrusions within 12 minutes of arrival and resolve View full data for Economic impacts across the 92% of major incidents within two hours of identification.6 value chain. About this report Goals Supplier diversity 2014 goals Progress Increase the number of HP strategic suppliers reporting diversity spend Achieved. by 10%, compared with 2013. Increase the number of HP suppliers participating in our mentorship Achieved. programs by 10%, compared with 2013. 6 http://www8.hp.com/us/en/business-solutions/security-overview.html. 65 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Overview Economic impacts across the value chain • Social investment Total social investment spend Data Environmental Progress About this report Social investment HP makes strategic social investments that enhance Matter to a Million has triggered a strong response from Economic Progress worldwide. HP employees worldwide. In the first month after the program launch, 26.6% of employees took part, generatWith more than 74 million young people jobless or ing $2.2 million in loans. Participation reached almost underemployed, and technology forecast to be one of 120,000 through December 2014, with 43.5% of HP the five fastest growing sectors by 2020, our approach employees using their credits. Teams often pooled loans fosters entrepreneurship, skills development, and educato maximize their impact. For example, 22 employees tion as drivers of economic opportunity. In partnership from Boston and Southborough, Massachusetts, supwith nonprofits, educational institutions, governments, ported Mariam, an Armenian farmer, to renovate a and international agencies, we deploy our people and family-owned greenhouse and purchase potato seeds technology in innovative programs that help reduce the and fertilizer. The Matter to a Million homepage has global skills gap. received the second-most comments of any other page on our internal platform, HP News Now (HPNN). Investing in entrepreneurs Combined with HP Company Foundation contributions, more than $5.9 million in loans was extended to entreA thriving global economy depends on thriving local compreneurs through this partnership by December 2014. munities. When individuals and micro and small businesses have opportunities to succeed, the effect can be farHP LIFE e-Learning reaching. HP investments support such progress by helping HP LIFE e-Learning is a global online learning program, current and aspiring entrepreneurs to access capital and deployed on our cloud-hosting solution, HP Helion, that build information technology (IT) and business skills. equips people with the 21st century business and IT skills to start, build, and manage their own business. It offers Matter to a Million users 25 interactive learning modules as well as features About 2.5 billion people, including many would-be entresuch as certification, support from HP experts, and preneurs, lack access to mainstream banking services. In global community discussion forums. With the addition 2014, the HP Company Foundation launched Matter to a of Hindi and Simplified Chinese in 2014, the program is Million, a global employee engagement program to address now available in seven languages. By December 2014, this challenge, partnering with Kiva, a nonprofit microlender more than 480,000 users from more than 200 countries that connects low-income entrepreneurs to capital. This and territories were registered on the platform. five-year, $7 million collaboration supports farmers, shopkeepers, and other small business owners in more In 2014, we launched a dedicated Educator virtual than 85 countries. In 2014, each HP employee received a resource area, providing resources and tools for teachers $25 credit to loan to Kiva borrowers who use the money to and coaches to combine face-to-face and online learning. buy essentials such as tools, livestock, and supplies. More than 5,000 educators registered through December 2014. Educator registrations were driven through strategic 66 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents partnerships with organizations working at the secondary In the UK, HP is a platinum sponsor of Tech Future Girls, Letter from CEO school and college level, and with small business advisory a national after school club for girls aged 10–14 to learn Meg Whitman networks. Global highlights in each area included: IT skills including coding and cyber security. Run by the nonprofit Tech Partnership, the teaching programs are Executive summary • Connecting aspiring high school entrepreneurs to available free, via license, to all schools in England, Wales, Governance HP LIFE e-Learning through our collaboration with and Northern Ireland. In 2014, HP invested approxiSkillsUSA and the global Social Innovation Relay Human Progress mately $120,000 in the program, and we encourage our competition, in partnership with Junior Achievement Economic Progress employees to volunteer at participating schools. Our Young Enterprise. cyber security experts also contribute software content. Overview • At the postsecondary level, developing an entrepreEconomic impacts neurship ecosystem in the United States centered Investing in STEM education across the value chain on community colleges through our partnership HP Institute: Today’s technology skills gap hinders global • Social investment with the National Association for Community College Economic Progress and affects HP as a leading IT Entrepreneurship. By year end, at least 120 community employer. In response, HP Institute has developed an Total social investment spend college faculty were using HP LIFE e-Learning. Enactus, industry-accredited IT skills learning program and an international nonprofit that empowers undercertification exam that enhances students’ employability. Data graduates to solve social and environmental problems Developed with Certiport, the program is delivered in 230 Environmental Progress through entrepreneurship, now uses the program to high schools, technical colleges, and universities in 36 About this report teach professional skills to students in China. countries, with 17,500 certifications awarded to date. • Piloting HP LIFE e-Learning in the UK through the While HP Institute programs are for-profit, its personnel national job center network, targeting registered jobalso support our social investment programs, lending their seekers who described themselves as entrepreneurs. expertise in 2014 to co-develop an HP LIFE e-Learning Run in partnership with the government’s Department module on IT strategy. for Work and Pensions, the program offers additional tools, training, and resources for jobseekers planning to HP CodeWars: Since 1998, we have sponsored this high start their own businesses. school computer programming competition to spark student interest in science, technology, engineering, and math The ability of institutions to integrate HP LIFE e-Learning (STEM). CodeWars challenges novice and advanced teams into the offerings of their students and clients has opened of students from grades 9–12 to tackle 20 programup new opportunities for HP business units to connect ming problems in just three hours. Initiated in Texas, the this online resource to customers around the globe, competition spread to California, India, and Taiwan in 2014, increasing the business relevance of this program. with plans to expand to other countries. More than 1,200 students around the world took part in during the year. Investing in digital skills Assessing technology-driven learning outcomes To help educators and education systems take full Employees with a strong command of digital skills are advantage of the impact that education technology can critical to realizing the potential of the 21st century have on learning and society, we launched a major new economy. However, companies are struggling to find initiative in 2014. The HP National Education Technology such talent, especially in the IT industry. To address Assessment includes three elements—a framework this challenge, we support digital skills developfor integrating technology into learning, a service to ment including through the following programs: evaluate national education technology readiness, and an analytics data ecosystem (NETA) that informs Investing in women’s IT skills teachers, schools, and school systems. Three schools in HP works to reverse the underrepresentation of women Silicon Valley, Delhi, and Johannesburg are developing in technology. Our efforts support the IT industry’s and testing NETA in pilots that combine analytics tools, talent pipeline and broaden young women’s career hardware, software, and professional development for horizons. In the United States, we have committed participating teachers. The program builds on decades of $1 million over four years to support the National HP collaboration with schools on teaching with technolCenter for Women & Information Technology’s (NCWIT) ogy, and includes HP mobile devices and HP software. Aspirations in Computing Collegiate Program, which serves women studying undergraduate computing We also launched a free, online self-paced course called at the Center’s Academic Alliance schools. For more HP Teaching with Technology, that provides educators information about how we focus on female talent, see with fundamental techniques for effectively integrating Diversity and inclusion. We also provide HP scholartechnology into the classroom. ships and internships in support of the Scholarship for Women Studying Information Security run by the nonprofit Applied Computer Security Associates. View full data for HP social investments. 67 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Total social investment spend Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance The total value of our social investments—across human, Disaster relief, 2014* Human Progress economic, and environmental progress—including Disaster name and location Amount Economic Progress contributions from HP and the HP Company Foundation, Overview plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours, equaled Typhoon Haiyan, Philippines $400,000 $119 million in 2014. This decrease of 12% from 2013, Yunnan earthquake, China $350,000 Economic impacts across the value chain is largely due to the introduction of more stringent guidelines around the valuation of volunteer hours. South Asia flooding, India and Pakistan $100,000 Social investment Balkans flooding, Romania and Serbia $83,540 • Total social In 2014, more than 7,000 employees participated in the investment spend Calgary flooding, Canada $15,000 HP U.S. Cash Matching program and the U.S. Product Data Matching program. These employees, HP, and the HP Colorado flooding, United States $4,510 Environmental Progress Company Foundation provided more than $10.4 million to Total $953,050 NGOs and schools through cash and product donations. About this report * The totals shown in this table represent the total donation per disaster, to the We measure the outcomes of our social investments on nearest $1,000 and may span multiple fiscal years. Figures include employee donations and products, grants, and matched funds from HP and the HP a project-specific basis, using a range of metrics. These Company Foundation. metrics include the number of people and places that our programs impact, how many employees support For more on our disaster relief efforts durour programs, and completion of milestones. In addiing 2014, see Social investment: Human. tion, we measure how our social investment programs impact our competitive advantage and reputation. Total social investment spend 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Social investment [$ million] * $44.9 $51.5 $118.6 $135.3 $119.0 Cash $27.3 $20.3 $22.3 $23.8 $20.8 Products and services** $17.7 $31.2 $96.3 $111.5 $98.2† Social investment *** [% of pretax profits] 0.41% 0.57% Not applicable 2.08% 1.81% U.S. employee participation in Cash Matching Program and Product Matching Program [number of employees] Cash Matching Program 5,600 7,000 7,100 8,600 6,200 Product Matching Program 1,100 1,700 1,600 2,700 900 Contributions to Cash Matching Program and Product $10.8 $12.0 $12.4 $13.3 $10.4 Matching Program**** [$ million] U.S. employee contributions to Cash Matching Program $3.2 $3.8 $4.2 $4.9 $4.4 HP Company Foundation contributions to Cash Matching $2.7 $3.1 $3.5 $3.9 $3.6 Program U.S. employee contributions to Product Matching $1.2 $1.3 $1.2 $1.1 $0.6 Program † HP contributions to Product Matching Program † $3.7 $3.8 $3.5 $3.4 $1.90 * Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP and the HP Company Foundation, plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data excludes contributions to the HP Company Foundation and employee donations but includes HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the HP Company Foundation to other organizations. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Services include the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. The numbers in 2012–2014 are considerably higher than past years due to increased employee programs and more complete volunteer hour data. *** In FY12, HP recorded a pre-tax net loss, therefore a percentage of pre-tax profits cannot be calculated for that year. **** Figures reflect the cash donations pledged by HP employees and the respective match from the HP Company Foundation in each fiscal year. Variances to actuals can occur based on attrition. Fiscal year totals also vary based on the payment cycle completing after the fiscal year end. Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. † The year-over-year decrease in U.S. employee contributions to the Product Matching Program and HP contributions to the U.S. Product Matching Program, was due to the fact that the U.S. Product Matching Program was put on hiatus after the second quarter of FY14. Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 68 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Economic impacts across the value chain Human Progress 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Economic Progress Overview HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers * Economic impacts Small businesses [$ million] $4,316 $4,400 $4,792 $3,910 $3,376 across the value chain Minority-owned businesses [$ million] ** $827 $733 $989 $881 $965 Social investment Women-owned businesses [$ million] ** $861 $476 $547 $536 $550 Total social investment spend Veteran-owned businesses, service disabled veteran-owned busi$141 nesses, HUBZone businesses, and others [$ million] *** • Data Strategic supplier spend**** Environmental Progress Amount spent by HP strategic suppliers on diverse suppliers† [$ million] $318 $498 $431 $610 About this report HP selected financial information†† Net revenue [$ million] $126,033 $127, 245 $120, 357 $112, 298 $111,454 Net earnings (loss) [$ million] $8,761 $7,074 ($12,650) $5,113 $5,013 Research and development expense [$ million] $2,959 $3, 254 $3, 399 $3, 135 $3,447 Research and development expense as a % of net revenue 2.3% 2.6% 2.8% 2.8% 3.1% Defined contribution expense ††† [$ million] $535 $626 $628 $603 $573 Net investment in property, plant, and equipment †††† [$ million] $3,531 $3,540 $3,089 $2,546 $3,010 Dividends paid [$ million] $771 $844 $1,015 $1,105 $1,184 Repurchase of common stock [$ million] $11,042 $10,117 $1,619 $1,532 $2,728 Number of patents (approximate) 37,000 36,000 36,000 38,000 34,000 * Figures for 2010–2011 are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. Figures for 2012–2014 are for purchases in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Europe, and Asia from U.S.-based businesses. ** Beginning in 2011, suppliers were categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. *** HP did not report this data in the Living Progress report prior to 2014. **** HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of factors related to our business, as well as various macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. † Figures include production and nonproduction suppliers. †† Data in this table is for the fiscal years ended on October 31 and has been obtained from the Form 10-K filed with the SEC. ††† HP offers various defined contribution plans for U.S. and non-U.S. employees. U.S. employees are automatically enrolled in the Hewlett-Packard Company 401(k) Plan (the “HP 401(k) Plan”) when they meet eligibility requirements, unless they decline participation. The quarterly employer matching contributions in the HP 401(k) Plan are set to equal 100% of an employee’s contributions, up to a maximum of 4% of eligible compensation. †††† Net investment in property, plant, and equipment is calculated as investment in property, plant and equipment minus proceeds from the sale of property, plant, and equipment. Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Environmental Progress Making the environment stronger as we grow 70 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress • Overview Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Overview With a rapidly growing global population and finite 228 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emisresources, “business as usual” is no longer an option. sions annually through packaging reuse and is forecast to Through HP Living Progress, we make the environment save $1 million over two years by reusing wooden pallets. stronger as we grow by improving the efficiency of our supply chain, operations, and products and solutions, Learn more in Supply chain environmental impact. as well as by making community investments that help tackle sustainability challenges. Operations We take a leadership role in our efforts. In 2014, we became The main environmental impacts from our operations the first global information technology (IT) company to are GHG emissions associated with energy consumed have set greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions-reduction in our facilities and the use of water and other natural targets for our entire value chain: our suppliers, our resources. We reduce our climate impact through energy operations, and our products and solutions. We publish our efficiency, including use of innovative HP technology complete carbon footprint and water footprint annually. and consolidation in our data centers. Smart building design, lower impact business travel, and clean energy The progress we make reflects our concerted strategies are other focus areas. In 2014, we increased our installed and actions across the value chain. capacity for on-site renewable energy by 150%. We also strive to continually reduce waste and decrease Supply chain water use—particularly in water-stressed regions. Partly through innovations such as leak detection systems Our primary environmental focus in our supply chain and low-impact landscaping, in 2014 we reduced our is tackling GHG emissions due to raw materials use, water consumption in water-stressed locations by 3.2% manufacturing, and product transport. We collaborate compared to the prior year. with our suppliers to better understand, report, and improve their performance. In 2014, we further expanded Learn more in HP operations. our supplier Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) in China and Southeast Asia to include 70 new HP supplier sites—promoting energy efficiency programs and practices through collaboration with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) Products and solutions such as the WWF China and World Resources Institute. We work to improve environmental performance across Materials use is a key contributor to GHG emissions in the product life cycle, drawing insights from life cycle our supplier base, so innovative, less materials-intensive assessments and inspiration from the circular economy product design is another essential part of our approach. model to inform product design. We continually develop innovations that spur energy efficiency and reduce We also help suppliers build their capabilities to use less materials use across our portfolio. Decreasing the water and decrease waste. In Brazil, our zero-waste initiafootprint of computing and printing is pivotal to Living tive with our long-standing manufacturing partner avoids Progress and advances our business. It also supports the corporate and environmental goals of our customers. 71 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents For example, our water-cooled HP Apollo 8000 System For examples of our key initiatives, see Social investment: Letter from CEO uses 28% less energy than air-cooled servers, and the Environmental. Meg Whitman HP OfficeJet Pro X is the world’s most energy-efficient printer in its class.1 HP Managed Print Services, one of our Executive summary innovative product-as-a-service offerings, has delivered Governance Human Progress customers2 reductions in their energy usage of 20–40% as well as decreases in paper waste of 25% or more. We Our footprint Economic Progress are looking to the future by exploring the possibilities of 3D printing, and, with The Machine, reinventing the We believe that understanding environmental impacts Environmental Progress fundamental architecture of computers to produce orderacross our value chain is the first step towards taking • Overview of-magnitude improvements in performance and efficiency. meaningful action. In 2011, HP became the first IT company to publish its global carbon footprint. For the past two Supply chain We also reduce environmental impacts at product end years, we have also published a complete water footprint. environmental impact HP operations of life. Working with suppliers and other companies, we continually improve our product return and recycling CDP, the world’s only global environmental disclosure Products and solutions programs, which we expanded to include 73 countries system3, has recognized HP’s actions to reduce GHG Product return and and territories in 2014. During the year, we recovered emissions and mitigate the risks of climate change to recycling 157,500 tonnes of computer hardware (for reuse and our business. In 2014, we received the highest possible recycling) and supplies (for recycling) globally. disclosure score of 100 and an “A” performance rating. Social investment HP was again included on CDP’s Climate Disclosure Data Leadership Index, which spotlights companies demLearn more in Products and solutions and Product return About this report and recycling. onstrating the highest level of transparency and data quality. In addition, we were one of 34 S&P 500 companies on the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index, which highlights companies that have integrated Social investment climate change into their business strategies and taken substantial steps to mitigate climate-related risk. We make strategic investments that combine the skills of our people and partners to use HP technolThis section summarizes our progress to reduce our ogy to address pressing sustainability challenges. carbon and water footprints in 2014. More detail is found We focus in areas that capitalize on our experience in the subsequent sections of Environmental Progress. and expertise, such as using big data analysis to fight biodiversity loss. We also encourage and support our employees to volunteer on environmental projects that benefit their local communities. Shifting toward a circular economy Across industries worldwide, many products are created Services and Instant Ink, HP Renew, innovative packaging using a linear model of “take, make, discard.” Momentum designs, and HP product return and recycling options. We is now building around a more sustainable approach that continue to expand our offerings including through HP’s is restorative and regenerative by intention, incorporating disruptive 3D printing, which will make it possible to prodesigns that eliminate waste. duce one-of-a-kind replacement parts locally, rapidly, and inexpensively, extending product lifespans and transformFollowing this circular “make, use, return” model, compaing supply chains. nies design products and systems to continually recover and reuse materials. This approach can also be good for Progress in this area demands leadership and collaborabusiness when companies benefit from resource savtion. We belong to the Ellen McArthur Foundation Circular ings, product innovation, reputation enhancement, and Economy 100. We also contribute to public policy discusstrengthened customer engagement. sions such as on the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and HP is already driving towards a circular approach across Their Disposal and the legitimate movement of used our value chain, reflected in our products and initiatives: equipment. Learn more about our engagement on responour print supplies “closed loop” recycling programs, our sible regulation of end-of-life electronics in Product return use of recycled content in hardware, HP Managed Print and recycling. 1 As of November 2014. 2  he following examples and figures are typical of those reported by leading industry analysts and HP client engagements. Estimated energy and paper savings T based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings one may achieve. 3 As of April 2015. 72 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Carbon See Supply chain environmental impact, HP operations, and Products and solutions for detailed information about Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2014, our carbon footprint equaled 49,067,700 tonnes how we work to reduce GHG emissions across our business. Executive summary CO2e, a reduction of 10% compared with 2013 emissions.4 The most significant change year over year was View an interactive version of the graphic online. View full Governance carbon footprint data for 2013–2014. More detail about a 14% reduction in emissions related to product use, Human Progress equivalent to 4.4 million tonnes CO2e, which accounted our methodology and each category of emissions is availEconomic Progress for about 79% of the total reduction. This resulted largely able in the HP carbon accounting manual. Environmental Progress from improvements in our methodology to calculate GHG emissions related to personal systems energy use View full data for Our carbon footprint. • Overview as well as increased product efficiency in our personal Supply chain systems and printing groups, and shifts in product mix environmental impact toward less carbon-intensive devices (for example, HP operations from laptops to tablets). Shipped volumes did not have Products and solutions a significant impact on the overall footprint year over year. We are committed to continually improving the Product return and accuracy of our calculations as we gain a better underrecycling standing of the aspects contributing to our footprint. Social investment Data About this report Our carbon footprint, 2014* Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Total emissions 49,067,700 41% 5% 54% tonnes CO2e Supply chain GHG emissions Operations GHG emissions Products and solutions GHG emissions tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e 26,300,000 17,600,000 500,000 300,000 1,700,000 1,552,600 115,100 200,000 800,000 *** *** *** De minimis De minimis De minimis Materials Capital goods Upstream Transport Facilities Transportation Commercial Employee Product use**** Product Buildings Investments extraction energy fleet air travel commuting end of life leased through production to others manufacturing 20% 20% 40% reduction goal reduction goal reduction goal Reduce our first-tier manufacturing and product Reduce total GHG emissions Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our transportation-related GHG emissions intensity** by 20% from our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20% by product portfolio† by by 2020, compared to 2010 2020, compared to 2010 levels 40% by 2020 compared to 2010 levels†† * To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. ** HP calculates emissions intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. *** De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. **** Total GHG emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from the value reported on page 94, due to rounding. † Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, HP Moonshot and HP Apollo. †† Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. For printers and personal systems, each product constitutes a unit of output. For servers, each unit of output equals a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards. 4 HP improved the accuracy of carbon footprint calculations in FY14 for personal systems, printers, and servers. The personal systems carbon footprint calculation methodology changed due to product carbon footprint data becoming available for many more products. The printers calculation methodology for electricity and paper use utilizes paper consumption field data rather than estimates (field data was previously not available). The methodology for carbon emissions from servers uses a more accurate data source for shipped volumes, discovered this year. To enhance year-over-year comparability, FY13 printerand server-related emissions and water use were restated based on the new methodologies and data sources. Personal systems-related emissions were not recalculated. Data for all years prior to FY13 does not reflect the accounting changes. 73 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Water The next largest factor is the manufacturing of paper used by customers in our products, 14% of the total in 2014. Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2014, our water footprint equaled 330,083,000 To reduce these impacts, we encourage customers to cubic meters, a reduction of 10% compared with 2013.5 use paper efficiently (such as through duplex printing), to Executive summary The most significant changes year over year were a use lower impact paper, and to recycle after use (see our Governance Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy). We continue 17% reduction related to product energy use and a Human Progress 6% increase related to paper manufacturing and use. working to improve our methodology and data as we betEconomic Progress Similar to our carbon footprint, the changes in estimated ter understand the factors that contribute to our footprint. Environmental Progress product energy use resulted largely from improvements in our methodology to calculate personal systems Learn more about how we reduce water use across our • Overview energy use as well as increased product efficiency in business in Supply chain environmental impact, HP operaSupply chain our personal systems and printing groups, and shifts tions, and Products and solutions. environmental impact in product mix toward less carbon-intensive devices. HP operations View an interactive version of the graphic online. View Electricity consumption is the largest driver of HP’s full water footprint data for 2013–2014. More detail Products and solutions about our methodology and each category of consumpwater use across the value chain—77% of the total in Product return and 2014—because power generation consumes significant tion is available in the HP water accounting manual. recycling amounts of water. The bulk of that amount—54% of Social investment the overall footprint—is associated with electricity View full data for Our water footprint. Data generated when customers use our products. This About this report figure illustrates the close connection between energy, climate, and water consumption, and reinforces the importance of improving product energy efficiency. Our water footprint, 2014 Total water Supply chain Operations Products and solutions consumption 25% 7% 68% 330,083,000 cubic meters Supply chain consumption Operations consumption Products and solutions consumption cubic meters cubic meters cubic meters 176,960,000 60,811,000 46,194,000 23,296,000 15,391,000 7,431,000 Direct consumption Indirect consumption Direct consumption Indirect consumption Indirect consumption— Indirect consumption— electricity for product use paper use 5 Data for 2013 water consumption related to printer and server electricity use is recalculated compared to information presented in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report to reflect improvements to our methodology and to enhance comparability with 2014. See footnote 4 on page 72. 74 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview • Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Supply chain environmental impact Our supply chain offers both challenges and opporHaving expanded the scope of supplier environmental tunities for reducing the environmental impact of our reporting to include water withdrawal (in 2012) and business and related risks. Suppliers contribute to our waste generation (in 2013), we are now working to overall environmental footprint by consuming energy increase the coverage and accuracy of these figures. and water and generating greenhouse gas (GHG) Building on our experience in improving labor standards, emissions and waste. We collaborate with production, in addition to monitoring performance we also use product transportation, and nonproduction1 suppliers capability-building initiatives to accelerate improvement. to reduce these impacts as part of our broader Supply For more information, see Supply chain responsibility. Chain Responsibility (SCR) program. We also work with suppliers to reduce the environmental, health and In 2014, we earned external recognition for our leadersafety impacts of manufacturing process substances. ship in this area, including a Green Supply Chain award from Supply Chain Asia, for our overall supply chain Our approach has a strong focus on monitoring conforenvironmental program. During the year, it was also mance to the provisions of HP’s Supplier Code of Conduct announced that we had earned a place on the CDP through audits, including provisions related to environSupplier Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014 for mental permits and reporting, pollution prevention and performance and disclosure of our governance, emisresource reduction, hazardous substances, wastewater sions, risks, and opportunities related to climate change. and solid waste, and air emissions. We also concentrate on our supply chain GHG emissions, which accounted for 41% of HP’s carbon footprint in 2014. During the prior year, we set an industry-leading goal to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of first-tier manufacturing and product transportation in our supply chain. 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing and also assemble HP products. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel) but exclude logistics service providers. 75 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Reduction Reduction in in first-tier manufacturing supplier andand product tra Greenhouse gas Contents first-tier production product Letter from CEO ed GHG emissions intensity [tonnes CO2e/million $ H transportation-related GHG emissions intensity * [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net revenue, 2010 = 100%] 2010=100%] emissions Meg Whitman Executive summary 100% Governance Human Progress In 2013, we introduced our industry’s first supply chain GHG 80% emissions-reduction goal: to decrease first-tier manufacEconomic Progress turing and product transportation-related GHG emissions 60% Environmental Progress intensity2 in our supply chain by 20% by 2020, compared to Overview 2010. We set the goal with input and endorsement from 40% Climate Savers, a World Wildlife Fund (WWF) program that • Supply chain environmental impact promotes aggressive private sector action to reduce GHG emissions. Through December 2013, we achieved an 18% 20% HP operations reduction in GHG emissions intensity from 2010 levels (see Products and solutions graph), exceeding our expectations for our supply chain’s 0% Product return and progress. 2010 2011 2012 2013 recycling * Each year’s data is based on an average of the emissions-intensity values Social investment We also have a secondary goal of helping suppliers cut for that year and up to two prior years when data is available. Data for 2010– 2012 were restated due to updated estimates from a supplier. 2 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of Data GHG emissions between 2010 and 2020. So far, we have About this report achieved 30% of this target. Production suppliers Our strategy for achieving our GHG emissions-reduction Production suppliers form the bridge between product goals focuses on working with suppliers to: design and delivery to the customer. They provide materials and components for our product manufacturing globally • Incentivize the setting and achievement of GHG and also assemble the HP products our customers use. emissions-reduction goals • Expand our existing supplier energy efficiency programs In 20133, our first-tier production suppliers generated 3,900,000 tonnes CO2e of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, a • Continue deploying efficiency initiatives for transporta13% decrease compared to 2012 levels. Sixty-nine percent tion suppliers of these suppliers (by spend) had GHG emissions-reduction • Provide suppliers with support tools and guidance on targets in place. Suppliers’ Scope 3 reported emissions GHG emissions reduction increased substantially over this period, which we believe is partly due to increased reporting requests from HP and To learn more about how we calculate GHG emistheir disclosure of additional Scope 3 categories. sions, see the HP carbon accounting manual. In 2014, we further expanded our supplier Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) in China and Southeast Asia to include 70 new HP supplier sites—collaborating with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) such as WWF “HP has taken actions to help suppliers save China and World Resources Institute to promote energy efficiency programs and practices. We also held two supenergy and reduce GHG emissions, while at the plier environmental summits—the first of their kind for same time proving that such actions can go HP. These forums provided an opportunity for us to prohand in hand with business growth.” vide detail about our 2020 emissions-intensity goal and associated supplier expectations, and enabled suppliers to share best practices in GHG emissions measurement and — Dr. Li Lin, Executive Director of Programmes, WWF China reduction. We asked participants to develop energy-saving action plans targeting local efficiency improvements. We are monitoring these action plans and reporting on their progress as part of our efforts to help suppliers eliminate 2 million tonnes of CO2e in GHG emissions between 2010 and 2020. Based on input received, we estimate that suppliers have saved a cumulative amount of roughly $50 million through participation in this program. 2 HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual net revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 3 Note that data for production and nonproduction suppliers is a year behind, hence 2013 references. 76 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Supplier GHG emissions performance, 2010–2014* [tonnes CO2e] Letter from CEO 30,000,000 Meg Whitman Executive summary 24,000,000 Governance Human Progress 18,000,000 Economic Progress 12,000,000 Environmental Progress Overview 6,000,000 • Supply chain environmental impact 0 HP operations 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 Products and solutions Product return and Production suppliers** recycling Social investment Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 6,000,000 4,900,000 4,500,000 3,900,000*** Data Scope 3 emissions**** 400,000 6,400,000 12,200,000 22,500,000 About this report Product transport † Road (includes rail) 500,000 400,000 500,000 400,000 400,000 Ocean 200,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 400,000 Air 1,200,000 1,300,000 900,000 800,000 900,000 Nonproduction suppliers†† Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 1,200,000 1,300,000 * Emissions for production and nonproduction suppliers are estimated based on supplier-reported emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data are available. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. ** Updated production supplier data for 2010–2012 includes revised estimated data from one of our suppliers and extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. For each year 2010–2013, data collected represents 95% of supplier spend. *** Data is revised from previous reporting. **** Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories, although the number of categories reported by many suppliers has increased significantly during the last few years. For this reason, and due to increased accuracy in reporting, we have seen substantial increases in the amounts reported for Scope 3 emissions since 2010. † The figures for product transport GHG emissions are based on data reported by logistics service providers that HP contracts to deliver our products. They may differ from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates presented on page 72 and page 115, which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. †† Updated nonproduction supplier data for 2012 includes extrapolation to 100% of first-tier nonproduction suppliers. For 2012, data collected represented 27% of supplier spend; for 2013, 24%. This table does not include data from 2011 as reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report due to changes in methodology that make that data not comparable to 2012 and 2013. Due to the level of estimation and rounding involved in these calculations, we are unable to determine whether the difference between 2012 and 2013 reflects changes in actual supplier performance. We plan to continue to improve our calculation methodology in the coming years. Working with our sub-tier suppliers in China Ensuring sub-tier suppliers consistently meet our stancorrective and preventive action plans or monitoring dards for environmental performance requires us to work reports, validating that the issues had been addressed and closely with the first tier of our supply chain. In 2014, HP closed. In all, 88% of these suppliers (30 total) also procollaborated with four large first-tier manufacturing supvided this information to the IPE or followed the IPE audit pliers in China, with the goal of ensuring that sub-tier process to validate the actions they took. suppliers comply with local environmental laws, including those relating to air and water pollution, and waste. We continue to strengthen relationships with our first-tier suppliers in China, promoting the benefits of increased We checked 1,014 of our sub-tier suppliers against the transparency to IPE via its Corporate Information Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs’ (IPE) list of Transparency Index (CITI). In 2014, HP ranked second in environmental violations since 2012. Of these, 34 were the IT sector and fifth overall out of 147 global companies found to be in violation of local environmental law. As of assessed as part of the CITI Index. the end of 2014, 100% of those suppliers had provided 77 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Product transportation providers Less environmentally impactful modes Letter from CEO of transport Meg Whitman Transporting HP products is an essential part of our supply Air transport is by far the most GHG-intensive mode of Executive summary chain—we ship more than 1 million products between transportation used to carry HP products. Shifting to manufacturing sites, distribution centers, and customers other modes such as ocean carriers reduces our GHG Governance on a typical day. Reducing the carbon footprint of these emissions significantly. Human Progress activities is an important contributor to achieving our Economic Progress supply chain GHG emissions-intensity reduction goal. Efficient product transportation providers Environmental Progress In 2014, HP became one of the first companies to be In 2014, our product transportation providers generated awarded a “first leaf” by Green Freight Asia and Green Overview 1,700,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions, representing a Freight Europe for transparency of CO2e data and poli• Supply chain 6% increase compared to 2013. Although we implecies related to transportation GHG emissions. This is the environmental impact mented various GHG emissions-reduction programs initial step in a new four-tier labeling system designed HP operations during the year, these were outweighed by substantial to benchmark and recognize members’ GHG emissionsProducts and solutions increases in the volume of products shipped by air. reductions efforts. In the United States, HP ships 100% of our products using SmartWaysm road transportation Product return and We continue to make progress and drive industry stancarriers, a program developed by the U.S. Environmental recycling dards in four key areas: Protection Agency. In 2014, we received the SmartWaysm Social investment Excellence Award for the third time, recognizing HP’s Data More efficient supply chain network environmental leadership and innovation in the transporAbout this report We ship products directly to customers or to the tation of goods via roadways across America. During the distribution centers closest to them and consolidate year, we also converted some truck shipments around shipments to maximize the use of trucks and trains to the world to compressed natural gas—a lower carbon, carry HP products. For example, our CenterPool initiative cleaner-burning, and less-expensive alternative to diesel. in the United States merges less-than-truckload and HP supports the Climate & Clean Air Coalition Global low-density truck shipments from ocean ports into full Green Freight Action plan to reduce short-lived climate truckload intermodal shipments, which are transported pollutants from freight transportation, which include to five regional distribution centers. From those loca“black carbon” emitted by “heavy duty” diesel trucks. tions, full truckload shipments are then delivered to our customers and resellers. In 2014, CenterPool reduced Enhancing logistics through innovative our emissions by an estimated 13,000 tonnes of CO2e. packaging Product packaging affects the environmental impact associated with transport. Developing smaller and lighter packaging helps to optimize shipping densities and reduce transport GHG emissions per product. Read more about our innovative packaging solutions. Estimated distribution of GHG emissions from product transport by mode, 2010–2014 Road (includes rail) Ocean Air 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 GHG emissions 25% 20% 30% 30% 25% 10% 10% 20% 20% 20% 65% 70% 50% 50% 55% [% of total from transport] Shipment mix by 20% 20% 15% 15% 15% 70% 70% 80% 80% 80% 10% 10% 5% 5% 5% weight-distance [approximate, kg-km] Decreasing logistics impacts in Europe In November 2013, we opened a new logistics hub in Europe, Middle East, and Africa region printing and perPiraeus, Greece, to provide us with more flexible European sonal systems products passing through the port. This transport options. Its use is driving reduced shipping hub reduces shipping distances and associated GHG emistimes, related GHG emissions, and costs. sions—previously, inbound shipments would have traveled from China to our transport hub in the Netherlands, Piraeus has since become an essential part of our distribefore being sorted and sent back out to the destination bution network for notebooks and printers in Southern countries, most of which are more accessible from the new and Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean. It serves as Greek hub. a gateway for 17 countries, with 30% by volume of our 78 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Nonproduction suppliers Production supplier water withdrawal Letter from CEO 2011 2012 2013 Meg Whitman Nonproduction suppliers provide HP with important Aggregated water with73,000,000 44,000,000 46,000,000 Executive summary services such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel. drawal for use * Although not included in our supply chain GHG emissions [cubic meters] Governance intensity-reduction goal, we work with our nonproducCompanies with water 38% 41% 59% Human Progress tion suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts. withdrawal-related goals Economic Progress [% of spend] Environmental Progress We have reported nonproduction supplier GHG emissions * This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the since 2012, and in 2013 began working more closely amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in Our water Overview footprint. Because water that is withdrawn can also be returned, the footprint with these companies to improve data collection. New reported in this table is inherently larger—it refers to first-tier suppliers • Supply chain requests for information can present a challenge, so for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated environmental impact we offer training and support to help firms achieve our based on suppliers’ reported values and their dollar volume of HP business HP operations reporting objectives. In 2013, HP nonproduction supplier compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data Products and solutions GHG emissions attributable to HP equaled 1,300,000 is available; 2011 is the earliest. Updated data for 2011–2012 reflects tonnes of CO2e, an 8% increase compared to 2012. Due extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers (compared to 38% Product return and to the level of estimation and rounding involved in these coverage for 2011 and 62% coverage for 2012 as reported in the HP 2013 recycling Living Progress Report). In 2013, coverage equaled 50%. calculations, we are unable to determine whether the Social investment difference between 2012 and 2013 reflects changes in Waste Data actual supplier performance. We plan to continue to About this report improve our calculation methodology in the coming years. Working with our suppliers to minimize waste helps Water reduce the environmental footprint of HP products. It also offers opportunities for innovation and commercial benefit, for example through our zero-waste Water is an increasingly scarce resource in many regions. initiative with key suppliers in Brazil. We track and Our supply chain currently accounts for about 25% of HP’s report suppliers’ waste-generation data to encourage water footprint—see HP’s water footprint. greater awareness. In addition, the GSCP Environmental Reference Tools include waste minimization guidance We work with our suppliers to improve water manageand expectations for suppliers. ment and encourage responsible withdrawal and discharge. For example, HP is a member of the Global In 2013, our production suppliers produced 163,000 Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) and uses its tonnes of nonhazardous waste and 74,000 tonnes of Environmental Reference Tools to help suppliers improve hazardous waste. In addition, 59% of these suppliers (by water use practices and other aspects of environmental spend) had goals related to waste reduction. We continue performance. We use the World Business Council for to encourage more suppliers to track and share wasteSustainable Development Global Water Tool to assess generation data, and we are working with them to improve risks to local environments and communities and to reporting accuracy. identify the key locations in which to focus our efforts. In 2014, we expanded our pilot water management Production supplier waste generation program—in which suppliers in water-stressed regions 2012 2013 use GSCP tools to implement on-site improvements—to include three sites: China, Mexico, and Turkey. Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 179,000 163,000 Hazardous waste [tonnes] 60,000 74,000 In 2013, aggregated water withdrawal by production suppliCompanies with waste-related goals 44% 59% ers equaled 46 million cubic meters, 5% more than in 2012. [% of spend] It is likely that this increase reflects improvements in supplier data collection and reporting. In addition, 59% of these sup* Waste data is estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority pliers (by spend) had goals related to water withdrawal. of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data are available; 2012 is the earliest. Updated data for 2012 reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers (compared to 54% for nonhazardous waste and 64% for hazardous waste in 2012 as reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report). In 2013, coverage equaled 48% for nonhazardous waste and 48% for hazardous waste. Data for 2012 is restated compared to information reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report due to corrections received from a reporting supplier. View full data for Supply chain environmental impact. 79 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman HP Brazil—embracing the circular economy Executive summary Governance HP has substantial manufacturing operations in Brazil, This zero-waste initiative has decreased the environmenHuman Progress producing high volumes of PCs, printers, and servers. tal impact of manufacturing our products in Brazil while Consistent with our corporate-wide objectives of promotconserving resources and saving money. For example, Economic Progress ing zero-waste manufacturing and a circular economy, packaging reuse from this effort avoids 228 tonnes CO2e Environmental Progress we collaborate with our suppliers in Brazil to innovate of GHG emissions annually, wooden pallet reuse is foreOverview and develop projects that feed used materials into new cast to save $1 million over two years, and creating new products and packaging. We engage many suppliers in pulp cushions from old cartons is projected to utilize 720 • Supply chain environmental impact our efforts, particularly our long-standing manufacturtonnes of recycled material each year. No waste goes to ing partner, which currently produces 100% of HP PCs and landfill from manufacturing activities at this location. HP operations printers manufactured in the country, all in one facility. Products and solutions Evolving product specifications and a dynamic supply Product return and Having such a high percentage of manufacturing under chain will continue to present fresh challenges, so HP and recycling one roof and a well-developed local supply chain faciliour manufacturing partner collaborate to develop new Social investment tates the transformation of recycled and scrap materials reuse and recycling processes in a dedicated research and into raw material for new parts and packaging. For examdevelopment laboratory. We will continue to expand this Data ple, we have used plastic from used cartridges in printer program in Brazil, and our experience here helps us to About this report parts and handles for notebook boxes, and we have utiexplore opportunities for applying a similar circular econlized test paper in new printer pulp-cushion packaging. omy approach elsewhere in HP and in other markets. Where we cannot reuse materials within our own supply chain, we collaborate with other industries such as steel and aluminum producers to find reuse options. Goals Supply chain environmental impact 2014 goals Progress Extend the Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) program to Malaysia and Achieved: 70 new supplier sites were added during 2014. Chongqing, China, adding more than 40 new suppliers in support of the HP supply chain GHG emissions-reduction goal. Increase nonproduction supplier reporting on GHG emissions to 80% in We expanded the scope of nonproduction suppliers included in this 2014 (by spend) compared with 65% in 2013. calculation, so the original goal no longer applies. Increase the number of nonproduction suppliers participating in our Achieved a 10% increase. GHG emissions-reduction training by 10% from our 2013 baseline. 2020 goals Progress Decrease first-tier manufacturing and product transportation-related On track: GHG emissions intensity has been reduced by 18% since 2010. GHG emissions intensity * in our supply chain by 20% compared with 2010. Assist our suppliers in preventing 2 million tonnes CO2e of GHG emisPrevented a cumulative 600,000 tonnes CO2e of emissions since 2010. sions, cumulatively between 2010 and 2020 through specific supplier environmental improvement projects. * HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual net revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. 80 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Supply chain environmental impact • HP operations Products and solutions Product return and Solar installation at HP headquarters, Palo Alto, California recycling Social investment Data About this report HP operations Environmental impacts from our operations worldwide Nonetheless, as part of our commitment to Environmental are much less significant than those from customer use Progress, we work to reduce environmental impacts from of our products and services, or from our supply chain. our operations. Reducing energy use and associated GHG Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our offices, data emissions is a priority, and we focus on energy efficiency, centers, and manufacturing facilities, for example, smart building design, and renewable energy installarepresent only 5% of emissions across our value chain. tions. We also work to reduce waste, paper use (our main nonhazardous waste stream), water consumption, and wastewater discharges. About our operational data As of October 31, 2014, HP owned and leased 673 sites in to real estate consolidation, that number decreased to 97 countries.1 During 2014, we collected data from 321 312 sites. These sites represented 84.3% of our total floor sites (including all HP-owned manufacturing sites and our space of 6.6 million square meters at that time. We extraplargest owned and leased offices, warehouses, data cenolated data from comparable data centers and offices for ters, and distribution sites). At the close of the year, due the remaining floor space, unless stated otherwise.2 1 This site count and reported square meters may differ from other published information, such as HP’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2014, due to the assumptions used for greenhouse gas accounting. 2 The availability of data varies by location and utility. Electricity data is most commonly available and covers 84.3% of our space as of October 31, 2014. For other components of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, plus water and solid waste, HP develops intensity factors for nonreporting locations based on the actual performance of reporting sites. This process ensures the most complete and accurate representation of environmental performance in operations possible. 81 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Management and Greenhouse gas Contents Letter from CEO compliance emissions Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Our efforts to limit the environmental impact of our operaWe work to reduce GHG emissions and minimize our tions are grounded in our Environmental, Health, and contribution to climate change at our facilities. We take Economic Progress Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management systems. These a broad approach and focus on optimizing the perforEnvironmental Progress ensure we comply with applicable laws and regulations mance of our existing buildings through best-in-class Overview and meet company standards across all our facilities. operational practices and a new initiative for recomSupply chain missioning existing buildings initiated in late 2014. We environmental impact HP manufacturing operations in owned and leased space also work to embed new technologies in our buildings, worldwide are certified to ISO 14001, the international such as smarter lighting controls and advanced fault • HP operations standard for environmental management systems. In detection of underperforming systems. Using cleaner Products and solutions 2014, six data centers in the UK maintained or achieved ISO energy is another important aspect of our approach. Product return and 14001 certification, alongside 13 offices in our Europe, We therefore continue to seek further opportunities to recycling Middle East, and Africa region for our information technolself-generate and purchase renewable energy. These Social investment ogy services operations. Furthermore, seven of HP’s UK activities collectively drive progress toward our goal to data centers are accredited to the European Code of reduce GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) from our Data Conduct for Data Centres. During 2015, this accreditation is operations by 20% by 2020, compared with 2010 levels.3 About this report also being sought for other major facilities in mainland Europe. Newly acquired companies must implement our EHS management system as part of their integration. We Progress in 2014 investigate thoroughly all allegations of noncompliance In 2014, GHG emissions from HP facilities continued to with the law to correct any issues, determine the root decrease. Our operations produced 1,667,700 tonnes causes, and, if applicable, take action to prevent of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, a 5.5% recurrence. reduction from 1,765,100 tonnes of CO2e in 2013 and a 17.3% decrease from our 2010 baseline. This reducFor information on the recognition HP has received for tion puts us on track to meet our 2020 goal. HP’s total environmental management and performance, see operations-related GHG emissions, normalized to net Awards. Our management of health and safety and wellrevenue, equaled 15.0 tonnes of CO2e per $ million in ness is covered in Our employees. 2014, down 4.8% from 2013 and 6.5% less than 2010. Driving toward leadership on reducing GHG emissions Goal Reduce total GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20%, compared to 2010 Contracts Green the rest Purchase renewable energy in larger volumes Make our own power Solar, fuel cell Self-generate where we can, reduce emissions, and hedge against energy price increases Be eﬀicient Reinvestments Increase building eﬀiciency with retrofits as technology improves Smart buildings Extract the most out of our existing portfolio LEED® and green leases New buildings are top performers Build a strong foundation Sponsorship and accountability Global Real Estate employees and HP management engage and sponsor energy goals and plans 3 For a list of HP’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, see Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations. 82 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents We reduced emissions in 2014 through our continued About our GHG emissions data Letter from CEO strategy of making energy efficiency improvements We calculate our GHG emissions according to the Meg Whitman globally. This reduction was largely achieved through data Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council center consolidation and energy efficiency initiatives (see for Sustainable Development and World Resources Executive summary Making data centers more efficient) and various conservaInstitute. In this section, we report Scope 1, 2, and 3 Governance tion measures and operational changes in our facilities. We GHG emissions arising from HP’s operations, transHuman Progress also increased our on-site renewable energy-generating portation fleet, and employee business travel. Economic Progress capacity by 150% during the year (see Renewable energy) and reduced emissions from business travel. • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of Environmental Progress natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operaOverview Energy use, one of our largest operational costs, accounted tions and from fuel used by HP’s transportation fleet. Supply chain for 91% of our GHG emissions from operations in 2014. The • Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased environmental impact remaining 9% was associated with our transportation fleet, electricity used in our operational real estate and trade • HP operations refrigeration equipment, and HP semiconductor-developdata centers. ment processes, which use perfluorocarbons (PFCs). Products and solutions • Scope 3 emissions in our operations result from Product return and employee business travel by commercial airlines and recycling Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, employee commuting. 2010–2014* Social investment Sources of GHG emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In other sections of this report, we also disclose several Data other categories of Scope 3 emissions. View HP’s carbon Scope 2** Electricity *** 84% 84% 87% 88% 87% About this report footprint for more detail. View HP’s GHG emissions by Scope. Scope 1 Natural gas 4% 4% 4% 4% 4% Transportation 7% 7% 8% 6% 7% fleet Energy efficiency Refrigerant 4% 4% 2% 1% 2% emissions Improving energy efficiency is the most effective way to reduce our direct energy use and related GHG emissions Diesel <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% from operations, while saving money. Recommendations Perfluorocarbons <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% on energy efficiency and resource conservation are an * Numbers important part of our construction guidelines and operatdo not add up to 100% due to rounding. ** In this document, HP reports Scope 2 GHG emissions following the guidance ing standards, and cover data center design, lighting, of the version of the GHG Protocol that was in effect until January 20, 2015. heating, and cooling. Our facility management suppliers We plan to align our Scope 2 GHG emissions reporting with the updated perform extensive audits on 10–15 sites each year, using methodology in the coming year. the U.S.-based ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, *** Takes into account self-generated electricity from diesel and PV solar. Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers) guidelines GHG emissions from operations, 2010–2014* [tonnes CO2e] 2,000,000 20 1,500,000 15 1,000,000 10 500,000 5 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A mericas 1,197,300 1,160,600 1,069,900 1,023,900 992,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 358,900 284,700 267,800 259,500 232,800 A sia Pacific and Japan 460,500 504,500 512,700 481,700 442,800 Total 2,016,700 1,949,800 1,850,400 1,765,100 1,667,700 GHG emissions intensity ** [tonnes CO2e/$ million of net revenue] 16.0 15.3 15.4 15.7 15.0 * Total includes HP’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. ** Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. 83 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents for Level 2 building audits. Since 2011, they have also Energy use from HP operations, 2010–2014* Letter from CEO reviewed operational practices at HP sites to look for addi[million kWh] Energy use from operations, 2010-2013 Meg Whitman tional opportunities for energy efficiency improvements. 5,000 40 Executive summary HP operations consumed 3,852 million kWh of energy Governance 4,000 32 in 2014, 4.1% less than in 2013 and an 11.0% decrease Human Progress from our 2010 baseline. Our energy intensity equaled Economic Progress 34,600 kWh per $ million of net revenue, a 3.4% decrease 3,000 24 from 2013 and a 0.7% increase compared with 2010. Environmental Progress 2,000 16 Overview Energy efficiency initiatives in 2014 included: Supply chain • United States Installed nearly 750 LED lighting fixtures 1,000 8 environmental impact in our HP data center facilities in Georgia, reducing • HP operations energy use from lighting by 89% 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Products and solutions • United States Performed a full recommissioning of Product return and our corporate headquarters in Palo Alto, California, Stationary 501 445 377 368 360 recycling to improve the functioning of building equipment and combustion Social investment services, with energy savings of 1 million kWh per year (natural gas and diesel) Data • United States Substituted a chiller at our Corvallis, About this report Oregon, site with a variable speed drive unit, saving 1 Electricity ** 3,825 3,795 3,738 3,645 3,487 million kWh of energy per year • North America Replaced energy-intensive infrared District cooling 2 10 7 6 5 humidification systems with ultrasonic alternatives at two data centers, one in the United States and the other Total 4,328 4,250 4,122 4,018 3,852 in Canada, saving 2.7 million kWh of energy per year Energy 34.3 33.4 34.2 35.8 34.6 • Worldwide Replaced aging building management sysintensity tems at several sites, including Santa Fe, Mexico; Lyon, [thousand kWh/$ million of France; Dublin, Ireland; and Barcelona, Spain, achieving net revenue] *** energy savings of 2.1 million kWh per year * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Making data centers more efficient ** Includes purchased electricity and energy consumed during on-site electricity generation. HP operates client-serving (or “trade”) data centers around *** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue the world that enable organizations to remotely store, proas characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. cess, and distribute large amounts of data. Data centers are energy intensive, so we work to improve operational managed by the European Commission that we helped efficiency in various ways. In 2014, for instance, we to establish. By the end of 2014, seven HP data centers installed floating head pressure controls in two trade in our Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region data centers in Canada, reducing the energy required had been accredited under this program, with plans to for mechanical cooling by 2.9 million kWh per year. obtain accreditation for four other sites during 2015. Energy efficiency improvements in our global client data centers have led to a 21% improvement in power usage effectiveness (PUE)4 from 2010 through 2014. From Sustainable building design 2010 through the end of 2014, we have closed 93 older, By using our buildings more efficiently and improving less-efficient data centers and consolidated nearly 9,500 the design of new and existing facilities, we reduce racks of IT equipment for more than 700 clients into fewer, energy use and decrease environmental impacts in other more energy-efficient facilities without service impact. areas, such as materials use, waste generation, and This change has saved more than 69,000 square meters water consumption, which conserves natural resources of data center space—equivalent to 13 U.S. football fields. and money while extending the life of our buildings. We have also pursued energy efficiency programs in our own data centers. In 2014, we completed energy efficiency We promote improvements in building environmental initiatives at 17 data centers that will save an estimated 11 performance, in new building design as well as renovamillion kWh annually and reduce associated GHG emistions. Our design guidelines prompt project managers sions by nearly 9,000 tonnes of CO2e a year, equivalent to to consider more sustainable specifications for energy removing about 1,900 passenger vehicles from the road.5 and materials use, waste management, and water efficiency. We continue to refine and expand these HP also supports international efforts to improve guidelines as new technology, such as LED lighting, data center environmental performance, includlighting controls, advanced cooling systems, and ing through the European Code of Conduct for Data smart building software become more mainstream. Centres accreditation program, a voluntary initiative 4 Power usage effectiveness is the accepted measure of data center energy efficiency. 5 According to http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 84 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents We use sustainable building standards such as LEED® HP renewable energy self-generation capacity, Letter from CEO when feasible. Nine HP building projects worldwide 2008–2014 [MW] Meg Whitman achieved LEED® certification during 2014. Of these, one in China and one in India achieved the highest Platinum certi10 Executive summary fication, while three more (two in the United Arab Emirates Governance and one in India) were rated Gold. We plan to seek LEED® 8 Human Progress certification for eight more facilities in 2015, including in Economic Progress Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland, and Singapore. 6 Environmental Progress 4 Overview Renewable energy Supply chain 2 environmental impact Using renewable energy sources, such as solar power, • HP operations at HP facilities reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 0 while providing a hedge against rising fossil fuel prices. In 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Products and solutions 2014, our installed capacity for on-site renewable energy Product return and rose to 5.9 MW, a 150% increase in capacity compared recycling to 2013 (2.4 MW). This increase was largely due to the Social investment completion of new solar panel installations at seven HP Business travel and employee sites worldwide: four facilities in India (1.6 MW total), Data one at Kiryat Gat, Israel (0.2 MW); one in Guadalajara, programs About this report Mexico (0.8 MW); and one at our Palo Alto, California, In 2014, we launched a comprehensive strategy to headquarters in the United States (1 MW). Our solar promote and expand sustainable travel practices across installations now avoid an estimated 5,700 tonnes of CO2e HP by influencing the behavior of employees and travel emissions annually. In 2015, our installed solar capacity providers. We have increased the transparency and will increase again by more than 60% as we complete accuracy of our travel data, allowing improved perfortwo new installations at our Andover, Massachusetts, and mance reporting. We encourage our employees to use Roseville, California, sites in the United States. Together more energy-efficient forms of transportation, such they will have an installed capacity of about 3.4 MW. as rail, compact cars, and shared ground transportation, as well as virtual collaboration tools that reduce We continue to evaluate additional solar projects, but the need for travel. In 2014, the HP transportation recognize that technology is not viable in all locations. We fleet and employee commercial air travel generated are also exploring other self-generation technologies, such 315,100 tonnes of CO2e emissions, a 15% decrease from as fuel cells, and are looking for a suitable location for a 0.5 MW fuel cell installation in 2015, possibly in India. We 2013. Emissions per employee decreased by 11% durtake into account factors such as GHG-emissions-intensity, ing the year and have dropped by 25% since 2010. reliability of the electrical grid, cost of electricity, and the We encourage employees to choose commuting options type of business operations in assessing these projects. that reduce GHG emissions and in some locations provide HP also purchased 528 million kWh of renewable energy free bus passes, ride-share programs, electric vehiclefrom outside providers in 2014, mostly through energy charging stations, and preferred parking for car pools. contracts in Ireland, the UK, and other European countries, For bicycle commuters, we offer bike racks, showers, plus renewable energy credits in the United States. Our lockers, emergency repair kits, and tune up events. reporting excludes renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. GHG emissions from transportation fleet and commercial air travel, 2010–2014 [tonnes CO2e] 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total emissions 448,800 462,800 403,100 372,200 315,100 Transportation fleet (Scope 1 emissions) * 144,800 142,800 133,100 112,200 115,100 Americas** 80,300 77,200 78,900 69,600 73,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 63,700 61,700 51,100 41,500 40,800 Asia Pacific and Japan 800 3,900 3,100 1,100 1,100 Commercial air travel (Scope 3 emissions) 304,000 320,000 270,000 260,000 200,000 Emissions per employee *** 1.38 1.32 1.21 1.17 1.03 * In 2010–2013, emissions are CO2 only, but 2014 also includes CH4 and N2O expressed as CO2e. ** In 2010–2013, data reported in the Americas regions included Canada and the United States. Beginning in 2014, this data includes those countries and territories as well as Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Peru, Puerto Rico, and Venezuela. *** Based on employee numbers as reported in past HP Global Citizenship reports. 85 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Business travel Commuting Letter from CEO We require vehicle rental companies to provide U.S. In 2014, we increased the number of electric vehicleMeg Whitman Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaysm charging stations at HP sites around the world from 20 to Executive summary certified vehicles and to offer hybrid and fuel-efficient more than 70, and we plan significant further additions in cars when available. During 2014, 100% of rental car 2015. As a partner with the U.S. Department of Energy’s Governance bookings made by HP employees were for designated Workplace Charging Challenge, we are committed to Human Progress fuel-efficient cars. To encourage HP employees to choose providing workplace charging to employees. Employee Economic Progress more fuel-efficient vehicles, we have updated our booking usage is particularly strong at our California sites and in Environmental Progress tool to default to compact cars across all regions. When the United Kingdom. employees travel to large customer events, we help Overview them to share rides in large cars, vans, or shuttle buses. Supply chain environmental impact • HP operations We designate hotels that meet environmental standards such as LEED®, ISO 14001, or Nordic Swan in our records Waste and recycling Products and solutions with a green leaf logo. In 2014, 69% of room nights were at hotels determined to be in the top four based Product return and on a range of environmental considerations, such as recycling water and energy conservation. In 2015, we will encourAlthough our facilities around the world do not generSocial investment age more hotel suppliers to make improvements in ate large amounts of waste, we work to reduce related Data areas such as GHG emissions and waste reduction. environmental impacts through a global policy of “reduce, About this report reuse, and recycle,” coupled with employee engagement. Our intranet travel portal has a link to the U.S. EPA’s emissions calculator, which shows the carbon footprint of We minimize the amount of nonhazardous solid possible trips and helps employees select more efficient waste—such as paper, pallets, and packaging—that flights. It also provides information about using the train we send to landfill. For hazardous waste—mainly liquid and travel alternatives such as videoconferencing and virtual collaboration tools. We increased the use of such Nonhazardous waste composition, 2014* tools by 300% in 2014 compared with 2013. Partly as [percentage of total] a result, emissions from commercial air travel in 2014 equaled 200,000 tonnes of CO2e, 23% less than in 2013. Auto fleet Launched in 2014, across 25 countries globally and in collaboration with our fleet-management suppliers, HP’s Auto Fleet transformation program has improved the company’s fuel consumption and embedded fleet efficiency into our program to reduce total cost of ownership. The first priority, and biggest challenge, has been to improve data accuracy and transparency. In Europe, we consolidated to a single fuel provider and fuel card system. This enables more effective tracking and analysis of fuel usage, allowing us to better set and monitor Reused or recycled progress against reduction goals. During 2015, we are implementing this program in 23 countries in the region. Paper 31.1% We have also worked with our suppliers to shift our Pallets 16.4% fleet to more fuel-efficient cars and increase visibility into related environmental impacts. In North America, Electronic equipment 5.3% we have increased average fuel economy by changing the standard option from an SUV to a sedan. In Europe, Packaging materials 4.8% we have reduced fleet average GHG emissions from 128 g CO2e/km in 2012 to 121 g CO2e/km in 2014. Metals 1.9% Based on this improved data, we set a goal to reduce Other 21.1% total GHG emissions from our global auto fleet by 20% by 2020, compared to 2010. We are on track to meet this L andfill 12.0% goal. In the United States, we also continue to support the Clinton Global Fleets for Change initiative, which Incineration 7.3% commits us to reduce GHG emissions from our U.S. auto * HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and disposition based fleet by 10% per vehicle by 2015, from 2010 levels. on information provided by our waste disposal vendors (such as waste manifests, bills of lading, receipts, or other documentation). Some sites are unable to directly track nonhazardous waste. In those cases, we estimate nonhazardous waste volumes and disposition using intensity factors based on similar operations. Segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 86 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents from our ink and inkjet manufacturing facilities and Waste-reduction initiatives in 2014 included: Letter from CEO batteries from data centers—we prioritize waste man• New Zealand We changed waste-processing vendors at Meg Whitman agement options with lower environmental impacts and our sites in this country, allowing us to expand our paper only use disposal as a last resort. We reuse electronic Executive summary recycling program. As a result, we recycled an extra 360 equipment when appropriate. Otherwise, we recycle it Governance tonnes of paper in New Zealand in 2014, increasing the responsibly through the same programs we offer our landfill-diversion rate by more than 7% during the year. Human Progress customers. See Product return and recycling for detail. Additionally, we work with an external vendor to recycle • Spain At our Barcelona site, we reduced the amount Economic Progress HP business mobile phones in the United States. of vinyl packaging waste sent to landfill in 2014 by 37 Environmental Progress tonnes—31 tonnes of which was recycled and 6 tonnes Overview HP employees play a key role in these efforts, converted into a fuel blend. These improvements were Supply chain recycling paper, plastics, and batteries at convethe result of a study we conducted of the composition of environmental impact nient recycling points within many of our buildings. the site’s waste stream, followed by a detailed analysis We also recycle glass, plastic, and aluminum of new recycling opportunities. • HP operations containers disposed of in our dining rooms and • United States Our U.S.-wide initiative to remove Products and solutions conference facilities where recycling is available. disposable cups from coffee stations saved millions Product return and of cups from going to landfill. Our Houston, Texas, site recycling eliminated an estimated 1.5 million disposable cups Social investment Progress in 2014 alone, and provided employees with free reusable mugs Data made from corn. In 2014, HP generated approximately 69,700 tonnes About this report of total waste compared with 78,700 tonnes in 2013, In addition to such measures, local sites and regions a reduction of 11.5%. The vast majority (90.7%) of this manage their own recycling activities. was nonhazardous solid waste. We reused, recycled, or incinerated about 55,600 tonnes of nonhazardous waste, achieving a landfill-diversion rate of 88.0%—up from 87.0% in 2013. In all, 50 HP sites around the world diverted 100% of their waste from landfills during 2014. About 31.1% of the nonhazardous waste we generated in 2014 was paper (see Paper). Nonhazardous waste, 2010–2014* [tonnes] Hazardous waste, 2010–2014* [tonnes] 125,000 100% 10,000 100,000 80% 8,000 75,000 60% 6,000 50,000 40% 4,000 25,000 20% 2,000 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A mericas 55,800 51,300 88,900 43,000 36,800 A mericas 3,600 3,030 2,760 2,020 2,560 Europe, 19,400 15,900 13,500 12,800 11,900 Europe, 2,570 2,560 3,040 3,560 1,910 Middle East, Middle East, and Africa and Africa A sia Pacific 17,300 15,800 15,200 15,000 14,500 A sia Pacific 2,270 1,810 2,270 2,340 2,000 and Japan and Japan Total 92,500 82,900 117,600 70,800 63,200 Total 8,430 7,400 8,060 7,920 6,470 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. L andfill 84.8% 82.1% 88.2% 87.0% 88.0% diversion rate * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 87 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Water Contents Water-reduction initiatives during 2014 included: Letter from CEO • Israel Installed water leak-detection systems at our Meg Whitman Mercury site, enabling us to identify and fix several Executive summary Only 7% of water use across HP’s value chain is related to leaks, decreasing water consumption in two buildings by our operations. However, water availability is a growing an estimated 19% compared to 2013 Governance concern in many parts of the world, and we are committed Human Progress to reducing our water consumption, especially in water• Puerto Rico Reduced water consumption by 2,650 cubic stressed regions such as India, Israel, and Singapore. meters per year by modifying and upgrading manufacEconomic Progress We take part in the CDP water program to improve our turing cleaning equipment and by reusing condensate Environmental Progress water in cooling towers understanding of water issues and enhance our disclosure. Overview • Singapore Built our newly opened Tuas ink plant to Supply chain In 2014, we developed a new water goal: to reduce freshuse 78% less potable water than comparable buildings environmental impact water consumption (per employee) by 20% at our office by installing low-consumption water fittings, planting • HP operations sites by 2020,6 compared to 2010. Although this goal is drought-tolerant landscaping, and using municipally global, we will focus initially on water-stressed areas and supplied recycled water for cooling towers, toilets, and Products and solutions on our top ten water-consuming sites in each region. When irrigation Product return and developing this goal, we revised our list of water-stressed recycling • United States Cut annual water consumption at our sites based on the WBCSD Global Water Tool. We also Social investment Houston site by 35,000 cubic meters—a 12% reducadded several sites known to be under drought conditions tion—through landscaping improvements such as Data but which the WBCSD Global Water Tool did not identify— installing moisture sensors for irrigation and using including our Palo Alto and Roseville sites in California. About this report drought tolerant landscaping; decreased landscape irrigation water use by nearly 44,000 cubic meters compared to the prior year (a 33% decrease) at our Progress in 2014 Roseville site Globally in 2014, HP consumed 7,431,000 cubic meters Globally, in 2014, we recycled and/or reclaimed more of water worldwide, predominantly for use in buildings, than 260,000 cubic meters of water. Initiatives included: cooling, and landscape irrigation. This figure represented a 3.1% decrease from 2013. Consumption at our 45 prior• India Used treated industrial wastewater for landscapity sites in water-stressed locations decreased by 3.2% ing and flushing of toilets in 2014, compared to the prior year. We consumed 19.2 cubic meters of water per employee at the sites covered • Singapore Reclaimed reject water from high-purity by our 2020 goal, 5.8% less than in 2013 and a decrease water operations and reused it in a cooling tower of 14.2% from 2010. Water consumption, 2010–2014* [cubic meters] 10,000,000 8,000,000 6,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A mericas 5,249,000 4,836,000 4,643,000 4,011,000 3,789,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,291,000 1,113,000 982,000 A sia Pacific and Japan 2,353,000 2,436,000 2,608,000 2,540,000 2,660,000 Total 8,807,000 8,517,000 8,542,000 7,665,000 7,431,000 * As part of our normal data auditing processes, several sites made corrections to reported historical water consumption values. Some of these corrections included data back to 2010. These updates are reflected in the tables here. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 6 This goal covers only locations where HP directly tracks water consumption, as opposed to sites where the company extrapolates the data based on other locations. 88 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents • United States Reclaimed reject water from high-purity water operations at our Corvallis plant in Oregon and Wastewater Letter from CEO Meg Whitman recycled it back into the process or reused it in acid Wastewater is not a significant environmental aspect exhaust scrubbers of HP operations. While our six imaging and printExecutive summary ing product-manufacturing facilities generate some Governance Water consumption, by source, 2014* [cubic meters] process wastewater, those effluents are pretreated, Human Progress strictly monitored, and discharged under governmentEconomic Progress issued permits to municipal wastewater plants where Environmental Progress they undergo further treatment. We also implement procedures to prevent unauthorized discharges of Overview chemicals to our facility wastewater systems and ensure Supply chain we do not discharge wastewater directly from these environmental impact HP operations to surface water or to groundwater. • HP operations Products and solutions View full data for HP operations. Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Municipal water 6,507,000 87.6% W  astewater from another organization 780,000 10.5% (NeWater **) Tanker water *** 137,000 1.8% Well water 7,000 0.1% Total 7,431,000 100% * D irect use of surface water and rainwater are insignificant and not included in data reported. ** N eWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. *** Well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. Goals HP operations 2015 goals Progress Reduce GHG emissions from HP’s U.S. auto fleet by 10% on a per-unit We continue working toward this goal, including by introducing more basis, compared to 2010. fuel-efficient vehicles and switching from SUVs to sedans as our standard car selection. 2020 goals Progress Reduce total GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Since 2010, we have decreased total GHG emissions from our operations by 20%, compared to 2010. by 17.3%, ahead of schedule to achieve this goal. Reduce total GHG emissions from our global auto fleet by 20%, On target. compared to 2010. Reduce freshwater consumption per employee at office sites by 20% by Since 2010, we have reduced freshwater consumption per employee at 2020, compared to 2010.* office sites by 14.2%, ahead of schedule to achieve this goal. * This goal covers only locations where HP directly tracks water consumption, as opposed to sites where the company extrapolates the data based on other locations. 89 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Supply chain environmental impact HP operations • Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Products and solutions In just 40 years, information technology (IT) has redefined As the use of IT continues to grow, so does the volume of how we live and work through the Internet, big data, cloud data, the requirements placed on technology infrastruccomputing, mobile personal devices, and digital printing. ture, and the environmental impacts. Data is expected to double every two years, resulting in a total of 44 zettabytes (44 trillion gigabytes) by 2020. Unless transformative “As one of the world’s largest IT companies, we technologies are introduced, the GHG emissions associated with IT is projected to grow from 1.9% of global emissions believe we are uniquely positioned to help our in 2011 to 2.3% in 20201. company and our customers lower carbon HP’s products and IT solutions for the New Style of emissions by developing more sustainable Business help customers manage this explosion of data. technologies that replace outdated, inefficient We are finding ways to do more with less and reduce the environmental footprint of computing and printing by: processes and behaviors.” • Decreasing the carbon footprint of HP products across our portfolio. In 2014, we set a goal to reduce — Gabi Zedlmayer, Chief Progress Officer, Corporate Affairs, HP the GHG emissions intensity of our product portfolio2 by 40% by 2020 compared to 2010 levels. 3 This HP products and solutions portfolio Personal Systems Printing Infrastructure Services Software Engineering multi-OS devices and Engineering ink and laserbased Providing the foundation for the Managing and transforming from Providing critical insights immersive computing experiences solutions that provide a faster, New Style of IT the traditional to the new for business and consumers more aﬀordable, exciting way to print, manage, and realize content Financial Services 1 According to GeSI SMARTer 2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future, pages 11, 18. 2 Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, HP Moonshot and HP Apollo. 3 Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. For printers and personal systems, each product constitutes a unit of output. For servers, each unit of output equals a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards. 90 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents goal builds on progress against previous goals and central role in progress toward our goal to reduce Letter from CEO accelerates our journey toward more sustainable the GHG emissions intensity of our product portfoMeg Whitman computing and printing. lio4 by 40% by 2020 compared to 2010 levels.5 Executive summary • Delivering radical improvements in the resource Sustainability is embedded in our research agenda— intensity and cost of computing and printing through Governance through HP Labs, our central research organization, and innovations such as The Machine, the Apollo 8000 Human Progress across our business groups. We look at emerging trends server system, HP OfficeJet X series printers with HP to understand where our industry—and our world—is Economic Progress PageWide Technology, and HP Desktop Minis. headed. We then create revolutionary technologies to Environmental Progress • Addressing materials management (including materials address the most complex challenges and important Overview of concern) across the value chain—within our supply opportunities facing our customers and society in the Supply chain chain, in our products, and at their end of life. next decade and beyond. For example, in 2014, HP Labs environmental impact • Moving from the linear model of “take, make, waste” partnered with HP business groups on two disruptive HP operations toward a “circular economy” approach, which designs new technologies: The Machine and 3D printing. out waste, builds in product longevity, and offers our • Products and solutions HP’s Design for the Environment (DfE) program dates customers ongoing services rather than simply selling Product return and them products. back to 1992. Since then, our approach, tools, and recycling processes have become more sophisticated, but they • Capitalizing on trends such as the Internet of Things and still support the same aim: to consider environmental Social investment exponential growth in computing power to enable and impact in the design of every HP product and solution. Data conduct analyses that benefit society and the environAbout this report ment—for example smart grids, HP Earth Insights, and We focus on: HP Healthcare Analytics. • Energy efficiency Reduce the energy required to manuThis section describes HP’s approach to designing products facture and use our products—see Energy efficiency and services with the environment in mind. Our advances • Materials innovation Use less material, increase draw on insights from life cycle assessment, carbon and recycled and recyclable content, and use materials with water footprinting, and other analyses, and build on HP’s lower environmental impact—see Materials long-standing strengths in research and development. To illustrate progress, we highlight numerous examples of • Services Design service models to reduce environmeninnovation across the products and solutions we sell. tal impacts and increase product longevity through support (for example, care packs and upgrades) and new business models (such as “product as a service”) • End-of-life options Make responsible return and Design for the recycling easier—see Product return and recycling Environment The foundation of our DfE program is a comprehensive product environmental management system that guides our design teams and more than 50 environmental The environmental impact of a product or solution is product stewards on a path of continuous improvelargely determined before it is built, packaged, and ment. It includes the evaluation of environmental shipped—at the design stage. Product design also impacts such as energy use and resource intensity plays a role in innovative product service models such across the life cycle for all HP products, as well as as Instant Ink that can deliver significant reductions the identification of legal and customer requirements in resource use. Together, our product supply chain such as public procurement specifications. (resource extraction, manufacturing, and transportation) and product use phase (energy, paper, and ink and toner cartridge consumption) account for 95% of HP’s carbon footprint and 93% of our water footprint. Product design is therefore by far the single greatest lever we can use to improve our overall environmental performance. It is a key focus for HP and plays a 4 Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, HP Moonshot and HP Apollo. 5 Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. For printers and personal systems, each product constitutes a unit of output. For servers, each unit of output equals a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards. 91 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents The process also involves audits of product design and This situation requires innovation in technology and Letter from CEO compliance activities, as well as benchmarking against design. In 2014, HP decreased the amount of materials Meg Whitman best practices from outside HP and seeking external cerused compared to relevant net revenue by approximately tification where appropriate. For example, product design 6% for personal systems, compared to 2013. This was priExecutive summary and development operations in our LaserJet Enterprise marily due to design improvements, such as smaller form Governance Solutions and Personal Systems product groups are ISO factor desktop PCs—see Personal systems for detail. Human Progress 14001 certified, demonstrating that our entire design Economic Progress process across these two product groups adheres to The decrease related to printers was largely due to a rigorous environmental management systems criteria. change in measurement approach. During 2014, we Environmental Progress updated the methodology used to calculate materials use Overview Our DfE program is an important driver of business value. for printers for consistency with the methodology used Supply chain In 2014, we engaged with customers who had green for personal systems. Both are now based on individual environmental impact procurement requirements in relation to more than product data rather than representative products. As a HP operations $24 billion of existing and potential business revenue, result, printer data for 2014 is not comparable to 2013 demonstrating how HP could meet those needs. values. However, the revised approach will enable more • Products and solutions meaningful year-over-year comparisons moving forward. Product return and recycling Materials We also work to reduce materials use in accessories. Social investment For example, as part of our drive to reduce PVC and Data The selection of materials is central to our design process, copper usage, shortening HP Notebook power cords led and we evaluate the environmental and human impacts to the avoidance of 1,400 tonnes of material in 2014. About this report of materials across the product life cycle. We seek to use less material, evaluate and replace substances Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume of concern with viable alternatives, and increase the personal systems and printers, 2013–2014 percentage of recycled content and recyclable materi[tonnes/$ million of net revenue] als whenever possible. This approach enables us to Personal systems * Printers ** reduce our environmental footprint and any potential for human health impacts, while also meeting customer 2013 2014 2013 2014 requirements for weight, durability, reliability, and cost. Metal 5.1 4.5 29.4 14.7 Plastic 2.1 1.9 34.5 28.0 Collaboration is central to our materials strategy—working with industry, government, and nongovernmental Wires/cables 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.4 organization (NGO) partners globally is critical to our PCAs 0.7 0.7 2.0 1.7 efforts to drive consistent industry standards and encourage a forward looking approach to the responLCDs 1.4 1.4 0.2 sible use of materials in IT products. In 2014, we Batteries 0.2 0.3 further developed our leading work in identifying Total 10 9.4 67 45 and restricting substances of concern and assessing alternatives by expanding our approach beyond prod* Personal systems data for 2013 and 2014 are based on individual products ucts to include substances used in manufacturing. that are representative of the HP product portfolio for those years. Segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Printer data for 2014 are not comparable to 2013 values due to differences in Using less material calculation methodology. 2013 values are based on representative products, Our supply chain accounts for 41% of HP’s carbon footprint, while 2014 values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, largely as a result of materials extraction and primary or ink or toner cartridges. Segments do not add up to total due to rounding. manufacturing. Using less raw materials and more recycled materials can therefore significantly reduce our overall environmental impact. Extending product life We contribute to the circular economy by extending product instead repurposing them for additional use. Products life. For example, HP Renew offers customers access to come with a full HP warranty and meet the same quality an extensive portfolio of completely remanufactured HP tests as new items. products and solutions. We also consider how to extend product life at the design Remanufactured products retain the same reliability and stage, for example by putting working prototypes through performance as new HP products, but for at least 15% rigorous reliability tests to ensure they are designed to less cost. The process keeps older products out of landfill, last. Watch more here. 92 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Evaluating substances of concern drive our suppliers to evaluate hazardous substances Letter from CEO We proactively evaluate materials in our products, taking and ensure proper protection for workers. For more Meg Whitman into account published lists of substances of concern, information, see Supply chain responsibility. Executive summary upcoming legal requirements, and customer preferences, as well as when scientific analysis reveals a potential impact Assessing alternatives Governance Our approach to phasing out substances of concern is to human health or the environment. When replacing subHuman Progress stances of concern, we provide guidance on commercially to adopt alternatives that reduce the risk of adverse Economic Progress viable alternatives with lower potential impact. human health and environmental impacts, while meeting performance and cost criteria. Environmental Progress We continue to phase out halogen-containing materiOverview als such as brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and In 2014, we updated our long-established alternative mateSupply chain polyvinyl chloride (PVC), as well as phthalates, where rials program to align with the state-of-the-art National environmental impact technically feasible. All HP notebooks, EliteDesk and Academies of Science publication “A Framework to Guide HP operations ProDesk products, and 79% of our other personal Selection of Chemical Alternatives.” • Products and solutions systems product groups are low halogen, as of the end of 2014.6 In addition, a large proportion of the components Our alternatives assessment process also uses the Product return and in other HP-branded products are also low halogen, GreenScreen® For Safer Chemicals to identify alternarecycling tives with lower impacts to human health and the including 85% of disk drives, 85% of application-specific Social investment integrated circuits (ASICs), and 90% of memory modules. environment. In 2014, HP became the first electronics Data company to have staff certified through the GreenScreen We have expanded our focus to restrict not only subPractitioners program. Since we launched the HP alterAbout this report stances of concern used in products but also those native materials program, we have completed more used in manufacturing. To support this approach, we than 160 assessments of materials that account for have updated the HP General Specification for the more than 80% of the weight of our products sold. Environment to include a list of manufacturing process substances, which we hope to expand as we evaluate Beyond HP operations, we use alternatives assessment to other substances in the future. In addition, our supdrive the adoption of lower impact materials throughout plier monitoring and capability-building programs our supply chain. To facilitate transitions to lower impact materials, we share the findings of our assessments product proactive HP product HP proactive materials materialsrestriction/substitution restriction/substitutiontimeline*timeline* 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Mercury/mercury PVC in Remaining uses compounds packaging of phthalates (except bulbs) (DEHP, DBP, BBP, BFRs in and DIBP) external Cadmium Lead in PVC cables case plastic PVC from case plastics Lead parts Bis (2-ethylhexyl) Ozone-depleting substances Hexavalent chromium phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl Polycyclic aromatic phthalate (DBP), and butyl hydrocarbons (PAH) benzyl phthalate (BBP) in DfE programs started new personal computing Mercury in notebook products products PBB/PBDE (including DecaBDE) Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC in new Remaining uses of HP-brand personal computing products antimony Bisphenol-A Arsenic/arsenic compounds Mercury in bulbs Nonylphenol Beryllium/beryllium compounds Other perfluorinated Bisphenol-A in thermal paper chemicals Remaining uses of BFRs Antimony trioxide in low-halogen products** and PVC Remaining uses of Antimony, chlorine in bleached paper** certain phthalates Selenium/selenium compounds * Dates refer to when proactively adopted materials restrictions were first introduced on an HP product, ahead of regulatory requirements. Materials in gray text beyond April 2015 have been identified by stakeholders as potential materials of concern. Future possible restriction of those materials depends, in part, on the qualification of acceptable alternative materials. For a comprehensive list of HP’s materials restrictions, including numerous materials restricted by HP on a worldwide basis in response to regional regulations, refer to HP’s General Specification for the Environment. ** These requirements apply only when specified by the HP Business. 6 External components such as keyboards, mice, cables, and cords are not low-halogen. Notebooks with decorative films on external case plastic parts use an industry standard PVC congener. 93 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents with suppliers through procurement guidance, enabling companies a standard way to evaluate their progress Letter from CEO them to make better-informed decisions about potential in reducing chemicals of high concern and proactively Meg Whitman replacements for substances of concern. For example, identify opportunities for the reduction of their use. in 2014 some major suppliers moved to preferred7 Executive summary nonphthalate plasticizers based on our Phthalate Industry harmonization HP works with the International Governance Replacement Guide. See Supply chain responsibility Electronics Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI) to help harmoHuman Progress for more information about our work with suppliers. nize alternatives assessment methods across the industry Economic Progress and ensure that they reflect current best practices. We are a Using recycled and recyclable materials member of the iNEMI steering committee, serve as co-chair Environmental Progress of the iNEMI Alternative Materials Assessment workgroup, As part of our contribution to the circular economy, we Overview increasingly develop and use “closed loop” processes and participate in the initiative’s work on metals recycling. Supply chain by effectively recycling materials into new products and environmental impact reducing our contribution to landfill. HP’s leadership with Materials legislation HP complies with all relevant HP operations “closed loop” plastics recycling began in 2005 with the government regulations wherever we do business and recycled polyethylene terephthalate (PET) program in ink communicates these requirements to our business • Products and solutions partners worldwide through our General Specification for cartridges. During 2014, we implemented two new “closed Product return and loop” processes for polypropylene in ink cartridges—see the Environment. recycling Printing for more detail. Social investment We also go beyond compliance by promoting progressive HP personal systems product families are another focus and consistent legislation and reporting requirements Data area for incorporating recycled materials. In 2014, 35% of related to materials use. For example, we advocated for the About this report restriction of BFRs and PVC through the European Union commercial displays contained more than 10% postconsumer recycled plastic. We used nearly 6,300 tonnes of Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive and postconsumer recycled plastic in PCs and displays shipped offer advice to regulators to make sure RoHS is relevant to during the year, equivalent to more than 300 million drinkthe latest technologies. Our proactive approach to materiing water bottles. als regulations has been recognized by regulators around the world. For example, in 2014 we received an award HP also considers recyclability when selecting materials. from the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information For example, in 2014 we chose a recyclable material as the Technology acknowledging HP’s sustained contribution to base resin for our carbon fiber reinforced plastic cases for the development of China’s RoHS legislation. the development of super resilient, lightweight commercial notebook products. Energy efficiency Read more about our product return and recycling activities. HP uses multiple ways to assess the energy performance Collaboration of its product portfolio. Our product use carbon footprint Principles for Safer Chemicals HP is an active mem(measured on an absolute basis) takes into account ber of the Business-NGO Working Group (BizNGO), shipped volumes to provide a measure of overall climate a unique collaboration between companies and impact related to product use. Product energy intensity environmental groups to encourage adoption of more assesses the energy performance of products across sustainable materials. We have integrated the BizNGO the portfolio and illustrates our success enhancing Principles for Safer Chemicals into our materials energy performance on an individual product basis. strategy, and they directly shape our programs and processes. HP endorsed the principles in 2013, and as Product use carbon and water footprint of March 2015 was the only IT company to do so. The energy, paper, and ink and toner cartridges that customers consume using HP products and solutions In 2014, HP co-chaired the BizNGO project to create a together accounted for 54% of our overall carbon footprint Model Alternatives Assessment for Decabromodiphenyl in 2014, with 44% of the total due to electricity consumpEther (DecaBDE) in External Computer Housings as part tion during use. These items also represented 68% of our of a demonstration project for the new California Safer water footprint, largely due to the considerable amounts Consumer Product regulations. We also helped develop of cooling water used in electricity generation. Improving and pilot a new Chemical Footprint tool, which gives Sourcing materials responsibly We work with our HP-branded paper suppliers to ensure We also pay close attention to the sourcing of materials that the fiber used to produce the paper is legally and such as gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten—see Conflict responsibly sourced—read more in Paper and Packaging. minerals for more detail. 7 Based on HP analysis of chemical hazard level. 94 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents GHG emissions from product use Water consumption related to product use Letter from CEO [tonnes CO2e] [cubic meters] Meg Whitman Product group 2013 2014 Product group 2013 2014 Executive summary Personal Systems * 15,300,000 11,600,000 Personal Systems * 126,636,000 95,486,000 Governance Printers (energy) 4,000,000 3,700,000 Printers (energy) 33,230,000 30,821,000 Human Progress Printers (paper and ink/toner 4,800,000 4,800,000 Printers (paper and ink/toner 43,698,000 46,194,000 Economic Progress cartridges) cartridges) Environmental Progress Servers 6,500,000 6,100,000 Servers 53,825,000 50,653,000 Overview Total** 30,600,000 26,200,000 Total 257,389,000 223,154,000 Supply chain * 2014 data for Personal Systems is not comparable to 2013 data due to refinements in calculation methodology. These refinements also influenced the totals. environmental impact Printer and server energy use and water consumption for 2013 were recalculated with 2014 methodology to enhance comparability. See footnote 4 on page 72. ** Total GHG emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from the values reported on page 72 and on page 115, due to rounding. HP operations • Products and solutions Product return and product energy efficiency through our DfE program is example, our methodology for printers takes into account recycling therefore one of the most effective ways to decrease our GHG emissions from the paper, ink, and toner cartridges Social investment overall environmental impact, and it’s a priority for HP. consumed during printing as well as energy usage. Data Each of our product groups contributes a significant Through the end of 2014, we reduced the GHG emissions About this report portion to our total GHG emissions and water consumpintensity of our product portfolio by 20%, compared tion during the use phase, so our efforts to improve to 2010. A significant amount of the improvement was energy efficiency extend across our entire portfolio. due to gains in server processing power, as performance in that area is normalized to tasks performed. Between 2013 and 2014, overall GHG emissions from Personal systems also contributed to this progress, product use decreased by 14%, and water consumption due to energy efficiency gains as well as shifts in related to product use fell by 13%. The biggest change product mix (for example, from laptops to tablets). related to our personal systems, which represented a 25% decrease in both GHG emissions and water consumption. Several innovative new products have supported our Refinements to our methodology to estimate energy use, progress toward our 2020 goal. as well as increased product efficiency and shifts in product • Servers The HP Apollo 8000 system uses 28% less mix toward less carbon-intensive devices (for example, from energy than air-cooled servers, saving up to 3,800 laptops to tablets) were the main factors. Shipped volumes tonnes of CO2e annually. did not have a significant impact. Changes related to the other product groups were relatively minor during the year. • Servers HP Gen9 ProLiant servers, launched in 2014, use 30% less energy per unit of IT work than our Gen 8 Product energy intensity servers and 60% less than HP servers sold in 2010. To drive ongoing improvement, we set a goal in 2014 to • Personal systems The EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop Mini reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our product portfouses up to 28% less energy than equivalent platforms.11 lio8 by 40% by 2020 compared to 2010 levels.9 This figure builds on a 50% reduction of product energy consumption • Printers Business printers with HP PageWide Technology that we achieved between 2005 and 2010.10 Progress have a carbon footprint up to 81% smaller12 than comparaagainst our 2020 goal is measured on an intensity basis ble laser printers during use and use less energy to print a and is independent of the number of units shipped, unlike single page than any other HP printing and imaging device. the carbon footprint, which is measured on an absolute basis. HP makes it easy for our customers to save energy by equipping our products with power-management options Focusing on use phase GHG emissions intensity compleand related guidance, which includes presetting power ments our supply chain and operations goals. We use management modes and providing instructions for lowdifferent methodologies for each of our product groups power mode in user documentation. Beyond our hardware to measure contributions to GHG emissions-intensity products, HP services and software help enterprise reduction, reflecting the distinct uses of each product. For customers to save energy and reduce their carbon footprints13—see Enterprise Services and software. 8 Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, as well as HP Moonshot and HP Apollo. 9 Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. Calculations for personal systems are based on energy use—measured as emissions per unit (a single device). Calculations for printers include energy use, paper, ink, and toner cartridges—measured as emissions per unit (a single device). Calculations for servers are based on energy use, measured as emissions per unit of work (a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards). 10 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. These calculations were based on different assumptions and methodologies than the 2020 goal. 11 Measured by ENERGY STAR® annual total energy consumption (kilowatt hours). 12 CO2e emissions over the average lifetime use of an HP OfficeJet Pro x576dn printing 100,000 pages compared to in-class HP LaserJet printers. Life cycle assessments commissioned by HP and conducted by PE International in September 2014. 13 These savings are outside of the scope of our 2020 GHG emissions-intensity reduction goal described here. 95 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Communicating product Life cycle Contents Letter from CEO environmental performance assessment Meg Whitman Executive summary As well as designing products with the environment in Governance mind, we communicate our progress clearly so that our Human Progress customers can make informed choices. HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to understand the environmental characteristics and impacts of our products Economic Progress We educate customers about the environmental perforand solutions. One subset of LCA is a product carbon Environmental Progress mance of our products through: footprint (PCF), which assesses the greenhouse gas (GHG) Overview emissions of a product across its life cycle. • ECO declarations In 2014, approximately 95% of Supply chain relevant product sales by revenue were covered by ECO environmental impact LCAs and PCFs help us to understand the environmental declarations—an industry standard format for providing impacts of each stage of a product’s life, including manufacHP operations environmental information about products or product turing, packaging, transportation, use and reuse, recycling, • Products and solutions families.14 or disposal. We use insights from these tools to prioritize Product return and • Carbon footprint calculator Our web-based HP Carbon areas for improvement to products and across our supply recycling Footprint Calculator received more than 10,000 unique chain, to compare the impacts of different product types Social investment visitors in 2014 and covers more than 12,000 HP and and components (including how they contribute to our non-HP devices, including printers, computers, and company-wide carbon and water footprints), and to inform Data monitors. Customers can use the calculator to compare future design. About this report estimated energy and paper use and costs, along with CO2e emissions, for HPand Compaq-branded computAs we work toward our 2020 product use GHG emissionsing and printing products.15 intensity reduction goal, LCAs and PCFs will help us to • Eco-labels A large percentage of our products meet identify specific areas for improvement and track progress. voluntary third-party eco-label standards, such as EPEAT® HP follows ISO 14040/14044 and ISO 14025, which define and ENERGY STAR®. This demonstrates the success of our universal standards for LCA methodology. For PCFs, we DfE efforts. Learn more. use and assisted in the development of the International To drive continued improvement across the industry, Electrotechnical Commission Technical Report 62921, HP is a leader in the development of standards such as which defines streamlined methodologies for computer ENERGY STAR®, EPEAT®, and ECMA-370. For example, and display products. we work with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to regularly update ENERGY STAR® standards, in line with evolving technology. This includes the most New LCAs and PCFs recent 6.0 specification for personal systems and 2.0 specification for printing and imaging products. In 2014, we completed or updated 28 LCAs for our printing portfolio, including 11 LaserJet products, 11 inkjet products, and six stand-alone or comparative LCAs, including a comparative LCA for original, refilled, and remanufactured inkjet cartridges. In total, we have completed LCAs for products representing 97% of HP’s printing portfolio revenues and 29% of HP’s overall product revenues for 2014.16 Eco-labels across our portfolio [% models, for products shipped in 2014] * EPEAT® identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR® qualified Product group ENERGY STAR® recognizes products with superior energy efficiency EPEAT® Gold registered EPEAT® Silver registered EPEAT® Bronze registered Personal systems 40% 29% 0% 73% Printers and 0% 34% 22% 81% imaging * EPEAT® data is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR® data is worldwide. All data is calendar year. 14 Does not include graphics printers, which are out of scope for IT ECO declarations. 15 Taking into account user location. 16 All paper values are scaled to 8.5” x 11” paper, including for wide format printers. Graphics printers are not included in calculations. 96 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP undertakes PCFs before products are placed on the development of Thin Paper for use in HP printers. They Letter from CEO market for all HP commercial all-in-one systems, deskalso influence how we communicate with customers Meg Whitman tops, monitors, notebooks, and tablets. Products covered about issues such as responsible paper use—see Paper. by PCF analysis methods made up 96% of HP’s personal Executive summary systems revenues and 43% of the company’s overall Governance product revenues in 2014.17 Human Progress Economic Progress We update our LCA and PCF tools to ensure they stay Innovation in 2014 relevant—for example, in 2014 we revised our LaserJet Environmental Progress LCA tool and collaborated on a new PCF tool for tablets We develop innovative products and solutions across Overview and all-in-ones. our broad portfolio that help HP and our customers improve environmental performance and drive Economic Supply chain Progress. Learn more about several advances in 2014 in environmental impact the sections that follow. HP operations Collaboration • Products and solutions We work with others to drive consistent methodologies Product return and for LCA across the IT sector. For example, we belong to Servers, storage, and networking recycling a multi-stakeholder collaboration led by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), which HP’s innovative server, storage, and networking portfolio Social investment developed a universal carbon footprint methodology empowers customers worldwide to run mission-critical Data workloads and manage exponentially increasing amounts for personal systems—the Product Attribute to Impact About this report Algorithm (PAIA). In 2014, the group completed PAIA of data. Our Converged Infrastructure approach combines tools for tablets and all-in-one systems, building on these functions into a single system, delivering economic existing tools for notebooks, desktops, and monitors. and environmental benefits by improving hardware utilization, saving space and materials, and reducing the In 2014, HP also began leading a cross-industry collaboraGHG emissions associated with energy use for power and tion focused on reducing fluorinated greenhouse gas cooling. Here, we provide 2014 updates on existing and (F-GHG) emissions in the manufacture of LCD displays. new HP products and services in this area. Servers Using LCA to improve products and Servers accounted for 23% of our product use carbon footprint in 2014. We work to continually reduce these manufacturing impacts through innovative design. Personal systems We use PCFs to help us understand and HP Apollo Traditional data center supercomputers require mitigate the impact of specific manufacturing activities. enterprises to add progressively more racks of servers to For example, F-GHGs used to clean panels in the producmeet rapidly increasing data demands. With each additional tion of LCD displays have global warming potentials rack, physical space requirements, IT equipment and as much as 22,800 times greater than CO2 and remain infrastructure materials usage, and GHG emissions due to in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years.18 Abatement energy use increase. activities can prevent the release of F-GHGs during the cleaning process. A recent internal PCF comparison The water-cooled HP Apollo 8000 System offers a groundshows these abatement activities can significantly breaking solution. It supports up to 144 servers and reduce GHG emissions associated with manufacturoperates at up to four times the teraflops19 per square foot ing. Informed by this analysis, we are working with our of data center than traditional air-cooled servers. Apollo suppliers to develop policies to reduce F-GHG use. We occupies less space than traditional servers and optimizes are also evaluating other opportunities to reduce supthe efficiency of IT equipment and power and cooling infraply chain impacts based on this type of assessment. structure. Its innovative design also uses 28% less energy than air-cooled servers, saving up to 3,800 tonnes of carPrinting Carbon footprinting undertaken in 2014 has bon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) annually20 —about the same helped us to understand which stages of an HP printer’s amount of GHG emissions produced by 800 cars in one life cycle contribute most to its footprint. For example, year. The heat transferred to the cooling water can in turn a PCF of the HP OfficeJet Enterprise Color Multifunction be used for other purposes, such as to heat adjacent office Printer X585dn shows that about 82% of the product’s spaces as well as the walkways around those buildings. overall GHG emissions are due to the manufacturing Customers have experienced savings of up to an estimated of the paper that is used. This insight influences the $1 million in energy costs over five years for each MW of design of our products and solutions, for example, the IT in the data center compared to air-cooled systems.21 17 Percentages are in terms of HP product revenue for Printing and Personal Systems Group and Enterprise Group, excluding Technology Services. The segments included accounted for approximately $77 billion in revenue in FY14. Net revenue by segment for fiscal 2014 is based upon an organizational change implemented by HP at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal 2015. Please see our Form 8-K filed on February 24th, 2015 for additional information. 18 Based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assessment of F-GHG sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). 19 Flops (floating-point operations per second) is a measure of computing performance. One teraflop is equal to 1,000,000,000,000 flops. 20 HP internal estimate; savings is per HP Apollo 8000 system vs.an air-cooled data center with 3 megawatts of IT. An industry-standard sustainability formula was used to derive CO2e savings in tonnes using the KW-hr savings based on real-world data center analysis. 21 Typical results based on customer-reported data. Actual results may vary. 97 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP ProLiant We launched our Gen9 ProLiant servers in and big data. HP Moonshot servers utilize up to 65% less Letter from CEO 2014, adding to HP’s portfolio of servers that offer more power and use 90% less space compared to traditional Meg Whitman computing power with less environmental impact. Gen9 servers.22 And on specific workloads, HP Moonshot Executive summary servers use 30% less energy per unit of IT work than our delivers even more substantial savings. For example, Gen8 servers and 60% less than HP servers sold in 2010. the HP Moonshot for NoSQL Databases would utilize Governance Many of our storage solutions also leverage ProLiant up to 90% less power, use 97% less space, and cost Human Progress Server hardware. 78% less than a traditional server environment.23 Economic Progress HP Moonshot Delivering breakthrough economics and By revolutionizing the space and energy economEnvironmental Progress environmental performance, HP Moonshot servers ics of the data center, HP is helping address the Overview deliver the right computing power for the right workexplosive demand for data while enabling our Supply chain loads. Unlike general purpose servers, HP Moonshot customers to innovate in ways that tackle diseases, environmental impact is optimized for specific applications, including those protect the environment, and transform lives. HP operations powering the New Style of Business—mobility, cloud, • Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Data The Machine: a new kind of computer About this report The world is facing an explosion of data, which is increasThe machine ing pressure on the resources required to move, store, process, and secure it. The Machine is an ambitious HP Labs research project that aims to meet this challenge. It reinvents the basic architecture of computers to enable significant leaps in performance and energy efficiency. Photonics Special purpose cores Massive memory pool “Our new architecture is also extremely energy-efficient, of the order of 1/100th of the We estimate The Machine will use on the order of 1% of the energy per calculation achievable today.24 Another excitenergy per calculation achievable today.” ing property of The Machine architecture is its ability to accommodate vast amounts of memory in a small space — Martin Fink, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer and access it extremely quickly.24 A 2014 simulation of The Machine was able to search 80 million images in a large pool of “nonvolatile memory” in about 100 milliseconds,25 compared to searching 4 million images on a conventional Rather than looking to new innovations such as photondisk-based system in about 3 minutes.26 These innovaics and memristor as replacements for existing technolotions will greatly reduce the energy requirements and gies, HP is redesigning how all these components come physical footprint of computing. together. HP Moonshot was the first step along this path and delivers major efficiency gains. The Machine will conThe Machine will be highly scalable: different versions will tinue along this road, integrating standard microprocessor be small enough to fit into a sensor or large enough to cores, application-specific cores, memory, management, replace a data center. Every type of IT device could contain and networking all in a single package. The Machine aims some form of The Machine, making its benefits available to reinvent computing from the ground up using novel on a global scale. hardware, a new open-source operating system, and groundbreaking analytics algorithms. We expect to bring The Machine to market by the end of this decade, with various component technologies available sooner. Watch this video to learn more about The Machine and its potential applications. 22 Numbers vary by Moonshot server cartridge and customer configuration; based on HP internal analysis, as of April 2013. 23 HP Internal testing, compared to a traditional 2U/2P rack server, as of March 2015. 24 Based on internal HP Labs calculations. 25 Simulation undertaken at HP Discover Barcelona 2014. 26 Based on internal HP Labs calculations, as of Dec 11, 2014. Note that memristor is a type of nonvolatile memory. The simulation also looks at a comparison with an in-memory implementation. 98 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Storage Switches Network switches direct data between computLetter from CEO Flash-based storage First launched in 2013, HP 3PAR ing devices such as servers and storage. The new 5400R Meg Whitman StoreServ All-Flash Arrays reduce energy costs for power zl2 Switch Series, which is ideal for medium and large and cooling by an estimated 90% compared to arrays using networks, operates using 80 PLUS® Gold Certified34 power Executive summary hard disk drive capacity.27 In 2014, we added new flash supplies and is 87% more energy-efficient than a leading Governance competitor’s equivalent offering, for 27% lower cost.35 arrays to the 3PAR StoreServ family, including new conHuman Progress verged controller models that support consolidation of block Economic Progress and file workloads and provide object access. This enables Network virtualization HP Distributed Cloud Networking customers to purchase a single storage system to fulfill (DCN) is a complete and comprehensive networking solution Environmental Progress that enables service providers and large organizations to multiple storage needs. In addition, high-capacity, low-cost Overview commercial multi-level cell (cMLC) drives, when combined virtualize existing data centers and improve management of Supply chain with data-compaction technologies, decrease capacity network resources. DCN uses approximately 67% less space, environmental impact requirements and associated energy consumption by 75%.28 power, and cooling than a competitor’s similar solution.36 HP operations • Products and solutions Converged data protection Converged data protection that includes interoperable physical appliances and virtual Data center facility services Product return and appliances reduces the complexity and the amount of recycling Over the next decade, IT systems will need to manage hardware required of backup storage, saving materials and Social investment energy. In 2014, we introduced HP StoreOnce Recovery exponentially more data, increasing the resources required Data Manager Central software, which eliminates the need for to build and operate data centers. As well as holding the traditional backup processes in favor of native movement of potential to transform how we live and work, this growth About this report storage snapshots from primary storage to backup systems in data also offers great opportunities for environmental and frees up capacity on primary storage arrays. Since sustainability initiatives. For example, the Internet of 2010, “deduplicated backup”29 with HP StoreOnce Backup Things, which will connect an estimated 26 billion devices physical and virtual appliances has saved customers an by 2020,37 could enable large-scale reductions in GHG emisestimated 13.8 exabytes (one exabyte equals one billion sions on a global scale—read more in Enterprise Services gigabytes of data) of storage capacity and $68.8 million.30 and software. Software-defined storage Virtual Storage Appliance In response to these trends, HP is making data centers more (VSA) software can reduce an enterprise’s physical space space and energy-efficient by incorporating innovative requirements for primary storage by 80% and associated thinking about power and cooling. HP is a leader in developenergy consumption by 60%, compared to traditional ing lower impact data centers and is a founding member of server/storage deployments. As of the end of 2014, we The Green Grid Association—a collaborative organization had distributed 1 million HP StoreVirtual and HP StoreOnce focused on improving the resource efficiency of data centers. VSA licenses, representing the elimination of as many as a million dedicated hardware appliances across primary Our data centers and data center services bring together (StoreVirtual) and protection (StoreOnce) storage.31 HP servers, storage, and networking devices and expertise to address our customers’ evolving cloud, big data, and Networking other needs. We design, build, run, and upgrade data Virtual Services Router Our new Virtual Service Router centers for our customers and for our own use—see HP is designed for cloud computing and “virtual services”.32 operations for more information. Our Data Center Facilities By eliminating the need for a separate physical “Layer (DCF) Consulting services and Datacenter Care services 3” router, customers can reduce their physical footprint, help customers optimize data center energy consumprack space, and power and cooling costs by up to 50%33. tion, space requirements, and performance—enabling This generates initial cost savings of up to 87% while the completion of more work with fewer resources. lowering the customer’s environmental impact. Here, we provide 2014 updates on existing and new HP services in this area. 27 Calculations based on internal comparison of the HP 3PAR StoreServ 7450 fully populated with four controller nodes and 1.92 TB SSD drives to the EMC VNX 20000 populated with a mixture of 400 GB SSDs and 600 GB Fibre Channel drives. Calculations based on a three year period assuming a 4:1 deduplication ratio on the 3PAR system and a 20% data growth rate for both systems. 28 As compared to not using data-compaction technologies. Based on a 4:1 data-compaction ratio achieved with the combination of HP 3PAR Thin Technologies. 29 Data deduplication removes duplicate copies of repeated data. 30 Based on a 20:1 deduplicaton ratio. 31 Based on internal tracking of downloads and software distributions. 32 Virtual services are networking functionalities delivered virtually, that are normally delivered through hardware. 33 Compared to a physical “Layer 3” router and server configuration. 34 80 PLUS® is a voluntary certification program intended to promote efficient energy use in computer power supply units. http://www.plugloadsolutions. com/80pluspowersupplies.aspx. 35 As of December 2014, from the Tolly report HP 5400R zl2 Switch Series Competitive Performance, Power Consumption and TCO Evaluation versus Cisco Catalyst 4507R+E. 36 According to customer-reported data, as of February 2015. Typical savings may vary depending on customer usage and other factors. 37 According to the Gartner report Forecast: The Internet of Things, Worldwide, 2013 (see http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/2636073). 99 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Data center design and implementation and facilities to offer a cost-effective service for our HP DCF Consulting provides customers with expertise to 38 customers’ IT management. Every aspect of data cenLetter from CEO Meg Whitman create new data centers and upgrade existing ones. As of ter infrastructure—including power and cooling—is February 2015, DCF Consulting has designed more than 65 controlled centrally to maximize energy efficiency and Executive summary million square feet of data centers worldwide, including 43% reduce unnecessary workloads through the linkage Governance of vendor data center infrastructure management of all LEED® Platinum-, 33% of all LEED® Gold-, and 20% of all Human Progress LEED® Silver-certified new construction data centers worldsystems and HP’s OneView IT Management system. Economic Progress wide.39 LEED® is a green building certification program that recognizes best-in-class building strategies and practices. Environmental Progress Enterprise Services and software Overview Since its inception, HP DCF Consulting has helped formulate Supply chain the European Data Centre Code of Conduct as well as the Our customers demand leading performance and innovaenvironmental impact Singapore Standard for Green Data Centers, which support tion from the IT systems that support their businesses. HP operations data center operators and owners to cost-effectively HP Enterprise Services help companies capitalize on reduce energy consumption. In 2014, we completed energy important trends, such as smart utility grids and the • Products and solutions Internet of Things, that offer compelling market opportuefficiency initiatives in our own data centers worldwide that Product return and will save an estimated 11 million kWh annually—equivanities as well as the potential for dramatic improvements recycling in environmental performance. HP Software products, lent to the annual GHG emissions from 1,900 passenger Social investment vehicles—see HP operations for more information. such as our big data platforms, enable customers to Data analyze vast data sets quickly and efficiently, providing Facility as a Service valuable insights and helping our customers to improve About this report Launched in 2014, our “Facility as a Service” offering enables outcomes in areas such as energy and healthcare. customers to avoid upfront capital expenditure for data centers through a pay-as-you-go leasing model, matching Here, we provide 2014 updates on existing and new HP space and energy requirements to current needs. Avoiding offerings in these areas. the use of additional infrastructure reduces power and cooling requirements and associated GHG emissions, physical Enterprise Services footprint, and cost, as well as the embedded carbon impact HP Smart Meter Managed Service Smart meters of building oversize data centers. can improve energy management, reducing energy bills and decreasing GHG emissions. However, utility Software-defined Infrastructure companies introducing smart meters face challenges In 2014, we introduced Technology Services for related to customer uptake, complex vendor manageSoftware-defined Infrastructure, which combines our ment, and the need for new IT infrastructure. server, storage, networking, software capabilities, HP and the Internet of Things The Internet of Things is based on the idea that any automation and energy control to consumers, industries, electronic device—from heart monitoring implants to and municipalities. Possible uses include: airplanes—can be connected to the Internet, offering the • Metering Use home-equipped smart meters to manage ability to collect and analyze vast data sets in real-time. prepaid energy, dynamic updates of tariffs from the grid This has profound implications for everyday life in diverse and real-time consumption measurement. areas—from health and environmental monitoring to quality control and transport systems, including for • Energy management Monitor and optimize energy increasing energy efficiency and reducing environmental consumption of connected home appliances based on impacts. Estimates suggest that the incorporation of use, temperature and light conditions, and tariffs. machine-to-machine communication in the agriculture, • Public lighting Remotely manage public lights based buildings, energy, and transportation sectors alone could on use profiles, emergency requests and weather reduce annual global GHG emissions by more than 9 billion conditions. tonnes CO2e by 2020.40 • Smart city services Address city services using In early 2015, HP released its Internet of Things (IoT) electronic parking systems to relay smart connectivity Platform, as well as the HP Energy Management Pack, the to sensors centrally controlling parking capacity and first vertical application developed for the HP IoT Platform. electronically monitoring meters. This application empowers telecommunications providHP Mobility Solutions is working with Jasper, a pioneering ers and their utility customers to securely provide home cloud-focused company to power the Internet of Things— watch more here. 38 Formerly Critical Facilities Services. 39 As of February 20, 2015. Based on U.S. Green Building Council and HP data. 40 Estimates taken from the February 2013 Carbon War Room report Machine-to-Machine Technologies: Unlocking the Potential of a $1 Trillion Industry (see https:// carbonwarroom.com/what-we-do/research-publications/M2MReport). 100 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP Smart Meter Managed Service delivers the infrastructure gives customers high-level control and visibility of their Letter from CEO and applications that support smart meter programs for overall energy use. It also has applications in the broader Meg Whitman customers around the world. Based upon our Utility Center renewable energy market, where we are developing a software, our services provide a secure, flexible “paysoftware solution that will provide wind farm vendors Executive summary as-you-grow” option that helps companies minimize the with an end-to-end management system. This will enable Governance technology investment required to deploy smart meters close monitoring and analysis of data from thousands Human Progress and accelerate time to market. We offer a combination of of sensors, driving increased operational efficiency and Economic Progress data handling, meter management, and network managemore cost-effective renewable energy production. ment to support utility providers in areas such as energy Environmental Progress efficiency and conservation programs, energy consumption Overview alerts, and commercial and industrial energy management. Personal systems Supply chain environmental impact These activities improve consumer and business customer HP personal computers (PCs) and devices fulfill a broad HP operations energy awareness and management and help to reduce range of customer needs—from 7-inch tablets made for related GHG emissions. In 2014, we expanded our activimusic and web browsing, to elite desktop PCs for profes• Products and solutions ties in Japan, with two additional multimillion smart meter sional use. In every category, we strive to continually Product return and programs selecting our Utility Center software to manage reduce the resources required to produce and use our recycling their activities. personal systems. These efforts make our products easier Social investment to transport and use, while reducing the environmental Data Software footprint of HP and our customers. Big data Our big data platforms—HP IDOL (Intelligent Data About this report Operating Layer) and HP Vertica Analytics Platforms—enable Personal systems accounted for 44% of our product organizations to rapidly collect, access, understand, and act use carbon footprint in 2014. Our products meet leadon large amounts of information from any source. We help ing international voluntary standards such as ENERGY customers deploy these platforms across a range of sectors. STAR® and EPEAT®, and we are working to achieve even greater energy efficiency as we make progress towards For example, HP Healthcare Analytics, launched in 2014 our 2020 GHG emissions-intensity reduction goal. and powered by HP IDOL, offers healthcare providers new insights into clinical data—reducing errors, avoiding unnecWe contribute to the circular economy by increasing the essary treatments, and enabling preventative measures that use of postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastic in our personal decrease the rate of avoidable diseases. From an environsystems and extending product longevity through offerings mental perspective, the innovative software helps to identify such as spare part guarantees for commercial customers and eliminate healthcare-related waste, as well as increase and upgrades to product components and software. resource efficiency and reduce costs. We developed the platform in collaboration with Stanford Children’s Health and Here we provide 2014 updates on existing and new HP Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital, in Palo Alto, California. products and activities in this area. Our HP Vertica big data platform was designed to be fast, Product carbon footprints scalable, and simple and is used by companies from a Calculating the carbon footprint of our personal systems range of sectors. It operates an average of 100–500 times products helps us to understand how GHG emissions faster than traditional data warehouse solutions41 and are distributed across the product life cycle and identify reduces resource intensity by storing 10–30 times more opportunities for improvement. For example, in 2014 data per server, at 30% of the cost of those systems. carbon footprint analysis illustrated the environmental benefits of working with our suppliers to reduce fluoriIn 2014, Electralink, an industry-owned client focused nated GHG (F-GHG) emissions in the manufacture of LCD organization operating at the heart of the UK energy displays. See Life cycle assessment for more information industry, in collaboration with the Energy Savings Trust, about our approach in this area. used HP Vertica software to provide an analytics service supporting the government-led rollout of 53 million smart Innovative materials use meters to residential properties across the country. The We are increasing the amount of PCR content used in our Smart Meter Installation Dataset has been developed products. For example, 33% of new commercial desktop using advanced data analytics and contains statistical products introduced in 2014 contained greater than 10% predictions on every British domestic property, includPCR content, compared with 22% of those products in ing the location of existing electricity meters, the type 2013. Between 2013 and 2014, we also decreased the of property, and the likelihood of access issues or of materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal additional network operator support being needed, thus systems compared to relevant net revenue by approxiaiding the efficiency and effectiveness of the rollout. mately 6%, primarily due to design improvements. See Materials for detail. IT Operations Management HP’s Operations Management software drives more efficient IT operaAs part of our materials strategy we continue to produce tions by reducing energy consumption and associated low-halogen personal computing products where techniGHG emissions. For example, HP Operations Bridge cally feasible—read more in Materials. 41 As of October 2014. 101 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP Desktop Minis Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 1680.1 Letter from CEO In 2014, we launched the HP EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop standard for the environmental assessment of personal Meg Whitman Mini—a top-of-the-line desktop PC designed for business computing products, which provides clear and consistent critical computing, with numerous accessories allowing for performance criteria for product design. See Design Executive summary future expandability and flexibility. The Desktop Mini form for the Environment for more detail on eco-labels. Governance factor is available in all of our business PC portfolio cateHuman Progress gories. It offers a smaller physical footprint than traditional Economic Progress desktops, with less environmental impact. For example, Printing Environmental Progress the EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop Mini weighs 4.5 kg less (using 70% less materials) than its equivalent ‘Small Form As a global leader in printing and imaging products, we Overview Factor’ platform and 7.4 kg less (using 79% less materials) continually innovate to create more sustainable products Supply chain than its equivalent Tower platform. In addition to saving across our entire printing and imaging portfolio—from environmental impact materials, this size also reduces GHG emissions associated compact desktops to industrial presses. Printing and HP operations with materials extraction through manufacturing. The imaging accounted for 32% of our product use carbon EliteDesk 800 G1 Desktop Mini also uses up to 26% less footprint in 2014, and we are creating innovative print• Products and solutions ers with lower emissions such as the HP OfficeJet Pro energy than its equivalent Small Form Factor platform and Product return and 28% less energy than its equivalent Tower platform.42 X with HP PageWide Technology as we work towards recycling our 2020 GHG emissions-intensity reduction goal. Social investment Product certification Data In 2014, HP was an early adopter in the transition to the Materials are another important focus area, and we are latest ENERGY STAR® 6.0 specification—91% of personal increasing the recyclability and amount of recycled content in About this report system product models introduced during the year had our printing portfolio though our “closed loop” ink cartridge configurations available certified to ENERGY STAR® 6.0. In programs. Encouraging responsible paper use and printing— addition, 61% of commercial product families introduced for example by setting auto-duplexing as default—is also an in 2014 earned EPEAT® Gold, which identifies “highimportant contributor to reaching our 2020 goal. Read more performance, environmentally preferable products.”43 about our efforts to achieve more sustainable paper use, HP is part of the working group for the revision of the including our new “thin paper” products. Reducing the footprint of printing: HP PageWide Technology HP PageWide Technology brings groundbreaking The EPEAT® Silver-registered46 HP OfficeJet Pro X printer improvements in the materials and energy efficiency of has a carbon footprint that’s up to 81% smaller than compabusiness, large-format, and web press printers—a starable ink and laser printers and MFPs.47 tionary print bar spans the width of a page and prints entire pages in a single pass, offering clean, quiet printing These environmental advances combine with economic that also saves time and money. benefits. HP PageWide Technology offers up to double the operating speed48 at up to 50% less cost per page49 Currently, the HP OfficeJet Pro X and HP OfficeJet Enterprise than comparable laser printers. In addition, clean-room X series of printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) use certified printing50 and a low-noise Quiet Mode51 make this innovative technology. It offers a step-change in matebusiness printers with HP PageWide Technology ideal for rials use, generating up to 94% less supplies and packaghealthcare and learning environments. ing waste than comparable laser printers.44 This equates to avoiding as much as 23kg of waste per printer per year.43 HP Watch some of our customers talk about benefits of the PageWide Technology has made the HP OfficeJet Pro X the HP OfficeJet X series and HP PageWide Technology. industry’s most energy-efficient printer in its class.45 42 Measured by ENERGY STAR® annual total energy consumption (kilowatt hours). 43 EPEAT® data is for models registered in the United States. 44 As tested by Buyers Lab Inc. on request by HP using the HP OfficeJet Pro X576dn, savings based on 15,000 pages compared with major in-class competitors’ color laser MFPs <$1,000 and color laser printers <$800 as of July 2014. 45 Based on Typical Electricity Consumption as reported by ENERGY STAR® for color printers of print speed from 30 to 75 ppm. 46 EPEAT® Silver registered where applicable. EPEAT® registration varies by country. See www.epeat.net for registration status by country. 47 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions over the average lifetime use of an HP OfficeJet Pro x576dn printing 100,000 pages compared to traditional laserjet printers . Life cycle assessments commissioned by HP and conducted by PE International in September 2014. 48 Comparison based on manufacturers’ published specifications of fastest available color mode (as of December 2013) and includes HP OfficeJet Enterprise X series versus traditional color laser MFPs ≤$3,000 and printers <$1,200, based on market share as reported by IDC as of Q3 2013 and HP internal testing in fastest available color mode (sample, four-page category documents tested from ISO 24734). For more information, see hp.com/go/printerspeeds. 49 HP OfficeJet Pro X: Claim is based on the majority of color laser MFPs <$1000 and color laser printers <$800 as of August 2013, based on market share as reported by IDC as of Q2 2013. For details, see www.hp.com/officejet. Cost per page (CPP) comparisons for laser supplies based on published specifications of manufacturers’ highest capacity cartridges. HP OfficeJet CPP based on high-capacity HP 970XL/971XL, 950/951 XL, and standard-capacity HP 980 ink cartridges estimated street price, published yield for color prints and continuous printing in default mode. Actual prices and yields can vary. See www.hp.com/go/learnaboutsupplies. 50 The HP OfficeJet Enterprise Color X and HP OfficeJet Pro X series have been tested by UL and shown to be consistent with use in an ISO specification class 5 cleanroom. Based on results of third-party testing of HP OfficeJet Enterprise Color MFP X585 series with HP 980 Original ink cartridges. The device has been tested in a chamber that simulates a cleanroom in the 4.5/5 class range. 51 Certain models contain Quiet Mode selectable by users, that keeps print noise at or below 63 dB declared sound power level deemed suitable for “rooms predominately used for intellectual activities” by Blue Angel. 102 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Here, we provide 2014 updates on existing and new HP roadmap to improve performance, covering areas such as Letter from CEO products and services in printing. carbon footprint, paper use, recycling, fleet design, user Meg Whitman behaviors, security, and workflow improvements. Indigo digital presses Executive summary We continually look for new ways to improve the enviMPS is a key contributor to our circular economy efforts and Governance ronmental performance of our Indigo presses, which our drive to reduce the footprint of computing and printing. Human Progress customers employ for activities such as publishing. Indigo This innovative model, which shifts the emphasis from Economic Progress presses enable efficient on-demand printing, including selling products to delivering higher value services, has customized, short print runs. Our third-generation models brought multiple benefits to our customers53, including: Environmental Progress that were launched in 2014 optimize imaging oil reuse— • Reductions in printing-related energy usage of 20–40%. Overview decreasing overall oil use and reducing the amount of Supply chain waste oil generated by each machine by approximately • Decreases in imaging and printing costs of 10–30%. environmental impact 50%. All HP series 3 presses have achieved carbon neutral • Reductions in paper waste of 25% or more—one HP operations manufacturing through our carbon offset program, which customer reduced CO2e emissions54 by more than 170 in 2014 reduced our GHG emissions by an amount equivatonnes through duplex printing alone. Another customer • Products and solutions lent to removing more than 2,500 cars from the road for saved 100,000 pages per quarter by using pulland Product return and one year.52 Read more about Indigo here. PIN-printing solutions, which decrease unclaimed print recycling jobs and misprints by 10% to 30%. Automating industrySocial investment HP Managed Print Services specific workflows in areas such as healthcare, financial Data HP Managed Print Services (MPS) combines our innovative services, manufacturing, and government decreases About this report hardware, supplies, software, and services to help organipaper use as well. zations optimize, manage, and improve printing and digital • Promotion of responsible recycling—making it even workflows, saving money and resources. Our environmeneasier to use HP return and recycling programs. tal assessments and consulting services help clients to understand and reduce the environmental impact of their Read more about HP Managed Print Services, including printing and imaging. We conduct a thorough analysis of several customer examples. each client’s printing and imaging practices and produce a 3D printing In October 2014, HP announced its new Blended Reality This disruptive technology may improve materials effiecosystem, designed to break down the barriers between ciency by streamlining the prototyping process, improving the digital and physical worlds, with the innovative new perthe economics of short-run manufacturing, and avoiding sonal computing system Sprout by HP and a new commerwaste associated with mass production. It also enables cial 3D printer technology, Multi Jet Fusion. This 3D printer superior designs that are feasible only using “additive technology prints up to 10 times faster55 at a lower cost56 manufacturing” techniques. By making it possible to procompared to competitors’ systems in the market—while duce individual replacement parts locally, rapidly, and still offering improved quality, new color capabilities, and inexpensively, 3D printing can extend the lifespan of some systems that can reduce energy during use and waste.57 products. Since it reduces the number of material types used in manufacturing, 3D printing may also increase the This breakthrough has the potential to accelerate the recyclability and value of product materials at end of life. adoption of 3D design and hardware innovation, which could contribute to a digital transformation of manufacLearn more. turing and help to enable the circular economy. 52 Based on http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 53 The following examples and figures are typical of those reported by leading industry analysts and HP client engagements. Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. Results depend on unique business environments, the way HP products and services are used, and other factors. Overall printing costs are unique to each company and should not be relied on for savings you may achieve. 54 The estimated savings for CO2 emissions is based on the findings from an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) study. The reduced CO2 emission total is calculated by comparing baseline data from the most recent Quarterly Business Review using the Carbon Footprint Calculator at: http://www.hp.com/large/cfc/ index.html. 55 Based on internal HP testing of part build time, for a set of representative parts in batch process comparing HP Thermal Inkjet based Multi Jet Fusion™ technology to the leading 3D printing technologies in the United States—selective laser sintering (SLS) and fused deposition modeling—as of October, 2014. 56 HP Multi Jet Fusion™ technology leverages proprietary HP Thermal Inkjet technology, enabling lower cost systems that output similar quality to more expensive devices—such as SLS—and speed. 57 Compared to SLS and fused deposition modeling technologies in the market as of October 2104, HP Multi Jet Fusion™ technology can reduce the overall energy requirements needed to attain full fusing and reduce the system requirements for large, vacuum-sealed ovens. In addition, HP Multi Jet Fusion™ technology uses less heating power than SLS systems for better material properties and material reuse rates, minimizing waste. Finally, the combination of breakthrough economics and speed amplifies the total cost of ownership advantage of HP Multi Jet Fusion™ technology. 103 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents HP Instant Ink Paper Letter from CEO HP Instant Ink is our ink-subscription service. A printer Meg Whitman orders ink when it is running low, and the replacement Paper use contributes significantly to the environmenExecutive summary is delivered automatically to the customer. Prepaid tal footprint of printing, representing 13–61% of the envelopes encourage customers to return used carGHG emissions of an HP printer across its life cycle.59 Governance tridges for recycling. Innovative design enabled by this Responsible paper sourcing is essential to ensure Human Progress service model enables this offering to reduce cartridgehealthy, well-managed forests, which play a crucial role Economic Progress related materials consumption for most customers in absorbing carbon dioxide, supporting biodiversity, and Environmental Progress by 40–67% per page printed, for example, through contributing to the livelihoods of local communities. higher capacity cartridges and less packaging.58 Overview We are committed to continually improving the environmenSupply chain The HP “closed loop” journey tal performance of our printing and paper products, focusing environmental impact In 2014, we added a third initiative to our existing proon responsible paper sourcing and sales, helping customers HP operations grams for recycled polyethylene terephthalate (RPET) improve paper use, and optimizing paper use across HP. • Products and solutions and recycled polypropylene (RPP). The latest program recycles a new stream of RPP (“r2P2”) derived exclusively Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy defines our Product return and from HP ink cartridges returned by customers—buildprinciples for buying, selling, and using paper and paperrecycling ing upon our prior initiatives that used plastics derived based packaging, and describes our commitment to sourcing Social investment from HP cartridges mixed with other postconsumer from suppliers that demonstrate responsible forestry and Data plastics—making it a fully “closed loop” process. We manufacturing practices. This policy applies worldwide to all About this report developed this process in about nine months, comour product lines, functions, and business units. Read more pared to nearly five years for our first RPET process, about our packaging priorities and progress. drawing on the extensive experience we’ve gained since launching our first “closed loop” initiative in 2005. Our participation in World Wildlife Fund’s Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), an initiative to promote legal and At the end of 2014, more than 75% of HP ink cartridges responsible forestry and trade, and our long-standing shipped contained an average of 20% recycled plastic partnerships with the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) from these streams. We estimate that combined, these and with our supplier International Paper, a GFTN and FSC three streams will utilize approximately 9,000 tonnes member, reflect our commitment to source fiber responof recycled plastic for use in our ink cartridges in 2015, sibly and develop sustainable designs for paper, printing, helping to drive our shift towards a circular economy. and packaging. Our original RPP process received a Green Apple Gold Responsible paper sourcing Award in 2014. Approximately 250,000 tonnes of HP-branded printer and copier papers were sold in 2014. This number External collaboration and certification included 50 tonnes of recycled fiber and 230,000 tonnes HP is a Platinum Patron of the Sustainable Green of certified fiber.60 Printing Partnership (SGP). The SGP works with printing companies worldwide through certification and We require suppliers to verify the origin of fiber used in continuous improvement programs focused on reducing HP-branded papers to ensure it is legally and responenvironmental impacts. We also qualify for a broad range sibly sourced. In 2014, we achieved our goal for 50% of eco-label certifications such as EPEAT® and ENERGY of HP-branded paper worldwide by tonnage to be STAR® across our printing portfolio—read more. FSC-certified and/or contain at least 30% postconsumer waste—a year earlier than planned. We increased FSCAnother focus area is printer emissions and related air certified products from 9% in 2011 to more than 50% at quality. In particular, HP printing systems are checked to the end of 2014. In 2014, most of our HP-branded wide meet stringent emissions criteria of the internationally format papers were FSC-certified worldwide. We will recognized Blue Angel eco-label. Many of our laser and continue to work with suppliers to secure FSC-certified inkjet printers are awarded the Blue Angel certification. pulp for paper making, as in many regions the availability of FSC-certified timber products remains a challenge. 58 Actual savings may vary depending on number of pages actually printed per month, content of pages printed, and printer model. 59 The range of emissions reflects the amount of printing undertaken by different products across the life cycle. For example, personal and home printers tend to have a lower overall workload and therefore lower GHG emissions due to paper use, compared to high-volume office printers. 60 Certified fiber is the fiber used in products that are labeled with FSC® or PEFC™ the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes on the pack. HP trademark license code FSC®-C017543, see fsc.org. Not all FSC®-certified products are available in all regions. HP PEFC Trademark license code PEFC/29-31-198. 104 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Beyond increasing the amount of certified paper in our We also support broader industry efforts towards Letter from CEO own portfolio, we collaborate with organizations such as responsible printing, such as the Sustainable Green Meg Whitman the FSC to promote their standards across industries. In Printing Partnership. 2014, we attended the FSC General Assembly to vote on Executive summary • Recycle paper after use: We improve the recyclability of issues, priorities, and strategy for the next three years. our paper by developing solutions for paper deinking. Governance Human Progress Helping customers improve paper use Optimizing paper use across HP Economic Progress The paper used by our customers in HP products repreWe encourage and enable responsible paper use across sents about 7% of our carbon footprint and 14% of our Environmental Progress our operations, focusing on commercial print and water footprint. By helping them improve paper use, Overview publishing, paper use in our offices, and the paper we we enhance our own environmental performance. ship “in the box” with our products. For example, we: Supply chain environmental impact We encourage our customers to: • Increase efficiency of paper use for our sales and HP operations marketing materials with HP’s Print on Demand strategy • Use responsibly sourced and certified paper: Whether • Products and solutions our customers buy paper from HP or elsewhere, we • Use a default setting of two-sided printing and provide Product return and encourage them to identify and use responsibly sourced HP employees with tips to reduce the environmental recycling paper. HP supports the FSC brand to increase awareness impact of printing Social investment of responsible forestry among consumers and com• Look for opportunities to reduce product documentamercial enterprises. tion, for example, by providing electronic versions Data • Use paper efficiently: We set auto-duplex printing as where possible About this report the default across some print fleets and offer applications such as HP Smart Print. Digital printers such as HP Web Presses are designed to optimize paper use. Thinner paper, less impact In 2014, we introduced FSC-certified HP EcoFFICIENT™ Life cycle assessment of HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper * Paper—a lower weight, 16-pound bond paper—in North 100% America. This innovative product is 25% thinner than typical Results for HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper life cycle, office paper and fully compatible with the HP printing fleet, while still meeting stringent print quality standards. It also 80% offers reduced environmental and human health impacts. relative to results for average 20 pound oﬀice 60% The HP business partner that manufactures this new product commissioned a life cycle assessment (LCA) to 40% examine the potential impact of HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper paper in the United States on climate change, human health, ecosystem quality, 20% resource use, and water withdrawal. The analysis shows that HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper reduces impact by more 0% than 30% across each of those five sustainability dimensions, compared to the industry-standard 20 pound Climate Human Ecosystem Resources Water change health quality withdrawal office paper in the United States.61 Learn more about HP’s LCA activities. Modified industry average (500 sheets) HP EcoFFICIENT™ Paper (500 sheets) * Shows baseline comparative damage category results using LCIA IMPACT 2002+ vQ2.2 assessment methodology. 61 The LCA follows International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14040 and 14044 standards for public disclosure, including a peer-review by an independent panel. 105 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Packaging Progress in 2014 Letter from CEO During 2014, we implemented ongoing and new packaging Meg Whitman HP aims to have our industry’s most efficient and sustaininitiatives for HP personal systems, printing and graphic Executive summary able packaging designs. We continually innovate to use less solutions, servers, and storage with the following benefits:63 material, optimize shipping densities, and utilize recycled Governance • Avoided CO2e emissions of 11,800 tonnes, equivalent and recyclable materials—reducing the GHG emissions and Human Progress to about 0.7% of our GHG emissions from product raw materials use associated with packaging and product transport64 Economic Progress transportation. Our packaging innovations contribute to Environmental Progress reducing the environmental footprint of HP products. We • Reduced packaging material by 4,070 tonnes, including apply six principles to our packaging activities: 471 tonnes of foam Overview • Remove substances of concern when lower impact • Used 15,600 tonnes of recycled lumber (up 8% from 2013) Supply chain environmental impact alternatives are readily available—see Materials • Used 2,200 tonnes of recycled cushion material HP operations • Reduce the amount of packaging material used per • Saved HP $12 million • Products and solutions product, compared with its predecessor Product return and • Design packaging for reuse where feasible, enabling Ongoing programs recycling retailers, distributors, and enterprise customers to During 2014, we realized environmental savings from return packaging materials to HP or redeploy the several ongoing packaging initiatives: Social investment materials for future shipments Data • Continued reuse of wooden pallets in North America, • Increase the proportion of recycled content in our avoiding the use of approximately 781,000 new pallets. About this report packaging Since its inception in 2012, this program has saved 23.4 • Replace hard-to-recycle materials with more easily million board feet of lumber. recycled substitutes • Expanded our straw-based packaging project by • Influence vendors to increase use of recycled fiber shipping all Deskjet 1510 Series printers in the Americas and Europe with this new material instead of traditional 11,800 content and sustainably harvested fiber in our paperbased packaging paper-based packaging. In 2014, implementation of this program resulted in the avoidance of approximately 320 tonnes avoided in tonnes of CO2e emissions64 and the reduction of potenThese principles are underpinned by HP’s General CO2e emissions from tial air quality and health impacts, by utilizing straw that packaging initiatives Specification for the Environment, which restricts substances of concern such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in would otherwise have been burned. our packaging, and requires 100% of materials used in HP • Continued to use 100%-recycled materials in new prodpackaging to be recyclable.62 All HP packaging is required uct cushions for multiple desktop PCs manufactured in to comply with our Environmentally Preferable Paper North America—using approximately 2,450 tonnes of Policy—see Paper. recycled foam in 2013 and 2014 combined. • Extended our partnership with a key supplier and a Collaborating with suppliers is central to reducing the polymer foam specialist to manufacture postconsumer environmental impact of packaging. We work with our polyethylene foam packaging. Since 2013, we have vendors to drive their use of recycled and sustainably produced more than 175,000 cushions using more than harvested fiber, and we provide detailed guidelines to 19 tonnes of diverted and recycled material. promote innovative and environmentally responsible packaging designs. HP prefers suppliers that demonstrate strong environmental performance and a commitment to sourcing from responsibly managed forests. We also participate in WWF’s Global Forest and Trade Network (GFTN) to promote sustainable packaging activities in our operations and beyond. Designing packaging requires us to balance a range of factors. These include product protection, various environmental impacts, customer expectations, and cost—while always complying with evolving regulations. 62 Not all locations have suitable recycling infrastructure to recycle all materials used in HP packaging. 63 Avoidance, reductions, and savings data presented in this section is based on comparisons of current and prior generations of packaging, either for the same or comparable products. 64 Emissions figures relate to either the fabrication and/or transportation phase of the packaging life cycle. 106 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2014 packaging innovations Letter from CEO The following examples, selected from more than 30 projects completed or initiated in Meg Whitman 2014, illustrate the range of packaging innovations across our product portfolio. Reduce Optimize Utilize Executive summary Packaging innovation * material shipping recycled Summary of benefits ** Governance usage densities materials Human Progress LaserJets: Reduced corrugated and foam x x Avoided 1,620 tonnes of CO2e emissions packaging for the Color LaserJet MPF M476 Economic Progress Reduced use of corrugate by 293 tonnes and foam by 100 series tonnes Environmental Progress Eliminated need for 278 ocean shipping containers Overview LaserJets: Reduced foam packaging weight x x Avoided 2,720 tonnes of CO2e emissions Supply chain by 50% for the LaserJet Pro MFP M127 and environmental impact Reduced use of corrugate by 747 tonnes and foam by 295 decreased the package size of the LaserJet tonnes HP operations Pro 400 by 42% Eliminated need for 329 ocean shipping containers • Products and solutions Inkjets: Modified packaging for OfficeJet Pro x Avoided 143 tonnes of CO2e emissions Product return and 8600 Series printers by replacing corrugated Reduced use of corrugate by 57 tonnes recycling elements and reducing the package size Social investment Inkjet supplies: Reduced packaging size and x x Avoided 146 tonnes of CO2e emissions Data increased efficiency of production process*** Reduced use of paper-based packaging by 176 tonnes About this report Desktops: Reduced packaging size by 25% x x Avoided 161 tonnes of CO2e emissions for the rp7100 Series all-in-one desktop Eliminated need for 27 ocean shipping containers Notebooks: Reduced packaging on all x x Avoided 1,700 tonnes of CO2e emissions consumer and commercial notebooks, and Reduced use of corrugate, expanded polyethylene, and pallets changed ocean packing method from pallets by 700 tonnes to slip sheets**** Replaced approximately 88,000 pallets with slip sheets, reducing CO2e emissions from materials fabrication by an additional 1,100 tonnes Servers: Replaced virgin polyethylene foam x Avoided 431 tonnes of CO2e emissions with recycled foam in packaging for the Used 566 tonnes of recycled foam ProLiant Server DL380 * Avoidance, reductions, and savings data are based on comparisons of current and prior generations of packaging, either for the same or comparable products. ** All savings and reductions occurred during either the fabrication and/or transportation phase of the packaging life cycle. All savings are for 2014 unless otherwise indicated. Some estimates of benefits were calculated using production forecast data. *** This program was launched in 2013. **** Thin pallet-sized sheets of plastic, heavy laminated kraft paperboard, or corrugated fiberboard, used in commercial shipping in place of pallets. 107 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Goals Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Energy efficiency Human Progress 2020 goal Progress Economic Progress Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of HP’s product portfolio * by 40% Achieved a 20% reduction through 2014. by 2020 compared to 2010 levels.** Environmental Progress * Emissions intensity of the HP product portfolio refers to tonnes CO2e/net revenue arising from use of high-volume product lines, including notebooks, tablets, Overview desktops, mobile computing devices and workstations; inkjet and LaserJet printers; and HP servers, including industry-standard servers, as well as HP Supply chain Moonshot and HP Apollo. environmental impact ** Expressed as emissions generated per unit of output. Calculations for personal systems are based on energy use—measured as emissions per unit (a single device). Calculations for printers include energy use, paper, ink, and toner cartridges—measured as emissions per unit (a single device). Calculations for servers HP operations are based on energy use, measured as emissions per unit of work (a task performed by the system, as defined by industry standards). • Products and solutions Product return and recycling Social investment Life cycle assessment Data 2014 goal Progress About this report Promote and support the development of an International Achieved—the final report is complete. Electrotechnical Commission Technical Report to establish harmonized product category PCF standards for PCs and displays. Paper 2014 goal Progress 50% of HP-branded paper FSC-certified and/or containing at least 30% Achieved. postconsumer waste by the end of 2015.* * Goal is worldwide, by tonnage. 108 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions • Product return and recycling Social investment Data About this report Product return and recycling When HP products reach the end of their useful lives, computer hardware (for reuse and recycling) and HP we work to provide options for responsible collection supplies (for recycling), and we now offer take-back and treatment. We extend the life of some HP hardware programs in 73 countries and territories.1 Our initiatives through remanufacturing and refurbishment programs, go well beyond providing take-back options for our own such as HP Renew, that reuse older products, keeping products. We also support the development of electronthem in circulation. We recycle what cannot be reused, ics recycling infrastructure around the world. In 2014, recovering valuable materials in the process. As a last we expanded our product return and recycling network resort, we responsibly dispose of anything that remains. and launched new collaborations to capture end-of-life products, including in Brazil, Kenya, Mexico, and Panama. Our product-recovery programs, which complement our Design for the Environment innovations at the beginning of the life cycle, play an essential role in our drive toward a more circular economy. For instance, under our “closed loop” recycling process, old HP ink and toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can be used to make new cartridges and other products. HP is an industry leader in product take-back programs, which we began offering in 1987. Since then, we have recovered 1,683,000 tonnes (3.71 billion pounds) of 1 As of October 31, 2014. 109 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Progress in 2014 Vietnam Recycles program aligns with new Vietnamese legislation on the collection and treatment of discarded Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2014, we recovered 157,500 tonnes of hardware (including products, which came into effect at the beginning of 2015. Executive summary HP and non-HP products) and supplies. Of this amount, we: In the United States, we introduced a website for Governance • Recovered 4.2 million computer hardware units weighmobile devices that helps consumers find the nearHuman Progress ing 39,100 tonnes for reuse and remarketing est recycling location for hardware or supplies. Economic Progress • Recycled 118,400 tonnes Environmental Progress View full data for Product return and recycling. In 2014, we achieved a total reuse and recycling rate Overview of approximately 12% of relevant HP hardware sales Supply chain worldwide. Although this rate increased from 10% in environmental impact HP operations 2013, it is down from 14% in 2012.2 This overall trend is due partly to increased competition for used electronic Our approach Products and solutions products in developed as well as developing countries. Addressing the end of life of HP products is a priority for HP In several EU countries, the amount gathered by private • Product return and and central to our efforts to decrease environmental impacts collection companies is approaching or exceeding that recycling across our value chain. We prefer to refurbish and resell collected by producers like HP. While this trend increases Social investment equipment because this solution has the lowest environoverall recycling rates and benefits the environment, it mental impact and the most economic benefit. When reuse Data makes it more challenging for us to achieve our goal to of hardware is not an option, we break down and recycle About this report recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic the materials that make up our products, extracting as products and supplies by the end of 2015 (since 1987). much volume and value as possible. The average age of HP products when they are returned to us is between three and During the year, we continued to strengthen recycling 10 years, so product condition can vary greatly at the time capabilities and standards in emerging and developed that we receive them. markets worldwide. In Vietnam, HP is one of the founding members of the Vietnam Recycling Platform, a To advance our objectives, we work with a global network consortium that takes back used or defective electronic of reuse and recycling vendors, and we commission products to ensure they are recycled in an efficient and third-party audits to ensure they conform to our high environmentally responsible manner. The organization’s standards. We also collaborate with governments and industry stakeholders around the world to promote responsible regulation that supports efforts in this area. Product return and recycling 2009-2013* [tonnes] Product return and recycling, 2010–2014 [tonnes] 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total reuse of equipment * 30,000 26,700 26,000 21,400 39,100 Recycling—computer hardware 99,100 113,700 114,500 95,000 100,000 Recycling—supplies 21,800 20,300 19,100 18,200 18,400 Total** 150,900 160,600 159,600 134,500 157,500 * The decrease in tonnage from 2010–2013 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units; 2013: 3.7 million units. In 2014, HP increased both tonnage and the number of returned units (4.2 million units in 2014). The weight of reuse volume reported nearly doubled between 2013 and 2014. This is due to a substantial increase in the number of units returned year over year as well as a refinement to the calculation methodology used to estimate total weight. ** Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet cartridge recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 2 It is impractical for HP to report the recycling rate by product category as materials are not typically sorted at collection points. 110 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Outcomes of product [set2] 9. Product return return and recycling, options* 2014 and recycling * Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Customer Outcomes Executive summary Governance Reuse in 2014 Remarket Human Progress 39,100 tonnes to customer (hardware only) Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Materials for Supply chain Responsible recycling in 2014 other products environmental impact 100,000 tonnes HP operations (hardware) Energy recovery Products and solutions • Product return and 18,400 tonnes (supplies) recycling Disposal (if necessary) Social investment Data *** Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. * Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. About this report HP take-back programs* HP offers hardware reuse, hardware recycling, and HP ink and toner cartridge recycling programs via various channels, including through our HP Planet Partners Program. We use a network of vendors in 73 countries and territories to collect, process for resale, and recycle returned products. HP and its partners follow strict protocols to ensure 100% of returned products go through a data-cleansing process to ensure customer privacy. Program Availability Description Hardware reuse* * Available in 52 We resell refurbished products, from PCs to data center equipment, at the end of leasing terms or as part (trade in, return countries and of trade-in agreements. We follow strict processes set out in our hardware reuse standard to protect for cash, leasing territories user data and meet environmental requirements. View a virtual tour of our HP Financial Services assetreturn, and recovery centers. donation *** ) Hardware Available in 59 We recycle returned products that are not suitable for reuse. The European Recycling Platform, which we recycling countries and co-founded, provides take-back and recycling services to HP and other companies in Europe. In the United territories States, consumers can drop off hardware products for recycling at more than 3,700 Staples and FedEx Office locations or they can use our Consumer Buyback Program to return IT equipment of any brand in exchange for money or purchase credits if the product has some value. If the equipment is of no value, then we will responsibly recycle it. We also provide recycling services to commercial customers. See a list of recycling options by country. HP ink and Available in 53 Consumers and commercial customers can return used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges through HP toner cartridge countries and Planet Partners to authorized collection sites, at one of more than 11,000 free drop-off locations around recycling territories the world. For some products and in selected countries, we offer free pickup and mail back options. Through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can be used to make new cartridges, as well as other metal and plastic products. More than 75% of HP Ink cartridges are now made with some recycled materials, and we plan to increase this percentage. * Information in this table about the number of countries and territories in which reuse and recycling options are available is as of October 31, 2014. ** Availability of reuse offerings varies by location. *** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. Available in the United States only. 111 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Vendor audits including health and safety, environment, labor, ethics, site security, management systems, asset tracking, and Letter from CEO Meg Whitman HP works with specialist third-party vendors that provide management. The two most common categories of reuse and recycling programs on our behalf. We require major nonconformance were health and safety (22%) and Executive summary these to adopt environmentally responsible processing site security (16%). HP works closely with our vendors Governance to confirm they resolve nonconformances in a timely techniques and to fully comply with relevant regulaHuman Progress tions. We also require vendor certification to third-party manner. Sites with major nonconformances are required Economic Progress recycling standards (R2 and e-Stewards) in the many to undergo a full site re-audit in the following year. Environmental Progress countries where they are recognized. We contract with Environmental Resources Management (ERM) to audit Read a statement from ERM. Overview our recycling vendors to ensure conformance with Supply chain the following HP policies and vendor standards: environmental impact Responsible regulation of end-of• Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries HP operations Policy life electronics Products and solutions • HP’s Supplier Code of Conduct We engage with governments and stakeholders around • Product return and recycling • Reuse and Recycling Standards the world to improve the movement and management of end-of-life electronic products. During 2014, we engaged Social investment ERM’s audits assess our vendors’ environmental, health, regulators to explore the impact of current and future Data and safety practices and performance, and also check regulations on the classification and management of used About this report downstream material flows based on shipment and receipt IT. We support the objectives of the Basel Convention on records to certify no “leakage” of materials to facilities the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous outside our approved vendor network. When audits Wastes and Their Disposal and avoid transporting identify areas of nonconformance, vendors have 30 days hazardous waste to developing countries that do not to submit a corrective action plan and 90 days to address have the resources or capacity to manage recycling and those items. In extreme cases, we stop doing business treatment of such wastes. At the same time, we support with vendors who lack sufficient transparency or the the legitimate movement of used equipment for repair and willingness to make required changes. reuse, which can extend the useful life of IT equipment and thereby reduce the generation of electronic waste. 2014 audits and findings In 2014, through ERM, HP audited 72 vendor facilities On a related topic, most legislation holds manufacturers (29 reuse and 43 recycling) in 24 countries. This number responsible for collection and treatment of their used includes repeat audits of 29 recycling vendors and 10 products, yet, this is increasingly being undertaken by reuse vendors to confirm their ongoing commitment to private collection companies. We are leading discussions responsible recycling and improved performance. Of the on how regulations could be adjusted to reflect this shift 72 vendors audited globally, ERM found 20 vendor faciliand continue to improve the efficient collection and envities with major nonconformances. Eleven of these were ronmentally responsible recycling of end-of-life products. from new audits and nine were from repeat audits. The major nonconformances were found in audit categories View full data for Product return and recycling. Goals Product return and recycling 2015 goals Progress Recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic products HP recycled 261 million pounds of electronic products and supplies in and supplies by the end of 2015 (since 1987). 2014, bringing the total since 1987 to 3.05 billion pounds. We are likely to fall slightly short of this goal due to the impact that private collection companies are having on our recycling volumes. Reuse 40 million electronic products and accessory units by the end of HP reused 4.2 million computer hardware units in 2014, bringing the 2015 (since 2003). total since 2003 to 38.9 million. 112 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress Overview Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and A camera trap is installed to collect wildlife images and data for HP Earth Insights, Tanzania. Photo © Benjamin Drummond recycling • Social investment Data About this report Social investment Making the environment stronger as we grow is a Living (NGO), Conservation International (CI), HP Earth Insights Progress aspiration. We work with partners to apply the enables scientists and park managers to improve transformative power of technology to address envidramatically the accuracy and speed of forest-based ronmental challenges, catalyzing scalable solutions and research data collection and analysis. The technology also thought leadership that advance sustainability. We also generates near real-time analytics that show population encourage and support our employees to volunteer on trends among rare and threatened species. Initial findings, environmental projects at HP sites or in their communities. based on 2014 data, revealed that 12% of the 275 species being monitored by CI and partners in 15 countries had Examples of key environmental investments are highdecreased significantly in numbers. Threatened spelighted here. cies with declining populations included the sun bear and wild boar in Malaysia, the agile mangabey in the Republic of Congo, and the greater grison in Ecuador. Advancing big data environmental Through 2014, CI and partner researchers at 18 tropical solutions forest protected areas in 15 countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America used HP Earth Insights to collect, manHP Earth Insights is a powerful example of age, and analyze data that included more than 2 million Environmental Progress, demonstrating how breakphotos and more than 4 million climate measurements. through technology empowers decision makers to The technology analyzes information nine times faster respond proactively to environmental threats. than CI’s previous processes, generating species trends and reports on the impacts of climate change, people, The program advances environmental science by deployand land use on wildlife within 30 hours of data upload. ing HP’s big data solutions to provide a first-of-its-kind Park managers, governments, NGOs, universities, and early-warning system for threatened species in the the general public can access this information using world’s tropical forests. Pioneered in partnership with a the Wildlife Picture Index (WPI) Analytics System. leading environmental nongovernmental organization 113 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents At the 2014 Clinton Global Initiative, HP and CI announced a $2.7 million commitment to expand the reach of HP Supporting employee Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Earth Insights by cultivating the implementation of data environmental activities analytics-based national biodiversity monitoring proExecutive summary Many of our employees are passionate about sustaingrams. Of this, HP is contributing approximately $2 million Governance in grants, internal investments, and operating costs. ability and engage in environmental activities that benefit Human Progress their communities. With more than 30 chapters globally, Through events such as the World Parks Congress and HP’s Sustainability Network is our largest environmental Economic Progress in one-on-one briefings, we are working with CI to scale volunteer and engagement group. Typical activities include Environmental Progress its use by national wildlife and parks agencies. For Earth Day celebrations, community gardening projects, Overview example, the National Protected Area Service of Peru has tree planting, and on-site waste-reduction events. Supply chain used WPI data to demonstrate protected area effectiveenvironmental impact ness and biodiversity levels in Manu National Park. In our 2014 Global Volunteer Survey, employees reported more than 80,000 hours of community volunteering HP operations for environmental causes, including many activities Products and solutions during our Global Day of Service. Examples included cleaning beaches in Chennai, India; building pollinators Product return and recycling “HP Earth Insights is transforming in Toronto, Canada; volunteering at a recycling plant • Social investment environmental science. Until now, in New Taipei City, Taiwan; and tending a community garden in Dallas, Texas. In Costa Rica, 49 HP volunteers Data the right data, the technology, and took part in Junior Achievement school, teaching 540 About this report scale have been noticeably missing children from low-income households about recycling from our field. What once took a and climate change while delivering free books. team of scientists weeks, months View full data for HP social investments. or more to analyze can now be done by a single person in hours.” — Peter Seligmann, Chairman and CEO, Conservation International Nature Is Speaking, HP spreads the message We use our technology to power Conservation awareness of the critical role nature plays in humanity’s International’s creative video and social media campaign well-being and survival. We provide HP Explore cloudNature Is Speaking, which drew more than 800,000 pubbased analytics technology that CI uses to track the spread lic responses through March 2015. Launched in October of #NatureIsSpeaking and the conversation it is generating 2014, the campaign features videos of Hollywood stars online. As the exclusive partner of the #NatureIsSpeaking including Harrison Ford, Robert Redford, Julia Roberts, hashtag, HP also gives CI $1 every time someone uses, and Kevin Spacey who personify nature to highlight how clicks, shares, likes, or favorites #NatureIsSpeaking on a humans mistreat the Earth. The objective is to raise social media platform—up to $1 million. 114 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Data Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Our footprint Human Progress Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations) * 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Economic Progress GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO2e] 2,016,700 1,949,800 1,850,400 1,765,100 1,667,700 Environmental Progress Americas 1,197,300 1,160,600 1,069,900 1,023,900 992,100 Overview Supply chain Europe, Middle East, and Africa 358,900 284,700 267,800 259,500 232,800 environmental impact Asia Pacific and Japan 460,500 504,500 512,700 481,700 442,800 HP operations GHG emissions intensity *** [tonnes CO2e/$ million of net revenue] 16.0 15.3 15.4 15.7 15.0 Products and solutions GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Product return and recycling Scope 1 Social investment Scope 1 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 326,200 309,900 247,400 208,300 210,800 • Data Americas 193,000 184,600 145,400 123,000 129,200 About this report Europe, Middle East, and Africa 103,300 102,100 83,600 73,800 72,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 29,900 23,200 18,400 11,500 9,400 Scope 1 emissions, by type Natural gas [tonnes CO2e] 84,700 77,100 64,500 63,300 62,900 Americas 51,400 45,400 37,300 36,100 37,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 31,800 30,300 25,600 25,500 24,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,400 1,600 1,700 1,800 Diesel/gas/oil**** [tonnes CO2e] 16,100 7,300 8,700 7,200 4,500 Americas 3,200 1,400 2,500 2,500 2,800 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,000 900 600 1,200 400 Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 5,000 5,600 3,500 1,300 Transportation fleet [tonnes CO2e] 144,800 142,800 133,100 112,200 115,100 † Americas 80,300 77,200 78,900 69,600 73,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 63,700 61,700 51,100 41,500 40,800 Asia Pacific and Japan 800 3,900 3,100 1,100 1,100 Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)) [tonnes CO2e] 77,000 75,200 37,500 21,300 24,400 Americas 54,500 53,100 23,100 10,500 12,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,800 9,200 6,300 5,600 7,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 15,700 12,900 8,100 5,200 5,200 Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) [tonnes CO2e] 3,600 7,500 3,600 4,300 3,900 †† Americas 3,600 7,500 3,600 4,300 3,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 1,690,500 1,639,900 1,603,000 1,556,800 1,456,900 Americas 1,004,300 976,000 924,500 900,900 862,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 225,600 182,600 184,200 185,700 160,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 430,600 481,300 494,300 470,200 433,400 Scope 2 emissions, by type 1,690,500 1,639,900 1,603,000 1,556,800 1,456,900 Purchased electricity for operations [tonnes CO2e] 1,895,900 1,910,100 1,895,200 1,845,000 1,757,200 continued 115 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations) * 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Letter from CEO Americas 1,070,600 1,055,900 1,020,500 990,800 963,600 Meg Whitman Europe, Middle East, and Africa 395,400 379,200 384,800 387,800 363,300 Executive summary Asia Pacific and Japan 429,900 475,000 489,900 466,400 430,300 Governance District cooling (purchased) for operations [tonnes CO2e] 900 6,500 4,600 4,000 3,300 Human Progress Economic Progress Americas 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Progress Europe, Middle East, and Africa 200 200 200 200 200 Overview Asia Pacific and Japan 700 6,300 4,400 3,800 3,100 Supply chain Reductions from voluntary purchases of renewable energy -149,900 -224,600 -242,100 -239,700 -257,300 environmental impact and renewable energy credits [tonnes CO2e] HP operations Americas -66,300 -79,900 -96,000 -89,900 -100,700 Products and solutions Europe, Middle East, and Africa -83,600 -144,700 -146,100 -149,800 -156,600 Product return and Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 recycling Social investment Reductions from voluntary upgrades to other no/low-54,600 -52,100 -54,700 -52,500 -46,300 carbon energy sources (such as large hydro) [tonnes CO2e] • Data Americas 0 0 0 0 0 About this report Europe, Middle East, and Africa -56,400 -52,100 -54,700 -52 ,500 -46,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 3 [tonnes CO2e] 52,360,000 47,400,000 Materials extraction through manufacturing (Scope 3, 17,800,000 17,600,000 category 1; also see Greenhouse gas emissions on page 75) [tonnes CO2e] Capital goods (Scope 3, category 2) [tonnes CO2e] 500,000 500,000 Upstream energy production (Scope 3, category 3) [tonnes CO2e] 300,000 300,000 Transport (Scope 3, categories 4 and 9; also see Product trans1,900,000 1,700,000 portation providers on page 77) [tonnes CO2e] Waste generated in operations (Scope 3, category 5) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis ††† Commercial air travel (Scope 3, category 6) [tonnes CO2e] 260,000 200,000 †††† Employee commuting (Scope 3, category 7) [tonnes CO2e] 900,000 800,000 Upstream leased assets (Scope 3, category 8) [tonnes CO2e] 0 0 ‡ Processing of sold products (Scope 3, category 10) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis , Product use (Scope 3, category 11) [tonnes CO2e] 30,700,000 26,300,000 ‡‡ ‡‡‡ Product end of life (Scope 3, category 12) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis Buildings leased to others (Scope 3, category 13) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis Franchises (Scope 3, category 14) [tonnes CO2e] Not Not applicable applicable Investments (Scope 3, category 15) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis De minimis * To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. ** Total includes HP’s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in table. *** Historical emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. **** HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for non-reporting sites. † CO e emissions associated with CH4 and N20 were calculated and reported for the first time in FY14. These emissions account for less than 1% of total CO2e 2 emissions in this category. †† Use of updated industry standard emissions factors for process tools resulted in a considerable increase in estimated emissions in 2011. Estimated emissions decreased in 2012 due to changes in process activity. This data is based on the calendar year. ††† De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. †††† Values were provided by HP’s global travel agency, which factors the type of aircraft, passenger and cargo load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trip. ‡ All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. ‡‡ Total GHG emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from values reported on page 94, due to rounding. ‡‡‡ HP improved the accuracy of carbon footprint calculations in FY14 for personal systems, printers, and servers. The personal systems carbon footprint calculation methodology changed due to product carbon footprint data becoming available for many more products. The printers calculation methodology for electricity and paper use utilizes paper consumption field data rather than estimates (field data was previously not available). The methodology for carbon emissions from servers uses a more accurate data source for shipped volumes, discovered this year. To enhance year-over-year comparability, FY13 printerand server-related emissions and water use were restated based on the new methodologies and data sources. Personal systems-related emissions were not recalculated. Data for all years prior to FY13 do not reflect the accounting changes. 116 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Water footprint 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Letter from CEO HP water footprint [cubic meters] 364,778,000 330,083,000 Meg Whitman Water consumed by HP suppliers in their operations* [cubic meters] 23,214,000 23,296,000 Executive summary Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity 60,342,000 60,811,000 Governance used by HP suppliers [cubic meters] Human Progress Water consumption in HP operations [cubic meters] 7,684,000 7,431,000 Economic Progress Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity 16,149,000 15,391,000 Environmental Progress used in HP operations [cubic meters] Overview Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity 213,691,000 176,960,000 Supply chain used by HP products** [cubic meters] environmental impact Water consumption associated with the manufacturing of paper 43,698,000 46,194,000 HP operations used by HP customers with HP products [cubic meters] Products and solutions * This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP’s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier suppliers as reported in Supply chain environmental impact. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. Product return and ** Data for 2013 water consumption related to server and printer electricity use is recalculated compared to information presented in the HP 2013 Living Progress recycling Report, to reflect improvements to our methodology and to enhance comparability with 2014. See footnote 4 on page 72. Social investment • Data About this report Supply chain environmental impact 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Reduction in first-tier manufacturing and product transportation100% 96% 93% 82% related GHG emissions intensity * [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net revenue, 2010 = 100%] Production supplier GHG emissions** Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tonnes CO2e] 6,000,000 4,900,000 4,500,000 3,900,000 *** Production supplier Scope 3 emissions**** [tonnes CO2e] 400,000 6,400,000 12,200,000 22,500,000 Estimated GHG emissions from product transport† Total 1,900,000 1,900,000 1,700,000 1,600,000 1,700,000 Road (includes rail) 500,000 400,000 500,000 400,000 400,000 Ocean 200,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 400,000 Air 1,200,000 1,300,000 900,000 800,000 900,000 Nonproduction supplier GHG emissions†† Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tonnes 1,200,000 1,300,000 CO2e] Production supplier water withdrawal††† Production supplier water withdrawal for use [cubic meters] 73,000,000 44,000,000 46,000,000 Production suppliers with water withdrawal-related goals 38% 41% 59% [% of spend] continued 117 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Letter from CEO Production supplier waste generation †††† Meg Whitman Production supplier nonhazardous waste generation [tonnes] 179,000 163,000 Executive summary Production supplier hazardous waste generation [tonnes] 60,000 74,000 Governance Production suppliers with waste-related goals [% of spend] 44% 59% Human Progress * HP calculates intensity as its suppliers’ GHG emissions divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Economic Progress Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Environmental Progress ** Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data is available. Updated production supplier data for 2010–2012 Overview includes revised estimated data from one of our suppliers and extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. For each year 2010–2013, data collected Supply chain represents 95% of supplier spend. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol. environmental impact org/calculation-tools/faq. *** Data is revised from previous reporting. HP operations **** Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories, although the number of categories reported by many suppliers has increased significantly during the last few Products and solutions years. For this reason, and due to increased accuracy in reporting, we have seen substantial increases in the amounts reported each of the last several years. † The figures for product transport GHG emissions are based on data reported by logistics service providers that HP contracts to deliver our products. They may differ Product return and from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates presented on page 72 and page 115, which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a recycling combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. †† Updated nonproduction supplier data for 2012 to include extrapolation to 100% of first-tier nonproduction suppliers. For 2012, data collected represented 27% Social investment of supplier spend; for 2013, 24%. This table does not include data from 2011 as reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report due to changes in methodology • Data that make that data not comparable to 2012 and 2013. Due to the level of estimation and rounding involved in these calculations, we are unable to determine whether the difference between 2012 and 2013 reflects changes in actual supplier performance. We plan to continue to improve our calculation methodology in About this report the coming years. ††† This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in our total Our water footprint on page 73. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on suppliers’ reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data is available; 2011 is the earliest. Updated data for 2011–2012 reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers (compared to 38% coverage for 2011 and 62% coverage for 2012 as reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report). †††† Waste data is estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2013 is the most recent for which data is available; 2012 is the earliest. Updated data for 2012 reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers (compared to 54% for nonhazardous waste and 64% for hazardous waste in 2012 as reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report). In 2013, coverage equaled 48% for nonhazardous waste and 48% for hazardous waste. Data for 2012 is restated compared to information reported in the HP 2013 Living Progress Report due to corrections received from a reporting supplier. HP operations* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy use [million kWh] 4,328 4,250 4,122 4,018 3,852 Energy intensity ** [thousand kWh/$ million of net revenue] 34.3 33.4 34.2 35.8 34.6 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) 503 448 380 371 367 Electricity (generated on site) [million kWh] 38 24 25 23 22 Natural gas [million kWh] 465 423 354 348 345 Americas 283 249 205 199 204 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 175 166 141 140 132 Asia Pacific and Japan 8 8 9 9 10 Renewable (generated on site) [million kWh] 2 3 3 3 7 Diesel/gas/oil/LPG *** [million kWh] 36 22 22 20 15 Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) 3,824 3,803 3,742 3,647 3,484 Electricity (purchased) [million kWh] 3,823 3,793 3,735 3,642 3,480 Americas 2,224 2,187 2,115 2,055 1,992 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,006 952 947 941 880 Asia Pacific and Japan 592 654 673 645 608 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy **** [million kWh] 309 467 494 496 528 continued 118 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Letter from CEO District cooling and heating (purchased) [million kWh] 2 10 7 6 5 Meg Whitman Americas 0 0 0 0 0 Executive summary Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1 0 0 0 0 Governance Asia Pacific and Japan 1 9 6 5 4 Human Progress Economic Progress Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 92,500 82,900 117,600 70,800 63,200 Environmental Progress Americas 55,800 51,300 88,900 43,000 36,800 Overview Europe, Middle East, and Africa 19,400 15,900 13,500 12,800 11,900 Supply chain Asia Pacific and Japan 17,300 15,800 15,200 15,000 14,500 environmental impact Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] HP operations Global 84.8% 82.1% 88.2% 87.0% 88.0% Products and solutions Product return and Americas 81.8% 80.4% 88.9% 85.4% 85.8% recycling Europe, Middle East, and Africa 89.3% 87.4% 89.1% 93.0% 92.9% Social investment Asia Pacific and Japan 89.6% 82.0% 83.3% 86.4% 89.6% • Data Hazardous waste [tonnes] 8,430 7,400 8,060 7,920 6,470 About this report Americas 3,600 3,030 2,760 2,020 2,560 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,570 2,560 3,040 3,560 1,910 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,270 1,810 2,270 2,340 2,000 Water consumption, by region [cubic meters] 8,807,000 8,517,000 8,542,000 7,665,000 7,431,000 Americas 5,249,000 4,836,000 4,643,000 4,011,000 3,789,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,291,000 1,113,000 982,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,353,000 2,436,000 2,608,000 2,540,000 2,660,000 Water consumption, by source [cubic meters] † 8,807,000 8,517,000 8,542,000 7,665,000 7,431,000 Well water 0 0 0 21,000 7,000 Wastewater from another organization †† (NeWater) 748,000 707,000 800,000 734,000 780,000 Tanker water††† 0 0 0 124,000 137,000 Municipal water 8,059,000 7,811,000 7,742,000 6,786,000 6,507,000 Reused treated sewage treatment plant water†††† [cubic meters] 0 0 0 98,000 93,000 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions ‡ [kg of CFC-11 9,168 6,678 474 305 330 equivalent] Americas 6,493 5,894 320 149 234 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59 82 45 46 19 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,616 702 110 111 77 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. *** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy generation. **** Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. † Prior to 2013, well water and tanker water were included in the Municipal water category. †† NeWater is ultrapurified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. ††† Well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. †††† This water is used for landscaping and toilets. ‡ In 2012, we began to calculate ODS emissions by tracking sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage. We apply an intensity factor based on those actual quantities for nonreporting sites. Previously, we estimated the level of leakage across the entire real estate portfolio based on the inventory of refrigerants in equipment and in storage. 119 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Product return and recycling* Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Executive summary Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and supplies combined 884,500 1,018,400 1,152,000 1,265,000 1,383,400 [tonnes] Governance Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and supplies combined 1,949 2,245 2,540 2,789 3,050 Human Progress [million pounds] Economic Progress Total reuse and recycling combined [tonnes, approximate] 150,900 160,600 159,600 134,500 157,500 Environmental Progress Reuse of equipment ** 30,000 26,700 26,000 21,400 39,100 Overview Recycling—hardware and supplies 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 118,400 Supply chain environmental impact Number of countries and territories with HP return and recycling programs 58 60 69 70 73 HP operations Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 118,400 Products and solutions Americas 38,600 49,600 60,165 55,200 56,700 Product return and Europe, Middle East, and Africa 76,300 77,100 67,700 50,600 53,100 recycling Social investment Asia Pacific and Japan 5,900 7,200 5,685 7,400 8,600 • Data Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 120,900 133,900 133,600 113,200 118,400 About this report Hardware 99,100 113,700 114,500 95,000 100,000 HP LaserJet toner cartridges*** 19,600 18,550 17,350 16,200 16,400 HP ink cartridges*** 2,200 1,700 1,745 2,040 1,990 HP LaserJet toner cartridge recycling HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 92% 94% 94% 90% 91% Composition [%] Materials recycled into new products **** 85.0% 82.1% 80.1% 78.8% 74.6% Materials used for energy recovery 15.0% 13.9% 15.9% 17.3% 22.4% Reuse of components † 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 3.0% Material in storage—pending processing† 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Incineration† 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Landfill† 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% HP ink cartridge recycling Ink market covered by program [%] 87% 88% 88% 88% 90% Composition [%] Materials recovered for recycling 73.0% 74.2% 69.1% 70.9% 70.4% Materials used for energy recovery 23.0% 21.6% 29.3% 27.6% 28.9% Reuse of components† 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Material in storage—pending processing† 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% Incineration† 4.0% 1.5% 1.5% 0.3% Landfill† 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% * Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet cartridge data are calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP supplies we report the composition of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational control over all recycling processes and so do not have access to this information. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2010–2013 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units; 2013: 3.7 million units. In 2014, HP increased both tonnage and the number of returned units (4.2 million units in 2014). The weight of reuse volume reported nearly doubled between 2013 and 2014. This is due to a substantial increase in the number of units returned year over year as well as a refinement to the calculation methodology used to estimate total weight. *** Includes cartridges returned by customers and cartridges from HP internally for 2010. The 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 figures are cartridges returned by customers only. **** The decrease in toner cartridge materials recycled into new products is mainly due to improvements in data collection by our contractor. † This category of data was added in 2011. Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance Human Progress Economic Progress Environmental Progress • About this report Overview Independent Accountants’ Report  nited Nations Global U Compact index Material issues Global Reporting Initiative index About this report 121 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Overview Contents (GHG) emissions, product energy consumption and resultLetter from CEO ing GHG emissions, and the percentage of HP products Meg Whitman sold that are recycled. Executive summary This report describes HP’s global citizenship policies, programs, and performance through FY2014 (which Wherever possible, we describe the context for perforGovernance mance data so readers can understand any limitations and ended October 31, 2014). It provides in-depth information Human Progress to stakeholders including customers, industry analysts, draw appropriate conclusions. Economic Progress socially responsible investors, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), employees, sustainability specialists, Environmental Progress governments, and others. Since 2001, we have reported Your feedback • About this report yearly on our progress. To improve our disclosure, we • Overview consider external standards such as the Global Reporting Your comments and suggestions are important to us. Independent Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact, as well Please provide any feedback on HP’s Living Progress Accountants’ Report as reporting trends and strong practices. report, performance, or website using our online form.  nited Nations Global U Compact index Our Living Progress website provides summary information for readers seeking a higher-level overview of our Forward-looking statements Material issues approach and performance, and in some cases additional Global Reporting detail. Previous reports are available at the reporting page. This report contains forward-looking statements that Initiative index involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions Scope, dates, and measures prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking • The information in this report is current as of the date of statements and assumptions. All statements other than its initial publication. This report has not been updated statements of historical fact are statements that could be to reflect any changes that may have occurred after deemed forward-looking statements, including but not such date, including, among other things, any changes limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, and does not intend to update this report to reflect any cash flows, benefit plan funding, share repurchases, such changes. currency exchange rates, or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing, or impact of cost • The information in this report covers all HP operations savings or restructuring charges; any statements of the but does not cover joint ventures. plans, strategies and objectives of management for future • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends operations, including the previously announced separation October 31, unless stated otherwise. transaction and the future performances of the post-sep• All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars. aration companies if the separation is completed, as well as the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting • “Tonnes” refers to metric tons. (One metric ton is cost savings, or revenue, or profitability improvements; equivalent to 2,205 pounds.) any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding Metrics and goals current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial The metrics and goals in this report are established by performance; any statements regarding pending investithe HP teams responsible for measuring and achieving gations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation them, in consultation with internal, and in some cases or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying external, stakeholders, and taking into account leading any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumppractices, which ensures that these metrics provide a tions include the need to address the many challenges meaningful and balanced picture of HP’s performance facing HP’s businesses; the competitive pressures faced and that our goals are realistic yet challenging. by HP’s businesses; risks associated with executing HP’s strategy, including the planned separation transaction; Collecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and complex, and the process can vary by issue, business events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and unit, function, and geography. As a result, it can be the distribution of HP’s products and the delivery of HP’s difficult to define and implement metrics for the entire services effectively; the protection of HP’s intellectual company. We continue to standardize our measurement property assets, including intellectual property licensed systems and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the from third parties; risks associated with HP’s international appropriate level of certainty. operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existReporting performance beyond our immediate operations ing products and services to meet customer needs and can also be challenging. For example, we must make respond to emerging technological trends; the execution assumptions when estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, and partners; the hiring and retention of key 122 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents employees; integration and other risks associated with • Supply chain responsibility HP engages third-party Letter from CEO business combination and investment transactions; the audit firms to conduct verification audits of our Meg Whitman execution, timing, and results of the separation transacsuppliers’ social and environmental responsibility tion or restructuring plans, including estimates and performance against the HP Supplier Code of Conduct Executive summary assumptions related to the cost (including any possible requirements. These audits include suppliers associated Governance disruption of HP’s business) and the anticipated benefits of with a specific allegation in an NGO report. We also use Human Progress implementing the separation transaction and restructurthird-party audit findings to validate our internal audit Economic Progress ing plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims results. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. and disputes; and other risks that are described in HP’s Environmental Progress • Financial data HP reports financial data in its 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Annual Report on Form 10-K. In accordance with • About this report October 31, 2014, and HP’s other filings with the Securities the requirements of the US Securities and Exchange • Overview and Exchange Commission including HP’s Quarterly Commission, the consolidated financial statements Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended Independent of HP included in the Form 10-K are subject to audit January 31, 2015. HP assumes no obligation and does Accountants’ Report by an independent registered public accounting firm. not intend to update these forward-looking statements.  nited Nations Global U Ernst & Young LLP’s report, dated December 17, 2014, Compact index was included in the most recently reported Form 10-K. Selected data from that report along with segment data Material issues Assurance included in HP’s Form 8-K filed on February 24th, 2015 Global Reporting are included herein. Selected data from that report is Initiative index We believe that obtaining assurance helps demonstrate included herein. Learn more in Economic impacts across that the information provided in our Living Progress Report the value chain. describes our performance accurately and completely. External verification In 2014, HP engaged external assurance provider Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to perform an independent review of a selected number of key performance indicators in our 2014 Living Progress Report in accordance with AT 101, Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements, of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. For a full listing of the indicators within scope of EY’s review, please see the Independent Accountants’ Report. In addition, the following data in this report received external assurance during the year: • Product reuse and recycling In 2014, through Environmental Resources Management (ERM), HP audited 29 reuse and 43 recycling vendor facilities in 24 countries, including repeat audits of 29 recycling vendors and 10 reuse vendors to confirm vendors’ ongoing commitment to responsible recycling and improved performance. Learn more in Vendor audits. 123 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Independent Accountants’ Report Contents Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary Governance To the Board of Directors and Management of Hewlett-Packard Company Human Progress Economic Progress We have reviewed selected performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in Appendix A and as presented in the Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”) 2014 Living Progress Report (the “Report”) for the Environmental Progress year ended October 31, 2014. We did not review all information included in the Report. We did not review • About this report the narrative sections of the Report, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter. HP manageOverview ment is responsible for the Subject Matter included in the table below and as also presented in the • Independent Report, and for selection of the criteria against which the Subject Matter is measured and presented. Accountants’ Report Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American U  nited Nations Global Compact index Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Material issues Matter. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons Global Reporting responsible for the Subject Matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems Initiative index and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the selected performance indicators in Appendix A for the year ended October 31, 2014, are free from material misstatement, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. As described in Note 2 in Appendix A, non-financial information as contained within corporate responsibility reports is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the Subject Matter, referred to above, for the year ended October 31, 2014 is not presented, in all material respects, in conformity with the criteria set forth in Appendix A. As discussed in Note 1 to Appendix A, the Company has elected to change its method of accounting for Scope 3 GHG emissions in 2014. Our report is not modified with respect to this matter. May 18, 2015 124 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Appendix A Letter from CEO Indicator Name Unit Reported Value1 Criteria Reference Meg Whitman Scope 1 Tonnes of 210,800 World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / p. 72, 82, 114 greenhouse carbon dioxide World Business Council for Sustainable Executive summary gas (“GHG”) equivalents Development’s (“WBCSD”) The Governance emissions 2 (tCO2e) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and Human Progress HP management definitions disclosed in Economic Progress our 2014 Living Progress Report (“LPR”) Environmental Progress Scope 2 GHG tCO2e 1,456,900 p. 72, 82, 114 emissions 2 • About this report Overview Scope 3 GHG tCO2e 47,400,000 3 WRI/WBCSD’s The Greenhouse Gas p. 72, 115 emissions 2 Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) • Independent Accounting and Reporting Standard and Accountants’ Report HP’s Carbon Accounting Manual U  nited Nations Global Scope 1 energy Million kWh 367 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4, p. 117 Compact index consumption EN3 and HP management definitions disclosed in the 2014 LPR Material issues Global Reporting Scope 2 energy Million kWh 3,484 GRI G4, EN3 and HP management definip. 117 Initiative index consumption tions disclosed in the 2014 LPR Renewable Million kWh 528 GRI G4, EN3 and HP management definip. 84, 117 energy tions disclosed in the 2014 LPR consumption Direct water Cubic meters 7,431,000 GRI G4, EN8 and HP management definip. 73, 116 consumption 4 tions disclosed in the 2014 LPR 5 Conflict Mineral N/A HP identified the smelters and refiners on our HP management definitions disclosed in p. 39 disclosure Qualitative list by a survey of HP suppliers conducted our 2014 LPR assertion between January 2014 and December 2014 as a part of HP’s conflict minerals compliance program. The suppliers we surveyed contribute material, components, or manufacturing to HP products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was identified in at least one of the Templates received from an HP supplier. Supply chain Number of Initial Audits: 40 GRI G4, HR10, HP management definip. 133 social and SER audits tions disclosed in our 2014 LPR and EICC Follow up: 49 environmental conducted in Code of Conduct requirements for 3rd responsibility 2014, by type 6 Full Re-audits: 39 party audits (SER) audit results Distribution Health and safety: 31% GRI G4, HR10, HP management definip. 37 of major tions disclosed in our 2014 LPR and EICC Labor: 24% and priority Code of Conduct requirements for 3rd nonconforManagement Systems: 22% party audits mances by EICC Ethics: 9% Category 7 Environmental: 14% Number of supplier audits performed per region 8 GRI G4, HR10, HP management definip. 36 tions disclosed in our 2014 LPR and EICC Initial Follow up Full Code of Conduct requirements for 3rd Region Total Audits audits Re-audits party audits China 18 28 24 70 APJ 11 11 6 28 EMEA 5 4 2 11 Americas 6 6 7 19 Number of 45,000 GRI G4, HR10, HP management definiExternal link workers9 at tions disclosed in our 2014 LPR and EICC on p. 37 supplier sites Code of Conduct requirements for 3rd audited party audits 125 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Contents Indicator Name Unit Reported Value1 Criteria Reference Letter from CEO Water Footprint Cubic meters 364,778,000 HP’s Water Accounting Manual p. 116 Meg Whitman 201310 Executive summary Water Footprint Cubic meters 330,083,000 HP’s Water Accounting Manual p. 116 201410 Governance Human Progress 1 All indicators are reported for the year ended 31 October, 2014 except as otherwise indicated. 2 Carbon Accounting Explanations document available at: http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/c03742931.pdf Economic Progress 3 See Note 1. Environmental Progress 4 Direct water consumption for HP operations. 5 Note that Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water consumption and is reported as a separate line item in the FY14 LPR. • About this report 6 Total full re-audits include one recycling vendor audit. Overview 7 Includes initial audits and full re-audits only; EICC stands for Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition. • Independent 8 Regions include: China, APJ (Asia Pacific and Japan), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), and the Americas (North, Central, and South America). Accountants’ Report 9 Number of workers as of the date of the site visit per the production and nonproduction initial supplier audit reports, rounded to the nearest thousand. 10 Water Footprint Accounting Explanations document available at: http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/c04278007.pdf U  nited Nations Global Compact index Material issues Note 1: Global Reporting Initiative index In an effort to improve the accuracy of reported data, during the current reporting period HP updated its calculation methodology for Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions relating to the following product groups: personal systems, printers and paper use, and servers. The personal systems carbon footprint calculation methodology changed due to product carbon footprint data becoming available for many more products. The printers calculation methodology for electricity and paper use utilizes paper consumption field data rather than estimates (field data was previously not available). The methodology for carbon emissions from servers uses a more accurate data source for shipped volumes, discovered this year. The changes in methodology resulted in a material decrease in Scope 3 emissions numbers when compared to the previous method. Note 2: Environmental and energy use data, are subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 126 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress United Nations Global Compact index HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of “To promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, we endorse the United labor conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption controls. Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the This table links to the sections of this report that address development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability the Global Compact’s 10 principles. policies and practices.” — Meg Whitman President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human rights human rights; and Supply chain responsibility Privacy Our employees Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights Supply chain responsibility Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Human rights the right to collective bargaining; Supply chain responsibility Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights Supply chain responsibility Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supply chain responsibility Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Human rights Supply chain responsibility Diversity and inclusion Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Materials Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and recycling Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Supply chain environmental impact HP operations Products and solutions Product return and recycling Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and Anti-corruption bribery. Supply chain responsibility 127 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Material issues The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. See Materiality update for more information. Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Product Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and Energy Products and solutions Our footprint energy services, and enabling customers to reduce their energy Energy efficiency efficiency use. Servers, storage, and networking Data center facility services Enterprise Services and software Personal systems Printing Product Managing the environmental impacts of HP products Materials Supply chain Our footprint life cycle through the entire product life cycle from producEnergy Products and solutions Supply chain environmental impact management tion of raw materials, through engineering design and manufacture, to service and product reuse, recycling, and Products and Design for the Environment disposal. Services Product return and recycling I T as a Enabling customers across industries to use IT to reduce Energy Products and solutions Products and solutions sustainability their environmental impacts and promoting IT’s “enabling Products and solution effects” to decrease impacts more broadly. Services S  ocial applicaProviding IT solutions that advance human, economic, and Indirect Economic Projects conducted in numerous Human progress: Social investment tion of IT environmental progress. Impacts locations globally (beyond HP’s Economic impacts across the value controlled operations) chain Economic progress: Social investment Environmental progress: Social investment L abor pracMaintaining labor standards in working hours and condiNondiscrimination Supply chain (firstand secondHuman rights tices in supply tions, wages and benefits, and humane treatment of tier suppliers) Freedom of Supply chain responsibility chain workers; eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory Association and labor, child labor, and human trafficking; upholding the Collective Bargaining human right of freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Privacy Collecting, analyzing, using, storing, transferring, and Customer Privacy HP operations (employees) Privacy sharing information in a manner that upholds the right to Products and solutions privacy. (customers, clients, and partners) Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Ethical Promoting high standards of ethics in business behavior Anti-competitive Supply chain (interactions with Corporate ethics behavior with all third parties with whom HP does business, Behavior suppliers, business partners, and HP 2014 10-K and business including suppliers and business partners. contractors) Compliance (Note 15: Litigation and partnerships HP operations (sales and Contingencies; this information is as marketing) of the end of FY14) Transparency, Providing clear and comparable information in an accesOverall report Supply chain GRI index accountsible manner. HP operations ability, and reporting Products and solutions B  ribery and Working against bribery and corruption in all aspects of Anti-corruption Supply chain Anti-corruption corruption HP’s business. HP operations Supply chain responsibility Products and solutions (interactions with partners and customers globally)  iversity and D Working to promote diversity and inclusion across HP’s Diversity and Equal HP operations Human rights inclusion global workforce. Opportunity Diversity and inclusion 128 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report Cyber security Ensuring that information collected, captured, analyzed, No GRI-specific Supply chain Public policy used, stored, transferred, and shared is protected from Aspects HP operations Economic impacts across the value unwanted parties and unauthorized access, such as chain security threats and cyber attacks. Products and solutions High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success E  nergy and Improving the energy efficiency of HP’s operations and Energy Supply chain (firstand secondOur footprint GHG emissions supply chain to reduce energy use and costs as well as tier suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) Emissions Supply chain environmental impact in operations GHG emissions, and using renewable energy sources HP operations (Scope 1 and Scope and supply when feasible. HP operations 2 emissions) chain  aste and W Responsibly managing and disposing of hazardous and Effluents and Waste Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Supply chain environmental impact hazardous nonhazardous waste within HP’s operations and supply HP operations HP operations materials in chain. operations and supply chain W  ater in Reducing water use in our operations and supply chain. Water Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Our footprint operations and HP operations Supply chain environmental impact supply chain HP operations U  se of Managing use of materials and substances of concern, and Products and Supply chain Materials substances using alternative materials that reduce the risk of human Services Products and solutions of concern in health and environmental impacts, while meeting perforMaterials products mance and cost criteria. Supply Implementing and enforcing codes and standards that Supplier Supply chain (firstand secondSupply chain responsibility chain codes, set a baseline for supplier social and environmental Environmental tier suppliers) standards, and responsibility (SER) and improving HP suppliers’ SER Assessment We ask that first-tier suppliers engagement performance through engagement and transparency. Supplier Assessment communicate our Electronic for Labor Practices Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct to their Supplier Human suppliers, thereby propagating Rights Assessment the requirements to our sub-tier Supplier Assessment suppliers. for Impact on Society Responsible Working to ensure the responsible sourcing of minerals No GRI-specific Supply chain (sub-tier suppliers Conflict minerals sourcing of used in HP products (e.g., conflict minerals from the Aspects in high-risk areas such as the minerals Democratic Republic of Congo). Democratic Republic of Congo; there are multiple tiers between HP and smelters who trade with exporters) Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success  ublic policy P Influencing public policy development through direct Public Policy HP operations Public policy engagement engagement and through multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives. Board Ensuring HP board diversity, independent oversight, and No GRI-specific HP operations Living Progress strategy structure and sustainability governance. Aspects Corporate ethics independence Governance HP 2015 Proxy Statement Intellectual Protecting HP’s intellectual property as essential to No GRI-specific Supply chain Public policy property our business success and continued innovation in the IT Aspects HP operations protection sector. Products and solutions Responsible Working to ensure that marketing and communication of Marketing HP operations GRI index marketing products and services is honest, transparent, and fair. Communications Products and solutions Product Managing and reducing fuel use and environmental Transport Supply chain Product transportation providers transport and impacts from product transportation and logistics. Emissions Products and solutions logistics Packaging Working to decrease the environmental impact of HP Materials Products and solutions Packaging packaging by reducing material use, optimizing shipping densities, and utilizing recycled and recyclable materials. S  ale and Avoiding sales of HP products to restricted parties and No GRI-specific Products and solutions Human rights misuse of IT to individuals, groups, or entities that may misuse those Aspects products and products to violate human rights. services 129 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress Global Reporting Initiative index We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines when preparing this report. HP self-declares this report to the Core In Accordance level. GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision Letter from Meg Whitman maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization HP profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services HP profile, HP 2014 10-K G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters HP profile G4-6 Number of countries where organization operLocations of HP geographic headquarters and major product development, manufacates, names of countries where organization turing, data centers, and HP Labs, map of HP supplier sites has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to this report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form HP profile G4-8 Markets served HP profile, HP 2014 10-K G4-9 Scale of the organization HP profile, HP operations, HP 2014 10-K G4-10 Employee demographics Diversity and inclusion A portion of the organization’s work is performed by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by HP follows its Global Human Rights Policy and its Standards of Business Conduct. collective bargaining agreements In about 40% of the countries where we have employees operating, some of those employees are represented by works councils or unions, or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is managed at a local level. HP considers this percentage on a consolidated level not relevant. G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Supply chain responsibility, Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Company separation and Living Progress, Supply chain responsibility, Product transregarding the organization’s size, structure, portation providers, HP 2014 10-K ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach Materials or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environPublic policy, Human rights, Supply chain responsibility, Supply chain responsibility: mental, and social charters, principles, or other Our approach, Privacy, Supply chain environmental impact, Products and solutions, initiatives to which the organization subscribes United Nations Global Compact index or which it endorses G4-16 List of memberships of associations and Affiliations and memberships national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization is involved Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consoliHP 2014 10-K dated financial statements or equivalent Differences in entities covered in different parts of the report are noted in those documents sections. G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Materiality update boundaries G4-19 Identified material Aspects Material issues G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Material issues Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Material issues Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Included in relevant sections as appropriate provided in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting The overall content in this report is similar to last year. Identified board structure and periods in Scope and Aspect Boundaries independence and intellectual property protection as material issues during refresh of materiality assessment. 130 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder engagement organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeStakeholder engagement holders with whom to engage We identify appropriate stakeholders to engage by assessing factors such as their expertise, their willingness to collaborate, their reputation, their location, and their sphere of influence. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement, and organization’s response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report June 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report About this report G4-32 GRI index GRI index, Independent Accountants’ Report G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to Assurance seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees of Living Progress governance, Governance highest governing body G4-37 Processes for consultation between Living Progress governance stakeholders and board on economic, environmental, and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body HP board of directors, HP board committee composition and its committees G4-39 Whether chair of the highest governance body Ethics and compliance is also an executive officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the Corporate governance guidelines highest governance body and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to Corporate governance guidelines ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Living Progress governance identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Living Progress governance review of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Contact the board the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest goverHP 2014 10-K nance body and senior executives and relation to economic, environmental, and social objectives Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards, Policies and standards, Corporate ethics, Human rights, Supply chain responsibility, and norms of behavior such as codes of Our employees conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Corporate ethics advice on ethical and lawful behavior G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Corporate ethics reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 131 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Economic impacts across the value chain, HP 2014 10-K G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Economic impacts across the value chain, Total social investment spend, HP 2014 10-K distributed G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and HP’s most recent CDP submission opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit HP 2014 10-K plan obligations Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Economic impacts across the value chain G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Supply chain responsibility, Economic impacts across the value chain, Products and including the extent of impacts solutions Aspect: Procurement Practices* G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supplier diversity G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supplier diversity significant locations of operation Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment, Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Materials, Printing input materials Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment: Energy efficiency, Management and compliance, HP Operations: Energy efficiency, Renewable energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization HP Operations: Energy efficiency, Renewable energy, Environmental Progress: Data See EY’s Independent Accountants’ Report on page 123 G4-EN5 Energy intensity HP Operations: Energy efficiency G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption HP Operations: Energy efficiency G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Products and solutions and services Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our footprint, Management and compliance, Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water See EY’s Independent Accountants’ Report on page 123 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Water and reused Aspect: Biodiversity * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Social investment: Environmental G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activiSocial investment: Environmental ties, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our footprint, Management and compliance, HP operations: Greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions HP operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environmental Progress: Data, HP carbon See EY’s Independent (Scope 1) accounting manual Accountants’ Report on page 123 132 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) HP operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environmental Progress: Data, HP carbon See EY’s Independent accounting manual Accountants’ Report on page 123 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Our footprint, Environmental Progress: Data See EY’s Independent Accountants’ Report on page 123 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity HP operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environmental Progress: Data G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions HP Operations: Energy efficiency G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Environmental Progress: Data (ODS) Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Management and compliance, Waste and recycling G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste and recycling method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our EHS management system to help prevent unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2014, the only significant unplanned release was of diesel fuel at a UK facility, caused by a mechanical failure. HP is working closely with the UK Environment Agency to complete recovery and clean-up operations, which successfully contained the spill on HP property. Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Design for the Environment G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Our footprint, Products and solutions, Materials impacts of products and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packProduct return and recycling aging materials that are reclaimed by category Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business travel and employee programs, Product transportation providers G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Business travel and employee programs, Product transportation providers transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach See EY’s Independent screened using environmental criteria Accountants’ Report on page 123 Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Rewards and recognition G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Rewards and recognition that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Health and safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health and safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Building careers G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Building careers employee by gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Building careers learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 133 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Building careers performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Diversity and inclusion G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakDiversity and inclusion, HP board of directors down of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach See EY’s Independent screened using labor practices criteria Accountants’ Report on page 123 Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our employees G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices For 2014, the number of cases we received regarding human resources policy and filed, addressed, and resolved through formal practices compared to the total number of employees was less than 0.2%. All were grievance mechanisms addressed and resolved, most within 90 days. Subcategory: Human Rights Material Aspect: Nondiscrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Supply chain responsibility: Audit results, Audit results, HP discloses the rates of See EY’s Independent corrective actions taken nonconformance in supplier sites audited, but not the absolute numbers. Presenting Accountants’ Report this information in this manner provides additional context for the reader. on page 123 Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which Supply chain responsibility: Audit results, Audit results See EY’s Independent the right to exercise freedom of association Accountants’ Report and collective bargaining may be violated or at on page 123 significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility: Audit results, Audit results See EY’s Independent significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Accountants’ Report measures taken to contribute to the effective on page 123 abolition of child labor Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility: Audit results, Audit results See EY’s Independent significant risk for incidents of forced or Accountants’ Report compulsory labor, and measures to contribute on page 123 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach See EY’s Independent screened using human rights criteria Accountants’ Report on page 123 Subcategory: Society Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Corporate ethics G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Anti-corruption assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Corporate ethics, Anti-corruption policies and procedures 134 HP 2014 Living Progress Report www.hp.com/livingprogress GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Public policy, HP political engagement and recipient/beneficiary Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2014 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of FY14) G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competHP 2014 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end itive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly of FY14) practices and their outcomes Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2014 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of FY14) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and HP 2014 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end total number of nonmonetary sanctions for of FY14) noncompliance with laws and regulations Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain responsibility: Our approach See EY’s Independent screened using criteria for impacts on society Accountants’ Report on page 123 Subcategory: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP is committed to responsible marketing and providing consumers and businesses accurate, relevant information. Our Standards of Business Conduct and corporate guidelines set expectations regarding the company’s advertising practices. These resources require that advertisements and marketing collateral be fair, factual, and complete. Advertising claims must be formally substantiated with current factual data before publishing. HP sells its products in compliance with laws in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Training is available for employees in relevant parts of our business as well as for agencies that act on HP’s behalf. This covers aspects of responsible marketing such as proper claims, substantiation, necessary advertising disclosures, and endorsement of HP products by third parties. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliHP does not consider this metric to be highly applicable to the information technology ance with regulations and voluntary codes industry, given the lack of strict regulations and voluntary industry codes in this area that concerning marketing communications, are applicable to some other industries. Further, the information is not currently availincluding advertising, promotion, and sponsorable. HP does not believe that this information will be feasible to collect in the future. ship, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Privacy regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data * Although this GRI G4 Aspect was not determined to be material in HP’s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP’s programs and performance in this area.
