Communication on Progress, 2015 July 2015 STATEMENT BY THE CEO’S Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 2 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT ANTIHUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION Principle 1: Principle 3: Principle 7: Principle 10:  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom of support a work against the protection of association and the precautionary corruption in all its internationally effective recognition of approach to forms, including proclaimed human the right to collective environmental extortion and bribery. rights; and bargaining; challenges; Principle 2: Principle 4: Principle 8:  Make sure that they  The elimination of all  Undertake initiatives to are not complicit in forms of forced and promote greater human rights abuses. compulsory labour; environmental Principle 5: responsibility; and  The effective abolition Principle 9: of child labour; and  Encourage the Principle 6: development and  The elimination of diffusion of environmentally discrimination in friendly technologies. respect of employment and occupation. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Webhelp overview Page 5 2 Human rights Page 8 3 Labour Page 15 4 Environment Page 26 5 Anti-corruption Page 32 Communication on progress 2015 4 1 WEBHELP OVERVIEW 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 VISION AND VALUES Become a worldwide benchmark company in the field of customer relationship management, recognized for its innovation and high quality of services ENGINEERING NEW CUSTOMER EXPERIENCES COMMITMENT  We honour the promises made to colleagues and customers.  Working as one team towards a common success takes UNITY precedence over personal interest.  Acknowledgement of individual contribution is essential to RECOGNITION ensure our collective success.  We work with a positive attitude, leading by example. We treat INTEGRITY others the way we would expect to be treated.  By striving to go beyond their expectations, we continually look to WOW-EFFECT amaze the people we work with. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 A STRONG PARTNER FOR OUR CLIENTS #3 IN 58 25 000 EUROPE Surinam INTERNATIONAL CENTERS CUSTOMER IN 17 COUNTRIES EMPLOYEES RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS PROVIDER 200 Romania Morocco CUSTOMERS 528, 6 M€ OF TURNOVER (MOST IMPORTANT GROWTH IN THE SECTOR FROM 2002 Webhelp TO 2012) Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 7 2 HUMAN RIGHTS 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS TO HUMAN RIGHTS “Label de Responsabilité Sociale” certified since 2011 (Social Responsibility Label) – LRS – renewed in 2015 Signing of the Charter of Diversity Signing of numerous agreements relating to the employment of vulnerable groups (employment of young and senior populations, disabled people, long term unemployed people...) Formalized training paths for all people to ensure their employability Partnered with local employment institutions Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS GREATLY ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY  2011 saw the launch of Webhelp’s Disability policy.  Following a quantitative and qualitative audit by Thompouss, the policy was enhanced in 2013. The results identified our strengths and areas for improvement, which is why we have adjusted our policy for disabled people.  Webhelp France wished to formalize its commitment to people with disabilities by signing a partnership agreement with AGEFIPH. Our goal is to significantly advance and harmonize our practices for all of our sites. AGEFIPH is a major player in the employment of people with disabilities in France. The signing of this Convention will allow us to benefit from the expertise of AGEFIPH to improve our daily practices. This agreement was signed in 2015 and deployed at sites in France for a period of 2 years, renewable once.  In France Cluster (French speaking countries : France, Morocco, Algeria, Madagascar, Belgium, Romania), a new awareness-raising campaign was launch around the International Disability day. More precisely, a set of poster were displayed containing word clouds for each topic and a set of exercises for dyslexia were realized.  In Morocco, along with the Communication campaign, an open-door event was set up on the 3rd of December 2014. Local disabled associations were received and contacts were taken to promote the recruitment of disabled persons. This event was sponsored by the Minister of Social affairs who visited our headquarter and spend some time with representatives of our disabled staff.  Webhelp Romania supports a social organization specialized in the re-employment of vulnerable people.  For Webhelp Nederland Social involvement and responsibility through charities such as the fundraisers for Dutch Cancer Society, Dutch Brain Foundation, Children Cancer Free Foundation, Dutch Heart Foundation and Dutch food bank and animal welfare  New legislation will be implemented in the Netherlands in 2016 to stimulate employers to hire more disabled people. Later this year HR will assess the impact of such new legislation and adopt new policies in this respect  Webhelp UK works with the UK Government via the ‘Access to Work’ programme to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to working environments, allowing those with disabilities to have successful careers within Webhelp UK Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 10 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS Word clouds created by our employees EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES WEEK DECEMBER 2014 Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 11 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 Day of Disabled Persons Event « Growing awareness » interview A successful day ! « Handisport » Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 12 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS IMPROVED ANTI-HARASSMENT MANAGEMENT  The 2012 LRS audit recommendations included an anti-harassment policy to monitor cases of harassment. Actions :  training module to understand what harassment means, giving keys on how to respond,  internal rules that inform employees about the laws on harassment (sexual or moral)  In France, a Prevention of Harassment project creates a warning system, allowing any employee to report, for himself or for a third party, a difficult situation which, if it was to continue, could lead to a potential harassment. Procedure governed by a Prevention and Mediation Committee : a site manager, the RRH and members of the HSC. Each committee member receives pre-harassment training delivered by an external training organization (ALFA NERO).  In Morocco, Webhelp has implemented a similar system, called Pro Alert which is being revised but still in force. The new version of the tool will ensure easier tracking of actions implemented and have a more global view of situations,  All employees have the opportunity to alert the HR Director without involving “management”. If offers employees feeling harassed protection from possible retaliation .  Support of the application shall be managed directly by the HR Director or delegated regional HR manager.  In Netherlands, an independent counselor has been appointed for all complaints about harassment.  Webhelp NL has established an internal complaints handling committee for aggression, discrimination and sexual harassment. This committee is formed of representatives from HR, the works council and two employees.  Webhelp UK has a ‘Dignity at Work’ policy which covers Harassment, Bullying and Discrimination. The policy outlines how employees can report such instances and also outlines what responsibilities are placed upon management. All employees are required to read and sign this and other policies on an annual basis. RESULTS : All employees follow the e-learning class on harassment. 100 % of people involved in recruitment process follow the e-learning class on non-discrimation. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 13 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS ESTABLISHMENT OF A CHARTER SIGNED BY WEBHELP MAIN SUPPLIERS. IT ENCAPSULATES PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT (OFFICE DEPOT, DELL ...)  When signing the Webhelp supplier charter, the supplier company expressly undertakes to:  Respect the national labor laws including statutory working hours and overtime,  Be fully compliant with international norms,  Declare all of its staff to collector social organizations,  Ensure the effective and on time payment of social security contributions. Provide, at Webhelp’s request, certificates proving such payments for the previous calendar period.  Respect the fundamental rights of the human, refuse any form of discrimination, ensure fair and dignified attitude towards all employees,  Enforce decent working conditions,  Fight against corruption and ensure Webhelp’s procurement practices.  Share information of demand of the services ordered.  Use its best efforts to preserve the environment and introduce sustainable development (energy saving, waste management). Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 14 3 LABOUR Communication on progress 2014 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS FOR LABOUR  Negotiation and signing  Pleasant work of various agreements conditions, state of the relating to working art buildings, working conditions (male / spaces of high quality female equality, freedom designed for advisers of expression of employees, management or annualization of working time).  Respect for the culture  Various social benefits of the country we’re in. including medical For instance, in Morocco, insurance, nursery during the Ramadan, facilities, employees “ftour” (breaking of transportation, fitness the Ramadan fast) is centers, rest areas, offered to all employees different incentives and that are working in the team building events. time slot Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR GOVERANCE In terms of governances Webhelp France initiated the program Perform 2015 in order to improve our management policy and efficiency centering 3 main axes:  Delivery and  Sales System and our  “Human Capital”. 2014’s main Project  Assises Delivery program (principle of transparence and objectivity, of rationality and continuous improvement.)  Assises du Commerce program (principle of efficient governance and continuous improvement)  People centric (universal values defense) Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 17 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PLANNING MORE RESPONSIVE TO THE NEEDS OF EMPLOYEES.  Creation of a system that allows employees to swap a day off by making requests for exchange.  In France, many actions have been undertaken regarding the planning to meet the constraints of production and introduce flexibility in the management of schedules:  Ideally, schedules are sent to all advisors by email at least 2/3 weeks in advance. This period cannot be shortened to less than 7 days.  In Morocco, different actions are being experienced, such as the “Desiderata system”. This system allows the advisor to rank up to 3 time slots among a panel and to be granted his preferred time slot if available.  In the Netherlands, the ‘Availability tool’ was developed to allow employees to provide Webhelp with their preferred working days. The system also allows employees to swap shifts.  A new pilot was launched to that enables employees to complete the schedule by themselves to create more flexibility for the employees. Webhelp NL have received very positive feedback from the agents who appreciate the flexibility that this tool provides. • In the UK, employees can access a system called ‘Teleopti 8’ which gives them the ability to check their upcoming shifts, access holiday information and request to swap a shift. This system is regularly updated to ensure the needs of our employees are met. • It also acts as a real-time, two way communication tool between agents and managers. RESULTS : All advisors have early access to the planning and the possibility to ask for modifications. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 18 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR CREATION OF HR COMMUNITIES.  To discuss and harmonize our HR practices, Group HR has implemented HR communities since June 2012.  In France, the HR team meets twice a month to share information from the Executive Committee, to discuss best practices and news as well as status of HR projects in France. These meetings provide an update on the everyday problems and allows to determine the actions to be put in place to continuously improve the quality of HR management. It’s also an opportunity to bring together both the human resources managers of sites (8) and heads of HR projects around cross-functional issues. These exchanges are essential to have an overview of France HR issues.  In Morocco, an HR fortnightly meeting is held to discuss local news of Morocco and cross-functional issues. Present are Morocco HR, heads of various departments and regional HR managers.  At France cluster level, HR Group meetings are held every 3 weeks between countries to share news and follow HR group projects. They also aim to harmonize best practices. The Group HR, HR Directors from all countries (France, Morocco, Romania, Belgium, Algeria, Madagascar) and the directors of HR projects, are present.  In Netherlands, an organizational change has been made in the HR team to ensure a better connection between HR and Management an between HR advisors in the teams. Exchange of best practices is now formalized  In the UK, South Africa and India, the HR Team meet weekly to discuss a number of corporate initiatives alongside any challenges. This allows them to collaborate and continuously improve the way they work together, and alongside Operations and Support teams, to ensure best practice.  The HR Team work closely with all levels of the business, delivering a first rate service, guiding and empowering managers to engage and communicate to their teams. RESULTS : Webhelp A systematic pooling of our best practices Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 19 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR CREATION OF TUTORSHIP PROGRAM  Development of tutorship program:  For every new disabled worker a tutor is dedicated. These tutors are trained by an governmental authority (complete training program: 14 hours) (site of Compiègne)  For every employees that has under 22 years old, an adviser in named within the framework of the generation agreement. Each employee under 22 years old is welcome by a Webhelp University Adviser during 2 personal interviews (during the integration process, in attendance of his manager and after 6 month spent in the company).  Training of 5 new tutors within the framework of alternating work with training program (Training BTS Management of Business Unit (MUC) and Negotiation and Client Relations (NRC). (Site of Vitré)  Training of 8 tutors within the framework of the generation agreement (Site of Saint AVOLD) Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 20 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR TRAINING AND HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK A ROI training program was implemented in order to exceed the financial contribution obtained from public subsidy for example FSE (European Social Fund) or from the professionalization actions (Statutory training entitlement or professionalization period) A program of recognizing and governmental validation of professional experience as also implemented in order to help employees to capitalize and secure their career path. Example of training who were concerned: BTS MUC, BTS NRC, Bac Pro CRCD. (Sites of Compiègne, Montceau, St Avold, Vitré) Webhelp trains employees in the SST first aid course (sauveteur-secouriste de travail). Enough employees are certified to ensure that at least one is present on site during shifts. Webhelp countries, such as Morroco and Belgium , have been equipped with defibrillators Webhelp has an ongoing program of health and safety at work The signing of an agreement of home shore in July 2014 (Caen) Workstation ergonomics training provided to his customer consultants (center of Saint Avold) Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 21 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PROTECTING THE HEALTH & SAFETY OF OUR STAFF.  Webhelp UK has achieved multiple international standards (ISO or OHSAS) accreditations. One of which is OHSAS 180001, ensuring we adhere to a high standard of health & safety management within our organisation.  Webhelp UK is also involved in a programme call ‘Healthy Working Lives’ (HWL) which aims to create safer, healthier and more motivated workforce.  One of our sites has gained a Silver Level HWL award and is currently working towards Gold Level. The programme is being rolled out to other UK sites. RESULTS :  HWL – Kilmarnock site has been awarded Silver, having been awarded Bronze the year prior.  Accident Frequency Rate dropped to 5.78 YTD 2015, from 10.04 in 2014. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 22 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS Recruitment • In France, Government convention of objectives signed on 31th January in collaboration with Pôle Emploi, l’AGEFIPH et l’AGEFOS association: Webhelp’s commitment : hiring 70 job seeker (disabled workers or any other people having difficulty finding work). • In Morocco, Webehlp partnership with ANAPEC to ensure we recruit young people and support them on their first professional experience • In the UK, there has been a successful pilot of a ‘Schools Programme’. The aim was to encourage young school leavers to attend a 8 day workshop based at a Webhelp UK site where they would learn about customer service basics, IT systems, recruitment advice/techniques and general working etiquette. After the workshop, the prospective agents were offered an interview for a permanent position within Webhelp UK. • The programme acts as a be stepping stone into full-time employment for the young, job seekers. Societal actions • In France, Setting up of professionalization and training temporary work contracts for 20 client advisors in the last quarter of 2014. • Policy of recruitment based on contracts for disabled worker, transformed in permanent contract. Every new employee is integrated in a tutorship program. (center of Compiegne) • Throughout Webhelp, in 2014 another 28 contact with training and on-the-job coaching were signed. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 23 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PERFOMANCE AND COMPETENCY MANAGEMENT Development of performance and competency management project including:  A reform of job description integrating competences and career prospects or career path  A common set of skills for the entire Group for all profession. It includes more than a 100 skills (generic, specific and managerial). For each profession, 12 primary skills were defined  A common definition of our competencies link to our assessment center  In France, A competence module available in our HRIS (IRIS) A new methodology, called LIFT, has been developed and implemented in Webhelp France. The main objective is to rationalize the number of KPIs and form a focus on two main ones. In addition, this identifies the people who require a stronger management support to develop their skills. In the UK, there is a Management Development strategy being implemented that will provide a structured approach to learning for our people which will be both engaging and inspirational. Learning activities will be linked closely to individual development needs as well as business requirements, providing our managers/leaders with the skills, knowledge and behaviours to drive business performance. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 24 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR TO ENSURE GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS, ASK EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY.  For the past many years, Webhelp had its own internal barometer that measures the satisfaction of employees of the Group: the SATSA.  It has evolved in 2013 to meet the international growth of the Group: it is composed of 22 common questions, + an additional 4 or 5 questions dedicated to specific issues in each country.  It’s an objective way to evaluate commitment, and identify areas for improvement.  An action plan is systematically implemented and communicated to al our employees after each session RESULTS :  Completion rate for France, Morocco, Algeria, Romania, Madagascar, HQ, UK, SA 80.53%  Commitment rate : 73.56% Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 25 4 ENVIRONNEMENT 26 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS  For several years, Webhelp has been part of a sustainable development strategy  As an office based company, Webhelp’s two main environmental impacts are production of waste and CO2 emissions from consumption of electricity. Our environmental policy states our commitment to Encourage Communicate reducing both of Comply with similar issues to our Prevent Implement these, and also states environmental Foster standards from staff through Reduce, reuse pollution by energy legislation and management our training and & recycle effective efficient our commitment to: best practices commitment stakeholders communication materials controls measures  Batteries  Water: PIRS on urinals, low flush toilets,  Sorting waste paper/ cardboard/ cans/ push spray taps. plastic (and now Food Waste at 2 UK  Air conditioning: office & server room sites) temperature set at 19° C.  Ink cartridges  Paper: PIN printing, paperless office  Expresso capsules + Cups environment, paper towels removed.  Bulbs / fluorescent tubes  Energy: Energy efficient hand driers,  Food THE vending machine timers, PIRs in all SUSTAINABLE meeting/training rooms in UK, sensor lights DEVELOPEMENT  Shuttles (Morocco) AT WEBHELP  Active policy to reduce unnecessary  Bicycle parking shelters  Discounted bus travel (UK) printing.  Carpooling  AVOB (PC automatic standby) – now  Video conferencing to reduce business implemented in UK travel  Pairing electrical maintenance and HVAC  Electric vehicles and charging stations at (heating/ ventilation/ air conditioning) all Netherlands branches (now app. 15%  Criteria related to sustainable of portfolio) development included in all quotes Webhelp A virtuous quadrilateral to reduce our carbon footprint in everyday life, supported by poster campaigns Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT VARIOUS INITIATIVES TO DECREASE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT IN FRANCE  Awareness program in the sustainable development for all our collaborators (elearning)  Best practice of optimization of our energy consumption (lightings LED, programming air conditioning, automatic extinction)  Charter purchase signed by our suppliers including the respect for the environmental best practice  Implementation of a solution of optimization of the consumption of our computers (AVOB): Automatic ignition & extinction, adjustment of the power of processors. setting in a stand-by mode of screens…  Increase of the use of visio conference (+87 % 2014 vs 2013) to decrease our carbon footprint  Webhelp makes a commitment in actions of type Carbon compensation : participation in the operation 1 bought recycled eco telephone = 1 crashed tree “ (106 trees), deploy the Uniflow system on its sites offshore, system which has already allowed the protection of 300 trees a year on the French sites.  Various initiatives to decrease our water consumption (information, push spray taps…) RESULTS :  Reduced energy consumption= 2 017 000 kWh/year (2014/2013)  AVOB Solution = Gain 60 % of our consumption, 1 736 000 kWh/year  Operations for the protection of more of 400 trees  Reduced water consumption = 1 750 000 liters/year Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 28 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT WEBHELP UK REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS AND WATER CONSUMPTION  Continued investment in energy efficiency technologies across all our Webhelp UK sites. These include;  Greater control of heating and cooling equipment at our Dunoon and Derby sites.  Installation of PC Power management at the majority of our sites.  LED lighting and lighting control technology installed at several UK sites.  Urinal PIRs rolled out in Falkirk, Kilmarnock and Warrington. RESULTS : 10% reduction in Carbon Emissions throughout 2014. 26% reduction in water consumption throughout 2014 Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 29 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT INSTALLATION OF VARIABLE SPEED DRIVES (INVERTERS) AT WEBHELP UK DERBY  The building at Derby is heated and cooled by several large Air Handling Units; when these units produce heat, they need a motorised fan to push the hot/cool air from the units around the building.  Typically, these fans run at 100% speed – even when a lower speed could be efficient.  Variable Speed Drives automatically adjust the power of the fans to suit the requirements of the building.  Affinity Law – “A 20% reduction in speed = a 50% reduction in power”. RESULTS :  Savings of £25k per annum and a 27% reduction in consumption.  This equates to 120 tonnes of CO2.  The Life Expectancy of the Fans has increased. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 30 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT IMPLENTATION OF ISO 50001 : ENERGY MANAGEMENT • Webhelp UK has been committed to energy management for several years and has made significant carbon savings, as demonstrated on previous slides. • 2015 will see the introduction of a more structured process of energy management, via the implementation of ISO 50001. • Having already achieved accreditation to ISO 140001: Environmental Management, the new ISO standard will further cement Webhelp UK’s determination to lower its environmental impact. • The new ISO standard will ensure areas of significant energy use are targeted and that efficiency measures are implemented. Results:  Once implemented, the new standard will provide a framework for energy management, ensuring ongoing reduction of energy consumption. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 31 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION OF BPACK, A MANAGEMENT TOOL FOR HANDLING PURCHASE REQUISITIONS IN 2013  Before this tool, manual management of 300 purchase requisitions per month in France.  This tool allows a computerized date processing, with follow up of the different departments and their spend, easy reporting by supplier allowing improved control, and calls for competition if necessary.  In the UK the Bribery & Ethics Policy directs all staff to complete the Corporate Hospitality Tracker on receipt of any gifts, offerings or expenditure over £75.  Webhelp UK evaluate new suppliers inline with the Supplier Management Policy which directs employees to use the ‘Supplier Matrix’ in order to select the most appropriate supplier. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 33 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION  The principle of Global Compact were included in Webhelp’s buying charter.  Implementation of contractual clause regarding anticorruption measures  Implementation of a process including the validation of several officers before signing an agreement with a supplier. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 34 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2014 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION WEBHELP DESIGNED A GLOBAL PROCESS OF FRAUD MANAGEMENT  Prevention deterrence. This step is to proactively reduce fraud. It consists of :  The definition and formalization of a global process of fraud management .  The development and dissemination: o User Charter recalling the rules to follow in business. o Code of ethics (in progress).  The completion of sensitization / specific training.  Conducting audits and checks.  Detection surveillance. This step is to identify potential fraud and implement measures in order to minimize or reduce the impact. It includes:  Conducting a Fraud risk mapping in different projects operated by Webhelp. This map is updated regularly.  The implementation of technical solutions or processes to monitor transactions deemed at risk. Function Correspondent Security Operations was created on projects deemed high risk.  The implementation of a number of proactive controls.  Investigations corrections. Respond at the earliest and the most effective way possible after the identification of suspected fraud. It includes:  The definition of a workflow reaction in case of fraud.  The definition of a specific alert channel so that only persons to be informed are informed. Memos were distributed to all employees to tell them what to do in cases of suspected fraud and who to contact.  The training of teams in charge of performing forensics analysis and the creation of a toolbox of analysis. Webhelp Copyright © 2014 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2014 35 Communication on Progress 2015
