PASSION, TALENT AND INTEGRITY Sustainability 2014 2014 HIGHLIGHTS ACCOMPLISHED CELEBRATED ACHIEVED 84% certification of our Eight years of A 37% improvement in our manufacturing plants responsible safety performance rate, worldwide for OHSAS 18001 sourcing in Uganda reaching a 79% improvement and ISO 14001 over the past five years CREATED IMPROVED ATTAINED HONORED The first Marine Our performance on all Membership to the Union With the 2013 British-Swiss Stewardship Council tracked environmental for Ethical BioTrade Chamber of Commerce (MSC)-certified flavor indicators compared with (UEBT) Corporate Social our FY09 baseline Responsibility Award ENGAGED ESTABLISHED JOINED With experts at the Wharton A joint venture with an Indian The World Business Council School of the University floral extracts and natural for Sustainable Development of Pennsylvania (U.S.) specialties enterprise to further (WBCSD) and signed the Water, and the IMD (Switzerland) develop sustainable sourcing Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) on the development of two at the Workplace initiative sustainability case studies MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO Passion, Talent and Integrity As a family company, we remain committed to our belief that sustainability, in its broadest sense, is anchored in the long-term interest of our colleagues, local communities and the environment. As we have done each year since 2006, we have produced this report to give you open and factual information about our goals and the progress we have made against our key sustainability metrics. We continue to make solid progress on several fronts. A safe workplace is particularly important to us, and we are especially pleased about further improvement in our world class Total Recordable Case rate of 0.27, recording a one year improvement of 37%. We also continue to make steady progress with our environmental objectives, improving FY15 will be another exciting and challenging year as we over our FY09 baseline in all seven of the environmental continue to evolve and enhance our longer-term sustainability indicators we have been tracking throughout this period. strategy. We will continue to work with our clients, our We are dedicated to balanced and transparent reporting, suppliers and all of our stakeholders on sustainability highlighting not only our successes but also the challenges ­issues that matter most to them. In the coming year, we that we face and areas where we can continue to improve. We will d ­ evelop and publish new sustainability goals through have made a lot of progress over the years, but as expec2020 and beyond. tations continue to rise, we must continue to raise the bar. We would like to express our appreciation to the thought This year, we have included for the first time in our report leaders who serve on our independent Sustainability a materiality analysis developed in conjunction with leading Council for their invaluable feedback. To reinforce our sustainability think tank Forum for the Future. The materialsustainability governance and geographic reach, we ity analysis helps us recognize and assess existing and ­welcomed two new members to our Council this year, emerging sustainability issues early on and helps inform Dr. Rodney Irwin and Dr. Dajian Zhu. our long-term sustainability strategy. We additionally thank you for your interest in our journey of In the past year, we have joined the World Business Council sustainability. We hope that you find this report engaging for Sustainable Development, and we continue to collaborate and informative and that you will gain a real sense of the with a number of leading partners, including academic progress we are making. ­institutions, governments, NGOs, customers and communities around the world to help maximize the impact of Most important, we are an organization of 6,300 colleagues our efforts through shared learning. We actively support around the world. We recognize that our people are at the the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the CEO heart of our company and thank them genuinely for their Water Mandate elements and the Women’s ­Empowerment passion, talent and integrity. Principles. We are inspired to build on our heritage and to reach During the period this report covers, we also worked with new heights as we continue our journey, preparing for three leading academic institutions – the Wharton School generations to come. of the University of Pennsylvania, IMD and the University of St. Gallen – on the preparation of case studies that examine Yves Boisdron Patrick Firmenich several unique aspects of Firmenich’s sustainability journey. Chairman of the Board CEO As these teaching instruments are utilized, we hope that our experience will positively inform the decisions of ­tomorrow’s business leaders. Increasingly, we’ve found that great people want to work for companies that are committed to sound principles of sustainability. Attracting talented people who share our passion for sustainability is important for our future success, and new talent brings with it new ideas that help us to continually improve. Firmenich | 1 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability at Firmenich • • Reduce water usage rate by 15% Power 90% of our manufacturing sites in part with renewable energy Firmenich is the world’s largest privately owned company in the flavor and fragrance • Review and rank 400 key ingredients through our Sustainability Index industry. Founded in 1895, and headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, Firmenich has created • Complete sustainable natural ingredient many of the best-known perfumes and flavors sourcing projects in eight countries enjoyed around the world every day. Our • Impact the lives of one million children passion for smell and taste, and a commitment through improved nutrition and hygiene to our clients, lie at the heart of our success. In 2010, we created a model, the “3G” (for Throughout our history, the principles of susGovernance, Green and Growth), that conceptainability have always been a strong focus for tualized our approach, helped us visualize the Firmenich: as early as 1991, Firmenich signed breadth and the depth of our sustainability the International Chamber of Commerce actions and illustrated the important connecBusiness Charter for Sustainable Development. tions between the three platforms. In 2014, In 2010, we developed a companywide strategic as our sustainability strategy became more plan, Embrace 2015, that covered all divisions integrated into our business, we added a fourth and set seven sustainability goals for 2015: platform, “Groups,” to reflect our engagement with our people, communities and many • Improve our industry-leading safety stakeholders within our value chain. This new performance by 50% 4G framework better encompasses our • Reduce CO2 emissions in absolute terms ­sustainability strategy, focusing on: by 15% GOVERNANCE GREEN GROWTH GROUPS Leveraging Our Reducing Creating Embracing Our People Independence Our Footprint Sustainable Products and Communities As a family company Firmenich aims to maxiFirmenich invests 10% Firmenich’s family values with strong values mize performance while of its revenue in R&D recognize the imporand fundamentals, using resources more every year, to maintain tance of our people Firmenich sets goals efficiently, and minimize our position as the lead and the communities and standards well our environmental supplier of unique ingrewithin our value chain. ­beyond compliance lev­impact by: dients, and to concenFirmenich focuses on: els for: trate on: • Reducing our waste, • Partnering with experts • Health and safety water and energy • Product biodegradability • Engaging our people • Quality impact • Green chemistry • Philanthropy and • Regulatory • Measuring and de• Responsible sourcing community work and compliance creasing the environmental impact of key • Stakeholder ingredients engagement • Sharing best practices Please see www.firmenich.com for more information about Firmenich 2 | Firmenich RUSSELL JAMES PHOTOGRAPHER INTRODUCTION 1 CEO Message 1 Sustainability Strategy 2 Materiality Analysis 4 GOVERNANCE 6 Our Fundamentals 8 Health and Safety 9 Quality Performance 11 Stakeholder Engagement 12 Going beyond Compliance 13 Awards 14 Renowned art and fashion photographer ­Russell James’ beautiful images are featured throughout this report. His dream-like photos GREEN 16 often combine various natural elements together, Our Environmental Performance 18 drawing inspiration from the open landscapes Environmental Sustainability Index 22 of his native Australia, its extraordinary light and rich culture. His images have been featured Environmental Case Studies 23 worldwide, in leading art galleries, Vogue, Highlights of Our Global W, American Photo and a variety of art books. Environmental Sustainability Efforts 26 James created Nomad Two Worlds in 2009, a collaborative art project with indigenous artists GROWTH 28 that has evolved into a culturally relevant Responsible Sourcing 30 ­contemporary art and “meaningful luxury” consumer products company whose mission is Sustainable Products and to provide sustainable economic opportunities Strategy in Our Perfumery Division 34 for the marginalized artisans and communities Sustainable Products and they partner with. Strategy in Our Flavor Division 37 In October 2012, Nomad Two Worlds released Product Safety 40 its first fragrance, “Raw Spirit, Fire Tree,” made Product Biodegradability 40 in collaboration with key members of the Innovation and R&D: Nyoongar community of Western Australia. Since Leading in Catalytic Chemistry and Biotechnology 41 October 2013, four new “Raw Spirit” fragrances, created by Firmenich Master Perfumer Harry Fremont, have been introduced as part of GROUPS 42 Nomad Two Worlds and Firmenich’s commitOur Sustainability Partners 44 ment to the Clinton Global Initiative to develop 10 fragrances in cooperation with Indigenous Partnering with Stakeholders 45 and marginalized communities in Haiti, the Engaging Our People 51 Amazon, Australia and the United States. Touching Hearts and Minds 54 Cover description: ”Breathtaking Haitian landscape, actually taken by my About This Report 56 photo assistants at the time, on a quiet and foggy morning External Verification 57 Our Performance in Numbers 58 from the Citadelle, UNESCO World Heritage Site and the largest fortress in the Western Hemisphere.” Russell James GRI Index Table 60 Photo credit: Murray Hall and Paola Ambrosi De Magistris Validations 61 for Studio Russell James Firmenich | 3 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The Global Reporting Initiative identifies material Firmenich conducted in-depth interviews with topics as “topics that have a direct or indirect company personnel, global business partners, impact on an organization’s ability to create, clients and external experts in critical areas preserve or erode economic, environmental such as chemistry, nutrition, global health and social value for itself, its stakeholders and and regulatory affairs. Forum for the Future society at large.” In FY14, Firmenich worked analyzed the interviews and conducted additional in partnership with Forum for the F ­ uture to research to identify relevant material factors. conduct a materiality assessment for its busiSelected factors were further evaluated by a ness. This exercise helped us identify the susmulti-stakeholder workshop and a review tainability issues most material to Firmenich committee to verify their overall materiality and its stakeholders, and serves to help inform and their relative importance to Firmenich our sustainability strategy in the future. and external stakeholders. These factors are presented in the matrix below. Product safety and quality Supply chain transparency Product regulation Community relations Raw material availability Water stewardship Ethical sourcing Importance to stakeholders Embedding sustainability Client/consumer Waste minimization expectations into our business GHG emissions Health and nutrition Energy efficiency High-growth markets Loss of Innovation biodiversity Health and safety Global hygiene and sanitation Business resilience Employee engagement and retention Gender diversity Relevance to Firmenich More information on materiality can be found at www.globalreporting.org 4 | Firmenich Our Fragrance Development Managers collaborate with our Perfumers and our clients on scents that will delight consumers. (Xiaodan Yin, Fragrance Development Manager) © Anaël Dang Firmenich | 5 GOVERNANCE GREEN GROWTH GROUPS Leveraging Our Independence “At dawn, on a deserted beach in Sardinia stretching for miles, our footprint in the sand, soon to be erased by the mounting tide, reminds us that our impact on nature should be as fleeting as our imprints on this beach.” Russell James AS A SIGNATORY OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT, we are committed to transparent and balanced reporting that highlights our successes, challenges and areas of improvement OUR FUNDAMENTALS “Our Fundamentals guide our every action, enabling us to remain true to ourselves and make a difference in an ever-changing world.“ Patrick Firmenich CEO CLIENTS ·  We listen to our clients and transform their ambitions into reality. We fragrance and flavor · We anticipate consumer desires, continually ­reinventing the world of smell and taste. our clients’ products for ·  We deliver the winning combination of products, our mutual success. service and value for money, placing authority and accountability close to our clients. PEOPLE · We create an environment in which each employee is valued, empowered and People are the heart of our ­encouraged to grow. ·  We value the diversity and commit­ment of our Company. They are recognized people, enabling us to shape our future with for their passion, talent and confidence and imagination. ·  We unite the finest talents and encourage an integrity. ­entrepreneurial team spirit to attain our strategic goals. CREATIVITY ·  We create fragrances and flavors that inspire our clients and consu­mers worldwide. Creativity is our essence. · We lead our industry in research & innovation, ­capturing break­through ideas around the world. · We constantly strive to discover new ways to improve all that we do. SUSTAINABILITY ·  We strictly maintain the highest level of personal i­ntegrity and ethical values. Our sense of individual and ·  We practice a sustainable business model for the well-being of present and future generations. collective respon­sibility ·  We adopt the strictest international standards ensures our long-term success. on quality, safety and the environment. INDEPENDENCE · We are a family-owned company, committed to our independence. Our independence gives us the · We take a long-term view of our business. · We pursue a policy of financial strength, freedom to control our destiny. profitable growth and return on assets. 8 | Firmenich HEALTH & SAFETY Our Performance In FY14, we achieved an improvement in our health and safety performance for the ninth consecutive year, with a Total Recordable Case (TRC) rate of 0.27, an improvement of 37% over FY13 (0.43). This is our strongest recorded reduction, representing a 79% improvement against our five-year rolling baseline (FY09–FY14). Lost Time Case (LTC) rates also improved by 36%, from 0.14 in FY13 to 0.09 in FY14 (an 81% improvement against FY09). Over half of our manufacturing sites (13 out of 25) remained TRC-free during FY14, and three quarters (19 out of 25) remained LTC-free. TRC RATE * LTC RATE ** Rates per 200,000 exposure hours Rates per 200,000 exposure hours * TRC Rate = Total Recordable Cases per 200,000 exposure hours. 1.28 0.48 (This is the sum of Lost Time Cases + Restricted Work Cases + FY 09 79 % FY 09 81 % Medical Treatments, which are either work-related injuries or illnesses). Data is for full-time permanent and temporary ­e mployees (supervised contractors). 0.27 IMPROVED 0.09 IMPROVED ** LTC Rate = Lost Time Cases per 200,000 exposure hours (a recordable work-related injury or illness that results in time FY 14 FY 14 away from work of greater than one day or one shift following the day of the incident). Data is for full-time permanent and temporary employees (supervised contractors). Each year, we revalidate our data, making any necessary corrections retrospectively and reporting the corrections. Total Health, Safety and Environment Firmenich significantly increased its capital Capital Spending (KCHF) spending on health, safety, environment and sustainability during the past year. 30,000 Overall, CHF 27 million was spent, a 51% 25,000 increase from last year and a 43% increase 20,000 from the previous five-year average. 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 FY09 F Y10 F Y 11 F Y 12 F Y 13 F Y14 Projects to Improve Health Shanghai, China: Installed advanced LEV, along with an advanced technology thermal and Safety (H&S) oxidation system to control internal air quality, odor and external emissions to air. Examples of FY14 projects to improve workCastets, France; Shanghai, China; Princeton, place H&S include: New Jersey and St. Louis, Missouri, U.S.: Improved fire-detection equipment and sprinkler systems in four manufacturing sites. Ålesund, Norway; Geneva, Switzerland; Princeton, New Jersey and Anaheim, California, U.S.: Installed automatic bag filling and unloading systems and other equipment to improve ergonomics. Geneva, Switzerland; Lakeland, Florida and Newark, New Jersey, U.S.: Improved local exhaust ventilation (LEV) for volatiles and powders to control exposure potential. Firmenich | 9 Managing Industrial Trucks Industrial trucks are essential tools in the manufacturing environment, but they present a challenge as they travel with considerable momentum. Firmenich has introduced more rigorous controls at several sites in the U.S., Brazil, Switzerland and China, including permanent safety barriers and swing-arm gates on busy routes; speed limiters; rerouting and one-way traffic systems; and behavioral safety systems where trucks slow or stop near pedestrians. New ingredients plant Update on the Occupational Hygiene in Kunming, China, (to be completed in FY15) Health & Safety Case Studies Monitoring Program In FY14, Firmenich’s air quality and personal Construction Safety in China and Indonesia exposure monitoring project (first reported in Construction projects require a high degree FY13) was extended globally. Evaluations were of safety control due to the presence of many carried out in nine manufacturing sites (in India, high hazard activities. Dangers to workers can Latin America and Asia) and two laboratories include heavy vehicles, excavation processes, in Geneva. A total of 535 additional personal potential falls, moving equipment, manual exposure samples were analyzed for 92 difhandling, noise and chemicals. Despite these ferent volatile organic compounds (VOCs), as ever present hazards, the construction projects well as powder/dust exposure. Since project for the new ingredients plant in Kunming, China, inception, more than 1,000 exposure samples and the flavor site in Karawang, Indonesia, have have been tested (almost a third of the total exemplary safety records. In both projects, potentially exposed workforce). challenges were addressed through rigorous The samples were compared against national contractor training, strict safety rules, daily Occupational Exposure Limits (OELs) and inspections, regular safety meetings, safety ­Derived No Effect Levels (DNELs), using the audits and recognition programs for good most conservative value for comparison. More practices. The Kunming project (to be comthan 95% of samples analyzed were found to pleted in FY15) has now exceeded 900,000 be below 10% of the accepted OEL/DNEL limit, man-hours without a Lost Time Case (LTC); which is generally considered safe. Where and the Karawang project (now finished) samples exceeded the 10% threshold, action achieved 500,000 worker hours without a plans will be established to further improve single recordable accident. local air quality. In parallel, occupational health audits were undertaken at our sites to evaluate performance in Occupational Health and ­Hygiene. Eleven audits were completed in FY14. Update on Hazardous Area Classification In 2014, Firmenich expanded the third-party auditing program of the hazardous area zoning in our manufacturing facilities, which was started in 2012. This zoning aims to manage ignition sources in areas where flammable liquids are processed, to prevent fire and ­explosions. Six audits were successfully ­completed in four geographic regions, and ­auditors’ recommendations are in the process of being implemented. Safety barrier, California, U.S., 2014 10 | Firmenich QUALITY PERFORMANCE Firmenich has a long history of outstanding A variety of different programs have contribproduct quality. During the two past years, uted to these overall performance improveconsiderable efforts have been made to ments including: further improve product quality in all of our • QI6 Program in Flavors manufacturing sites. We have seen an overall Focused effort including audits, root cause annual improvement of 6.7% in our product analyses and development of corrective quality (FY14 CQI at 1.66 vs. FY13 CQI at 1.78). ­actions to address the most common and important quality problems at the six largest flavor manufacturing sites. CQI* : • QC Sensory Skills Program (Flavors and Perfumes) Customer Quality Index Comprehensive initiative to raise the quali6.7 % fications and competence of our quality control evaluation teams. IMPROVED • Customer-Focused Initiatives Collaboration with selected customers to create greater alignment with analytical and 1.78 sensory methods, product specifications FY 13 1.66 and to review customer expectations. FY 14 • Capital Investments Investment of more than CHF 2.10 million ­ in FY14 to improve ­analytical capabilities. • Incident Investigation and Root-Cause Analysis Application of the new investigation and * Note; This data shows the total number of non-conformances per thousand sales order lines shipped. root-cause analysis procedures (see below) and development of comprehensive programs to prevent the recurrence of common issues. Incident Investigation and Root-Cause Analysis Our management and employees have long been diligent in reporting, investigating and addressing Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental (QHSE) incidents, but a recent review of “repeat” problems suggested that in some cases we could further investigate to uncover the root cause(s). Therefore, in FY14 we developed a more rigorous investigation process for all QHSE incidents. This continuous improvement tool comprises a new, more comprehensive incident investigation and root-cause analysis procedure to help identify causal factors and associated root causes. Core to this approach is the development of a Causal Factor Chart to determine the correct sequence of events leading up to the incident. It allows investigators to more thoroughly review the evidence to identify intermediate or technical causes, which leads to the true root cause of the incident. We have also developed new training tools and courses as well as a common database to improve the effectiveness, quality and consistency of investigations allowing easier identification of the root cause of every problem, and helping prevent their re-occurrence. Training in the new procedures and systems has already started in the U.S. and will be rolled out globally in all divisions in FY15. Firmenich | 11 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sustainability Council About 175 supplier sites are now registered on the SEDEX platform. In FY15, we will set comprehensive Members of the Firmenich Sustainatargets for supplier registration and bility Council are amongst our key will use the SEDEX website to track sustainability stakeholders. Created and communicate our own and in 2007, the Sustainability Council suppliers’ progress. comprises long-tenured members with extensive sustainability backEcoVadis grounds. The Sustainability Council EcoVadis is a collaborative platform acts as a sounding board for Firmenich, that allows companies with global monitoring emerging sustainability supply chains to measure and report trends and assessing our sustainability their sustainability performance. We strategy. In February 2014, our Susstarted using EcoVadis in 2009 to better tainability Council meeting in Geneva track our performance, improve our was joined by Firmenich CEO, Patrick sustainability programs and commuFirmenich, and members of his execnicate our commitment to a more Firmenich Sustainability Council utive team. Firmenich teams presented sustainable supply chain. Meeting 2014 our sustainability update and most From left to right, bottom to top: recent achievements on sanitation, Sharing Our Values with Suppliers Dr. Rodney Irwin (WBCSD), Stephanie Draper and later exchanged with the Council Firmenich hosted our fourth annual (Forum for the Future), Patrick Firmenich on sustainability performance indicasupplier summit in FY14. Our top (CEO, Firmenich), Dr. Aileen Ionescu-Somers ­executives met with strategic suppliers (IMD), Dr. Dajian Zhu (Tongji University), tors and materiality analysis. At this Guillaume Taylor (Quadia), Manoj Kumar meeting, we welcomed two new Council and communicated our ­updated (Naandi Foundation), Johanna Levy members: Dr. Dajian Zhu, Professor ­requirements, including product-­ (Firmenich), David Shipman (Firmenich), in the School of Economics & Manspecific lifecycle data on the materials Dr. Bérangère Magarinos-Ruchat agement, Head of Department of Public we purchase. This data is included (Firmenich), Neil McFarlane (Firmenich), in our Sustainability Index (see page Johan Firmenich (Firmenich). Policy and Management, and Director Not pictured: Marc Pfitzer (FSG) of Institute of Governance for Sustain22). In total, close to 40 suppliers able Development at Tongji University have been asked to provide productin Shanghai, who is helping us better specific data and, in the longer term, capture the fast-growing interest in we intend to engage suppliers in a sustainability in China; and Dr. Rodney continuous improvement program Irwin, Director of Reporting and Investthat will reduce the environmental ment at the World Business Council footprint of our products. for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), who will guide us toward more effective reporting practices. Ensuring an Ethical Our Two New Council Members Supply Chain Dr. Rodney Irwin, Director of Reporting SEDEX The Supplier Ethical Data and Investment, WBCSD, and Dr. Dajian Zhu, Professor in the School of Economics Firmenich has been a member of the Exchange (SEDEX) & Management, Head of Department of Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) SEDEX is a nonprofit memberPublic Policy and Management, and since 2008. In 2014, Firmenich started ship organization dedicated to Director of Institute of Governance to collect and analyze ethical data for Sustainable Development, Tongji driving improvements in respon(labor standards, health and safety, sible and ethical business pracUniversity, Shanghai environmental performance and tices in global supply chains. business ethics) from suppliers through SEDEX in addition to reporting SEDEX provides an electronic our own ethical performance. This system for collecting and anadata, combined with SEDEX risklyzing information on ethical assessment tools and our supplier and responsible business prac­risk-assessment protocols, helps the tices in the supply chain. company prioritize supplier audits. 12 | Firmenich GOING BEYOND COMPLIANCE Our Code of Conduct IN 2008, The Firmenich Code of Conduct is designed to WE LAUNCHED OUR help our employees make ethical decisions in their day-to-day work within the company. It CODE OF CONDUCT clearly delineates what is expected of all of us at Firmenich, is based on our Fundamentals and covers ethical points, such as conflicts of interest, antitrust, harassment, confidentiality, governance and political and community activities. Our employees’ adherence to our Code of Conduct has ensured that Firmenich has had no legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust or monopoly practices at any time in our history, and no monetary fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance in these areas. Our Global Trade Compliance Project Globalization has increased trading opportunities around the world, leading to a higher number of national and regional trade control laws. Penalties for noncompliance can be serious and include blocked or confiscated shipments, surcharges, fines, suspended trade licenses and even imprisonment. In FY14, Firmenich established the Global Trade Compliance, an internal project with the purpose of: • Improving our understanding of the complex framework of regulations • Ensuring compliance with restrictions and trade controls • Verifying that we provide correct information and documentation • Paying the correct duty and taxes on goods • Improving the flow of raw materials and finished products around the world © Anaël Dang Our Code of Conduct can be found at www.firmenich.com Firmenich | 13 AWARDS Firmenich Became a Charter Member of the Campbell Institute As the 2012 winner of the Robert W. Campbell Award for Business Excellence through Environment, Health and Safety Management, Firmenich has been recognized for building and sustaining a successful organization with Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) at the core, and participates in collaborative initiatives with the Campbell Institute to promote EHS efforts around the world. Our company joined together with other leading companies by becoming a Founding Charter Member of the Campbell Institute and by entering the 2013 British-Swiss Chamber Institute’s Advisory Committee. Firmenich of Commerce Award was honored to present CEO Ellen J. Kullman Firmenich won the 2013 British-Swiss Chamber of DuPont the 2013 Robert Campbell Award. of Commerce Corporate Social Responsibility Firmenich Indonesia Wins the Award for its contribution to business in the Jean-Marc Bruel Award for Health, United Kingdom and Switzerland. The judges Safety and Environmental Excellence highlighted Firmenich’s innovative work on Our manufacturing sites in Karawang and products of natural origin and the company’s Cileungsi were awarded the Jean-Marc Bruel business model, which consistently focuses Award for Health, Safety and Environmental on social issues and increasingly involves Excellence in 2013, in recognition of their alternative energy. dedication to safety and their outstanding performance in an emerging economy. Other Awards Firmenich’s environmental, health and safety performance was recognized during FY14: Port Newark, New Jersey, U.S. Anaheim, California, U.S. Commissioner’s Continued Excellence Award • City of Anaheim Green Business of the for accumulating consecutive hours of work Year Award without a Lost Time Injury from January 18, • Million Work Hours Award (for one million 2006, until December 31, 2013. hours without a Lost Time Injury) New Ulm, Minnesota, U.S. • Exceptional Safety Performance Award OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP) (celebrating above-average performance) Safety Award recognizing successful job-related injury and illness prevention. Princeton, New Jersey, U.S. New Jersey Business Industry Association (NJBIA) 2013 Award for Excellence in Environmental Quality highlighting Firmenich’s work on renewable energy and carbon reduction. 14 | Firmenich Our Flavorists and Laboratory Managers test our new product innovations. (Debbie Lu, Application Laboratory Manager, Savory) © Anaël Dang Firmenich | 15 GOVERNANCE GREEN GROWTH GROUPS Reducing Our Footprint “These pebbles, shot on a Haitian beach, remind me of the river stones used and hand-carved by Haitian artisans into unique, exquisite heart-shaped paperweights.” Russell James 16 | Firmenich OUR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX will help us better communicate ingredient and product environmental performance to our customers and identify where and how impact reductions can be made Firmenich | 17 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 36% APPROXIMATELY 36% OF THE TOTAL ELECTRICITY USED IN OUR MANUFACTURING NOW COMES FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES In FY14, improvements were made in all seven environmental performance indicators reported when compared with a rolling five-year baseline. Compared with FY13, we also improved our environmental performance in seven of the eight indicators reported. FY13 FY14 Annual Change (%) FY09 vs. FY14 Change (%) * Note Hazardous Waste (kg/t) Total Energy Use (GJ/t) 11.3 10.0 -11.5% -7.4% for FY13 excludes the “one-off” hazardous waste generated by Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Emissions (Kg/t) 822 713 -13.3% -4.7% the December 2012 fire at our warehouse in Argentina, as VOC (Kg/t) 1.3 1.2 -7.7% -40.0% these are considered excepTotal Water Use (m3/t) 23.8 23.0 -3.4% -18.7% tional (data is however repor­ted in the absolute ­hazardous Process Water Use (m3/t) 7.5 7.4 -1.3% -23.7% waste figures on page 58 at the end of the report). Hazardous Waste * (Kg/t) 79.4 80.2 +1.0% -7.1% **T his indicator was first introWaste to Energy ** (%) 32.3 32.9 +1.9% N/A duced in 2011 Waste to Landfill (%) 8.3 7.8 -6.0% -23.5% These improvements bring us closer to meetOur FY14 Scope 3 (indirect) greenhouse gas ing the environmental, strategic sustainability emissions are shown, for selected relevant goals we set for 2015. However, some of the categories, below: changes are small and illustrate how difficult it is to achieve continuous year-on-year imScope 3: Relevant Indirect Greenhouse provement as we approach our ambitious and Gas Emissions aggressive targets. Some of the innovative projects implemented in FY14 to improve our FY14 environmental performance are described in CO2e Tonnes1 detail in the Environmental Case Study section of this report (see page 23). All Purchased Raw Materials Used ­­ 416,256 in Products Manufactured by Firmenich 1 CO 2 e is based on CO 2 , N 2 O, CH 4 Total Energy Use and Carbon Dioxide (CO2e) emission data Transportation of Sold Goods 40,1842 Emissions 2 Based on purchase data for Total energy use has decreased by 11.5% Waste Generated in Operations 10,0203 transportation against FY13, and by 7.4% against the five-year Business Travel 5,3214 82% of total waste mass rolling baseline (FY09 vs. FY14). Scope 1 & 2 3 accounted for Employee Commuting 30,0835 CO2 emissions have also declined by 13.3% 4 Based on business air travel only and 4.7% against FY13 and FY09 (rolling ­­­fiveTotal Reported Scope 3 Emissions 501,864 5 Based on the number of year) baselines, respectively. ­e mployees and on average travel distance Our total reported Scope 3 emissions for FY14 were 501,864 tonnes CO2e. This is almost 3.7 times greater than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined. Upstream emissions, from purchased goods, account for almost 80% of this total. We will seek ways to influence our suppliers to help reduce this component of our overall carbon footprint. We will also further evaluate our Scope 3 emissions in the coming years to improve the Electric car charging accuracy of reporting, and better understand station at one of our which other categories are most relevant to Geneva sites (2014) report, where impacts are highest and which are most suitable to target for improvement. 18 | Firmenich Energy use and emission reductions have been achieved through a range of measures, including: • Renewable energy generation projects: In FY14, we implemented five new solar-power 100% projects (in China, Colombia, India, Mexico and the U.S.; see Highlights of Our Global Environmental Sustainability Efforts, page 26). To date, we have implemented a total of OF OUR MANUFACTURING 23 projects, including 14 photovoltaic projects, FACILITIES EITHER GENERATED three solar lighting projects and six solar RENEWABLE ENERGY OR water-heating projects. 68% (17 out of 25) PURCHASED ELECTRICITY THAT of our manufacturing sites now generate ­renewable solar energy. INCLUDED A RENEWABLE ENERGY COMPONENT • Purchase of renewable energy: 21 out of 25 (84%) of our manufacturing sites have a renewable energy component in the electricity they source. Approximately 36% of the total electricity used in our manufacturing now comes from renewable sources. Solar panels in Castets, France (2014) • Energy reduction projects: In FY14, we implemented energy/CO2 reduction projects (in Belgium, China, India, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the U.S.; see Highlights CDP works to disclose the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of of Our Global Environmental Sustainability major corporations. CDP reviews the range and quality of data Efforts, page 26). These initiatives include heat reported and awards a Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index recovery projects, electrical efficiency improve(CDLI) score. This indicates the scope, quality and completeness ment projects, use of ­variable-­frequency of reporting. Companies are also assessed and ranked in a drive motors on utility equipment, installation of LED lighting and installation of electrical performance band that takes account of reported actions that power charging points for green vehicles. contribute to climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency (performance scores are expressed as bands A, A-, All of our manufacturing facilities either B, C, D, E, with A as the highest possible score). ­generated renewable energy on-site or purchased electricity that included a renewable energy component, from external power ­generation companies. In 2014 alone, we spent more than CHF 2.5 million on energy efficiency and renewable energy generation The average CDP supply chain leadership projects. Together these projects reduced ­collaboration performance band in 2013 was C. CO 2 emissions by an estimated 3,500 tonnes Additionally, in FY14 we started including water during the year. We will continue to work on and supply chain reporting as part of our driving our energy consumption and CO 2 commitment to CDP. emissions down through renewable energy and energy conservation initiatives. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Based on a five-year rolling baseline, VOC CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) emissions have been reduced by 40%, a conFirmenich participates in the CDP Supply Chain siderable improvement compared with FY09. Leadership Collaboration program. This is the VOC emissions in FY14 also improved 7.7% sixth year that Firmenich has reported Scope 1 when compared to the previous year. During and Scope 2 CO2 emissions with the CDP and this period we implemented a number of indithe first year that we have reported selected vidual projects to reduce these emissions. See Scope 3 emissions (see page 18 for details). the China RTO and Concentrator case study In FY13*, Firmenich scored 76 on disclosure, up (page 23) and the Highlights of Our Global from 74 in FY12 (the average CDP supply chain ­Environmental S ­ ustainability Efforts (page 26). leadership collaboration score in 2013 was 49). In FY13, Firmenich’s performance band also improved to B (from performance band D in 2012). * Note: Because the reporting cycle for CDP is out of sync with the publication of the Firmenich Sustainability Report, Firmenich is More information can be found at www.cdp.net only able to publish its CDP score for the year prior to publication. Firmenich | 19 40% REDUCTION IN VOCs SINCE FY09 Water Use As a consequence of these and other efforts we Our Process water usage fell significantly (23.7%) anticipate meeting our 2015 Strategic Sustainin FY14 when compared to the FY09 five-year ability Goal of reducing the water usage rate by rolling baseline. The annual improvement over 15% (against a 2010 baseline). We will continue FY13 is 1.3%. A focus on process water use is to update our water sensitivity analysis and will important to Firmenich, as reducing it can use it to inform water reduction initiatives have a significant positive impact on the manwhen we establish our new environmental agement of critical water resources in catchment ­objectives from FY15 onwards. areas. As our process water can ultimately ­become effluent that needs to be treated, Waste ­reductions can also have a positive impact on Hazardous waste disposal decreased by 7.1% the receiving environment (effluent generated when compared against FY09 (five-year rolling per kilo of production reduced by 1.2% in FY14 baseline), but increased slightly by 1.0% when when compared to FY13). Our total water usage compared with FY13. This is despite initiatives rate (including process water, non-contact to recycle and reuse hazardous wastes (see ­cooling water, which is returned, within legally page 24). Wastes diverted to energy increased permitted limits, at a slightly higher temperaby 1.9% in FY14 compared with FY13 (no data ture and with little or no impact to the environwas obtained in FY09, so the five-year rolling ment, and domestic water), also improved baseline comparison cannot be made). Waste when compared to both the five-year rolling to landfill decreased by 6% compared with baseline (18.7% reduction) and prior year FY13 FY13, and by 23.5% compared with FY09. (3.4% reduction). During the last five years, 29.6% of the total waste stream was recycled. In FY14, we also undertook a water sensitivity analysis to help us understand our water use Scorecards in the context of water availability and other In FY14, Firmenich embarked on a second associated risks relating to water stress. year of its environmental scorecard initiative, encouraging environmental improvement from Our site in Shanghai, China, is identified in our our largest suppliers. The scorecards help us water sensitivity analysis as having a “High collate and evaluate environmental performance Baseline Water Stress,” which is predicted to data, including energy used, waste produced, become “Severely More Stressed” by 2025. water used and GHG emissions. Additional Site management is aware of the issue and questions cover improvement projects, fines has e­ stablished water conservation as a high and management systems. priority. The site has improved water metering to better evaluate water ­consumption throughout. This year, more than 30 scorecards were As a result, several areas were identified where ­received from suppliers and analyzed. In FY13, significant losses were occurring and immediate the performance evaluation was based mainly remedial work undertaken. Other water saving on the completeness of the environmental initiatives, implemented in recent years, have Core Measure information. This year, scores included installation of high pressure cleanincorporated additional reporting factors, such in-­place (CIP) systems that have been shown as the scope of reporting and the inclusion of to reduce cleaning water consumption by 80%; information for optional measures. In FY15, the as well as improvements to spray drier cooling scoring will include progress achieved in the water controls, which are estimated to reduce reported measures as well as management total spray drier water consumption (cooling, and improvement factors, such as sustainability process and building sanitary water) by 23% initiatives, implementation of an Environmental (approximately 1,800 m 3 per year). The site Management System and data protocol. continues to monitor water use to confirm that Update on Certifications savings are sustainable and will present more As part of our ongoing commitment to certify quantified performance data in the coming years. all of our manufacturing sites against OHSAS In FY14, several other sites in Switzerland, 18001 and ISO 14001 by 2015, our site in Anaheim, France, Brazil and the U.S. also implemented California, has recently been certified to both water use-reduction projects (see the Highlights standards. We have now achieved 43 out of the of Our Global Environmental Sustainability 50 certifications expected by FY15 and the Efforts, page 26, and the Brazil Water Saving company intends for all remaining sites to be Case Study, page 23). certified within the next year. 20 | Firmenich Energy 10.8 GJ/t of production FY 09 10.0 FY 14 7.4 % REDUCTION FROM FY09 TO FY14 Others* Coal Oil Natural Electricity Total Others* Coal Oil Natural Electricity Total gas gas * (Purchased Steam, LPG, Renewable Generated Onsite, Incinerating Waste, Biofuel (wood), Indirect Heat Purchased) CO2 CO2 Emissions VOC 2.0 kg/t of production Emissions kg/t of production FY 09 40 % 1.2 4.7 % REDUCTION 748 713 FY 14 FROM FY09 TO FY14 FY 09 FY 14 REDUCTION FROM FY09 TO FY14 Recycled 12,653 Scope 1 Scope 2 Waste Tonnes FY 09 9,581 FY 14 29.6 % PROPORTION OF TOTAL WASTE Hazardous Waste RECYCLED OVER THE LAST 5 YEARS kg/t of production 7.1 % Total Water 28.3 86.3 FY 09 80.2 REDUCTION FROM Usage m3/t of production FY 09 23.0 FY 14 18.7% FY09 TO FY14 REDUCTION FY 14 FROM FY09 TO FY14 NC cooling ** Process Domestic * * Domestic = sanitary + gardening ** NC -cooling = noncontact cooling water defined as water that is used in heat exchangers and does not contact materials from the process that it is used to cool. Since it does not contact process materials, the cooling water does not become contaminated during use. After use, the water is returned to the sources (e.g., lake, river) from which it was obtained. Firmenich | 21 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX FIRMENICH CURRENTLY WORKS GENERATED WITH SUFFICIENT DATA 39 SUPPLIERS 63% FOR ON THE INDEX OF A TYPICAL PERFUMERY COMPOUND © Anaël Dang data for 93 of the internally produced ingrediThe Firmenich Environmental Sustainability Index ents reported in FY13 to further improve data The Firmenich Environmental Sustainability Index is a pragmatic consistency and quality. We are also working with 39 suppliers to obtain data for an addimethod of modeling, measuring and reporting a range of important tional 210 externally sourced raw m­ aterials. environmental indicators associated with the sourcing, manufacturing Currently, we have sufficient data to calculate use and disposal of fragrance and flavor ingredients. It helps index values for 63% (by volume) of a typical identify which life cycle stages and impact areas are most important, Firmenich perfumery compound. and allows different ingredient scores to be compared. An index score of “1” means that the production of one metric ton of the The scope of the index has also been extended ingredient has the same impact on the environment as an to natural ingredients and now includes impacts arising from the use of non-biogenic carbon average global citizen in one year. molecules in the calculation of climate change impacts. As a potential next step, we will consider how to use individual ingredient data to better model and report on index values for This year, we built on the work of previous our final compounded products. Ultimately, years and incorporated comments and advice this work will help us better communicate from the external critical review panel that took ­ingredient and product environmental perforplace in FY13 to further refine and extend the mance to our customers and identify where scope of the Index. This included re-analyzing and how impact reductions can be made. 22 | Firmenich ENVIRONMENTAL CASE STUDIES 1,550 ESTIMATED ANNUAL REDUCTION IN TONNES OF CO2 IN THE COMING YEARS AT OUR THIRSK, UK, PLANT São Paulo, Brazil Shanghai, China Reducing Water Consumption First Flavor and Fragrance Company to Use Our perfumery plant in Brazil reduced water Concentrator and RTO Technology in China consumption in manufacturing, laboratories In FY14, Firmenich invested approximately and hygiene areas through measures including CHF 6.0 million to upgrade the ventilation water flow reducers; trigger-operated highsystems to improve air quality in manufacturing pressure nozzles, movement sensors for hand and a ­ ssociated warehouse areas. The project wash basins, a steam pressure washer and a has just been completed, and the commissioning lock for the water valve. This reduced water data shows that air quality and odor control wasted during cleaning operations when taps have considerably improved. and valves were left on and water flows were unrestricted. This simple and low-cost project Geneva, Switzerland epitomizes water and energy-saving projects Solvent Recovery Reduces Raw Materials being implemented around the world by relying and Wastes as much on behavioral change as on technology. In FY14, our ingredients plant in Geneva implemented a project to re-use and recycle more Waste Recycling than 70% of a waste generated from an existTwo waste streams from our São Paulo site in ing process. The waste was previously sent off Brazil, which could be sent for incineration or site for incineration. This project reduces the landfill, are diverted for composting and used consumption of raw materials and generation to make organic fertilizers. The waste comprises of waste and creates fiscal savings. Other plant biomass and sugar, flour and flavor. ­benefits include a reduction in transport by Through composting, we minimize emissions ­external tanker deliveries and internal to air, soil and groundwater (from incineration ­movements of industrial trucks. and landfill). A total of 1,677 tonnes of waste (57% of total wastes produced) were diverted to composting in FY14. Thirsk, UK Energy Reduction In FY14, several new energy projects were implemented at our flavors plant in Thirsk to help reduce CO2 emissions and improve the site’s competiveness and profitability. Capital investment projects were implemented to convert fuels used in manufacturing processes from Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) and oil to natural gas, thus reducing energy costs and CO2 emissions. Simultaneously, several operational efficiency changes substantially reduced energy and CO2 emissions generated by two manufacturing processes by 37% and 45%. Extrapolating this data for FY14 gives an estimated annual reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 1,550 tonnes. Firmenich | 23 37% REDUCTION IN OUR DATA CENTER ENERGY CONSUMPTION SINCE 2010 Kunming, China Focus on India First Company to Conduct Exit Wealth from Waste EIA in Yunnan Province Several important and innovative scienceAfter 18 years of operation and in line with the based projects have been implemented at our government strategy regarding site development, Ingredient and Perfumery manufacturing site the decision was made to move our Kunming in Gujarat, India, to create “Wealth from chemical ingredient site located in Yunnan Waste.” Together, these projects have reduced Province, China. Firmenich commissioned an the volumes of hazardous waste sent off-site Exit Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), from 1,102 metric tons (MT) in FY12 to 335 MT not mandatory under Chinese law. This was in FY14. The initiatives have also reduced waste the first Exit EIA conducted in the province. management expenses. Initially costing The study evaluated soil and groundwater CHF 242,000 in FY12, this program has saved samples at different locations, and was subject CHF 365,130 in FY14 (sale of by-products and to a professional independent review by an avoided costs in fuel purchase). These initiaenvironmental expert and government repretives include: sentatives. No contamination was detected, demonstrating the effectiveness of the envi• Conversion of Waste into By-Products: ronmental protection measures adopted Historically several waste streams were ­during the site’s history. disposed off-site because they were not suitable for recycling. However, after careGeneva, Switzerland fully analyzing and characterizing these Green IT wastes, and obtaining permission from the Global CO2 emissions attributed to information regulatory authorities, Firmenich identified technology (IT) worldwide are estimated at organizations that would re-use these between 2% to 2.5% of total CO 2 emissions. wastes as inputs in their processes. The Firmenich Information Services (IS) Division has put in place a Green IT Strategy to reduce • Use of Waste Solvents: its ecological footprint. The strategy is based After the success of the by-product project on three pillars: above, we found that some waste isopropyl alcohol could be reused and recycled back • Manage Lifecycle: into the process. The project has now Obsolete equipment is reused (45%), refurbeen scaled up, and the site has reduced bished (25%) or recycled (30%). consumption of fresh alcohol by 74% in the last 12 months. • Save Energy: Data center energy is managed through • Generation of Steam from Waste Incineration: ­removal of obsolete applications and optimizAn on-site hazardous waste incineration ing server virtualization. Energy consumption plant was built in 2012, and a waste heat has been reduced by 37% since 2010. ­recovery boiler (WHRB) was successfully commissioned in 2013. Today, this equipment • Develop Social Behavior: produces almost 25% of the total steam A green printing initiative was launched in consumed on-site and significantly curbs 2013. More than 1,700 people were trained light diesel oil (LDO) and natural gas conon new measures to avoid unnecessary sumption for the main boiler, while reducing printing, saving paper (an estimated 96,000 overall CO 2 emissions. sheets in one year) and energy. Save Energy At Dahej, simple energy conservation projects have resulted in cutting CO 2 emissions by ­almost 400 tonnes per year. 24 | Firmenich Our Perfumers test new creations for the perfect alchemy. (Frank Voelkl, Perfumer) © Anaël Dang Firmenich | 25 HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS 1 Photovoltaic solar energy projects 9 Equipment installations and upgrades Anaheim, California, U.S.; Dahej, India: Newark, New Jersey; Anaheim, California, U.S.: Installed photovoltaic projects to generate electricity. Upgraded and modified equipment to reduce power use and/or electrical distribution losses. 2 Solar-powered lighting projects Bogota, Colombia; Toluca, Mexico: Installed photovoltaic panels to directly power new, ­high-efficiency external lighting. 3 Solar water heating 5 Kunming, China: New Ulm, MN, U.S. Built solar water-heating project to reduce electricity/fuel consumption. 1 5 9 Port Newark, NJ, U.S. Anaheim, CA, U.S. 9 10 14 4 Electric vehicle charging stations St Louis, Missouri Princeton, NJ, U.S. 4 14 Geneva, Switzerland; Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.; 5 16 Castets, France: Added electric vehicle charging stations to encourage ­employees to use low-emission vehicles. 2 Toluca, Mexico 5 LED lighting Bogota, Colombia New Ulm, Minnesota; Anaheim, California; St Louis, 2 Missouri, U.S.; Geneva, Switzerland; Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium; Dahej, India: Switched to LED lighting to reduce electricity consumption. 6 Heat recovery systems and change São Paulo, Brazil 16 19 in equipment use Thirsk, UK: Installed equipment to recover waste heat from processing; 10 V ariable frequency changed shift patterns and consolidated orders to avoid cold starts, reduce cleaning and cut energy use. drives on utility equipment Port Newark, New Jersey, U.S.; Geneva, Switzerland; Shanghai, China; Dahej, India: 7 Heat recovery systems Installed variable frequency drive motors on utility equipment Geneva, Switzerland: to better match power use to demand. Implemented a variety of projects to recover heat from ventilation, cleaning-in-place (CIP) systems and from a compressor. 11 Downstream metering Geneva, Switzerland; Castets, France; Singapore: 8 Heat recovery boiler Implemented downstream meters to better monitor Dahej, India: ­electricity, water and gas consumption. Added heat recovery boiler, which generates valuable steam from the incinerated hazardous waste streams. 12 Natural gas line installation Dahej, India: Replaced existing fuel (e.g., diesel oil) with natural gas to reduce CO2 emissions. 26 | Firmenich 13 Advanced ventilation systems 17 R educing water loss Shanghai, China: Upgraded ventilation systems to reduce VOC and odor and preventing contamination Shanghai, China: emissions, the first system of its kind in our industry in China Renovated underground collection tanks and piping for and the first use of air concentrator technology at Firmenich. wastewater, fire water and rainwater. 15 Ålesund, Norway 6 Thirsk, UK Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium 5 Geneva, Switzerland Shanghai, China Castets, France 4 5 7 10 Dahej, India Kunming, China 10 13 17 4 11 16 11 16 18 1 5 8 10 3 12 18 Singapore 11 14 Innovative scrubber 18 Solvent recovery Newark, New Jersey, U.S.: Geneva, Switzerland; Dahej, India: Installed a scrubber using treated plant wastewater to Installed solvent recovery systems and implemented ­reduce VOC air emissions from raw material storage tanks. reuse of solvents to reduce raw material consumption and hazardous waste disposal. 15 Improved wastewater treatment Ålesund, Norway: 19 Waste recycling Installed a new wastewater treatment system for treating São Paulo, Brazil: process water discharged to the ocean. Composting organic solid wastes to create bio-compost soil improver. 16 Reduced water use São Paulo, Brazil; Geneva, Switzerland; Castets, France; St Louis, Missouri, U.S.: Implemented a range of projects to reduce process and cleaning water use. Firmenich | 27 GOVERNANCE GREEN GROWTH GROUPS Creating Sustainable Products “In Western Australia, passing through a dirt road, with a clear blue sky, incredible light, and lush vegetation, capturing the Australian landscape’s uniqueness, and thinking about our duty to preserve the beauty of nature for the generations to come.” Russell James FIRMENICH INVESTS AROUND 10% OF ITS REVENUE IN R&D, reflecting its continuous desire to understand, share and sublimate the best that nature has to offer RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Growth – Creating Sustainable Products Assessment of Sustainability Risks in Our Procurement Responsible of Naturals Sourcing In May 2014, the Firmenich innovation center in naturals, located in Grasse, France, became a member of the Union for Ethical BioTrade (UEBT). UEBT promotes “Sourcing with Respect” of Sustainable natural ingredients and encourages sustainable Product Flavor & business growth, local development and bio­ Biodegradability Innovation Fragrance ­Products diversity conservation. As a member of UEBT, Firmenich Grasse will implement a biodiversity management system for the sourcing of plant materials and use a risk-based approach to Safe Use strengthen sourcing practices in specific, of Flavor & ­prioritized supply chains. The site will report Fragrance Products annually on its membership requirements and will be independently audited to confirm adherence with UEBT standards. Through this membership that encompasses our entire ­naturals portfolio, Firmenich responds to the growing concerns of consumers regarding the ethical sourcing of natural ingredients. Responsible Sourcing By engaging, building capacity and supporting our suppliers of natural raw materials around Responsible Sourcing Product Biodegradability Innovation Sustainable Flavor & Fragrance Products the world, Firmenich manages supply chain risks, secures a long-term focus on key agricultural products and works to ensure fair of Naturals Vanilla in Madagascar pricing for suppliers. We create Growth opporSafe Use tunities for the communities we source from. In FY14, in a collaborative effort with our of Flavor & Fragrance Products local supplier, Firmenich implemented several projects to provide ongoing support to the 1,352 vanilla growers in the Savanille Cooperative in Antsirabe Nord, Madagascar, including two new drinking water wells (in addition to the 40 completed last year), three tree nurseries for cash crop diversification and reforestation, and financial support for a new medical ­dispensary. Firmenich has also started an ambitious partnership with its local partner to further benefit the farming community in Antsirabe Nord and: • Improve vanilla farming, harvesting and curing practices to increase yield and quality • Educate farmers and their families • Empower local women • Foster crop diversification and environment protection Vanilla in Madagascar 30 | Firmenich We will report progress on these initiatives in PALM OIL our next Sustainability Report. FIRMENICH NOW ONLY Vanilla in Uganda SOURCES ROUNDTABLE ON This year marks our eighth consecutive year of SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL sustainable vanilla sourcing in Uganda. During (RSPO)-CERTIFIED DIRECT the last 12 months, we have helped our growers PALM OIL FOR ALL ACTIVE in several important areas: AND NEW PRODUCTS. • Income generation: A total of 2,300 farmers were trained in improved crop production through 22 workshops held in vanilla-farming Update on Palm Oil communities. Twenty-two radio programs Firmenich is committed to the sustainable sourcing of palm oil. were broadcast to inform farmers about In 2011, Firmenich turned this commitment into action by issuing crop management, disease control, vanilla a Palm Oil Sustainability Position Statement pledging to only use prices and correct harvest times. Sweet potato palm oil and palm kernel oil d ­ erived from ­sustainable sources in vines were distributed to 62 farmers and cassava stems to five farmers to help diversify its products by 2015. their farming activity and improve family diets. Firmenich now only sources Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • HIV/AIDS, malaria: In FY14, 1,275 farmers (RSPO)-certified direct palm oil for all active and new products. (up from 855 in FY13) attended HIV and malaria For palm oil derivatives, we are validating sourcing partners of ­workshops, which were held at the same sustainable palm oil derivatives. We have also introduced new time as crop management training to reduce non-palm-derived items (coconut, rapeseed) to replace some palm stigmatization, and were offered testing and oil derivatives. With these initiatives, we are on track to reach our counseling. 3,300 malaria bed nets were goal to only source sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil by 2015. ­distributed to households, with a focus on women and children. • Microfinance, Village Savings and Loan Associations (VSLA): 26 additional micro­ Vetiver in Haiti finance groups were formed this year, Since 2010, Firmenich has been engaged in ­bringing the total number of groups formed an innovative multi-stakeholder collaboration since 2009 to 221. These groups have with the Swiss Agency for Development and ­approximately 6,630 members (70% of which Cooperation (SDC) and local organizations to are women). All members have income-­ source sustainable vetiver (a tropical grass used generating projects, and 56% of members to make fragrant oil) from the Débouchette have started new income-generating farming community in Haiti. In 2014, we signed ­projects with their VSLA savings. an agreement with our vetiver supplier and the SDC to implement an innovative project • Eco-friendly practices: 16,091 timber and ­focused on: fruit trees were distributed to the farming communities. An additional 8,435 trees • Fair Trade vetiver: Firmenich committed to were planted at our processors’ farms to buy Ecocert ESR (Fair Trade)-certified vetiver. offset carbon emissions from processing. Through the fair trade premium, Firmenich Coffee has been introduced in the tree will help the Débouchette vetiver cooperative ­nursery as it grows well with vanilla and to implement a variety of community projects ­provides additional income to vanilla farmers. with the support of a full-time local Firmenich employee hired in FY14. • CSR awareness: Firmenich, with support from the Danish government, is hosting a conference on sustainability in the food ­industry for Danish and other European food companies in September 2014. A publication on sustainable vanilla is being produced and will be launched at the conference. Firmenich | 31 Vetiver field in the Débouchette region, South of Haiti (2013) • Collaboration with the Débouchette farming for vetiver distillation by 2015. They will use communities: In addition to our work with vetiver roots and leaves as fuel and should the cooperative, we continue to support the reduce reliance on fossil fuels, curb CO2 local school that we built in 2012. In 2013, emissions and create new revenue-generating Parisand Geneva-based employees donated activities for the farming community. more than 1,000 books to the school, and in March 2014 we inaugurated the school library. • Economic opportunities for women: We have conducted research with the SDC to better • Renewable energy: Firmenich has been understand the needs and aspirations of working with the Swiss Federal Institute of women in the Débouchette region. Major Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), the Swiss ­issues identified include bank services and government and international technical loans, and these will be addressed through experts to install industrial biomass boilers future projects. Tonka Beans and Copaíba Oil from Brazil Firmenich continues to support communities in the Amazon through our responsible sourcing “The discussions and the partnership around program for tonka beans (a flowering-tree seed) the vetiver project with Agri-Supply and and copaíba oil (extracted from the resin of Firmenich gave me a deeper understanding the copaíba tree) used to make fragrance. of the social and economic structures in Haiti and the mode of operation of this • Copaíba oil: In FY13, Firmenich purchased particular value chain. In Haiti, the change 45.7% of our copaíba oil directly from local of market structures and hence development producers and hopes to increase this to 60% is not possible without the inclusion of private by the end of FY15. In FY14, we helped one of these communities purchase radio combusiness enterprises. Public-private coopmunication equipment to stay in contact with eration is an interesting challenge that other communities and, in FY14–FY15, we ­requires adaptation in the mode of funcare sponsoring the organic and fair trade tioning of all the partners, including us as certification of the crop from these commua development agency, thus contributing to nities to further improve farmers’ incomes. a process of sustainable transformation of the global economy.” • Tonka beans: For the second year, we are ­directly sourcing tonka beans from the Kayapó — Edita Vokral, Swiss Ambassador to Haiti indigenous communities and hope to increase from 2011 to 2014 our collaboration to meet 50% of our needs from these communities by 2015. 32 | Firmenich 50% OF OUR TONKA BEANS WILL BE SOURCED FROM THE KAYAPÓ Patchouli in Indonesia Jasmine Joint Venture Firmenich undertook a detailed review of In 2014, Firmenich signed a joint venture agreeCOMMUNITIES BY 2015 our patchouli (a bushy herb of the mint family) ment with Jasmine Concrete Exports PT Ltd. sourcing in Indonesia, including a baseline (Chennai, India), a family-owned enterprise and analysis to better understand the sustainability the leader in Indian floral extracts and natural challenges to the Indonesian patchouli supply specialties for the fragrance, flavor and chain, as well as opportunities to engage with ­cosmetics industries. Through this unique local communities. Key issues identified include partnership, Firmenich is moving into vertical price volatility, lack of secure income, small integration in a country that offers the world’s impact of patchouli on overall farmers’ revelargest and most remarkable variety of naturals. nues (the crop represents about 25% of their With an outstanding reputation, built over revenues) and too many supply chain inter15 years in the industry, Jasmine Concrete mediaries. Working with our long-term local ­Exports PT Ltd. has become India’s undisputed partner, a leader in Indonesian essential oils, we leader in extracts of flowers and other naturals. started a pilot project in FY14 with 200 farmers The company operates two highly efficient using a shorter patchouli supply chain to manufacturing facilities in Tamil Nadu, India, ­improve farmers’ income and we ensured and has been enjoying constant growth and fair prices. These efforts should increase success since its founding. This major new revenues for farmers by 50% while allowing partnership is fully aligned with Firmenich’s full product traceability. naturals strategy, which focuses on excellence in sourcing, innovation and production. It also Patchouli in Guatemala complements the production capabilities of our Firmenich established small farming operations, Naturals Innovation Center in the South of France. in collaboration with our exclusive local supplier and with one of our clients. In FY14, we developed a project to help 150 farmers in two ­communities to farm and harvest patchouli as a secondary source of income. We will receive Armand de Villoutreys (President, their first production of patchouli oil next year. Perfumery Division), Harry Fremont (Master Perfumer) and Raja Palaniswamy (Co-founder Jasmine Concrete) “The big trend in fine fragrance is the demand for authentic, quality products. Our partnership with ­Jasmine Concrete is absolutely in line with this trend and brings us the sourcing and production of three of the most important among flowers, which are also my absolute favorite flowers. In addition, this collaboration opens doors to the extraordinary across all varieties, including spices, woods and mint available in India.” —Harry Fremont, Master Perfumer Firmenich | 33 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND STRATEGY IN OUR PERFUMERY DIVISION Responsible Sourcing Firmenich’s Perfumery Division’s ambition is to continue being the reference and preferA Responsible Product Sustainable Flavor & ence for our clients around the world, creating and capturing value with our clients and their Perfumer Palette Biodegradability Innovation Fragrance consumers. In FY14, Firmenich was asked by Consumers are paying more attention to where Products one of our fine fragrance clients to directly product ingredients originate and how they Safe Use contribute to their sustainability strategy are sourced, and an olfactive palette including of Flavor & Fragrance Products and training, while also advising another client responsibly sourced ingredients can lead to on its new responsible sourcing charter as a the creation of more sustainable products. selected strategic supplier. Our Perfumery Firmenich has set high standards of excelSustainability Strategy aims to: lence and ethics in naturals and develops these products with the same business • Increase responsibly sourced naturals in the ­ambition as our molecules, using the finest perfumer palette naturals ingredients with the most recent ­innovation and optimized production capabilities. • Create “eco design” fragrances Our joint venture with India-based Jasmine • Support sustainable consumer lifestyles Concrete PT Ltd. illustrates our vertical integration model and strengthens our leadership • Build a better life for local communities in naturals. It also complements our innovation and high-technology site in Grasse, France, with extraction and distillation sites in southern India and provides our perfumers with new sources of inspiration from India’s ­diverse and high-quality natural ingredients. Pierre-Alain Blanc, Master Perfumer © Anaël Dang 34 | Firmenich Eco Design According to the official definition by the European Commission, eco design “implies taking into account all the environmental impacts of a product right from the earliest stage of design.” Following this framework, we introduced a new ingredient, Clearwood™, in FY14. A breakthrough and the result of 10 years of R&D, Clearwood™ is our first white biotechnology1 ingredient to be added to the perfumer’s palette. It offers an important new woody building block to our perfumers and limitless possibilities for creation in a sustainable way. Versatile with warm, woody and creamy notes of patchouli, Clearwood™ ­illustrates our leading position in white biotechnology, in the fragrance and flavor industry. Every year, Firmenich introduces new ingredi“Clearwood TM is easy to use in creation especially for very ents to the perfumer’s palette. In our 2010 transparent fragrances because it has all the warm, woody Sustainability Report, Firmenich committed to and creamy notes of patchouli with much less of the earthy, develop biodegradable ingredients and introduced our “Green Gate” concept to ensure that medicinal, camphorated notes. It is the substantive heart new ingredients are ­biodegradable and will not of patchouli.” accumulate in the environment. We fully met —Pierre-Alain Blanc, Master Perfumer this ambitious goal, and in FY14 we developed two new ingredients that we fully expect to be classified as “readily biodegradable,” the very highest category when it comes to speed and ease of biodegradation: one is our new flagship ingredient Clearwood™, while the other is a Sustainable Lifestyles new floral olfactive note. Both of these ingrediIn the past year, we have observed a strong ents are expected to be used in perfumes across reinforcement of the “sustainable lifestyle” various product categories. movement, with many of our perfumery clients taking on a leadership role. This transformative trend will help shape the perfumery industry’s future with noticeable implications not only in home care and body care products, but also in fine fragrance products through the “sustainable luxury” concept. In FY14, we conducted many presentations for our clients, sharing insights on consumer behavior, sustainable consumption and sustainable luxury, and presenting long-term scenarios on the future of perfumery. We also started working with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on “sustainable lifestyle,” one of the nine priority areas defined by its platform, Action2020, that sets the agenda for 2020 and beyond. Firmenich 1 and WBCSD collaborated on an expert panel White biotechnology is biotechnology applied to industrial processes. White biotechnology tends to consume less in resources in Brazil (see page 50) and will continue our than traditional processes. cooperation in FY15. Firmenich | 35 1st 3 PART OF THE FIRST EVER INTERNATIONAL INVOLVED IN THREE TOILET DAY GLOBAL SANITATION PARTNERSHIPS, FIRMENICH IS TAKING A LEADERSHIP POSITION ON WASH IN OUR INDUSTRY Base of Pyramid (BoP) Consumers WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) In FY14, we continued our award-winning work In 2011, nearly 100 stakeholders from more with base of pyramid (BoP) consumers in India, than 50 organizations came together to develop started in 2011. We conducted three tests in a common set of sustainability principles on Chennai, Kanchipuram, Pune, Rajgurunagar, water, sanitation and hygiene, which became Patna, Masoudi, Mohali and Dera Bassi, on the WASH Sustainability Charter. That same home care and body care products. To conduct year, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation these tests, Firmenich hired and trained (BMGF) launched the Reinventing the Toilet ­approximately 140 students from the BoP to Challenge, to bring sustainable sanitation interview fellow BoP consumers in the same ­solutions to the 2.5 billion people worldwide communities. We gathered insights in categowho don’t have access to safe, affordable As one rural interries like detergent and oral care to be leversanitation. Firmenich took an industry leaderviewee said, “Finally, aged to develop product solutions that will ship position on WASH in 2012, and initiated my say matters. I too can speak my mind!” better appeal to these consumers. its relationship with the BMGF on malodor While the impact control research. The issue of malodor is remains small, the now fully recognized as a major obstacle to project seemed increasing toilet usage. Olfactive solutions to empower local can improve people’s lives in that context. ­communities. Firmenich’s collaboration with WASH involves both our research and development team on malodor research, and our sustainability team on leading cross-sector partnerships supported by the WBCSD and by the Stone Family Foundation. Firmenich is also engaging with nonprofit and for-profit organizations to find sustainable business models to make sanitation solutions affordable and accessible to the largest number of communities. Upon invitation of the BMGF, we participated, in March 2014, in the Reinvent the Toilet Fair: India, where we deepened our knowledge of the progress of different projects and technologies. Firmenich also believes in advocacy for sanitation and we participated in the first International Toilet Day at the United Nations in New York in 2013 and signed the WASH at the Workplace pledge with the WBCSD in June 2014 (see page 45). “Traditional approaches to market research are not always well suited for the low-income segment and often ­deliver flat results on preferences. Often, traditional interviewers have low or no empathy for low-income consumers.” —Jerôme Jallat, Vice President Global Perfumery Consumer Insights 36 | Firmenich SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND STRATEGY IN OUR FLAVOR DIVISION Reshaping Innovation to Meet Consumer Needs in an Era of Global Growth One of our major milestones was launching our restructured approach to flavor innovation. We created three new platforms to focus our innovation efforts: Health and Nutrition, Natural and Sustainable, and Breakthrough Cost Innovation. These platforms capture and capitalize on the continued consumer demand Advancing the Health and Nutrition Dialogue for healthier and more nutritious food and through Collaboration beverages; the growing public interest and As part of our continued commitment to health and nutrition, awareness in the sustainability of natural we were a sponsor for the conference Consumer Behavior and Food products; and the increasing and significant Science Innovations for Optimal Nutrition hosted by The Sackler emphasis food and beverage manufacturers Institute for Nutrition Science at the New York Academy of Sciences. place on cost efficiency. This conference explored how consumer behavior can be analyzed Health and Nutrition and utilized to advance healthy and sustainable nutrition, and The growing population in both mature and featured speakers from academia, governments, corporations, high-growth markets is creating an increased start-ups and nonprofit organizations. need for readily available, affordable and ­nutritious food. Our Health and Nutrition The event was organized by a multidisciplinary Scientific Organ­platform focuses on meeting this need, which izing Committee, including leading researchers from the fields includes the current push for calorie, sugar of agriculture, food and nutrition. A Firmenich Flavors Innovation and salt reduction, as well as emerging team member specializing in health and nutrition innovations, who ­challenges, such as protein availability and is also a member of the Sackler Institute’s Technology and Innovaother nutritional shortages. tion in Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Working Group, participated on this committee. This Group also hosted a similar and successful conference on sustainable proteins in December 2013. Firmenich’s participation in the Working Group underscores our commitment to helping our customers innovate for a healthier world. “Firmenich has shown a great deal of leadership in their dedication to working on improving the health and nutrition of today’s food system through their innovation and expertise.” —Dr. Howard Moskowitz, Psychophysicist, Market Researcher and Member of the Scientific Organizing Committee © Anaël Dang Aurelie Ayache, Laboratory Technician Firmenich | 37 ONLY 1st FLAVOR HOUSE MEMBER OF FRUIT JUICE CSR FLAVOR HOUSE EVER TO RECEIVE MSC CERTIFICATION FOR SEAFOOD FLAVORS AND INGREDIENTS Sustainable Food Systems The Natural and Sustainable Citrus Innovation Platform This year, we became a member of Fruit Juice The Natural and Sustainable platform addresses CSR, a group supported by the European the growing consumer demand for clean laCommission, comprised of public and private beling and minimally processed food, and organizations that promote and advocate for a works to develop new and innovative ways to more sustainable value chain within the juice help customers meet these requirements. industry (see page 45). We are also looking Another area of focus is “green proteins,” which at ways to protect citrus trees against Asian looks at alternative protein sources, namely in citrus psyllids, insects that carry the disease response to the need for increased food secuthat causes greening. Doing so would allow rity in a world with a growing population, and for the planting of new trees that could to work to minimize the environmental impact ­potentially be protected against greening. of the current sources of animal protein. As the gap widens between the growth of the The Breakthrough Cost Innovation Platform citrus flavor market and the availability of citrus The Breakthrough Cost Innovation platform fruit for processing, we must look at new focuses on new technologies, processes and ways to innovate to help mitigate supply and approaches to offer more efficient value across price volatility. In this regard, we are making our entire flavor portfolio. Through this focus, innovation investments to help secure the supply we can deliver more value to customers and of great tasting citrus flavors at reasonable consumers through a more sustainable supply cost. We are looking at citrus alternatives, chain with less waste, reduced energy con­exploring new citrus varieties and creating sumption and higher efficiency. more efficient processing techniques. For ­example, through our proprietary Solessence® Citrus is a key tonality method, we are able to maximize our profor the flavor industry cessing to produce 100% yield with no loss. Supporting the Cocoa Industry Chocovision is a bi-annual event hosted by Barry Callebaut, one of the world’s largest chocolate suppliers. The event, which brings together key stakeholders from the cocoa ­industry, focuses on addressing the most pressing issues facing the industry. For the second time, Firmenich sponsored the event. In addition, we gave a presentation, “Flavor Innovation to Support a Better Life,” which ­examined the role that a flavor house can have in helping the chocolate industry meet the needs of the future consumer, including improving the health and nutrition of ­chocolate products. 38 | Firmenich Sustainable Seafood Flavors In FY14, we became the first flavor house to ever receive Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification for seafood flavors and ingredients. We received certification to the MSC’s Chain of Custody standard for our seafood flavors produced from North Atlantic codfish, saithe and haddock. This certification verifies that any MSC-labeled product originates from fisheries that are certified to the MSC standard for being wellmanaged and sustainable. The certification signifies that the fishery of origin operates in a manner that keeps fish stocks, other marine life and ecosystems healthy. It also indicates that the fishery of origin has made efforts to minimize its environmental impact, abides by all local, national and international laws and operates under the guidance of accepted ­scientific findings to ensure sustainable use of marine resources. The Firmenich seafood facility in Ålesund, on Building Sustainable Processes the west coast of Norway and with access to Manufacturing our products and technologies fish from the North Atlantic and the Barents has an impact on the environment through our Sea, processes 10,000 tons of seafood raw water and energy consumption, and our waste materials annually. These raw materials are generation. In FY14, we found new ways to largely by-products from the seafood industry. ­reduce the impact of one of our key encapsulaThrough sophisticated biotechnological protion technologies, Durarome®, by using less cesses, we convert the by-product, which had water, less energy and by releasing fewer volatile previously been disposed into the sea, to create organic compounds (VOCs) during production, seafood extracts and flavors, such as codfish, in addition to reducing cycle times by 70% and shrimp, lobster, crab, squid and other popular increasing yields by more than 5%. This new seafood tonalities used in soups, stocks, approach was implemented at our newest sauces and ready-to-eat meals. Durarome® plant, which was o ­ fficially inaugurated in FY14 in Karawang, just outside of Jakarta, By minimizing by-products from the seafood Indonesia. We plan to roll out and improve the industry, and maximizing the value created manufacturing process at our other Durarome® from the marine resources, we continue to help facilities around the world, and to continue meet the market demand for seafood flavors lowering our environmental impact across our without adding an extra burden on fish stocks. entire portfolio of encapsulation technologies. Firmenich | 39 PRODUCT PRODUCT SAFETY BIODEGRADABILITY Firmenich is dedicated to the development of Responsible Sourcing new approaches and tools for the safety assessResponsible Sourcing ment of our fragrance and flavor products and technologies. Our focus is to develop soluProduct Sustainable Product Sustainable BiodegradaInnovation Flavor & Fragrance tions to current and emerging product safety Innovation Flavor & Fragrance bility Biodegradability issues. Firmenich has worked closely and Products Products Safe Use collaboratively with competitors and clients of Flavor & to help develop the new Research Institute for Safe Use of Flavor & Fragrance Fragrance M ­ aterials (RIFM) Safety Criteria Fragrance Products Products Document aiming at providing transparent and robust safety data on all fragrance An ingredient is considered as biodegradable ­materials used by the industry. when natural microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi (that can be found in wastewater Firmenich is also working with the industry to treatment stations), convert it into harmless maimprove safety assessment methodologies for terials, like biomass, carbon dioxide and water. flavor products and ingredients, including the development of risk assessment approaches. Firmenich scientists (and our partner organi­ In FY14, our experts’ work on assessing the zations) routinely use standard screening, risk of genotoxic materials in food was pub­including those certified by the Organization lished in Food and Chemical Toxicology. for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), to determine our ingredient biodegraOur teams are actively researching innovative dability. Such tests were used to demonstrate toxicity testing methods in light of animal testing the biodegradability of our new biotech product bans and fully support the concept of “Green ­Clearwood™ (see page 35). Toxicology.” One of our early pilot works in the field of genotoxicity screening has led to a more However, scientists need to further analyze extensive program at RIFM. Firmenich is also these tests and their results: recent research refining and looking at further application of this by our microbiologists showed that another assay to better understand genotoxic carcinogens ­established ingredient, Romandolide® (an acyclic mode of action and improve the selection and musk), although previously shown to be clearly development of new materials. We are also biodegradable, only partially biodegraded under looking at alternative approaches to follow-up certain test conditions. To investigate further, on materials that could potentially test positive our analytical scientists developed a more on such screenings and participate in a pro­sensitive methodology to follow the fate of the gram with New York Medical College to test metabolic intermediates (present in very low flavor and fragrance materials. concentrations) over time. As a result of this work, we now have a greater understanding of the microbial metabolic processes that result in biodegradation and can track biodegradation where there is incomplete mineralization to carbon dioxide and water. Fragrance Allergens in Cosmetic Products Firmenich welcomes new regulations to improve product safety and Another problem with the screening test protect consumers, and we are pleased to partake in these important methods used by regulators is that they rarely discussions and negotiations. Firmenich is participating, through the reflect the real-life ingredient concentrations International Fragrance Association (IFRA), in the ongoing European normally found in wastewater treatment stations or other watercourses. Real-life concentrations Union dialogue regarding the regulation of f­ ragrance allergens in are likely to be much lower. A recently pubcosmetic products. IFRA has proposed a long-term working plan (the lished study involving Firmenich scientists International Dialogue for the Evaluation of Allergens, or IDEA) that (and undertaken by the University of Lausanne) will help us scientifically define and determine which allergens and has shown a “proof of principle” for what their indirect sources require specific control by the industry. Working could constitute a completely new, and potenwith clients and other suppliers through IFRA, Firmenich is helping tially more sensitive way of studying biodegto build a predictive model to improve industry-wide management of radation, at realistic test concentration. allergens. We are also involved in public consultation with the European Firmenich will continue its important work in Union Commission over the development, scope and implementation this critical area, to further advance scientific of the new regulations, which are likely to include restrictions and bans knowledge and use it to improve “in-silico” tools on selected materials, and increased labeling of potentially allergenic (e.g. computer simulation tools) developed by ingredients. Key factors in this debate are the development of practical international expert groups who a ­ dvise regucontrols while maintaining the highest levels of safety for consumers. latory bodies and government agencies around the world. 40 | Firmenich INNOVATION AND R&D: LEADING IN CATALYTIC Responsible Sourcing CHEMISTRY AND Innovation Product Sustainable Flavor Biodegrada& FragranceBIOTECHNOLOGY bility Products Safe Use of Flavor & Fragrance Products Our drive for cleaner, better manufacturing processes is based on two strategic activities: biotechnology and catalytic chemistry. In FY14, we made outstanding progress in both domains: Firmenich scaled up new processes for several different established ingredients, using a variety of new manufacturing techniques, including replacement of stoichiometric reducing agents, use of new catalytic technologies and the elimination and substitution of some solvents (like tetrahydrofuran, THF). These new processes have improved process safety and ­decreased waste production. Using a Firmenich-patented catalytic process, our synthetic chemists have developed and produced a new soft, floral ingredient to add to the perfumer’s “palette.” This ingredient is not only biodegradable, but also has an extremely low product to waste ratio (also named environmental factor or E factor) of 4.1. Thanks to the efforts of our biochemists and partners, we successfully scaled up and launched Clearwood™, a new woody note, on the perfumery ingredient market. This ingre­dient is highly biodegradable and derived from uniquely biogenic carbon (sugar) by ­fermentation. It is the first in a new family of renewable ingredients that we expect to market in the coming years. At the research level, Firmenich scientists continue to maintain our reputation and edge in the domain of catalysis, with two publications in the prestigious scientific journal ­A ngewandte Chemie.1, 2 © Anaël Dang 1 Unexpected Role of Anionic Ligands in the Ruthenium-Catalyzed Base-Free Selective Hydrogenation of Aldehydes. Dupau, Philippe; Bonomo, Lucia; Kermorvan, Laurent. Angewandte Chemie, ­I nternational Edition (2013), 52(43), 11347-11350 2 Asymmetric Hydrogenation of Ketones with H2 and Ruthenium ­C atalysts Containing Chiral Tetradentate S2N2 Ligands. Patchett, Ruth; Magpantay, Iris; Saudan, Lionel; Schotes, Christoph; ­M ezzetti, Antonio; Santoro, Francesco. Angewandte Chemie, ­I nternational Edition (2013), 52(39), 10352-10355 Firmenich | 41 GOVERNANCE GREEN GROWTH GROUPS Embracing Our People and Communities “This Haitian artisan makes her living selling her unique, handmade crafts to travelers and tourists alike. Through craft-making or through farming, many Haitians depend on their hands for their livelihoods. In 2010, Firmenich and Nomad Two Worlds made a commitment through the Clinton Global Initiative to develop ten fragrances in partnership with Indigenous and marginalized communities in Haiti, the Amazon, Australia and the United States.” Russell James Photo credit: Murray Hall and Paola Ambrosi De Magistris for Studio Russell James 42 | Firmenich 5 NEW PARTNERSHIPS 1,964 participants in Community Day Firmenich | 43 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PARTNERS Development Partners Public Commitments Knowledge Environment and Learning Partners Partners External Validation and Reporting Partners 44 | Firmenich PARTNERING WITH STAKEHOLDERS We engaged with partners from governments, nongovernmental organizations, start-ups and universities as well as with our suppliers and clients. Partnering across sectors allows us to replicate best practices, while capitalizing on specific and valuable expertise in social, economic and environmental issues. Forming New Institutional Partnerships Every year, as we address different material Fruit Juice CSR Platform issues, we engage with new partners and The Fruit Juice CSR Platform is a business­experts. In 2014, we highlight our collaboration driven sustainability initiative specifically with five partners: ­established for the fruit juice industry. The platform is co-initiated by the European World Business Council for Sustainable Fruit Juice Association (AIJN) and endorsed ­Development (WBCSD) and co-funded by the European Commission. The WBCSD is a CEO-led organization of about The objective of the platform is to inspire 200 members from more than 35 countries and support the European fruit juice industry and 20 major industrial sectors. This group of to integrate corporate social responsibility forward-thinking companies encourages the throughout fruit juice supply chains. As a global business community to create a susleader in citrus, Firmenich is the only flavor tainable future for companies, society and the house engaged in the platform. In that context, environment, and launched Action2020, a we attended the first Sustainability Day at sustainability agenda for the business comthe 2013 Juice Summit in Brussels and are munity. Firmenich is the sole fragrance and participating in the adaptation of New Rural flavor company represented at WBCSD and Horizon (an expert system to support continual collaborates on two main issues: sanitation improvement of agricultural production) and inclusive business models for low-income for the citrus value chain (see additional consumers. In June 2014, Firmenich signed ­information page 38). the WASH (Water Access, Sanitation and ­Hygiene) at the Workplace pledge and committed to implement access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene at the workplace at an appropriate level for all employees in all premises under our control within three years. More information about WASH at the Workplace can be found at: www.wbcsd.org/washatworkplace.aspx Firmenich | 45 WE UNDERSTAND THE IMPORTANCE OF OUR ROLE IN SUPPORTING INITIATIVES IN THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE Zermatt Summit Joseph Scott, TechnoChef As a family company, our approaches are very much aligned with the Zermatt Summit’s ­objectives. This international platform brings together business leaders, senior policy ­makers and non-governmental organizations to put people, mankind and the common good at the center of our globalized world. We have been involved in the Zermatt Summit’s advisory committee since 2013, and in 2014 were asked to join the jury of the European competition, Social and Business Co-Creation: ­Collaboration for Impact, organized by Ashoka and the ­Zermatt Summit Foundation. The jury reviewed 338 cutting-edge projects from 34 different countries. © Anaël Dang Pro-Natura In addition to our global sustainability partnerships, we believe that it is important to engage Sustainable Brands with local initiatives in the communities where Sustainable Brands (SB) is a learning, collabowe operate. In 2014, we pledged to financially ration and commerce community of more than support the Allondon Center, run by the non348,000 sustainable business leaders from profit environmental conservation organization around the globe. SB aims to empower more Pro-Natura Geneva. Firmenich has been operbrands to prosper by leading the way to a better ating in this community throughout its history. world. SB’s team produces content, events and The project, to be inaugurated in 2015, comother learning solutions designed to inspire, prises a National Center for Nature, a restaurant engage and equip the business community to that finances the Center’s operating costs profitably innovate for sustainability. and a unique meeting space. 46 | Firmenich ENGAGING WITH OUR INDUSTRY Firmenich actively participates in fragrance and flavor industry associations in all of the major markets we serve, including in the four following leading associations: Consolidating Our Existing INTERNATIONAL Institutional Partnerships FRAGRANCE ASSOCIATION (IFRA) In 2014, we also reinforced some of our interThe fragrance industry takes its regulation seriously and national and Swiss-based partnerships. is committed to undertaking all of its environmental, social and economic responsibilities thoroughly. All of Livelihoods Fund its ingredients and compounds are rigorously assessed In 2013, Firmenich became an investor of the for toxicity and allergens, and IFRA works closely with Livelihoods Fund, whose mission is to support the efforts of poor rural communities in the regulators and stakeholders to issue and update comdeveloping world to restore their natural ecoprehensive safety standards. IFRA also independently systems, which improves their food security, spot checks fragranced products to ensure compliance ­increases their revenues and raises their livewith the IFRA Code of Practice. lihoods. The Livelihoods Fund is an investment fund supported by socially responsible, private INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION sector companies committed to reducing their OF THE FLAVOR INDUSTRY (IOFI) environmental footprint. Since its creation in 2011, the fund has already planted more than IOFI supports the safe use of flavors through an 130 million trees in Senegal, India, Kenya, ­extensive and respected science program and a strong ­Indonesia and Burkina Faso. Code of Practice. Through its comprehensive advocacy strategy, IOFI has become a well-regarded resource for Swiss Government major industry stakeholders, both within flavor and Since 2012, the Swiss Agency for Development food companies and among regulators worldwide. and Cooperation (SDC), from the Swiss government, has been our partner in Haiti. In 2014, we furthered our collaboration: the Swiss FLAVOR AND EXTRACT ­ambassador attended our two workshops in MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (FEMA) Haiti and was fully involved in the vetiver project FEMA furthers the business interests of its members design, implementation and monitoring (see through a sound scientific program designed to propage 31-32). mote the safe use of flavors. FEMA fosters a global Firmenich also actively engages with the Swiss environment in which the flavor industry can create, government on defining the Swiss position on innovate and compete. Its critical objectives include the Sustainability Development Goals of the maintaining a credible, globally recognized scientific United Nations, which will replace the Millenprogram and a consistent, scientifically valid approach nium Development goals in 2015. to safety evaluation of flavor ingredients. Global Compact Network Switzerland In 2008, Firmenich committed itself to the ten RESEARCH INSTITUTE Principles of the United Nations Global Compact FOR FRAGRANCE MATERIALS (RIFM) and started chairing the Swiss network in 2011. RIFM’s purpose is to gather and analyze scientific data, This year, we played an instrumental role in transforming the network by creating more engage in testing and evaluation, distribute information, synergies with the Swiss government. cooperate with official agencies and encourage uniform safety standards related to the use of fragrance ingredients. RIFM maintains the largest database of fragrance materials available worldwide, classifying more than 5,000 materials. Firmenich | 47 Academics and Leaders “Through a holistic consumer insight initiof Tomorrow ative, utilizing innovative methodo­logies and surveys, a cross-functional Firmenich Firmenich collaborates with leading academic team was able to develop and implement institutions, sharing sustainability learning’s new ways of engagement with the lowand helping to develop future leaders. income market segment. In partnership with the Naandi Foundation, the fastestSustainability Case studies growing social enterprise in India, the team with Wharton and IMD trained and coached young adults from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania local low-income families as interviewers. In 2014, Professor Djordjija Petkoski from Being part of the targeted communities the Wharton School of the University of helped the interviewers conduct non­ ­Pennsylvania conducted a case study on intrusive dialogues with consumers. ­Firmenich’s low-income consumers in India. As a result, Firmenich developed a better understanding of low-income consumers’ lifestyles, cultures, household ­dynamics and relationships, patterns of behavior and preferences. Getting deeper consumer insight is critical in creating affordable and impactful ­perfumes for products that lead to healthier and happier lives, and higher Dr. Petkoski is a lecturer self-esteem of low-income consumers. and senior fellow at the The next challenge for the Firmenich Wharton School, Univerteam is how to best identify, systematize sity of Pennsylvania. He and evaluate the new business opportuserves as an adviser and nities generated by its holistic consumer consultant to the World insight initiative and how to best capture Bank, the Organization of the new insights in order to bring new American States and other strategies to internal and external clients. This is in line with Firmenich’s vision to development organizaremain an industry leader in sustainabiltions, and is the founder ity and to co-create value with its clients.” and managing director of Global CDL. —Professor Djordjija Petkoski IMD Our longtime Sustainability Council member, Dr. Aileen Ionescu-Somers, conducted a case study on our work on the Haitian vetiver value chain, in partnership with Peace Nexus. In FY14, IMD also hosted the CSL Learning ­Platform Roundtable Leading Value Chains towards Long-Term Stretch Goals, where we presented our Haiti experience. The Firmenich case study is available upon request at global.sustainability@firmenich.com 48 | Firmenich 28 3 WORKING WITH 28 LEADERS OF TOMORROW AT THE OFFERING SCHOLARSHIPS TO THREE LEADERS OF UNIVERSITY OF ST. GALLEN, TOMORROW AT YABA SWITZERLAND COLLEGE, NIGERIA Working with Students “This year, IMD business school’s Global at St. Gallen University Center for Sustainability Leadership From March to May 2014, Firmenich par­ticipated (IMD–CSL), in collaboration with Swissin the seminar “Exploring Sustai­nability as a based Peace Nexus Foundation and Strategic Opportunity,” held by the University Firmenich, is writing a teaching case of St. Gallen in Switzerland. Part of the Master’s study focused on Firmenich’s 2010 Degree in Strategy and International Management (ranked the No. 1 Master in Management Clinton Global Initiative commitment to program globally by the Financial Times), this work with Haitian vetiver farmers to class uses real-life business cases to help ensure sustainable production of vetiver students understand and address sustainaoil. Firmenich can share invaluable bility concerns. Three student teams worked learning from managing this complex on Firmenich projects, visited our headquarters base-of-the-pyramid business model and worked under the super­vision of our suswith its array of multi-stakeholder tainability team. Patrick ­Firmenich, CEO, was relationships and partnerships. personally i­nvolved throughout the project Firmenich has anchored community trust and attended the students’ presentations. and resilience while securing vetiver supply in a challenging business context Yaba College of Technology In 2011, we signed a collaboration agreement by creating a robust, sustainable local with the Department of Food Science at the economy around vetiver production. Yaba College of Technology, in Lagos, Nigeria, Given increasing challenges around raw to establish an application laboratory within material supply, this is invaluable the Food Science and Technology department learning for any company.” of the college. This allowed us to create food and beverage samples and concepts, and — Dr. Aileen Ionescu-Somers, Director, develop a better understanding of the Nigerian IMD–CSL Learning Platform, and consumers’ taste preferences, while also Firmenich Sustainability Council member serving as a training environment for students enrolled at the college. We initiated a Firmenich scholarship program as part of the partnership, and sponsor top students in the department in their final year of study, covering tuition fees and expenses. In May 2014, the first ­recipients of the scholarship graduated from the college. A Chemistry Legacy: Dr. Roger and Dr. Georges Firmenich In 1979, Firmenich endowed a chair at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in honor of Dr. Roger and Dr. Georges Firmenich on the occasion of their retirement from Firmenich. For more than 30 years, this professorship has provided vital faculty support in the Department of Chemistry at MIT reflecting our long-term commitment to teaching and research for future generations of chemists. The Firmenich Professorship Fund has grown significantly over the years and now provides a senior professorship and a senior faculty member. Firmenich | 49 90+ CLIENTS HOSTED FOR A SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE ROUNDTABLE Partnering with Our Clients Our foremost sustainability partners are our clients. This year, the Firmenich Executive Board and our CEO hosted more than 90 perfumery and flavor clients in São Paolo, Brazil, for a roundtable on “Sustainable Lifestyle.” The event moderator, Dr. Marcelo de Andrade, co-founder and partner at Earth Capital ­Partners and recipient of the 1997 George and Cynthia Mitchell International Prize, led a rich and lively panel discussion with three Brazilian thought leaders, all involved in sustainability projects with Firmenich: Maria Cecilia Wey de Brito, CEO of World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Brazil; Andrea Fasanello, President of Moda Fusion; and Pablo Barros, CEO of Eight Sustainability and senior consultant to the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development. These experts brought valuable insights on sustainable lifestyle to our clients and the Firmenich ­E xecutive Board. “For me, sustainability is a journey that the 6,300 Firmenich people around the globe take every day. It is a journey that needs inspiration, where we are constantly evolving and need to engage everyone, including our partners, our suppliers and in particular you, our clients.” — Patrick Firmenich, CEO, Firmenich 50 | Firmenich ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE Building Excellence and Sharing Expertise Building Excellence Gender Equal Pay Certification in Geneva The Firmenich Fundamentals guide our every Confirming our commitment to equity and action, enabling us to remain true to ourselves fairness in compensation, our Geneva headand make a difference in an ever-changing quarters this year entered a Swiss government world. They form an integral part of our unique initiative, named “Dialogue on Equal Salary,“ identity and the foundation of our past and supporting equal pay across genders. This ­future success (see page 8). As part of our global ­initiative originally set up by social partners strategy, we have started a cultural transforand Switzerland’s Federal Office for Gender mation to go beyond these Fundamentals and Equality, part of the Federal Office of Justice, also systematically reach excellence in exeaims to encourage firms to apply Gender cution and process. To meet these expectaEqual Pay principles. tions and foster sustainable growth, we have equipped the organization with new capabilities, After a full analysis of our total compensation, delivered a program focused on senior leaders we received the endorsement by the Swiss and middle management as change agents, Confederation that we operate according to and optimized our performance, reward and Gender Equal Pay principles. By joining this inirecognition programs. We have also developed tiative, we officially confirmed that at Firmenich an appropriate communication strategy to “women and men receive equal pay for work support our programs and further drive of equal value.” ­behavioral change. Sharing Expertise: Launch of Firmenich Wave In FY14, our 6,300 employees welcomed our Female Presence at Main Career Levels of the enterprise social network, “Firmenich Wave.” Firmenich Career Ladder (in %) This sharing platform allows global teams to connect and work together in an organized, intuitive and productive way. As an example, SENIOR the first business project started on the Wave EXECUTIVES brought the biggest sales in three years for 16% F the team in charge. Beyond being a powerful business tool, the Wave also provides a platform for our employees to share their expertise, easing the transition for new employees and PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT allowing informal, expertise-based, cross49% F 32% F continent and cross-division collaborations. With the Wave, Firmenich is building a new 28% SENIOR EXPERT 17% SENIOR LEADERSHIP knowledge-sharing culture that will transform 38% EXPERT 34% PEOPLE LEADERSHIP our company. 48% ADVANCED 39% OP. MANAGEMENT Diversity 55% EXPERIENCED 28% SUPERVISION Senior Female Leader Development Program In FY14, Firmenich implemented a global development program aimed at our senior female talent, to strengthen career management STAFF plans and increase company-wide visibility. 36% F Each of these high-potential participants 53% SENIOR TECHNICIAN is mentored by one of our top managers and supported by a virtual network, allowing 58% TECHNICIAN ­experience sharing, best practices and success 13% STAFF ENTRY LEVEL stories. This program was extremely well ­received across the organization, not only by high-potential female executives, but also by their direct managers and their mentors. Firmenich | 51 Firmenich Joins Nestlé Alliance for YOUth In FY14, Firmenich made a commitment to FIGHTING AGAINST the Nestlé Alliance for YOUth program. This ambitious project aims at bringing together YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT private companies, European institutions and IN EUROPE national governments to fight against youth unemployment. On June 23, 2014, Firmenich, Nestlé and 13 other global partners convened in Lisbon, Portugal, to mark another milestone for the Nestlé Alliance for YOUth program. Youth unemployment is one of the most ­prevalent In June 2014, Firmenich, along with industry issues in modern society. Today in Europe, 23.5% leaders from Axa, Ernst&Young, Facebook, of young adults are unemployed, reaching Google, Publicis, Salesforce, Twitter, among 36.1% of the youth population in Portugal, 43.3% others, and political leaders, including the in Italy, 53.5% in Spain and 56.9% in Greece. President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso; the Prime Minister of Portugal, Pedro Passos Coelho; and the Deputy DirectorGeneral for Education and Culture at the ­European Commission, Xavier Prats Monné, signed the “European Alliance for Apprenticeships” to promote apprenticeship in Europe. Another example of Firmenich’s commitment to fight youth unemployment is the collabo­r ation with 11 universities in four countries (Indonesia, Brazil, China and India) and the hiring of 65 young interns in a pilot program in our High Growth Markets. Training Leadership, Development and Mentoring In 2013, we introduced two new global leadership and development programs. To date, more than 120 employees have been trained on project management and more than 220 employees have benefited from our new communications program. In parallel, we continue to run our Leadership Development programs. This year has seen the development of several mentoring programs at Firmenich, including two in our Purchasing Division aimed at executives and key talent. In FY14, our High Growth Market mentoring program, which paired 37 Our perfumery training programs mentors and 37 mentees, was a success and further the knowledge will be extended next year. In Geneva, we ­further of our younger and developed our cross-company mentoring, which promising perfumers. involves seven international G ­ eneva-based (Yunan Cheng, companies in a program in which female Junior Perfumer) mentees from Firmenich are mentored by senior leaders from international companies based in Geneva. © Anaël Dang 52 | Firmenich Gena Surphlis, Account Associate © Anaël Dang Firmenich | 53 TOUCHING HEARTS AND MINDS Community Day • IN THE PHILIPPINES: While our sustainability work has become more and more integrated Employees donated school supplies, furniture into our mainstream business, we maintain our heritage of global and equipment to support the Help Overcome philanthropic work and our support for local communities in which we Poverty through Education, Employment, operate. In September 2013, we celebrated our ninth annual ComEmpowerment, Event (HOP-E) organization. munity Day with more than 135 projects aimed at empowering women, • IN THE UNITED STATES: helping children and protecting nature. These projects were simultaNearly 100 senior leaders from the global neously conducted in 46 of our affiliates, engaging 1,964 participants. flavor division lent their hands to help Lunch Community Day has become a key event for our company, bringing Break, a soup kitchen and food pantry in employees t­ ogether to express the common values we place on individRed Bank, New Jersey, that serves families uals and sharing our talents and creativity within our local communities. and children in areas still recovering from Being able to share our skills, energy and positive spirit with those who Hurricane Sandy. are less fortunate is an enriching experience for all who are involved. • IN BRAZIL: Examples of projects carried out around the world this year include: Firmenich teams volunteered at organiza• IN SWITZERLAND: tions supporting women with cancer. Firmenich female executives shared career paths, success stories and challenges with The Firmenich Foundation women getting back into the workforce at a Charitable giving is embedded in our history. “café/emploi,” an informal career event We believe that profitable companies have held at a café. a social obligation to invest in their local Our experts partnered with the Cansearch communities and the world community. The Foundation (first research platform focused Firmenich Charitable Foundation was created on pediatric oncology-hematology in Geneva) in 2010 to primarily support our philanthropic and taught some fascinating aspects of flavors efforts. In 2013*, we contributed to more than and fragrances to children with cancer at 61 organizations. The Firmenich Charitable the Geneva University Hospital. Giving Program has three priority areas: • IN FRANCE: • Working to cure cancer Employees collected clothes, food and child• Providing improved access to nutrition and care articles for a single parent association. hygiene to those in need • IN SWITZERLAND AND FRANCE: • Supporting local communities where our Firmenich teams collected educational facilities are located and where we source Community Day at books to create a library at the Haiti school natural raw materials. Firmenich in FY14 that Firmenich opened in 2012. * Unlike the Firmenich Group, our Charitable Foundation reporting is done on a calendar year, not a fiscal year. Our Executive Management Team cooked lunch for all Geneva employees as part of an ­Employee Appreciation Day 54 | Firmenich Angelique Cassin, Marketing and Business Development Manager © Anaël Dang Firmenich | 55 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Boundaries This is our ninth annual sustainability report. It follows We review each of our production sites on a yearly basis our 2013 report and contains a full year of data based on for risk to child labor, forced labor and human rights and fiscal year 2014 (FY14) from July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014. freedom of association in accordance to the 10 Principles The report covers global operations across the Firmenich of UN Global Compact with the help of the SEDEX protocols. Group, including affiliates in 28 countries as well as our All of our production sites review and update the online manufacturing sites and non-manufacturing locations. Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and have an Ethical audit carried out every two or three years. We focus on key activities and achievements that we believe are of interest and value to our major stakeholder groups, To highlight our performance, the previous year’s data and which include our clients, our employees, our shareholders, rolling five-year data are included in this report. Some of this our suppliers, our partners (NGOs, industry associations…) data may differ from figures reported in previous sustainability our Sustainability Council and the communities that we reports. These variations reflect improvements made in serve and interact with. the calculation and consolidation methods as well as changes made once more accurate data became available. The workplace, human resource (HR) and environmental data, unless otherwise indicated, cover all operations During FY12, a project of several years to roll out SAP in our owned or controlled (production sites, sales offices, business ended. This has enabled us to further improve ­administrative offices, laboratories or combination of the accuracy of our reporting with the result that we were such facilities). The HR data is reported for both fixed able to extract more precise production figures in FY13 and temporary headcount. and FY14 rather than relying on local site data. Consequently, we have also amended the FY13 production data The Firmenich Board of Directors comprises four internal used in last year’s report. This means that some reported members and five external members. The board includes FY13 data used in the FY14 report may differ from previous representatives of the family shareholders, which ensures publications, these changes are within 5% and therefore that the shareholders have a direct link to the highest not considered material. governance body of the company. The link between the board and the employees is ensured through the Firmenich This reporting period sees the following changes at our Code of Conduct, where the process for employees to sites: we have closed our Safety Harbor, Florida location, connect with the highest governance body is facilitated we have moved our Kunming, China site to a new location through the Group Vice President of Corporate Compliance, (the site had no activity while the move was in progress), the Group Vice President General Counsel and the Corporate and we have opened a new site in Karawang, Indonesia. Vice President of Human Resources. The Sustainability Team is headed by the Group Vice ­President of Corporate Compliance, who reports directly to our CEO, making the Sustainability Team a crucial link Scope of This Report between our stakeholders (clients, employees, shareholders, We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) suppliers, partners and Sustainability Council), the Board principles of materiality to this report, which states: of Directors and the Executive Team. “Information in this report should cover issues and The Firmenich Code of Conduct is a document designed to indicators that would substantially influence the decihelp our employees make ethical decisions in their day to day sions of the stakeholders using this report.” This is work within the company. It is based on our Fundamentals, the third year that we are reporting our sustainability and covers ethical points, such as conflict of interest, corwork according to the GRI guidelines (version 3.1) and ruption, antitrust, harassment, confidentiality, governance we have therefore made an effort to improve on the and political and community activities. Within the document indicators from last year. Firmenich is reporting at a is a clear statement that Firmenich will in no way support self-declared level C+ as defined by GRI, and our repolitical candidates or parties either financially or with in-kind port includes strategy, profile, sustainability governdonations. Our employees’ adherence to our Code of Conduct ance and 25 performance indicators. has ensured that Firmenich has had zero legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, or for antitrust or monopolistic This report is independently verified by SGS (see practices in this reporting period, and incurred no monepage 57), and the management systems that genertary fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance in ate our safety and environmental data are validated these areas. by independent experts. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), for the CEO Water The Firmenich Group – www.firmenich.com Mandate (COP-Water) as well as for the UN Women’s Contact: global.sustainability@firmenich.com Empowerment Principles. 56 | Firmenich EXTERNAL VERIFICATION SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA report on sustainability activities in the Firmenich Sustainability Report for 2014 Nature and Scope of the Assurance / Verification The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that the SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned by organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this ­Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability stage in their reporting. Report 2014. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS ­Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included all text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) The information in the Sustainability Report 2014 of Firmenich and Conclusions, Findings and Recommendations its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the manIn our opinion, the Firmenich Sustainability Report 2014 meets the agement of Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA content and quality requirements for GRI G3.1 Application Level C+. has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material ­included in the Sustainability Report 2014. Principles – In our opinion the content and quality of the report adheres to the ten GRI Principles. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification set out below with Standard Disclosures – All the standard disclosures required for rethe intention to inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. porting at an application level C+ were included or referenced in the report. This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: Indicators – The required minimum number of indicators are included in the report. • evaluation of content veracity; Strengths • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative • Firmenich have addressed the principle of Materiality in more depth ­Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1/2011) in this report and have strengthened the processes supporting this. The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, • The extension of the Greenhouse Gas Reporting to Scope 3 with an interviews with relevant employees at the Headquarters in Geneva; independent verification of the GHG emissions according to ISO 14064-3 documentation and record review. Data has been assured at corporate level; base data utilized in the calculation of the consolidated figures have not been assured. Recommendations Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial Opportunities were identified for consideration in future reporting accounts has not been checked back to source as part of the cycles to ensure continual improvement, including: ­assurance process. • Future reporting should expand on the process used to identify ­material aspects, stakeholder engagement methods, feedback, results Statement of Independence and Competence and responses with each stakeholder group. The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing • Future reporting should use the GRI G4 Guidelines to expand on the and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing link between the stakeholder engagement, the issues raised by the services including management systems and service certification; various stakeholder groups and the prioritisation of Material Aspects. quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environ• Future reports would benefit from further content on the risks, mental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société ­critical factors and capabilities in terms of sustainable development. ­Générale de Surveillance SA confirms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA its subsidiaries and stakeholders. Geneva, August 2014 The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, François Marti, Executive Vice President ­experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised Systems & Services Certification auditors registered with Sustainability Communications Assurance WWW.SGS.COM Practitioner, Lead Quality, Environmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the flavours and fragrance industry. Verification­ / Assurance Opinion ASSURANCE STATEMENT The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. SGS SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE DE SURVEILLANCE SA REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (G3.1 2011) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS ACTIVITIES IN THE FIRMENICH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2014 AND RECOMMENDATIONS In our opinion, the Firmenich Sustainability Report 2014 meets the content and quality requirements for GRI On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION G3.1 Application Level C+. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned by Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2014. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Principles – In our opinion the content and quality of the report adheres to the ten GRI Principles. performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained Report Assurance methodology, included all text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. Standard Disclosures – All the standard disclosures required for reporting at an application level C+ were The information in the Sustainability Report 2014 of Firmenich and its presentation are the responsibility of the included or referenced in the report. within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2014 is accurate, reliable and directors and the management of Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the Sustainability Report 2014. Indicators – The required minimum number of indicators are included in the report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification Strengths set out below with the intention to inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. provides a fair and balanced representation of Firmenich sustainability • Firmenich have addressed the principle of Materiality in more depth in this report and have strengthened the processes supporting this. This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: • The extension of the Greenhouse Gas Reporting to Scope 3 with an independent verification of the • evaluation of content veracity; GHG emissions according to ISO 14064-3 activities in financial year ending 2014. • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines RECOMMENDATIONS (G3.1/2011) Opportunities were identified for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual improvement, including: The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees at the • Future reporting should expand on the process used to identify material aspects, stakeholder Headquarters in Geneva; documentation and record review. Data has been assured at corporate level; base data engagement methods, feedback, results and responses with each stakeholder group. The apparent discrepancies in the previous years’ Environment stautilized in the calculation of the consolidated figures have not been assured. • Future reporting should use the GRI G4 Guidelines to expand on the link between the stakeholder engagement, the issues raised by the various stakeholder groups and the prioritisation of Material Aspects. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source • Future reports would benefit from further content on the risks, critical factors and capabilities in terms as part of the assurance process. tistics reporting for the running baseline have been noted by the asof sustainable development. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA Geneva, August 2014 The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than surors who are satisfied that they actually reflect improvements in 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA confirms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. data collection and consolidation methods. Due to the changes in The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with Sustainability Communications Assurance Practitioner, Lead Quality, the production volume data collation process, the performance reEnvironmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the flavours and fragrance industry. François Marti Executive Vice President VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION Systems & Services Certification On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the sults reporting in FY13 has been affected. However in the assurors’ information and data contained within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2014 is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of Firmenich sustainability activities in financial year ending 2014. The apparent discrepancies in the previous years’ Environment statistics reporting for the running baseline have WWW.SGS.COM opinion it is not of a significant magnitude and will not impact on the been noted by the assurors who are satisfied that they actually reflect improvements in data collection and consolidation methods. Due to the changes in the production volume data collation process, the performance results reporting in FY13 has been affected. However in the assurors’ opinion it is not of a significant ability of the reader to use the information in decision making. magnitude and will not impact on the ability of the reader to use the information in decision making. GP5024 Issue 3 GP5024 Issue 2 Firmenich | 57 OUR PERFORMANCE IN NUMBERS PERFORMANCE KPI FY13 FY14 ENERGY (GJ) Direct Energy (own source) 1,380,466.45 1,174,246.04 Indirect Energy: purchased (inc. electricity, steam, etc.) 751,407.15 729,779.32 Total Energy 2,131,873.60 1,904,025.36 CO 2 EMISSIONS Scope 1: Direct Energy Source 86,971.71 70,756.06 (TONNES) Scope 2: Indirect Source 68,250.98 64,844.23 Total CO 2 Emissions 155,222.69 135,600.29 WASTE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL (TONNES) HAZARDOUS (HZ) WASTE* Incinerated (without heat recovery) 2,823.47 3,012.55 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 13,845.29 11,227.17 Land-filled 578.42 41.28 Other 966.03 974.35 Total Hazardous Waste 18,213.21 15,255.35 NONHAZARDOUS (NHZ) WASTE Incinerated (without heat recovery) 809.52 967.24 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 1,867.90 1,395.12 Land-filled 2,594.72 2,428.26 Other 182.61 235.60 Total Nonhazardous Waste 5,454.75 5,026.22 EFFLUENT WASTE Incinerated 1,905.97 2,527.85 Land-filled 731.41 505.92 Other 5,340.79 5,437.43 Total Effluent Treatment Waste 7,978.17 8,471.20 TOTAL WASTE Total 31,646.13 28,752.77 (HZ & NHZ) Total Incinerated and Land-filled 25,156.70 22,105.39 TOTAL RECYCLED WASTE 12,176.25 9,580.68 (TONNES) EFFLUENT Direct Discharge with On-Site Treatment 634,541.28 645,158.86 DISCHARGE (m3) COD Direct Discharge with On-Site Treatment (tonnes) 531.34 237.05 Discharge to Off-Site Municipal Wastewater System 653,258.73 636,672.41 COD Discharge to Off-Site Municipal Wastewater System 2,859.05 2,333.95 (tonnes) TOTAL EFFLUENT (m3) 1,287,800.01 1,281,831.27 TOTAL COD (TONNES) 3,390.39 2,571.00 WATER (INPUT) (m ) 3 Municipal 1,111,395.80 1,149,872.70 Ground 141,182.00 89,512.63 Municipal and Ground 1,252,577.80 1,239,385.33 Surface 3,350,146.00 3,167,919.00 Total 4,602,723.80 4,407,304.33 OTHER (TONNES) NOx tonnes 125.69 74.17 SOx tonnes 153.84 55.24 VOC tonnes 247.50 234.50 PRODUCTION QTY (TONNES) 188,763.31 190,225.46 * Hazardous Waste for FY13 includes the “one-off” hazardous wastes generated by the December 2012 ﬁre at our warehouse in Argentina. 58 | Firmenich PERFORMANCE KPI FY13 FY14 EMPLOYEE DATA INCIDENTS Lost Time Injury (LTI) 10 6 Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 30 19 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.14 0.09 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 0.43 0.27 Fatalities 0 0 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY REGION Europe 2 3 India, Middle East & Africa 0 1 Latin America 2 0 North America 3 1 North Asia 3 0 South & East Asia 0 1 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY REGION Europe 10 6 India, Middle East & Africa 3 1 Latin America 6 5 North America 6 4 North Asia 4 1 South & East Asia 1 2 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY GENDER Male 9 6 Female 1 0 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY GENDER Male 26 17 Female 4 2 Firmenich | 59 GRI INDEX TABLE GRI REPORTED GRI INDICATOR LOCATION INDICATOR REPORTED LOCATION 1.1 Fully 1 4.12 Fully 1 and 45-50 1.2 Partial 4, 30 and 41 4.13 Fully Inside front cover, 1, 40 and 45-50 2.1 Fully Cover Page, 3 and 5 4.14 Partial 4, 12 and 56 2.2 Fully 34-41 4.15 Partial 4, 12 and 56 2.3 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ 4.16 Partial 4, 12, 42-54 and 56 facts-figures/ 4.17 Partial 4 and 12 2.4 Fully 2, 56 and www.firmenich.com/t/locate/index.lbl? EC1 Partial Firnews 2014 locate=europ EN3 Fully 58 2.5 Fully inside back cover and www.firmenich.com/m/company/ about-us/profile/facts-figures/ EN4 Fully 58 2.6 Fully 1, 2 and 56 EN8 Fully 58 2.7 Fully www.firmenich.com/t/locate/index.lbl EN16 Partial 58 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN17 Partial 58 profile/facts-figures/ EN20 Fully 46 2.8 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ EN21 Fully 46 facts-figures/ EN22 Fully 58 2.9 Fully 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN26 Partial 18-27, 30-41 and 58 profile/facts-figures/ LA1 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsability/ 2.10 Fully Inside front cover and 14 additionalGRIdata/index.lbl 3.1 Fully 56 LA2 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsability/ 3.2 Fully 56 additionalGRIdata/index.lbl 3.3 Fully 56 LA4 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/responsability/ additionalGRIdata/index.lbl 3.4 Fully 56 LA7 Partial 59 3.5 Fully 56 LA13 Fully 56, Firnews 2014 and www.firmenich.com/m/com3.6 Fully 56 pany/responsability/additionalGRIdata/index.lbl 3.7 Fully 56 HR5 Fully 1, 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/ 3.8 Fully 56 responsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.10 Fully 56 HR6 Fully 1, 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/ responsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.11 Fully 56 HR7 Fully 1, 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/ 3.12 Fully 60 responsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 3.13 Fully 57 HR10 Fully 1, 12-13, 30-34, 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/ company/responsability/social-accountability/index.lbl 4.1 Fully 56 and www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ profile/management/ SO1 Fully 44-54 4.2 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ SO5 Partial 40 and 56 management/ SO6 Partial 56 4.3 Fully www.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/profile/ SO7 Fully 56 management/ SO8 Fully 56 4.4 Fully 56 PR1 Fully 22 REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A+ G3 PROFILE Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement DISCLOSURES listed for Level C plus: for Level B REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED 1.1 OUTPUT 2.1 2.10 1.2 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED G3 MANAGEMENT Not Required Management Approach Management Approach APPROACH Disclosures for each Disclosures for each ­Indicator Category ­Indicator Category OUTPUT DISCLOSURES G3 PERFORMANCE Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Report on each core G3 INDICATORS & SECTOR of 10 Performance of 20 Performance and Sector Supplement Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one Indicator with due regard OUTPUT SUPPLEMENT PERFORMANCE least one from each of: from each of: Economic, to the Materiality PrinciEconomic, Social and Environmental, Human ple by either: a) reporting INDICATORS Environmental rights, Labor, Society, on the Indicator or b) exProduct Responsibility plaining the reason for its omission 60 | Firmenich VALIDATIONS FOOD SAFETY STANDARDS (GLOBAL FOOD SAFETY INITIATIVE) ENVIRONMENT SAFETY QUALITY OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 HALAL KOSHER SEDEX ZONE SITE Castets, France Ålesund, Norway Geneva (Meyrin), Switzerland EUROPE Geneva (La Plaine), Switzerland North Yorkshire, UK Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium Grasse, France Anaheim, California, U.S. Newark, New Jersey, U.S. NORTH Lakeland, Florida, U.S. AMERICA Princeton, New Jersey, U.S. New Ulm, Minnesota, U.S. St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. São Paulo, Brazil LATIN Bogotá, Colombia AMERICA Buenos Aires, Argentina Toluca, Mexico Shanghai, China Dahej, India Daman, India ASIA Cileungsi, Indonesia PACIFIC Kunming, China Ibaraki, Japan Singapore Karawang, Indonesia TOTAL FY14 22 21 17 20 18 21 24 CERTIFICATIONS FY06 0 2 11 11 11 10 0 Details for the above mentioned certifications can be found online at www.firmenich.com/sustainability PERFORMAN CE A SUSTAINABLE CHOICE OF PAPER neutral XXXXXX This report is printed on FSC-labeled paper and to produce prints carrying 2014 © Firmenich Design by www.theoreme.ch Imprimé myclimate.org the FSC label since 2002.
