TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 Statement of Continued Support 4 Company Overview 5 Alfa Corporate Statements 7 The 10 UNGC Principles 9 Human Rights Principles 14 Labour Principles 22 Environment Principles 28 Anti–Corruption Principle 33 About Alfa 4-Life 36 Alfa 4-Life Initiatives 48 Products & Services STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS, I am pleased to confirm that Mobile Interim Company 1 (MIC1) – Alfa, reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti – Corruption. When we joined the UNGC, a year ago, we intended to reflect our commitment through ongoing optimization of our performance by promoting and further integrating these principles within our everyday business practices and by taking into consideration the triple bottom line: People, Planet and Profit. We, through joining UNGC, commit to evolve and tackle these principles in order to continue creating a positive change in our society. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we are pleased to describe our initiatives and actions with relation to embedding these 10 principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Marwan Hayek Chairman & CEO June 2015 3 www.alfa.com.lb company overview About Alfa Alfa is the first Lebanese mobile network owned by the Republic of Lebanon and managed by Orascom Telecom, Media and Technology (OTMT). Alfa capitalizes on the vast know-how and international expertise of OTMT in order to deliver quality and professional solutions for the mobile sector in Lebanon. On October 25, 2011, Alfa became the first mobile operator to launch 3G+ mobile broadband services in Lebanon, and in another major technological achievement, the company was the first to commercially launch 4G-LTE services in the country on May 15, 2013. Alfa currently serves close to 2 million subscribers and covers 99% of Lebanon. Alfa Management Team Marwan Hayek Chairman & CEO Assaad Kairouz Chief Commercial Officer Imad Hamed Chief Technology Officer Rafic El Haddad Chief Financial Officer Raef Salha Vice President, HR, Admin & Legal Affairs Aline Karam Chief Communications Affairs Officer Assaad Abousleiman Chief Corporate Strategy & Quality Officer 4 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA CORPORATE STATEMENTS Alfa’s Purpose We are the citizens of our Community, Proud of our Belonging, We provide Competitive Telecommunications Services while maintaining the highest Quality of Service by upholding our Sustainable Commitments. Alfa’s Vision We aspire to lead the Change in the Telecommunications Industry by employing Advanced Technologies and Adaptable Mobile Solutions to the Lebanese Market, creating an innovative model of social responsibility and fostering our Stakeholders Engagements through an Agile Value Creation system. Alfa’s Beliefs • We believe in the potential of our PEOPLE by building on talents through the development of the right knowledge and skills, enabling our Talented and Engaged PEOPLE to lead the way and secure sustainable growth. • We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by investing our talents and engaging our stakeholders for the benefit of our Society, our People and our Environment through pioneering Responsible operations and initiatives. • We believe in the Power of AGILITY by constantly enhancing our Business Processes, Talent Management and Technologies, stimulating thus, Competitive Advantage and Strategic Differentiation. • We believe in delivering an Outstanding Customer Experience by striving for Excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus turning them into our Brand Ambassadors. 5 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA CORPORATE STATEMENTS Alfa’s Commitments • We are willingly committed to the well-being of our PEOPLE by improving their lives, creating OPPORTUNITIES and building their capacities in an equal and synergistic environment. • We are committed to being a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen, by contributing to the community in which we live and grow, and by achieving and maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity. • We are committed to act with agility by reinforcing our ability to adapt to complex clients’ requirements while keeping abreast of the changes in markets and business environment and by embracing the latest technologies in terms of energy savings and operational efficiency towards renewable energy sourcing. • We are committed to provide state-of-the-art and innovative services to our clients by maximizing satisfaction through continuous improvement of our quality management system. Alfa’s Aspirations • We aspire to be the CARETAKERS of our people by being a leading corporate citizen and by creating positive change in their lives. • We aspire to maintain our leading position by aligning our SUSTAINABLE engagements with our Business Strategy, thus steering towards an ADVANCED PERSPECTIVE. • We aspire to lead the CHANGE by creating Innovative Business Opportunities and to model emerged trends for the INTEREST of our community, resulting in peak business performance. • We aspire to provide an Exceptional Customer Experience, by placing our customers at the CENTER of our business and strategy and delivering GREATER value towards long term Customer Loyalty. 6 www.alfa.com.lb 7 www.alfa.com.lb THE 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion. 8 www.alfa.com.lb Human Rights Principles 9 www.alfa.com.lb Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We, at Alfa, abide by ethical business standards in We foster a trust-based culture workplace by accordance with the international norms. We conduct cultivating honesty and integrity and promoting an our operations and business relationships in line open door policy, through the adoption and use of with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon value-building techniques and practices, aligned with and our internal code of conduct. We endorse the our corporate social responsibility journey. Universal Declaration of Human Rights by respecting and promoting ethical and legal conduct amongst At Alfa, we embrace the definition of The World our employees, customers, stakeholders and business Business Council for Sustainable Development in partners. its publication ‘’Making Good Business Sense’’, published in year 2000, by Lord Holme and Richard Also, by way of example and without any limitation, Watts: we advocate the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the “Corporate Social Responsibility is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities continuing commitment by business and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. to behave ethically and contribute to We treat our employees with dignity and fairness. economic development while improving We abide by the Lebanese Labor law and have all our the quality of life of the workforce employees registered in the National Social Security and their families as well as of the local Fund (NSSF). community and society at large.” Our corporate governance, put in place and At Alfa, we promote a culture of openness and believe implemented, does not solely provide the framework that by respecting our stakeholders and employees’ for attaining our company’s commitments and rights and freedom of opinion, expression and belief, objectives, it also encompasses our socially responsible we will lead the way to nurturing their development engagements with relation to the environmental, and to the fulfilment of their potential. We denounce social and economic directions, in addition to any kind of suppression and oppression which performance measurement indicators and ethical might affect our employees’ choices and diversities. regulations for best practices. In counterpart, we acknowledge our employees’ privileges and act in accordance with the fundamental We put our stakeholders at the heart of our business human rights. by aiming at developing their well-being with respect to equal opportunities, behavioral ethical guidance and diversity. With our employees, we work towards achieving learning and development, career advancement, gender equality, recognition and reward programs, equal remuneration, health and safety work conditions, social benefits and compensations. 10 www.alfa.com.lb Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation At Alfa, the human rights principles and practices are embedded within our organizational policies and corporate statements. We have taken several measures to prevent human rights violation: We put at the disposal of our workforces supportive We are in the advanced stage of implementing and guidelines, policies and systems, aiming at guiding putting into action our Code of Ethical Purchasing, them to operate in accordance with Alfa strategic aiming at regulating and sustaining our business commitments and beliefs and to behave in accordance relationships with our external stakeholders. with Alfa sustainable principles, thus promoting those behaviors for our shared sustainable growth. These As part of our Code of Ethical Purchasing, we have supportive guidelines and systems include, without set a Supplier and Vendor acceptance criteria, which limitation, the following: encompasses our commitments with relation to corporate responsibility, aiming at mitigating potential • Code of Ethics risks which are likely to occur during our business relationships and promoting our sustainability • Code of Conduct tactics amongst our stakeholders. Currently, we are • Employee Handbook operating within the spirit of the quality management standards and specifically the ISO 26000 guidelines • Social Media guidelines on Social Responsibility. • Behavioral competencies definitions and behavioral In parallel, on Customer Experience level, Alfa has indicators been actively working since 2013 on seeking the voice • Learning and development programs of our customers in order to better meet their needs • Technical skills assessment and expectations. • Training development plans and Training program The Voice of Customer program provides the ability reinforcement and follow up to capture and collect the customer feedback across the entire customer journey via different type of • Disciplinary and Grievance management processes surveys completed through different channels based • Health and Safety standards and specifications on customer preference. 11 www.alfa.com.lb Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Measurement of outcomes We regularly assess the effectiveness of our practices and operations, in respect to its compliance with Human rights. No human right violations or act of discrimination, exploitation and harassment were reported within our organization in the past year. Accordingly, recurrent review is being conducted on our policies, processes and work instructions to assess the Human Rights impacts of our daily operations and activities and ensure its synergetic alignment with our commitments and culture. To encourage more open communication, feedback, Special awareness campaigns are being launched by and discussion about any matter of importance to the HR department to ensure all employees are being an employee or to the company, we adopted an HR constantly informed and aware of our policies, code open door policy. This policy, also aims at developing of conduct and security. trust and ensuring that any violation, breach or discrimination is reaching the Human Resources In 2014, more than 14 notifications were sent to Department to take necessary action. colleagues via business email, to remind them about our rules, policies, conduct or security. An internal In addition, a mailbox was put in place at the entrance security quiz was designed in March 2015 and of the HR department, allowing employees to address addressed to all colleagues, to reinforce and safeguard any issue, complaint or suggestion anonymously and our working environment. The quiz was mandatory freely. to all colleagues and a training plan was set for colleagues who failed to pass the test. Also, permanent HR visits and informal meetings are being held with employees, to touch point with In addition, to the Security quiz more than 10 them, especially when they are working at different notifications and reminders were sent to colleagues, locations. These visits allow the HR department to to increase their awareness on different security, highlight any complaint or issue raised by employees. conduct, or behavioral issues. Concerns raised are being treated immediately and raised to the Management when needed. Moreover, an orientation is being organized for new comers on monthly basis; its objective is to provide In light of our ethical and conduct guidelines, we employees with an overview of our company, make sure that all our employees have the needed organizational culture, and work ethic, which will allow knowledge as to the best practices and acclaimed the employee to better integrate into the workplace. behaviors, in relation to Human Rights. 12 www.alfa.com.lb Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Measurement of outcomes On Customer Experience level, and since 2013, 1.8M surveys were conducted. Our answer ratio is equivalent to 1.58%, which is higher than the international benchmarked average, for surveys without incentives. Several channels are used in this respect, in order to make sure that the collected feedback is aligned with the multiple transactions, we are offering. They vary from SMS, Website, Phone, Face to Face, USSD to Alfa Mobile Application. Additional channels are being assessed regularly to meet complex clients’ requirements. Also, in relation to those surveys, multiple actions and initiatives are being applied and implemented in order to improve the Customer Experience journey of our clients. These improvements are directly related to our products and services, such as decreasing the time needed to reach Alfa helpline, publishing educational infographics and tutorial videos about Alfa channels and services, data consumption... 13 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles 14 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals At Alfa, we act in accordance with the International We recognize the right of our employees in upholding Labor Organization (ILO) principles, regarding the child the freedom of association and the effective rights. We comply by the Lebanese laws protecting recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Also, children from the worst forms of child labour and Alfa is abiding by the terms of a collective agreement adhere to all the consent decrees regulating the Child signed with the Syndicate of Mobile Sector employees. Labour laws and legislations. Also, we abide by the We respect the rights of our employees to freely and UN declaration prohibiting any form of child labour voluntarily join syndicate or unions pursuant to the with regard to the four general principles adopted by applicable legal Lebanese laws and regulations. the United Nations Committee: non-discrimination, best interests of the child, survival and development All our activities are governed by clear policies, and participation. We fully adopt Lebanon minimum procedures and guidelines that are based on age convention for admission in employment and international standards management systems, by way encourage the enrolment of children in formal of example and without limitation: education. • PMP for Project Management Moreover, we prohibit any form of discrimination • ISO standard 9000/2008 for Quality Management based on gender, religion, race, physical disability • ISO 31000 for Risk Management Strategy, after or nationality and seek to prevent discrimination proper customization practices in relation to employment, promotion, • ISO 26000 – Guidance on Social Responsibility that remuneration by forbidding any kind of inequality dedicates one of its seven core subjects to Human and injustice. Rights. • ISO 39001:2012 Road traffic safety (RTS) Alfa welcomes a diverse workplace offering management systems exposure to employees from different cultures and • OHSAS 18001 Occupational health and safety backgrounds. Our commitment to diversity through management systems, after proper customization fair employment and recruitment selection is based only on the individual merits of candidates and on Our dedicated Human Resources Power-forces selection criteria relevant to the position. For this address advanced perspectives of HR issues, from purpose, Alfa, as an employer is keen to the principle people resourcing, acquisition, management of of equal opportunity and adheres to a clear defined well-being, retention, talent planning, competencies procedure in the conduct of the recruitment and development with respect to equity, transparency, selection process for all its vacancies. As a company, integrity and accountability. we strive to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of, gender, marital status, and religion, political or physical status. 15 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation 1. Getting feedback suggestions and ideas by providing means for such At Alfa, we have periodic engagement and information transfer and by applying the suitable and communications programs aiming at building most appropriate initiatives and innovations as part of trust with community through the gathering our continuous improvement activities. of feedback and detection of our stakeholders’ directions, perceptions and aspirations in addition 2. Managing diversity at our workplace to identification of emerging issues and trends, to Taking on our social responsibilities and developing facilitate corrective actions and take preemptive our corporate social responsibility is one of our measures. primary concerns. The engagements’ outcomes are being followed We are committed to make sure that our recruitment and assessed by a group of dedicated workforces policy does not in any way enclose any form of and acted upon for the benefit of our sustainable discrimination for our disabled and physically partnerships through several practices and modules: challenged employees. Grievance mechanisms, Overall Satisfaction, Net Promoter Score (NPS customer loyalty metrics), Risk We also seek, to grant our physically challenged assessment,... employees their total independence, still they can seek assistance, when needed. In parallel, the voice of our employees is a key driver in our corporate performance, enabling us to further 3. Equal opportunities for all understand our employees’ needs, requirements, Equal opportunities are offered to all employees motivations and behaviors. regardless of their gender, marital status, religion and political or physical status. Our workforces are neither prevented nor deterred from expressing freely themselves, contrarily we have 4. Developing our talents in place several mechanisms, channels and regulations a. Performance Management Program which foster transparent and open communication in We put at the heart of our core business: our People the workplace. and our Community in order to meet leadership challenges through the Power of Agility. We have a yearly periodic internal assessment which aims at evaluating the well-being, the fair treatment Alfa is keen to attract and retain its talents; all and the appropriate contentment of our workforces employee concerns’ are being treated and analyzed at all levels across all our company. The results of the continuously for better retention. assessment are being followed and audited in order to ensure the finest working environment spirit and to We always aim at improving and recognizing Alfa better assess employees’ concerns and suggestions. employees’ performance and supporting their career Also, we encourage our employees to share development. 16 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation At Alfa, we promote a culture driven by Performance. We provide equal training opportunities which Accordingly, remuneration of the team members enable our employees to learn and grow. The training is being reviewed on a yearly basis with the aim varies from Technical to Soft Skills, Quality application of recognizing and valuing Top performers, while and standards to different overseas events and ensuring Fairness and Equity, along with review of workshops. applied salary scheme based on continuous market benchmark. 5. Health and Safety environment At Alfa, we apply management quality systems and Since our culture relies on transparency, our internal standards related to the workplace condition, in rules & regulations were published and communicated addition to control measures, safety procedures, to all our employees on the intranet to be accessible and preventions policies. We implement OHSAS to all colleagues. Rules & regulations cover all aspects 18001 Occupational health and safety management of our business and guarantee compliance with our systems, after proper customization. culture. In addition, our working facilities take into In addition, our policies were also communicated consideration Health and Safety for the sake of our and published on our intranet. These policies are employees by putting on top of our commitments developed to help employees understand our the security of our vulnerable groups and by organization. They play a strategic role in our guaranteeing healthy workplace aiming at protecting company and were developed in coordination with our employees from being exposed to any kind of departments and concerned entities. They are harm. Our workplace premises are adapted to secure continuously reviewed and updated based on need. utmost physical and mental comfort for our physically challenged colleagues. b. Training opportunity Talent Development at Alfa ensures Corporate and Moreover, we have in place strict work policies to Individual development, locally and abroad, enabling protect our employees from any harm that might employees to achieve business objectives while affect their physical, mental and social condition, maintaining performance excellence and creating a aiming at maintaining their security and warranting continuous learning culture. We also contribute to their safety, with relation to their physical and the development of the youth community through mental well-being. Our best practices and protocols internship opportunities for university students are continuously reviewed and shaped in order to looking to support their academic background with respond to internal needs and operational exposures. practical experience. Also, we conduct regular training and awareness sessions to our team for the purpose of diffusing Our talent development program aims at building health and safety instructions and regulations and the capacities of our employees, in terms of skills and preventing any probable harm which might affect competencies. them during their employment and when performing any business activity. 17 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation For this purpose, practical advices and 6. Special benefits at Alfa recommendations guidelines are communicated As we aim to sustain our positioning as an employer to our technical teams, covering safety, health and of choice, Alfa is keen to provide employees with a welfare of employees and others, when conducting wide array of financial and non-financial benefits. any activity at Alfa locations or any sites in These benefits comprise a sizable percentage of total compliance with the instructions of the international compensation and are offered or subsidized by the standardization bodies such as ICNIRP. company according to specific eligibility requirements. They are continuously reviewed to provide best Car Fleet Management facilities for employees. Also, we seek to pay Stemming from our commitments to protect competitive wages versus the Lebanese market. the health and safety of our employees as well as promoting responsible driving, we invested our efforts to have in place a pioneering Car Fleet Management program. Our road-traffic safety frameworks and principles aim at upholding the best practices for our community sustainable development, based on ISO 39001 road safety Management Standard and the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. Our Car Fleet Management program is based on assessing our car fleet management current situation, designing an integrated policy to achieve road traffic safety, conducting training to all our employees by raising their awareness and providing needed guidelines and instructions. A holistic approach and management system is considered and put in place, allowing to perform follow up, monitoring, and reporting by having a complaint management system and by expanding the application field and the governance and regulations. With this pioneering initiative in Lebanon, we aim at acting as role models for our community by demonstrating highest ethical standards while driving, in order to change the driving habits of our community in an effort to considerably reduce the number of accidents and causalities. 18 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Getting feedback 360 degree management assessment Moreover, our premises accessibility is being Since 2011, a 360 degree management assessment assessed on yearly basis by the Lebanese Physically process was launched by the HR department, to Handicapped Union, to ensure that we are well ensure employees are working in a healthy working equipped to cover employees with disability environment. This process was established in line requirements’ and facilitate their integration in with our continuous initiatives to evaluate the our working environment (Internal and external well-being, fair treatment and appropriate learning customers). and development culture across the different Within this scope, a special awareness session departments of the company; this process involves on different types of disability was designed for all teams reporting to a manager. They are requested all HR team members (100% attendance) on to fill in the assessment form, sent on sequential basis February 2015, in coordination with the Lebanese and express freely their own opinion as to how they Handicapped Union, to get familiar with the best perceive their managers with regards to the above way for approaching employees with disability from said standards. Accordingly, an action plan is put in an HR perspective and to know more about the tools place. needed at workplace to facilitate their integration. This special awareness session will be later cascaded The whole process is developed to ensure among all colleagues. confidentiality of the exercise and thus the information provided are treated anonymously Gender Equality according to our guidelines. At Alfa, male and female managers are promoted based on their competencies. In Year 2014: 23 assessments were done. In 2015, 8 Gender distribution: were done until March. 40% Women vs. 60% Men. Managerial position distribution: 2. Equal opportunities for all/Gender Equality/ 10.16% Males vs. 4.40% Females in 2013, as compared Diversity to 14.5% Male managers vs. 6.65% Female managers We offer our employees equal opportunity in 2014; increase in line with the expansion of the environment, whereas all our employees have the whole Alfa permanent population. opportunity to grow and build their capacities, Managerial position distribution: despite their physical challenges or gender. 29% Female managers vs. 71% Male Managers. Physical challenges Since 2013, Alfa is celebrating ‘’Girls in ICT Day’’ At Alfa, we already surpassed the 3% quota, stipulated initiative, backed by ITU, aiming at encouraging young by the Law 220/2000 which promotes the rights girls and women to consider careers in the ICT sector. of the disabled and was ratified by parliament in Alfa Women Employees in Communication and December 1999, as to employing challenged people. Information Technology field is 21% vs. 79% of men. 13% of Alfa ICT managers are Women. 19 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measurement of Outcomes 4. Developing our talents • Number of students benefiting from internship a. Performance Management Program program on a yearly basis has evolved from 17 in At Alfa, we have in place a Performance Management 2009 till 50 in 2014 with 25 university students being Program, based on the Management by Objectives accommodated till present since January 2015. (MBO) model, which aims at recognizing Alfa • In 2014, we started a new talent development employees’ performance, supporting their career program, ‘’Train The Trainer’’, whereas our development and achieving excellence while ensuring experienced and skilled personnel got the techniques that our employees’ individual objectives (SMART) and became certified to deliver subjects in are being met in coherence with our corporate goals professional and corporate training which do respond and whereas each employee will contribute to the to our business needs. So far, more than 37 training achievement of the overall corporate results. sessions were conducted by internal trainers to more than 480 colleagues. Moreover, individual contribution is reviewed according to selected criteria reflecting performance 5. Health and Safety environment in terms of core and managerial competencies. a. Induction security awareness sessions are being conducted to all new hires, to introduce them to b. Training opportunity our company’s culture and internal regulations for a Our talent development program is based on building smooth integration within our working environment. the capacities of our employees, in terms of skills and Also, we have in place internal communication competencies. channels that aim at providing relevant guidance and support. • In 2014, 85% of the total company population had at least 1 learning opportunity. 5% attended b. Our workplace and premises are subjected to major overseas conferences and seminars scheduled maintenance examinations and risk conducted worldwide and that are directly related assessment in order to ensure that our employees are to the Telecom industry. In 2015, 29% of the total not exposed to any hazards or threats, in relation to company population has attended at least 1 training their health and safety. Monthly awareness internal opportunity till mid-May out of which 3% attended communications are shared with our workforce in overseas conferences and seminars. this respect. No accidents have been reported last year. 20 www.alfa.com.lb lABOUR Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 And the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measurement of Outcomes 6. Special benefits at Alfa a. Special leaves b. Schooling & nursery facilities • Annual Leaves exceeding Labor Law stated Alfa contributes to the schooling and kindergarten 15 days per year; they increase depending on tuition fees of employees’ children (up to 4 kids seniority with a minimum of 18 days and can while respecting a fixed cap) even if their respective reach up to 30 days husbands are granted such an allowance by their employers. • Special leaves exceed also the leaves stipulated in Labor Law and allow also flexibility for employees: c. Insurance • Marriage: 7 days All permanent employees benefit from a first class • Paternity: 3 days medical insurance plan covering first class CO-NIL • Maternity: 3 months (exceeding the law by 2 in-patient, out-patient, prescription medicine and weeks) doctor visits. Flexible schedule for parents and student (Possibility to leave 1 hour earlier per day to be Medical insurance for direct dependents with a compensated from annual leave) maximum of 30% contribution form the employee. • Special leave for nursing mothers with a reduction of 1 hour of business day until new Employees benefit also from an important coverage born reaches first year of his age for life insurance. 21 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles 22 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals With all the drastic variations in our environment, In addition, we are continuously employing new from climate change to air pollution, we cannot but ways to reduce our energy consumption, optimizing feel concerned about the future of our country’s our waste management and reducing our footprints natural resources and our planet, in the end, the in terms of energy consumption, as part of our greatest legacy we leave to our children is this planet. sustainability efforts. We consider ourselves as the advocates of our Our green commitment is embedded within our community, by adopting pioneering responsible corporate objectives and is translated by internal and environmental initiatives, implementing health external measures and policies with respect to our and safety protocols and standards, embracing the “Alfa 4-Nature” initiative. latest technologies in terms of energy savings and operational efficiency towards renewable energy Our business process engineering effort, constantly sourcing, we work towards a sustainable growth to considers the environmental attribute when our beloved country and to our fellow citizens. designing new processes, procedures, internal policies and guidelines such as, Network deployment process By means of upholding the protection of the and related procedures, where physical and carbon environment, reducing the undesirable environmental footprint is reduced as much as possible. impacts and applying sustainable practices, we, at Alfa, abide by the Lebanese applicable laws and the In addition, the enterprise risk management entity international quality standards and protocols with allocates a special interest to risks arising from relation to the environmental laws and regulations environmental aspects: whereby an enterprise-wide and to the Human Exposure Limit Regulation for the green project was established to mitigate this risk, and safety and public health with respect to possible health indeed, the risk ended up being closed after proven impact of the radiations caused by mobile network sustainability of the project. equipment and the introduction of new technologies, environmental protection and preservation of the Besides, the risk of having non-properly catered natural resources. for equipment deployment is also being managed with 80% of the controls, performed by concerned Also, we adopt the ICNIRP standard; International technical entities. Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP, 1998), which produces guidelines and recommendations limits on the Electromagnetic Radiation measurements exposure. This standard is applicable on all Alfa cells all over the Lebanese territories. 23 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. implementation • We have installed electronic type ballasts energy • We have systems in place to manage, dispose and efficient in all floors and cafeterias, settled a Power send the oil of our premises generators for re-refining Shutdown for floor lightings and kitchen pantries, and reuse as lubricant oils. Also, we have a healthy and installed motion detectors in our premises and process with our suppliers regarding the disposal and the automatic switch-off systems for turning off floors’ cleanliness of our GSM sites, whereas the used oil is not lights and wireless LAN’s access points during nonbeing thrown in sewage or any other place. It is handed working hours (or based on activity in the floors). to entities, who recycle or use it in some productions. • In order to reduce leakage of existing elbows in • Our recycling adoption is now embedded within all the ACs at our premises, we have turned louvers our acclaimed behaviors, as part of our waste and installed timers for AC via BMS, thus conserving management initiative. energy as much as possible. • We use recycled materials such as Toilet consumables • We have also installed fans and pumps schedule and Office facial Tissue. on BMS at our headquartersmanual as well as registration of hour meter readings at each gasoil • We are adopting recycling initiative and collecting refilling. our corporate waste, as part of our sustainability strategy, at all Alfa premises in partnership with • We replaced lighting at our premises with LED suppliers for the recycling of our used papers and lights, contributing to energy saving and sustainability other consumables. best practices through decreasing our greenhouse gas emissions. • In 2015 and in coordination with our business partners, one tree is being planted by Alfa’s partners • To save energy, we have enabled sleep mode into the on the Lebanese territory against each allocated site Network tool for power management, configured on the Alfa network. for TURN OFF all the PC and Printers and Automatic power save for Copiers, shredders and screens. • In relation to our commitment to sustainable projects protecting the environment in Lebanon, we • Our company Cars have “Exhaust Oxygen Sensor” are powering our telecom base stations with solar which controls the smell out of the car exhaust and solutions, by embracing environmentally friendly help to reduce pollution. technologies for the benefit of our community. 24 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. implementation • We are applying internal awareness programs which aim at raising our employees’ responsiveness with respect to energy saving and adoption of green ecofriendly habits in order to build sustainable green culture in the workplace and within their lifestyles. Monthly awareness tips and recommendations are being communicated to employees. Also, we are applying sustainable initiatives with the NGOs we are partnering with, as part of our Alfa 4-Life Program, aiming at raising awareness about ecological causes. • We are adopting Green services initiatives which include our e-billing and e-recharge services. • We launched online payment services to our prepaid and postpaid subscribers, which decrease the paper bills and the toxic air pollutants through the reduction of cars on roads, in addition to time saving. Also, we promote green payment by allowing on-the spot purchase through ‘’near field Communication (NFC)’’ technology which offers our customers the opportunity to pay their transactions through their smartphones and readers having NFC capabilities. 25 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measurement of Outcomes • We succeeded in reducing our energy consumption • We send yearly 1440 Kgs of generators lubricant by 50% in 15 Working hours a day (from 7:00am till and oil for re-refining and reusing. 10:00pm) with respect to installation of electronic type ballasts energy efficient in our premises and • We succeeded in reducing our printed bills motion detectors in our parking and our facilities, statements by 45% through the adoption of green settlement of Power Shut down for floor lightings solutions instead, which increased our internet based and kitchen pantries. billing by 169%. • We succeeded in reducing our energy consumption • We have successfully equipped and put in service by 45% over 24 hours in relation to the turn off of AC 10 Alfa solar site with respect to our sustainable louvers and timers’ installation. commitments aiming at protecting the environment by investing and adopting environmentally friendly • We succeeded in reducing our energy consumption technologies and green solutions solution, free from by 50% by enabling sleep mode for Copiers (MFPs) & CO2 gas emissions, generating reliable power & Shredders, approximately by 10% for screens (During electricity from solar energy. the employee’s absence from office during the day). • We succeeded in reducing our offices supplies • We succeeded in reducing our energy consumption by cutting our consumption to half through the by 70% in relation to the replacement of lighting with purchase of 50% recycled provisions. LED lights. PAPER PLASTIC ALUMINUM GLASS YEAR PAPER Card board Books Bottles Cans (KGs) (KGs) (KGs) (KGs) (KGs) (KGs) Year 2013 in 3 months 3 10 2 10 40 Year 2014 1991 2100 884 522 22 10 Year 2015 in 4 months 722 775 105 136 Grand TOTAL 2716 2975 989 660 32 50 26 www.alfa.com.lb environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 And encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measurement of Outcomes As part of the performed network optimizations, modernizations and replacement of the older technologies and network elements, Alfa have accomplished several milestones, since April 2014 until April 2015: 1. Dismantling from Core switch of around 71 5. Dismantling of Core and RAN network from Core cabinets/nodes and drastic reduction of the switch and as such, reducing the floor plan occupation effectively needed and used foot-print area. by around 29 cabinets. 2. Major decrease in power consumption by around 6. The total estimated power consumption reduction, 13,000 Watts. in Alfa’s network, is estimated to be around 120,000 Watts which is equivalent to a heating capacity for 3. Complete evacuation and relocation of Core switch, around 60 houses. and implementation of newer nodes with much less power consumption. 7. The optimization, decommissioning and swapping of the traffic from the older nodes onto the newer 4. Dismantling from around 80 transmission sites, all and more eco-friendly nodes is still ongoing in Alfa’s over Lebanon, of the older transmission equipment, network. optimizing the sites space usage and decreasing the overall network power consumption by around 90,000 Watts. Moreover, Alfa operations teams are following on several projects in order to improve further the power utilization and improve the efficiency of the cooling systems/environments and as such improve the power consumptions. 27 www.alfa.com.lb ANTI–CORRUPTION Principle 28 www.alfa.com.lb ANTI–CORRUPTION Principle Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion. Assessment, Policy and Goals We, at Alfa, serve our community by acting as ethical role model to create a sustainable culture which promotes diversity, integrity, transparency through our commitments and behaviors. We are committed to act in accordance with the Lebanese applicable laws in relation to the anticorruption regulations and protocols and with respect to the Intellectual Property Rights. Our corporate commitments are regulated by sound and robust corporate governance structure which promotes integrity, transparency and is compliant with ethics and quality standards. We do not tolerate any form of bribery and extortion by aiming at and acting to maintain a zero tolerance policy against all forms of corruptions, whether internal or external. Our business relationships internally and externally are founded on our Code of Conduct which describes the expected behaviors in the workplace when dealing internally and also, when conducting business with our external stakeholders through the Code of Ethical Purchasing, serving as a guiding compass in our daily activities, actions, decisions and interactions. 29 www.alfa.com.lb ANTI–CORRUPTION Principle Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion. Implementation Internally Our tasks and activities are all structured into Since our employees are our greatest asset, we put processes, that define the roles and responsibilities of at their disposal numerous work regulations and each person. Continuous and regular internal audits guidelines to prevent corruption and bribery and take place to evaluate and improve the effectiveness protect them from any potential threat which might of processes. Monitoring systems are also employed affect their business development. in order to ensure that the workflows and processes are working as intended. Control results are being For this purpose, a Code of Conduct was elaborated followed up and corrective actions are implemented, embracing several themes, including but not limited when deemed necessary. to; Workplace Etiquette, Business Language Ethics, Preservation and use of property equipment, In the same context, we have in place an integrated Conflict of Interests, Gifts declarations, Confidential fraud management system, which provides complete information and Non-Disclosure. It comprises security against threats and provide protection from required attitude at work and acclaimed behaviors. potential risks. Regular and on demand reports are In the event of non-abidance to our rules and generated and acted upon. regulations, the disciplinary policy published and accessible to all colleagues, states clear measures to be In addition, our Risk Management Strategy is intended taken; a disciplinary questionnaire allows colleagues to identify all kind of threats or events that might to justify themselves before any action is taken. disrupt normal operation, have a detrimental impact on the business, or negatively affect the effectiveness Our Alfa employees are all trained and provided with and efficiency of work processes and procedures. full guidance regarding the appropriate behaviors and The proactive aspect of risk management consists in conduct. We provide our employees with full support identifying those potential risks/threats before they to eradicate bribery and corruption and to raise any actually occur. The identified risks are then assessed concern of ethical nature with their line manager and to determine their seriousness, and finally treated to Human Resources professionals whether addressed reduce their probability and/or impact. or not in our communicated and published Code of Conduct. All employees are encouraged to report any risk they notice in their working environment, daily A special gift and gratitude declaration policy was activities, or professional observations. Identified included within our code of conduct, whereby risks are shared with a specialized team, who assesses employees have to declare any gift received to the HR and treats the risk. Follow up assessment is being department based on exceeding a certain set amount. conducted periodically and risks are reported to Top Management for proper decisions regarding the implementation of the treatment. 30 www.alfa.com.lb ANTI–CORRUPTION Principle Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion. Implementation Externally Specific guidelines and regulations are being adopted as well with the external entities (suppliers, clients, distributors, etc...) to secure the best environment and business ethics. The best example is the way our procurement department deals with the suppliers to avoid corruption by following a strict and transparent “Request for Proposal” procedure. Decisions always secure the best value for money (quality vs price) to ensure the business continuity. 31 www.alfa.com.lb ANTI–CORRUPTION Principle Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption including bribery and extortion. Measurement of outcomes No corruption or bribery case was detected in • RFPs evaluation is done in two phases so that the the past year. While regular audits and monitoring results of the technical evaluation are revealed and activities are being carried out. disqualification, if any, takes place prior to commercial opening. Our well established Purchasing Management and Supplier policies are regularly being assessed and • People in charge of technical evaluation have reviewed to ensure efficiency and transparency. no visibility on prices and do not take part in the commercial evaluation. Our governance principles and framework highlight the below: • Suppliers are not allowed to execute any service or deliver any Hardware prior to the receipt of a • A minimum of three suppliers have to be invited for Purchase Order where the latter goes through a all purchases. chain of approvals involving members from various departments. • All major purchases and projects are governed through RFPs in sealed envelopes. • No meetings are allowed with bidders of RFPs during the RFP stage and no POC (proof of concept) • A committee from top management along with is allowed for any project that is subject to RFP in Procurement convenes each week to decide on order to prevent issuers from practicing intentional or major purchases/projects. unintentional bias during evaluation. 32 www.alfa.com.lb ABOUT ALFA 4-LIFE “Alfa 4-Life” is one of our ways of making a difference and a positive change in our society. It stems from our core values and commitment as a responsible corporate citizen. Through “Alfa 4-life” program, founded in 2006, we are helping children in communication needs physically and mentally challenged children as well as children with social problems in different parts of the country to receive special care, through “Communication Therapies”, and build skills that enable them to interact in the society they live in, in order to achieve their full citizenship. Since 2006, “Alfa 4-life” supports Lebanese NGOs, among them: Lebanese Autism Society (LAS), SOS Children’s Village, Acsauvel, SESOBEL, Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf (FAID) and the Lebanese School for the Blind and Deaf (LSBD). Alfa 4-LIFE 1004 CODE: ENGAGING OUR SUBSCRIBERS Alfa subscribers, play a vital role in supporting the social efforts we are investing in our community. Alongside each event within “Alfa 4-Life” program, we launch a broad SMS fundraising campaign, enabling all Alfa subscribers to donate $1 to the associations we are partnering with. For this purpose, we have created the short code 1004, aiming at raising funds by making donation through SMS. A one of a kind trend that Alfa has set in the country and many others followed. “Alfa 4-Life” is a novel concept that proves that with innovation, a simple SMS can make a powerful impact on peoples’ lives. 33 www.alfa.com.lb ABOUT ALFA 4-LIFE Our social commitment includes engaging directly with In addition, we aim at helping the NGOs that we work with the NGOs we work with, on piloting initiatives that have to sustain themselves through programs that would enhance social, economic, and environmental dimensions and their self-funding capabilities. realize two main goals: Through supporting these causes, “Alfa 4-Life” CSR is raising Supporting the social causes of the NGOs. awareness on social issues and the needs of disadvantaged Helping sustain their growth, development and financial people, reaching the masses for the benefit of the causes and independency. the beneficiaries. Stemming from our belief that children represent the future of our We are also engaging and lobbying the private sector, public country, we chose to focus on helping fulfill the communication sector and the opinion leaders for humanitarian causes, potentials of children with communication needs (Children with inspiring others to follow by leading the way and boosting the special needs or who suffer from social problems). social responsible initiatives. We focus on offering these children therapy through art and Since 2006, we are partnering with independent Lebanese engage them directly in society and workplace and in raising NGOs, among them: awareness on critical environmental, social and cultural causes thus leading as role models in the community. Lebanese Autism Society (LAS), an NGO that supports children with Autism and advocates the Autism cause. This involves ongoing work throughout the year. SOS Children’s Villages, an NGO that supports children who suffer from social problems and orphans. In this context, we collaborate with specialists and therapists Acsauvel, an NGO that supports mentally-challenged and the organizations to build, where needed, and strengthen, children. where needed, the children’s communication skills, and SESOBEL, an NGO that supports physically-challenged harness the power of art to allow them to communicate children. better with society as part of our goal to support their social Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf (FAID), an NGO that integration and full-citizenship. supports hearing impaired children. The Lebanese School for the Blind and Deaf (LSBD), an “Alfa 4-Life” has realized tangible value and success stories. NGO that supports visually and hearing impaired people and people. We have been able to spot a variety of talents among the children and students in communication needs within the NGOs and we have supported the development and growth of these talented children, students by which many of them have been able to get involved in the workplace and become financially independent. 34 www.alfa.com.lb ABOUT ALFA 4-LIFE The selection of the NGOs is aligned with the objectives of our program. It has been made based on: • The mission of each NGO • Level of transparency • Ensuring that the NGOs are independent and not politically affiliated with any party For the successfulness and the efficiency of our program, we do partner with Public sector, private sector, media, opinion leaders, etc… in fact, and depending on the nature of the initiative, we put all our efforts and dedication to reach outstanding results out of it. After every initiative implemented, a thorough investigation is conducted in order to assess the results and confirm that the implementation went as planned, and reached the goals which were put in place. The program also aims at supporting the NGOs in enhancing their products, and marketing them through making them more cost effective. These NGOs are already in the process of implementing the tactics we have worked on together, thus being able to better sustain themselves financially. The impact of our program does not solely affect the NGOs that we are supporting, in fact, and since our initiatives are reaching too many stakeholders and participants through outsourcing and monitoring, the impact of our program is reaching higher levels by securing jobs and affecting positively the economic growth, thus, influencing eventually our GDP. MEDIA COVERAGE 35 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES Alfa donates two stair climbers to the Ministry Of Justice January 2014 Under the patronage of His Excellency the Minister of Justice Chakib Qortbawi, two stair climbers were inaugurated at the Ministry of Justice. They were donated by Alfa, in collaboration with Sesobel, to the Ministry of Justice and the Palace of Justice in order to facilitate the mobility of persons with special needs when they visit these public facilities. 36 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES “Lebanese Art Academy” for teaching arts to people with special needs June 05, 2014 Under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of Telecommunications Boutros Harb and as part of the “Alfa 4-Life” CSR program, a press conference was held to announce the launching of the “Lebanese Art Academy”the first academy of its kind in Lebanon for teaching arts to people with special needs. This initiative falls within the continuous cooperation between Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, and the Lebanese Autism Society (LAS). 37 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES Acsauvel Annual ‘’Sports Event’’ for Children with Special Needs June 7, 2014 As every year, Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, together with Acsauvel, organized the annual sports event for children with special needs as part of its “Alfa 4-Life” CSR program. The sporting activities were held at the Champville Stadium in Deek el-Mehdi. This event comes within the framework of the therapy activities offered to the Acsauvel children as part of “Alfa 4-Life”, which is essential in strengthening their abilities to communicate with the outside world, and in enhancing their physical and mental health. 38 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES Acsauvel Youth third ‘’Eco-Act initiative’’ June 25, 2014 Under the auspices of H.E. the Minister of Telecommunications Boutros Harb and as part of the “Alfa 4-Life” CSR program, the third environmental activity of Acsauvel’s youth was launched within the Eco Act initiative. This year’s activity urged to maintain the city’s cleanliness through brochures and drawings prepared by Acsauvel’s youth in specialized workshops. 39 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES ’Vibrating Autism’’ Pop Art September 18, 2014 Alfa, in collaboration with the Lebanese Autism Society (LAS), organized the 5th exhibition of Ali Tlais, a young artist with autism discovered and supported by Alfa, held at the Beirut Art Fair in Biel. During the 4-day exhibit, 27 paintings that represented wonderful scenery of nature and never before seen pop art and typography painted by Ali, were showcased dazzling the attendees. The proceeds of the sold paintings went to Ali and the LAS. 40 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES ‘’Sentir avec le Cœur’’ November 05, 2014 As part of the Alfa 4-Life CSR program, “Sentir avec le Coeur”, the 2nd exhibition by the visually-impaired students of the Lebanese School for the Blind and Deaf, took place on November 5th, 2014. The exceptional works of art of the visually impaired children were exhibited in the Residence de Pins, accompanied by the students amazing choir, the event was attended by a multitude of ministers, deputies, ambassadors, and prominent figures. During the exhibition, many sculptures were sold and all proceeds went to the visually impaired artists and the Lebanese School for Blind and Deaf. 41 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES book signing November 07, 2014 As part of the “Alfa-4-Life” CSR program, nine children from the SOS Children’s Villages signed their first book; “Saeed and the magical tree”, at the Librairie Antoine stand at the “Salon du Livre” in Biel. Through the concept of art therapy, the children, aged between eleven and fifteen years, worked on the book during specialized workshops, through which they came up with the idea of the story and wrote the text and drew the illustrations. 42 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES SOS CHILDREN’S Christmas Choir December 02, 2014 As part of “Alfa 4-Life” CSR program, Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, marked the holiday month through the annual celebration of SOS Children’s Villages, which was held at the UNESCO Palace, where the SOS Children’s Villages choir performed an exceptional program entitled “Together we sing for Life”. The event, crowns a year of rehearsals for 94 children under the supervision of a professor from the National Conservatory. It was attended by Alfa Chairman and CEO, Mr. Marwan Hayek, the President of the Lebanese Association of SOS Children’s Villages, Mrs. Afifa Dirani Arsanios, and all the family of SOS children’s villages/Lebanon and Alfa families as well as media and social representatives. 43 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES “Les Délices d’ Alice” December 03, 2014 As part of Alfa 4-Life CSR program, and on the occasion of the United Nations International Day for Persons with Disabilities, Alfa has launched the new image of the SESOBEL chocolate and sweets products, at a gathering that took place on December the 3rd at Smallville Hotel – Badaro. The new image comprised a new name, a new logo and the SESOBEL shops new design. This initiative falls within Alfa’s endeavors to provide NGOs means to sustain themselves, be productive and selfsufficient. 44 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES ‘’De Fil en Aiguille’’ February 26, 2015 As part of the “Alfa-4-Life” CSR program, Alfa held a press conference at the Press Club on February 26th, announcing the launch of a redesigned enhanced line of embroidery for the SOS Children’s Villages. Alfa made it its responsibility to help the SOS children’s villages sustain themselves financially, through giving them the necessary tools and equipment as well as training, for the production of the redesigned trendy new line of embroidery «De Fil en Aiguille». This initiative falls under our women empowerment activities section and aims at supporting SOS mothers in playing a vital role in sustaining themselves. 45 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES “Rénover ne pas Jeter” March 28, 2015 Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, organized in collaboration with the Father Andeweg Institute for the Deaf the “Rénover ne pas Jeter” exhibition, at Farra Design Gallery in Mkalles, which featured 18 pieces of old furniture that were redesigned and renovated by the Institute’s students, under the supervision of artists appointed by Alfa. During the workshops, the hearing impaired children at FAID learned how to work with wood and renovate old pieces of furniture, some of the children loved it so much they would like to pursue a career in carpentry. 46 www.alfa.com.lb ALFA 4-LIFE INITIATIVES Girls in ICT Day 2014 2015 On the occasion of the international “Girls in Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)” Day and since 2013, Alfa, managed by Orascom Telecom, is organizing every year a celebration with the participation of young female students, from secondary classes. This initiative is part of Alfa’s commitment to encourage girls to participate and engage in the ICT sector and to have a better understanding of employment opportunities offered to them in this field; especially with Alfa being a main supporter for the integration of women in the workplace with women constituting about half the number of employees in the company. 47 www.alfa.com.lb products and services P&S LAUNCHED IN 2014 Alfa launched exclusively and for the first time in Lebanon the “Alfa Anghami” music bundle. It is a data bundle that enables ALFA ANGHAMI JAN-14 postpaid and prepaid Alfa subscribers to download and share songs and tunes, and listen to them anytime and anywhere on their device via the “Anghami” app. Alfa’s 111 customer service representatives are available to take ALFA 111 CALL CENTER 24/7 FEB-14 customers’ calls around the clock (24/7). Alfa Mobile broadband postpaid users were offered the possibility POSTPAID MOBILE BROADBAND ROAMING FEB-14 to access the Internet while abroad; using their current MBB data only card. Alfa launched the “Pick Your Line” online application that provides not only new postpaid lines, but also prepaid ones, the PICK YOUR LINE ONLINE FOR POSTPAID AND PREPAID FEB-14 possibility to book online a new number from a predefined list, and then pick it up from any Alfa store. Alfa launched its own application store: the “Alfa App Store”, which allows local app developers to upload their applications ALFA APPLICATION STORE MAR-14 for free and showcase their creativity. “Alfa App Store” allows developers to submit their apps for free. Alfa launched the “Alfa Mobile TV” that allows users to enjoy ALFA MOBILE TV JUN-14 watching over 45 TV channels. Alfa launched the lawyers’ offer for postpaid lines dedicated to all LAWYER OFFER JUN-14 lawyers registered at the Bar association. Alfa launched the Rannat offer that allows new Alfa lines to RANNAT OFFER ON NEW LINE JUL-14 replace the standard caller tone by a customized tone. Alfa launched U-Can, a new line dedicated exclusively to all U-CAN SEP-14 Lebanese people with special needs registered at the Ministry of Social Affairs. P&S LAUNCHED IN 2015 Alfa launched a new postpaid bundle at $90 exclusively for Alfa postpaid subscribers which offers allocated data, local & $90 Postpaid bundle Apr-15 international minutes and local SMS to be consumed during the bill cycle, saving up to 48% compared to Alfa postpaid rates. Alfa launched “Alfa Top-up” is a new, easy and flexible electronic ALFA TOP-UP Apr-15 recharge solution for all Alfa prepaid lines. Alfa launched Malak-e, a tracking watch that includes an Alfa prepaid SIM card and has a phone functionality allowing parents Malak-e watch Apr-15 to easily locate, monitor and contact their children anytime, anywhere. Alfa launched U-share service, which enables postpaid & prepaid data users to share any of the data bundles detailed below u-share MAY-15 (starting 10GB) with up to 3 Alfa numbers that can have different type of devices e.g., phones, tablets, dongles and routers. 48 www.alfa.com.lb www.alfa.com.lb
