Communication On Progress 2014-15 Communication On Progress 2014-15 CONTENTS Chairman’s message Reporting parameters CHAPTER 01 Sustainability Approach CHAPTER 02 DBL & Sustainability CHAPTER 03 Corporate Governance CHAPTER 04 Economic Performance CHAPTER 05 Environmental Practices CHAPTER 06 Social Development CHAPTER 07 Stakeholder Engagement 05 08 09-16 17-30 31-36 37-42 43-54 55-66 67-84 05 Chairman’s Message Dear Stakeholders, I am extremely delighted to present to you DBL Group’s Communication on Progress. This report presents our efforts to continue sustainable and ethical business practices as part of our vision to make a visible contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh. Businesses continue to face increased cost and competition driven by scarcity in all forms of natural resources. Environmental and social factors alike are playing crucial roles in determining the future growth of most companies. Increased awareness on sustainability and responINCREASED AWARENESS ON SUSsible business practices are crucial for a company’s TAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE success in the long run. A changed perspective of the society and environment as the major stakeholders, BUSINESS PRACTICES ARE CRUcoupled with innovation, will be the key to success of CIAL FOR A COMPANY’S SUCCESS every business in the next generation. At DBL Group, we are working relentlessly for raising the bars of acceptable IN THE LONG RUN. A CHANGED standards that impact our major stakeholders. IncorpoPERSPECTIVE OF THE SOCIETY AND rating sustainability into all our business decisions and into every member of our organization will fulﬁll our ENVIRONMENT AS THE MAJOR mission of becoming an economically, socially and STAKEHOLDERS, COUPLED WITH environmentally sustainable group. We aim to relish the idea of sustainability for generations to come. Our INNOVATION, WILL BE THE KEY TO sustainability strategy focuses on ﬁve major components which are integrated in the core values of the organizaSUCCESS OF EVERY BUSINESS IN tion: People, Process, Product, Community and EnvironTHE NEXT GENERATION. ment. 06 Since our establishment in 1991, we have come a long focus on agricultural ventures to support our own workway and evolved as a responsible and ethical practitioner force is laudable. DBL Group and its management are in the industry. Full commitment and endeavors led us to actively involved in supporting a large number of educabe one of the largest composite knit garments and textiles tion institutions, imparting educations at primary and manufacturers and exporters in Bangladesh. Like most secondary levels. companies, we faced a challenging business environment over the previous years amidst the global economic We have strong environment friendly practices in place turmoil. We have overcome these challenges with great which includes energy efﬁcient machineries and cleaner diligence and have succeeded in continuing our signiﬁproduction. We have the largest Biological Effluent Treatcant contribution to the economy of Bangladesh. ment Plant (ETP) in Bangladesh which is benchmarked by the Department of Environment of Bangladesh to set up With a skilled and dedicated workforce of over 20,450 other ETPs in the country. people, we are committed to deliver products and services of superior quality and international standards to With the success of the Cleaner Production project initiatour customers. We are supplying quality apparels to the ed by IFC (World Bank Group), we have been able to save renowned retailers and the popular fashion brands across huge amounts of energy consumption over the years. We the world, with a total export of the group worth USD 320 have a target to reduce waste, carbon emission, water million in 2014 ﬁscal year alone. In recognition of our and energy consumption by up to 25% within 2015 on the excellent performance in export, DBL Group has received baseline of 2011. the ‘HSBC Export Excellence Award’ in 2013, 2012 and 2009 and The National Export Trophy Award 2010-11. In alignment with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact, DBL Group has also received the highest rank of recogniwe are committed to ensure sustainable future for people tion in the form of awards and accolades for outperformand environment and to stand against corruption. We ing in categories such as social and environmental have committed ourselves to support the ten principles of Sustainability, Compliance, CSR, and improving working the Global Compact. We also respect human rights as and living conditions of workers. These recognitions are part of our commitment to UN Guiding Principles for Businot only in the national level but the international level as ness and Human Rights. well: DBL Group received the Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative (CPI2) Top Factory Award, the In contemplation of the ﬁre incidents prevalent in the International Convention of Quality Control Circles garments industry, we have signed a MoU with GIZ and (ICQCC) Silver Award and the Textile Institute Sustainabilthe Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defense in order to ity Award. construct a Mini Fire Brigade in order to attend to any ﬁre within the Kashimpur zone. The foundation stone was laid We believe that creating employment opportunities is the on 7 October 2015 by H.E. Dr. Gerd Müller, Honorable best way to serve the community that we work in. With Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Developvast expansions in progress, DBL Group targets to add ment, Germany, and H.E. Mr. Tofail Ahmed, Honorable another 10,000 employment opportunities by 2016. Our Minister of Commerce, Government of Bangladesh. expansion plan is very well researched to ensure that the growth is sustainable and ethical from all aspects. We are committed to create a platform for ensuring sustainable growth for our company. In this regard, I Sizeable portion of DBL's proﬁt is channeled into CSR sincerely thank all our stakeholders for their ongoing activities, reflecting our commitment to social developunderstanding, support and faith in our company. ment. We provide wide-ranging support in the ﬁelds of education and health, especially supporting the General Ward of the Burn Unit at Dhaka Medical College Hospital. We have also contributed to Ahsania Mission Cancer Abdul Wahed Hospital, Mitford Hospital and BIRDEM Hospital. Our Chairman 07 REPORTING PARAMETERS: 08 CHAPTER 1 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Human Development is the base for Sustainable Development. Mekelle University, Ethiopia SIGNIFICANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY IN DBL GROUP In regards to business, sustainability has already found its immense importance and this is increasing every day. According to the global survey results obtained by McKinsey & Company1 CEOs around the world are increasingly prioritizing its signiﬁcance throughout the years, not only as one of the top three agendas, but also as the most important one. Within the same survey, it was reported that 70% of the manufacturing industries are communicating company’s sustainability activities to consumers. DBL Group has already recognized the signiﬁcance and hence has continuously adopted sustainable development business practices. These practices have been in line with our organizational core values and our vision to be the leader in its business domain and have a visible contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh. As a leading exporter in the readymade garments (RMG) sector in Bangladesh, this is increasingly important for us. The RMG exports, according to the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA) and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)2 amounted to about US$ 25.5 billion in 2014-15 – with a rise of 4.08% than in 2013-14 – and contributed 81.71% of the total exports: which was 81.13% in the previous ﬁnancial year and 79.61% in 2012-13. What is more interesting is despite the reduction in the number of factories from 5,876 in 2012-13 to 4,296 in 2014-15, the garments industry continued to boom. WE BELIEVE THAT TOGETHER WITH OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, BUSINESS PARTNERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS, WE CAN CREATE REAL AND LONG-TERM CHANGES FOR THE WELLBEING OF THE COMMUNITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT. Sustainability is an ongoing process that requires dedication, cooperation from the senior management and teamwork. DBL Group is attaining sustainable growth through its various CSR and beyond Compliance activities, and is effectively coping up with the constantly changing concepts. We always embrace new ideas to make sustainable choices in everything we do. We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the wellbeing of the community and the environment. And together with our over 20 thousand employees we can extend this impact even further – from improving the livelihood of the internal community to the outside community as well. 1 http://www.mckinsey.com/Insights/Sustainability/Sustainabilitys_strategic_worth_McKinsey_Global_Survey_results, Viewed: 13 May 2015 11 http://www.bgmea.com.bd/home/pages_test/TradeInformation, Viewed: 13 May 2015 2 SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVE Innovatively achieve sustainable growth for the organization without comprising on the social and environmental challenging obligations in the coming years ACHIEVING THE OBJECTIVE Ensuring safe and healthy work conditions for our employees Using natural resources efﬁciently Reduce, reuse and recycle waste products Being responsive to any social and environmental impacts of our business operations on the community Using renewable and alternate sources of energy for production purposes Conducting business with responsible partners Being involved with community empowerment SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 12 Pillars PILLARS OF of DBL’SDBL’s Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Group’s DBL DBL Sustainability Group’s Sustainabilityis based is basedon ﬁveon pillars: People, ﬁve pillars: Process, People, Product, Process, Community Product, Community Environment; and and thus thus Environment; integrating a holistic integrating approach a holistic towards approach towardsSustainability. For each Sustainability. pillar,pillar, For each are aare therethere number a numberof Sustainable Action of Sustainable Action Programs Programsin place – both in place on large – both and small on large scales and small and short scales and long and short terms and long – through terms which – through the sustainability which plansplans the sustainability are translated into actions. are translated into actions. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Environment Environment is a high is a high priority priority for our our company forcompany and and we work we work to decrease to decrease carbon carbon footprint, footprint, waterwater consumption, consumption, and waste and waste fromfrom our manour manufacturing ufacturing processes. processes. We dedicate We dedicate ourselves ourselves COMMUNITY COMMUNITY in conserving in conserving energy,energy, managing managing waste waste effeceffectivelytively and replenishing and replenishing the environment the environment to theto the We believe We believe together that that together our employees, with with our employees, best best of capacity. our capacity. of our DBL DBL recognizes recognizes its its that that customers, business customers, partners business and other partners stakeand other stakeown own sustainability sustainability its ability on itsonability restsrests to work to work holders, we can holders, wecreate real and can create reallong-term changand long-term changharmoniously harmoniously in itsinsocial its social and environmental and environmental es foresthe forbetterment the betterment of theofcommunity the communityand the and the settings. settings. So, with So, with economic economic successsuccess we also we also environment. And together environment. And together withthousands with our of of our thousands wantwant to balance to balance social and and social environmental environmental employees employeeswe can we can extendextend impact this this eveneven impact prosperity. prosperity. further – from further improving – from the livelihood improving of our the livelihood of our employees employeesto the to development the development of society of the the society where we conduct where we conduct our businesses. our businesses. 13 PEOPLEPEOPLE As anAs organization, an organization, DBL DBL Group Group realizes realizes its its responsibility responsibility towards its people: towards its people: our employour employOur company ees. ees. Our company understands understands how how the busithe busipractices nessness practices impact impact our employees our employees and we and we to serve workwork to serve in their in their best best interests. interests. PROCESS PROCESS DBL DBL Group Group is committed is committed to continuously to continuously improve improve all itsall its businessbusiness processes: processes: ranging ranging fromfrom purchasing purchasing raw materiraw materials toalstransporting to transportingﬁnal ﬁnal ﬁnished ﬁnished goods. goods. We give We give a strong a strong emphasisemphasis on eliminating on eliminating non-value non-value addedadded activities activities (waste) (waste) whilewhile delivering delivering quality quality products products on time on time leastleast with with effecteffect on theonenvironment the environment and greater and greater efﬁciency. efﬁciency. PRODUCT PRODUCT Group DBL DBL Group continuously continuously works works towards towards improving improving the quality of theofproducts, the quality the products,and all and all the processes the processes that that go making go into into making the ﬁnal the ﬁnal ﬁnished ﬁnished product, and and product, ensuresensuresto minimize to minimize the negative the negative impact on the impact onenvironment the environment and and consumers. the the consumers. R&D R&D The The department department is is actively actively involved in creating involved in creating new newand and researching researching existing products existing products and and the the processes processes associated associated with with them.them. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 14 SYNERGY WITH UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The strategies followed by the highest governance in synerThe Board of Directors of DBL Group proacgy with the ten principles help provide DBL with competitive tively oversees the organization’s credentials advantage and become a market leader. The governance and management of economic, environmental effectively oversees social and environmental risks and work and social performance, including relevant toward improved dialogue with the community to ﬁnd risks and opportunities, and adherence or common solutions. We live by our deeply rooted core values compliance with internationally agreed stanand train employees in sustainability, asking them to considdards, codes of conduct and principles. The er the standards in their daily work. Our commitment to the Board’s decision making is greatly influenced ten principles of the UN Global Compact under human rights, by the UN Global Compact’s ten principles labor standards, environment and anti-corruption promotes which ultimately enable the overall organizaclarity and simplicity in governance for sustainability and tion to recognize strengths and weaknesses ethics. The management has to ensure that our policies and of business management to perform effective guidelines are understood and acted upon in every business risk management, improve management unit. system and goal setting. 15 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 16 CHAPTER 2 DBL & SUSTAINABILITY Gender equality is more than a goal in itself. It is a precondition for meeting the challenge of reducing poverty, promoting sustainable development and building good governance. Koﬁ Annan, Seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations 05 DBL & Sustainability COMPANY PROFILE DBL Group is a diversiﬁed conglomerate with a strong backward linkage. The group started its business in 1991. The diversiﬁed business includes spinning, knitting, dyeing, all over printing, screen printing, garments, washing, packaging, ceramic tiles, telecom, and garments accessories. DBL Group is one of the largest and 100% export oriented composite knit garments and textiles manufacturing industry in Bangladesh. We are supplying quality apparels across the world to the best of the retailers and the biggest brands of the fashion industry. The company is headquartered at Dhaka, Bangladesh and operating its production process at factories situated at Gazipur, Dhaka, Bangladesh. MISSION DBL Group is committed to provide the best quality products and services through competent, dedicated employees and state-of-the-art technology minimizing adverse effects of our business operations on the environment VISION To be the leader in its business domain and have a visible contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh CONCERNS Color City Ltd. DB Tex Ltd. Dulal Brothers Ltd. Flamingo Fashions Ltd. Hamza Textiles Ltd. Jinnat Apparels Ltd. Jinnat Fashions Ltd. Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. Mawna Fashions Ltd. Mymun Textiles Ltd. Parkway Packaging and Printing Ltd. Textiles and Testing Services Ltd. CORE VALUES Thanbee Print World Ltd. Integrity Commitment Passion Innovation Trustworthiness 19 PRODUCTS & SERVICES DBL Group offers the following products and services: Yarn, Fabrics Casual knitwear (T-shirt, Polo shirt, Tank top, Jogger, Hooded Jacket, Cardigan, Pants and Dresses) Fashionable wear (Skirt, Gown) WE DEDICATE OURSELVES IN DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. SOME OF THEM ARE INCLUDED BELOW: YARN AND KNITTING Snow yarn Neppy yarn Injected yarn Single/multi color neps Injected slub Vario siro Snowy Siro Mélange Tencel DYEING Ecofresh dyeing FINISHING Nylon, Wool, Acrylic Poly viscose, Cotton modal Midori ﬁnishing Cross dyeing with different colors (hydrophilic softener from for mélange look natural source) Resin ﬁnish Flame retardant Anti-microbial DBL & Sustainability 20 MANUFACTURING PROCESS State-of-the-art machineries, along with best grade cotton, are being used in our spinning mill for all products. Fabric knitting makes use of low proﬁle hazardous materials. The spinning, dyeing and printing operations are certiﬁed with Oeko-Tex 100 Standard with Product Class I. One of the special features of the dyeing operation is the low water to dye ratio: it makes use of only 60 liters per kilogram of fabric. Focusing on efﬁciency, our garments processes make use of CAD, CAS and CAM systems. The washing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems. The R&D department helps in developing new products and process improvements for producing products with good quality at the lowest cost possible in the shortest time. This desire for quality is also shared by our team of highly qualiﬁed and competent professionals, who under the capable and dynamic leadership of the Board of Directors have made our remarkable growth possible. It is with this shared vision that we are marching towards our goal of attaining acknowledged leadership in providing quality products at competitive price. COTTON IMPORT SEWING WASHING SPINNING PRINTING AND FINISHING EMBROIDERY KNITTING CUTTING PACKAGING DYEING AND FINISHING ALL OVER PRINTING TRANSPORTATION 21 CURRENT PRODUCTION CAPACITY 57,031,886 PIECES EXPORTED IN 2014-15 ASIA & EUROPE AFRICA NORTH SOUTH OCEANIA AMERICA AMERICA AUSTRIA SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM CHINA MEXICO BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG PANAMA BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN EL SALVADOR GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE TURKEY UK DBL & Sustainability 22 MAJOR BUYERS OUR KNOWLEDGE PARTNERS 23 PEOPLE BANDHAN FAIR PRICE SHOP “Bandhan” is a fair price shop which serves low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory price of manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers’ monthly expenditure burden and sheltering them from the economic inflation. Any worker of DBL can buy items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of the month. 2014-15 Number of items: 357 Transaction: USD 366,773 . IN-HOUSE GARMENTS TRAINING CENTER The in-house garments training center at DBL provides a complete set of trainings to all the new workers at DBL. The trainings include topics on sewing machine operation and quality control to help workers with no experience of working on the production floors. WOMEN HEALTH PROGRAM INITIATIVE (WHPI) Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers at Jinnat Complex and Thanbee Print World Ltd. It has a long term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all Pads sold in 2014: 1,067 of DBL’s female workers. The initial activity was providing Per month consumption increased: women with sanitary napkins at discounted price: thus not only 55 in 2013-14 limiting to teaching women but providing opportunities for safe 101 in 2014-15 health as well. FUTURE LEADERS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (FLDP) Under the Future Leaders Development Program graduates from reputed universities across the nation are recruited. They are trained and groomed to become the future leaders of our organization in a period of ﬁve years. DBL & Sustainability 24 PEOPLE NIRAPOD: SAVING WOMEN FROM UNWANTED PREGNANCY AND UNSAFE MR NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is working towards promoting health awareness amongst the female garments workers of DBL Group involving peer educator group. Starting in August 2013, Phulki has expanded the reach of this project through partnership approach. Phulki developed Master Trainer group of 58 employees, 29 male and 29 females, from Mid level Management staff of DBL Group through training on SRHR issues. They carry out further trainings to workers thus ensuring continuity of the program. Training summary Message disseminated: 9,157 workers Peer Educator Training: 245 workers Experience Sharing Meetings: 32 WOMEN IN FACTORIES INITIATIVE: The objective of the program is to create awareness about the rights of women regarding basic facilities at work, work environment and proper evaluation of work. In addition, the program also made way for women workers to move into the supervisory roles. It is ﬁnanced by Walmart with technical support by Care Bangladesh and implemented by the NGO Sheva. The primary beneﬁt for the company is decreased absenteeism and increased productivity. The success of Jinnat Fashions Ltd. encouraged us to expand to other units too and have even been replicated to ensure the sustainability of the program. Training summary Foundation Training: 4,532 workers Literacy Training: 21 female workers Advanced Training: 103 female workers 25 PROCESS LEAN MANUFACTURING: Lean manufacturing is a business model and collection of tactical methods that emphasize eliminating non-value added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at least cost with greater efﬁciency. The project was Implementations in the garments launched following the guidelines and support of Walmart in processes include: Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various methods were implemented for the sewing operations to fully transfer them into “Lean Kanban Suggestion Box lines”. The cutting and ﬁnishing operations are also being Cone stand and marker keeping boxes converted to lean. Furthermore, the process is being integratBasket color code ed to the non-garments processes as well. Maintenance signal Reject, spot and alter boxes ENERGY SAVING DYEING AND FINISHING: Energy meters have been installed for the different units and processes in order to have proper measurement of power consumption. It was found that, for certain fabrics, a temperature of only 60 degree Celsius is required instead of the usual 100 for the dyeing, scouring-bleaching and soaping processes. This provides us substantial energy saving. A further aid to this is the use of certain dyes: due to their effecFeatures: tiveness they consume less energy. Low temperature dyeing Proper moisture management has been implemented for the Energy saving dyes ﬁnishing process. An example of this is the wicking ﬁnishing Moisture management process. This process converts hydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) to hydrophilic. Hydrophilic products intake water much better than hydrophobic ones and thus enable optimum consumption of water. It also reduces weight loss of fabric during processing: which allows better hand-feel and increased fabric strength. DBL & Sustainability 26 PROCESS EFFICIENCY SPILL-OVER IN RMG FACTORIES: The University of Warwick Studied existence, determinants and nature of efﬁciency spill-over between sewing lines in the sewing departments of DBL’s factories. The representatives interviewed all Line Chiefs, analyzed daily efﬁciency data for all sewing lines from April to October 2014 with up to date statistical methods, and implemented experiments relating to communication. A report of the assessment will be provided in the end of 2015. DBL IDEA CLUB: DBL encourages ideas from any employee or worker, regardless of their designation. Efforts of them are recognized through a monthly recognition system: the ‘Employee of the Month’. The program has Ideas provided by workers helped been inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for in increasing productivity and other units too. This promotes employees to work at their full potenreducing wastage tial and gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal oppurtunity at obtaining this reward. Some of the ideas have been stated below. Ms. Masuda Parveen, Operator: Operators should receive updates of the machine with clear information of thread counts and lot checking in accordance with the knit-cards before commencing their tasks. They should also change any broken needles by themselves, instead of waiting for the Needle-Man, and restart the machines. Quality Mr. Maidul Islam, Quality Helper: of all rolls should be checked thrice very carefully. All concerned people should check the status of the yarns in collaboration, the time as well as the count mixes would decrease. Additionally, it would aid the employees in the next shift when they are checking the yarns if the backs of the yarn cones are flagged using markers. Mr. Mithu Mia, Quality Helper: The RPM of the knitting machines may be increased from 25 to 26 for certain fabrics. This has increased production in a machine by 4% and the total production capacity went up by 2 tons per day. Ideas provided by workers helped in increasing productivity and reducing wastage 27 PRODUCT INNOVATION IN YARN PRODUCTION: Our spinning mill makes use of different processes that reduces the consumption of cotton. For loop yarn manufacturing, we use cotton from hard waste and blow-room dropping. The scope of this process is to save up to 60% raw material and spinning waste reuse. A self developed seed particle separating machine is used to clean the dropping for using it as mix with raw material to produce “coarse” yarns. These products are used in terry and fleece fabrics in the knitting operation. Wastes from the garments cutting processes, hard waste from the winding machine and polyester staple ﬁbers are being recycled to form new yarns as well. Up to 15% recycled material can be used with virgin ﬁber to produce ornamented products known as “neppy” and “inject” yarns. Different colored neps are visible in the yarn body and this works as ornamentation on the fabric surface. These processes have also helped reduce waste from 20.5% in the previous year to less than 8%. Features: Reducing waste Reusing cotton Recycling to form new yarns SPECIAL CERTIFICATIONS: Organic Cotton: Organic cotton is imported from India to process organic yarn. Better Cotton Initiative: Adapted to support the global standards for Better Cotton Oeko-Tex Standard 100: For various of our processes, we follow the Restricted Substances List (RSL) speciﬁed by Product Class 1 of the Oeko-Tex Standard 100 certiﬁcate. Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS): A worldwide leading textile processing standard for organic ﬁbers. DBL & Sustainability 28 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY EDUCATION SUPPORT: As part of endorsing the need for quality education in Bangladesh, DBL Group has built a four-storied building for Hatimara College. Computers with audio-visual systems were installed to equip the college auditorium with latest class-room facilities. In addition, there is an ongoing project to create a laboratory for the institution. IMPROVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY: DBL Group has contributed signiﬁcantly to improve the lifestyle of the local community. A flourished community has evolved surrounding the factory premises and people living in that community are mostly DBL workers. With proper trainings and skill development programs, not only the productivity has increased, but also the workers have learnt a better way of living thus contributing to poverty alleviation in the community. Workers get daily commodities, food items and medicine at subsidized price from Bandhan Fair Price Shop and the medical store at DBL. This has helped balancing their social and economic conditions of their lives. The company has recruited from local community in every spheres of its supply chain. The company follows IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability which has helped us achieve success in overall economic sustainability. 29 ENVIRONMENT PARTNERSHIP FOR CLEANER TEXTILE (PaCT): PaCT is a holistic program supporting textile wet processing factories to adapt to cleaner production. It engages with brands, government, communities, ﬁnancial institutions and other stakeholders in bringing about systemic, positive environmental change for the Bangladesh textile sector, the workers and the communities of operations. The program contributed to water, gas, electricity, steam, dyes/chemicals and carbon emission consumption reduction. Initial investment: SAVE – PUMA: US$ 80,000 Savings: The project SAVE is aimed at reducing carbon emission, energy Over US$ 500,000 per year consumption, waste and water consumption by 25% by 2015 keeping 2011 as the baseline. A number of recommendations were suggested based on an onsite assessment performed in November 2014. These recommendations have immediate, short-term or long-term payback periods and are scheduled to be implemented throughout 2015. BIO GAS GENERATION: In collaboration with GIZ, a bio gas generation plant has been set up in the Jinnat Complex, where the knitting and garments operations take place. Cattle excrement in used to provide as source of the gas and is currently being used as a source of fuel in cooking. With an initial investment of BDT 485,000, a return of about BDT 600,000 is obtained per year. DBL & Sustainability 30 CHAPTER 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In organizations, real power and energy is generated through relationships. The patterns of relationships and the capacities to form them are more important than tasks, functions, roles, and positions. Margaret Wheatley, Writer and Management Consultant BOARD OF DIRECTORS The highest governing body in DBL Group is the Board of Directors. Our current Board consists of ﬁve Directors and one Advisor. The Vice Chairman and Group CEO is also a director of the BGMEA. The company has deﬁned guidelines and established framework for the board meetings and other proceedings. These guidelines help decision-making processes of the board members in a systematic, informed and efﬁcient manner. The Board evaluates: Strategic decisions of the company Management policies and their effectiveness Strategic review from each of the board members Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. The company has established the following board committees: The audit committee The remuneration committee The nominations and corporate governance committee The senior management consists of Assistant General Manager, Deputy General Manager, General Manager, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Operation Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Finance Director, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and the Board of Directors. 100% of the senior management is hired from the local community which includes Gazipur and Dhaka. Out of these two most important areas of operations, some of the senior management are stationed in Kashimpur, Gazipur and others are located in the company headquarters at Dhaka city. 33 OUR COMMITMENT TO STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DBL Group adheres to the deﬁnition of Corporate Governance of the International Finance Corporation (IFC): a set of structures and processes for the direction and control of companies, which involves a set of relationships between the company‘s shareholders, board and executive bodies with the purpose of creating long term shareholder value. It views corporate governance as a means to: Improve operational efﬁciency Attract ﬁnancing at a lower cost Build a better reputation. The company also considers a sound system of corporate governance as an important contribution to the rule of law in Bangladesh and an important determinant of the role of the company in a modern economy and society. Through implementing the recommendations by IFC, DBL Group aims at bringing its corporate governance framework up to best international practices and standards to the extent possible. This is critical to DBL Group given the company’s expected growth and desire to attract new investors will heavily rely on the existence of a concrete corporate governance system. DBL Group intends to establish a sound corporate governance system which will facilitate the organization to attain: Better access to external capital Lower ﬁnancing costs Higher credit ratings Strong investor conﬁdence Corporate Governance 34 FAMILY BUSINESS GOVERNANCE Family Business Governance is an important issue for DBL Group since it is a family owned business comprising of family members vested with signiﬁcant decision-making authority. The company is investing its time and effort on implementing Corporate Governance and Family Business Governance for the greater good of the company and for its business sustainability. COMPLIANCE DBL Group’s Corporate Governance framework is based on Bangladesh legislation as well as internationally recognized best practices and principles, such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Principles of Corporate Governance. The company‘s corporate governance framework is based on the following principles: Accountability Fairness Transparency Responsibility GENERAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The company has the following governing and other bodies: General Assembly: Allows the shareholders to participate in the governance of the company The Board: Responsible for the strategic direction of the company, and the guidance and oversight of management CEO: Assigns the task of the day-to-day management of the company, and carrying out strategy as approved by the board. Company Secretary: Ensures that the governing bodies follow internal rules and external regulations in order to facilitate clear communications between the governing bodies, and acts as an adviser to directors and senior executives Internal Auditor: Develops and monitors internal control procedures for the business operations of the company. Structure and Committees: DBL Group has established a number of Board Committees: these are listed below. Board Committees: The Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee The Nominations and Corporate Governance Committee Other committees deemed necessary by the Board 35 INTERNAL AUDIT AND CONTROL The Board’s Audit Committee: The audit committee focuses on three key areas: ﬁnancial reporting, risk management, and internal external audit (legal compliance and risk management). Risk Management: The company places great importance on risk management and it is the Board of Directors that is tasked with ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are established. Internal Auditor: The internal auditor (or ofﬁce of the internal auditor) is responsible for the daily internal control of the company‘s ﬁnances and operations. External Auditor: An external auditor audits the company‘s ﬁnancial statements. Disclosure: DBL’s current disclosures through its website are adequate for a non-listed private company in Bangladesh. However, once companies in DBL Group go public, there will be a much higher level of expectations – market and regulatory. DBL will improve its disclosures in two primary areas: Annual Report information and website disclosures. Matin Spinning Mills, a concern of DBL Group is now enlisted under Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission and is available for public trading. A stock enlisted company needs to comply with regulatory requirements for disclosure and the company is ensuring essential disclosures of the concern thorough Annual Report and website. Corporate Governance 36 CHAPTER 4 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Sustainable development is the pathway to the future we want for all. It offers a framework to generate economic growth, achieve social justice, exercise environmental stewardship and strengthen governance. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations BANGLADESH KNIT GARMENTS INDUSTRY AND DBL GROUP Bangladesh is the second largest supplier of knit garments in the world after China, with the knitwear contributing to 48.75% of the total RMG exports. In 2014-15, the knitwear export earnings amounted to more than US$ 12 billion, which was about 49% of the total apparel exports of the country1. The knit garments contributed almost 7% of the GDP share (in 2013-14)2 thus showing the signiﬁcance of the industry. Bangladesh’s population has appeared to be the blessing for Bangladesh as it is the driving force behind the success of the RMG industry, which requires a good number of workforce. The demographic proﬁle of Bangladesh’s population has helped the apparel industry to thrive. The vibrant and young population of this country is the major strength of our RMG industry. Our duty-free access to the world market is another big advantage over other competitors. As a least developed country we have duty-free market access to most of the developed countries including the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, Canada, Japan, Australia and even market access in India, China, South Korea, and Malaysia. This trade privilege also helps us offer competitive price. The buyers also give priority to Bangladesh as we have been able to earn their conﬁdence on timely delivery of ordered products of desired quality at very competitive price. This is one of the major reasons why global brands are choosing Bangladesh. While industrial specialization was taking place, our RMG sector felt the need for strong support of backward linkages to reduce dependence on imported immediate materials like yarns and fabric. Now companies like DBL Group with strong backward linkage is also reducing dependency on external suppliers for processes – printing, washing, dyeing and packaging which have made us self sustainable. DBL’S APPROACH DBL Group strongly believes in a sustainable growth which diminishes the unfavorable impacts on its surrounding. This is reflected in the company’s economic performance which has consistently got better every year. The vision of the company states that it would have a visible contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh and it would continue to demonstrate its stewardship in that particular direction. FUNCTIONS The organizational responsibility for the economic performance lies with the Finance Department. The General Manager (Finance) ensures internal controls through Internal Audit which are done in two phases: Pre-audit and Post-audit. The internal audit team comprises of eight members and is lead by the Manager (Finance) for the Pre-Audit and Senior Manager for the Post-Audit. Finally, annual statutory audit is carried out by third party in line with country’s regulation and ﬁnancial performance is assessed and reported after approval by the Board. 1 http://www.bgmea.com.bd/home/pages_test/TradeInformation, Accessed: 3 Aug 2015 39 2 http://www.bkmea.com/facts-ﬁgures.html, Accessed: 3 Aug 2015 ECONOMIC SUMMARY OF DBL GROUP: 2013-14 & 2014-15 (1 USD = 77.25 BDT) 2013-14 2014-15 EXPORT AMOUNT US$ 143.14 MILLION US$ 168.64 MILLION REVENUE (GROSS) US$ 260.78 MILLION US$ 323.42 MILLION REVENUE (OTHER INCOME) US$ 3.98 MILLION US$ 4.46 MILLION DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE US$ 264.76 MILLION US$ 327.88 MILLION GENERATED OPERATING COSTS US$ 183.94 MILLION US$ 209.96 MILLION EMPLOYEE WAGES US$ 28.40 MILLION US$ 38.25 MILLION & BENEFITS PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS US$ 3.48 MILLION US$ 6.36 MILLION OF CAPITAL PAYMENTS TO US$ 5.36 MILLION US$ 5.81 MILLION GOVERNMENT COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS US$ 0.63 MILLION US$ 0.75 MILLION ECONOMIC VALUE US$ 221.81 MILLION US$ 261.13 MILLION DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED US$ 42.95 MILLION US$ 66.75 MILLION (DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED LESS ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED) TAX RATES: 2013-14 2014-15 GARMENTS 10% 35% TEXTILES 15% 15% CORPORATE 35% 35% Economic Performance 40 ENTRY LEVEL WAGE DBL Group always abides by the minimum wage as set by the government when recruiting: the last update was released by the government on December 2013. The levels of wages are a common standard for the industry regardless of gender or area of operation: this is constant throughout Bangladesh. Each worker is recruited in one of seven grades (apart from trainees). For grades higher than the lowest one, DBL pays at a premium rate than the minimum as experience is taken into account in these cases – the lowest grade usually comprises of people with little or no prior experience. The surplus amount depends on the amount of prior experience the recruit has. SENIOR MANAGEMENT FROM LOCAL COMMUNITY In DBL Group, senior management is deﬁned as the ones who hold the positions of Assistant General Manager, Deputy General Manager, General Manager and above positions, including the Directors. Virtually all of our senior management are Bangladeshis, with a small proportion (less than 1%) from foreign nationals. Our operations are currently in Dhaka and Gazipur. We take these two areas in account when we deﬁne ‘signiﬁcant areas of operation’. The term ‘local’ usually refers to our areas of operation as well. In this regard, all of our senior management are based in Dhaka and Gazipur. ECONOMIC IMPACTS Apart from the machinery used in the different operations, DBL procures all other products and services from Dhaka. When DBL began its operations in Kashimpur (Gazipur), the entire location was undeveloped. The progression was escalated by industries and the locality has adapted a signiﬁcant transformation. Popular local branded shops and local and global branded products are now obtained in the community. DBL makes an assumption: 70% of a worker’s earnings are spent for household items for their daily needs. Based on this, the flowing graph shows the improvement throughout the years and the contribution of DBL to the improvement of the local economy. The Bandhan Fair Price Shop plays an important role towards the positive contribution through its product lines. Premium brands such as GlaxoSmithKline, Unilever, etc. are available for the workers at prices which are more affordable to them: hence they now have access to better quality as well as healthier products. DBL’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY (IN USD MILLION) DBL Group has also contributed to the economy through the following ways: Providing access to medicine at manufacturer’s price for workers and their families Contribution to educational institutions in the community Conducting surveys to understand the needs of the community Providing assistance to various hospitals 41 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. – CPI2 (Carbon Performance Improvement Initiative) Top Factory Award for 2013/14 International Convention of Quality Control Circles (ICQCC) Silver Award 2014 Jinnat Fashions Ltd. – George Ethical Compliance, 2014 DBL Group – 5th HSBC Export Excellence Award 2013 under Category ‘A’ for having exports over USD 50 million in ‘RMG and Textiles’ DBL Group – The Textile Institute Sustainability Award 2013 Jinnat Fashions Ltd. – Platinum Winner in the category of Social Compliance under Women’s Empowerment in the 2nd Social and Environment Excellence Award 2014 Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. – Third Position in the ICMAB (Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh) Best Corporate Award 2014 under the Textile/Garments sector Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. – JBCCI Business Excellence Award, 2014 for being the best enterprise demonstrating innovation Jinnat Fashions Ltd. – Sustainable Performance in HRP (Human Responsibility in Production) in 2015 Hamza Textiles Ltd. – Best Wastewater Management Awards from Decathlon in 2015 DBL Group – World Textile Awards: Silver Garment Maker of the Year Category in 2015 Economic Performance 42 CHAPTER 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES Thousands have lived without love, not one without water. W. H. Auden, Poet ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed an Environmental Management System (EMS) team. Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of: Waste Energy Wastewater Noise pollution Water use Greenhouse gas (GHG) Ozone depleting substances (ODS), etc. These guiding activities help us address environmental challenges such as biodiversity conservation. These are given priority to ensure environmental responsibilities and continual improvement to reduce environmental impacts. As minimization of pollution is addressed, the organization can ensure sustainability of the environment as an integrated part of the business. AWARENESS TRAINING ON ENVIRONMENT Environment awareness trainings are conducted every month for all staff and workers. All new employees, irrespective of their levels, are briefed about EHS and environmental related aspects of the organization during their induction process. Employees are also made to undergo speciﬁc training with respect to the nature of their work. Need identiﬁcation for this is done by the respective Heads of Departments for sending staff across for internal as well as external trainings. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP OF ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES The EMS team carries out internal audits based on legal requirement and buyers’ standards to review the environmental aspects. External (third party) audits also involved to assess important aspects such as stack and ambient air emission test, noise test, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), etc. The different issues are addressed without delay: monthly meetings are also conducted to attain to the remaining issues. The EMS and EHS committees in each unit are also involved to implement the environmental practices. ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS DBL Group currently has the following environmental certiﬁcations: 1. Environmental Clearance Certiﬁcate (ECC) 2. Oeko-Tex Standard 100 3. Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) 4. Organic Content Standard (OCS-IN) 5. ISO 14001:2004 45 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME Depending on the different production processes, different raw materials are used. The primary raw materials for the different production processes are shown below. PROCESS INPUT MATERIAL(S) OUTPUT FROM PROCESS COTTON SPINNING RAW COTTON YARNS FABRIC KNITTING YARNS FABRICS FABRIC DYEING AND FIN ISHING FABRICS, DYES AND CHEMICALS DYED FABRICS ALL -OVER PRINTING FABRICS, DYES AND CHEMICALS PRINTED FABRICS GARMENTS CUTTING -SEWING-FINISHING FABRICS, ACCESSORIES FINISHED GARMENTS GARMENTS PRINTING FINISHED GARMENTS, DYES AND CHEMICALS PRINTED GARMENTS GARMENTS WASHING FINISHED GARMENTS WASHED GARMENTS C ORRUGATED CARTON CARDBOARD CARTONS All input materials are weighted and tracked to control unwanted wastage. Different systems such as Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials thereby reducing waste. Electronic tabs are used for data input with in-house developed software and hence moving a step closer to paperless systems. Materials used by weight or volume MATERIALS UNIT 2014-15 CHEMICALS KG 4,966,797 COTTON KG 8,545,816 CUT PANEL P IECES 23,037,298 DYES KG 657,093 FABRIC KG 32,931,284 PAPER KG 6,338,872 SALT KG 4,604,011 YARN KG 14,218,577 External assessments by government and private organizations are made on noise and air pollutions and the quality of wastewater before discharging. DBL performs own assessments as well. All recommendations are implemented in order to reduce impact on the environment. Environmental Practices 46 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy is the essence of industries. There is direct relationship between energy with ﬁnancial matters as well as global climate change. Energy consumption within DBL is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the energy. The following steps are currently in place for energy management: Preparation of energy management policy Collecting consumption of water, steam, diesel, gas and electricity along with monthly production Benchmarking and regulating energy consumption in consultation with the production team by doing process re-engineering and innovations Reducing carbon emission Reducing diesel consumption in generators by 10% Taking initiative to reduce energy consumption by choosing alternative sources of non-renewable resources Training employees on energy and environmental aspects within the industry Energy consumption for transportation SOME INITIATIVES TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE FACTORY Natural water cooling pads: One side of the production floor has cooling pads through which water flows continuously while the other side has blower fans which “pull” and circulate the generated cool air on the floor. Energy efﬁcient machineries: These world class machineries have greatly reduced the energy consumption for different production processes by 15%. Servo motors: These motors consume electricity only when the machine needle is active whereas the clutch motor consumes electricity even in standby mode. Out of 4,466 sewing machines 1,196 are installed with servo motors. The clutch motors are replaced as soon as the machines are out of order. OTHER ENERGY SAVING INITIATIVES: Reducing light intensity in certain areas Switching off unnecessary lights during day time Replacing T8 lights with the more efﬁcient T5 lights Recovering steam condensates 47 WATER MANAGEMENT DBL Group continuously tracks the water consumption in the factories and takes initiatives to reduce the consumption. Water withdrawal for different facilities SOME INITIATIVES TO REDUCE WATER CONSUMPTION Efﬁcient machineries: State-of-the-art dyeing machines that consume 50% less water in comparison to the average dyeing machines Reduced water consumption: Water consumption in the fabric dyeing process has been reduced from 120 litres per kg of fabric to 55 litres per kg of fabric. Less water means consumption of less dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity and reduction in waste water discharge. Trigger nozzles: Adding trigger nozzles prevent unnecessary running of water during washing of process vessels, machines, chemical drums, floors, car, etc. OTHER WATER SAVING PRACTICES: Repair leaking taps and educate staff to turn off after use Replace water taps without aerators by taps with aerators Replace single flush cisterns with dual flush Begin rain water harvesting Environmental Practices 48 BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Environmental impact assessment is done for every facility and preventive actions are taken against the possible impact. This assessment takes into consideration: Noise pollution management Air emissions management Greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and energy management Safe disposal of waste materials from production process Biodiversity conservation Size of operational sites TERRESTRIAL HABITATS SURROUNDING FACTORY COMPLEXES There are two types of habitats close to our dyeing and washing facility: terrestrial and wetland habitats. The details of the habitats are given below. TERRESTRIAL FLORA Terrestrial flora 49 TERRESTRIAL FAUNA Terrestrial fauna WETLAND HABITATS SURROUNDING DBL FACTORY COMPLEXES WETLAND FLORA Aquatic flora Name Status Aquatic fauna Category Endangered Threatened Amphibian Jhijhi Bang (local name) Sona Bang (local name) Reptiles Cobra Guishap, Udh (local names) Mammals Fox Khatash Birds Kingﬁsher, Holud Pakhi (local name) Owl, Woodpecker Environmental Practices 50 EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within organization (Calculated using IFC guidelines) GHGs Unit 2014-15 CO2 Ton 77,658 GHGs Unit 2014-15 CO2 Ton 77,658 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within organization by transportation services GHGs 2014-15 CO2 48,011 Calculated by using procedure from http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/refs.html To ensure effective monitoring and minimizing of energy consumption and GHG emission the following tasks are done: Maintaining an energy use inventory (e.g. energy consumption data such as gas bill, electricity bill and fuel use in vehicle) Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil tankers and generator connections. Maintaining GHG emission inventory including direct and indirect energy consumption. EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Effluents DBL Group currently has two Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs). The ﬁrst one with the capacity of 4,000 m3 was taken as a benchmark by the Department of Environment (DoE) of the Government of Bangladesh. To meet the extended capacity of the dyeing process, a second ETP of 7,500 m3 was constructed and went into operation in November 2014. The cumulative total of 11,500 m3 is currently the largest ETP in the country that is under a single factory complex. Effluent quantity ETP Unit 2014-15 Total m3 1,542,526 51 WASTE All wastages are tracked and monitored regularly. Non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Different types of wastes have different ways of disposal. Before disposing any waste they have to be categorized according to their characteristics. In general they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. Category wise list of wastes in different sections Section / Area Types of Wastes Non hazardous Hazardous Cutting Cotton fabric, paper, carton, tube of Synthetic fabric, poly bag, cutter knife, scissors, fabric roll blade, pp van Sewing Cotton fabric, cotton thread, cotton Synthetic fabric, synthetic thread,synthetic label, label, paper poly, cutter, scissors, needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Finishing Cotton thread, carton Needle, poly, used gum tape, tag pin, empty bottle of spot lifter Medical Centre Gauge, unused cotton Syringe, synthetic packaging materials of medicine, empty medicine bottle Canteen Food substance Plastics packet, water bottle etc Lab Cotton, paper box etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Common Wood, papers etc. Tube light, electric bulb, oil, electric ware, rubber mat, metal, chemical empty drum Total weight of waste by type Waste Types Unit 2014-15 Hazardous Kg 76,775 Hazardous (pieces)* Pieces 14,642 Non Hazardous Kg 7,836,852 * Includes drums and other countable items There are three separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staffs are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. Environmental Practices 52 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES To mitigate the impacts on the environment, a number of Sustainability programs have been taken by DBL Group. Brief explanations of these programs have been included under Chapter 2 of this report. TRANSPORTATION IMPACT MANAGEMENT The impacts due to transportation are managed in a number of ways including the following: Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance Engine servicing after running every 3,000 km or 3 months: including washing, engine flashing, changing Mobil and air ﬁlters, etc. Spark plug checking and replacing Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) clearance checking and adjusting Greasing moveable parts to avoid friction Fuel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing Battery water level checking and recharging Gear box and axle gear oil level checking and replacing Avoid air draft using windshield/air reflector. Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding over speed, etc. ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Till now, we have had no grievances about environmental impacts since all of our facilities maintain environmental compliance. 53 Environmental Practices 54 CHAPTER 6 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Be of service. Whether you make yourself available to a friend or co-worker, or you make time every month to do volunteer work, there is nothing that harvests more of a feeling of empowerment than being of service to someone in need. Gillian Anderson, Actress and Activist COMPLIANCE The starting point of any business would be Compliance: if the basic requirements are not fulﬁlled, adaptability to changes will not be inherent. As an example, if the minimum wages and rights are not provided to workers and employees, the question of living wages and women empowerment will go unfulﬁlled. In order to ensure the national and international laws, as well as those of buyers (through their codes of conduct), are maintained, DBL Group’s Compliance department is divided into two wings: social and environmental. The social team oversees issues such as timely and proper payment of wages and salaries, employee welfare, ﬁre safety, electrical and building safety, and occupational health and safety (OHS) while the Environmental Management System (EMS) team looks after environmental affairs such as waste management, resource efﬁciency, carbon emissions, etc. Precautionary approaches are taken by educating workers about national laws, buyers’ codes of conduct, health and safety issues, human rights, etc. The policies and compliance levels of DBL Group are reviewed through internal auditors as well as by our buyers and their recognized third party inspection companies. Our EMS team also facilitates the different environmental sustainability projects in order to assess and reduce environmental risks. The Head of the Compliance department reports all the activities of the team to the Board of Directors. The audit procedure – either pre-announced or not – includes the steps outlined in the following diagram. OPENING MEETING FLOOR VISIT WORKER INTERVIEW DOCUMENT REVIEW CLOSING MEETING Continuous interaction with other departments is maintained for making corrective actions based on the audits and preparation for future audits. DBL’s own Code of Conduct has been enacted following national and international standards. The most recent information on laws and regulations are collected periodically from the different government authorities and buyers and the same is updated and implemented. Any notiﬁcation issued by the government authority or our buyers is immediately communicated by the Compliance department to all concerned departments for updating and implementation. Suppliers of DBL are also assessed for labor practices, human rights, as well as societal impacts. The DBL Compliance team conducts supplier assessment through speciﬁc standards questionnaire on social and environmental areas based on the DBL Code of Conduct. Before making a business relationship with a supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier abides by our Code. 57 The speciﬁc international standards that are followed by and integrated within DBL’s policies include the following. Social Development 58 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYEES OF DBL GROUP EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION: GENDER FEMALE MALE DBL Group only employs full-time employees: there are no temporary or part-time employees. 36.9% 12,894 Signiﬁcant operational changes, such as restructuring, outsourcing of operations, expansions, etc, are communicated with the concerned employees a minimum of 3 months prior to the change in order to keep everyone Total: updated. This also gives a sufﬁcient time in order to 20,450 prepare them accordingly. 7,556 Regardless of the employee category and location of oper63.1% ation, the basic salary and remuneration of women to men is always 1:1. There is always fair and equal distribution of income. An employee’s capability and experience is considered only: no discrimination is done in any form. The following set of diagrams represents an overview of our employees who were newly hired and those who have been in turnover for 2014-15. The ﬁrst two are based on new hires and the next two are on employee turnover. NEW HIRES: AGE GROUP (%) EMPLOYEE TURNOVER: AGE GROUP (%) 0.1 0.2 14.9 16.8 85.0 83.0 Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 NEW HIRES: GENDER (%) EMPLOYEE TURNOVER: GENDER (%) 35.8 39.7 60.3 64.2 FEMALE MALE WORKFORCE DIVERSITY Diversity is primarily in terms of gender, age group, and religion. The following diagram shows the overall gender diversity of employees based on three different age groups. The ﬁgure below summarizes the diversity within religion among the employees of DBL Group. Four major religions are included in the chart. 19.64 0.03 80.33 Female EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION: AGE Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 32.37 0.97 66.66 Male 0.01 0.25 Female 2.63 97.11 EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION: RELIGION Buddhist Christian Hindu Muslim 0.07 0.11 Male 3.68 96.14 TRAINING Different trainings are provided to DBL employees every 9.58 9.58 month which consist of both generalized and speciﬁc 9.56 trainings. The generalized training topics include induction, working hours, overtime and calculation of wages, the buyers’ codes of conducts, personal protective equipment (PPE), occupational health and safety, ﬁre safety, anti-harassment and grievance procedure, material safety data sheet (MSDS) and chemical handling procedure, and so on. The speciﬁc trainings target mid-level management, workers, chemical handlers and spot removers, loaders, quality inspectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, evacuators, and rescuers, cleaners, etc. TOTAL FEMALE MALE In 2014-15, the total training hours spent amounted to AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE 195,838 with male and female employees receiving 123,574 hours and 72,264 hours respectively. The graph on the left shows the average training hours in accordance with genders. Social Development 59 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Managing Director Feedback Executive Director / Production Director General Manager, Human Resources Manager, Human Resources Welfare Compliance HR Admin Supervisor / Grievance WPC Box Executive Executive Executive Executive Line Chief Bandhan Newsletter COMPLAINER At DBL, we train our welfare ofﬁcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Ofﬁcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: The Suggestion/Grievance Box: Workers can put in their issues in written form and drop them in the boxes. Multiple boxes are placed on each floor: these are checked every week by designated people and the grievances are recorded in a register. The Bandhan Newsletter: Similar to the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, workers can place their complaints in the newsletter which is published monthly and drop them off conﬁdentially in the boxes. Verbal complaint: Workers can inform verbally to Ofﬁcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and/or Admin departments or to their Supervisor or Line Chief. During the Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings: A concerned worker can express themselves through a WPC member who will put forward the complaint during the meetings. Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are taken into account by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2014-15, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2014-15 recorded 101 grievances of which all were addressed and 99 resolved. Grievances of 2013-14 were addressed and resolved on that year, leaving none for 2014-15. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY DBL Group aims on creating a healthy, environment-friendly and safe workplace and also educating the workforce regarding health and safety issues. A good work environment not only has direct impact on the employees’ health but also plays a vital role on the productivity level. Our Health and Safety Management policy and procedure encompass all national and international standards. Dedicated teams are present to oversee the availability and status of the ﬁrst aid supplies, medical facilities, hygiene facilities, temperature levels, quality of water and food, and so on. All instances of accidents, injuries, and occupational diseases are kept in record in DBL. Each record of an occurrence is categorized into multiple types in order to analyze the speciﬁc type of injury and disease. Occupational diseases are prevalent in the workplace due to the existing surroundings. The presence of dust, heat, chemicals, work stress, posture of working, etc. make rise to illness such as cough or cold, headaches, back pains, allergies, neck pain, as well as sinusitis. Most of these diseases can be cured or even prevented through the proper use of personal protective equipments (PPEs). A dedicated medical centre is present in the factory complex which manages and treats all kinds of occupational diseases. In addition, the centre also deals with non-occupational but common diseases such as fever, measles, tooth pain, and so on. Furthermore, in order to aware employees and workers regarding various health issues, awareness programs, meetings, trainings, and workshops are conducted on a regular basis. The topics of these sessions also deal with issues such as personal hygiene, for example washing hands, thereby dealing with a preventive measure for various diseases. Health and safety committees are present in each of the factory complexes: who comprise of 1.20% of the total workforce. In 2014-15, a total of 212 non-fatal accidents and injuries were reported while the employees were at work: 176 of them were males and the rest 36 were females. A total of 681 lost days were recorded: of them were 570 male and 111 female. FIRE SAFETY The Compliance department performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation paths, properly designed evacuation maps and lighting present in required areas. To tackle the events of ﬁre, four teams – the ﬁre ﬁghters, the rescue team, the cordon party and the ﬁrst aiders – are involved. To aid them, DBL possesses and maintains the following equipments and systems: : Social Development 60 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ENSURING ELECTRICAL, BUILDING AND CHEMICAL SAFETY ELECTRICAL SAFETY: Top quality cabling and accessories for electrical system Trained team of technicians for maintenance International safety features for equipment Maintain maintenance and risk analysis records BUILDING SAFETY: Structural assessments for all units Following Bangladesh National Building Code (BNBC) during construction Building certiﬁcation with Architectural and Structural Design Standard Scaled as-built drawings CHEMICAL SAFETY: Careful assessment of all chemicals Chemical usage policy Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Personal protective equipment (PPE) Regular trainings RISK MANAGEMENT Given the nature of our business, the raw materials and products that we handle and the scale of our operations, our risk management systems are designed to ensure that all our assets are safeguarded and protected against any kind of loss including mankind and property. In regards to the safety of workers, speciﬁc risk analyses are done based on their workplaces. These workplaces include a wide variety of areas within the factories such as the chemical store rooms and the ETP, as well as the zones containing different machines such as the compacting machine and the generator. Pregnant women are also considered under risk management: in order to avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, allowed leaving early during the lunch breaks, and not allowed to work overtime. Each type of analysis includes the description and consequence of the hazard, the person at risk and the control or preventive measures that can be taken. In addition, hazards are given ratings, calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby effectively identifying the risks or hazards to prioritize on. 61 HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT ensure these rights are exercised, monthly audits from the Compliance team take place, noting the composition of Signiﬁcant investment agreements include participation the committee members, frequency of meetings, topics in training, creation and implementation of a new policy or discussed, and so on. DBL management has been able to procedure, and other activities that DBL Group undertakes form a WPC according to the guidelines which is very in order to promote labor practices, human rights, societal effective for conveying information to both labor and and environmental concerns, as well as any sustainability management and resolving any grievances if present. issue. FORCED LABOR DBL Group has made investment in various training sessions. Two of such programs are the Women in FactoDBL does not use involuntary or forced labor. The Code of ries (WIF) Initiative and Nirapod: Saving Women from Conduct emphasizes that all employees should be workunwanted Pregnancy and Unsafe MR. The former ing at factory voluntarily and no means should be adopted program is funded by Walmart and implemented by as a measure which may indirectly result in an employee CARE. The latter program is Phulki’s approach in partnerworking forcibly. The freedom of movement of employees ship with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. is not restricted except for the protection of property and security of factory personnel. Additionally, no employees are recruited on contract basis and an employee may NON-DISCRIMINATION resign from the company by giving one month’s notice. Non-discrimination is addressed in the factory’s own SECURITY PRACTICES Code of Conduct. The factory employs, pays, promotes and terminates workers on the basis of their ability to do All security personnel in DBL are of our own: there are none the job, rather than on the basis of personal characterisfrom third party organizations. Human rights topics are tics or beliefs. Discrimination on any ground is not communicated to all security personnel via trainings that allowed. Due to the strength of the practice, there have take place every month. been no cases of discrimination. CHILD LABOR FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING DBL is not engaged with any form of child labor. At the time of hiring, psychological interviews are done in order DBL recognizes and respects the right of employees to to determine the age of the potential employee. In addiexercise their lawful rights of freedom of association and tion, documents as proofs of age are collected from all collective bargaining. No discrimination is done against potential employees and the authenticity of age docuemployees who form or participate in lawful associations ments is veriﬁed. In the absence of age documents, the and or collective bargaining. The presence of the Worker potential employee is to be veriﬁed and conﬁrmed by the Participation Committee (WPC) allows the workers to registered doctor available at the factory. freely communicate regarding any issue. In order to Social Development 62 SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Management seeks to promote the adoption of regulations consistent with the principles set out in the In order to minimize the impact on communities, the different company policies on anti-corruption. industries of DBL are situated in remote locations. Potentiality, however, is still present to create negative It is required that all personnel: impacts on the local communities. These include the following: Act honestly and with integrity at all times and to safeguard the company resources for which they are Noises from machines, particularly generators, tend to responsible reach out of the factory premises Respect DBL Group customers, suppliers and other Although an ETP is present, there is dumping of the parties with whom it must interact to achieve its treated wastewater objectives by conducting business in an ethical, lawful Heat that is being released from the boilers and other and professional manner. machines influences the temperature of the local At DBL, we have an effective compliance program environment which includes but is not limited to, the following components: ANTI-CORRUPTION Communication of a code of conduct to employees; DBL has no conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and has Reporting and investigation of allegation of fraud, not made any ﬁnancial and in-kind political contribubribery and other corrupt practices; tions. In addition, there have been no legal actions for Appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees anti-competitive behaviors, anti-trust and monopoly who are found to have engaged in such practices; and practices. An always compliant organization, DBL did Monitoring of the effectiveness of such controls not incur any ﬁnes or been involved in non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulaDBL Group and each of its business take the appropritions. ate steps to ensure all its employees and those acting on its behalf: The reputation of DBL Group for lawful and responsible business behavior is of prime importance and is Meet all legal and regulatory requirements governing one of its greatest assets. DBL Group is committed to the lawful and ethical conduct of business the prevention, deterrence and detention of corrupt Make all employees aware of their personal responsibusiness practices, fraudulent activities and bribery. bilities and adhere strictly and at all times to this policy DBL Group has zero tolerance toward any unethical Provide information to all employees and further guidbusiness practice. DBL Group has strictly enforced ance if they have any question or uncertainly regarding policies on anti-corruption, anti-fraud and bribery these requirements. which apply to all business within DBL Group. The Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile. Albert Einstein 63 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH, SAFETY, AND PRIVACY All products are being created according to the speciﬁcations of DBL’s buyers. In order to ensure health and safety, the buyers provide restrictions of use of certain substances and methods or machines. As an example, they provide a list of chemicals that are not allowed to be included within the different processes in their Restricted Substances List (RSL). All these constraints are being complied with in the different relevant processes. In addition, to focus on the health and safety of customers in particular, we also include pool testing for button which tests the strength of the buttons. This is especially the case for children’s items as they tend to bite the buttons: the stronger the button, the less chance is present for breaking and being accidently swallowed by them. Furthermore, fusing processes are done for embroidery in order to safeguard the human skin. In addition to respecting health and safety issues, DBL respects the privacy of customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. OTHER COMPLIANCE ISSUES DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Social Development 64 EMPLOYEE WELFARE In order to show that DBL is not a stringent organization that does not entertain any activities other than work, a variety of activities are present for the welfare of the employees including: Having a fair price shop, Bandhan, which allows employees to have zero-cash transactions and also get to buy on credit with zero interest: the cost is simply adjusted with the monthly salaries of employees In-house day care center with trained professionals In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outdoor medical services In-house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees’ family members A children’s park within the factory premises for employees’ children Participating in external sports tournaments such as Corporate Cricket Leagues Organizing in-house sports tournaments such as football and volleyball Promoting culture through the encouragement of songs and music Special recognition and sponsorship for employee children for excellent academic performance in National Board Examinations Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs discussed every month through Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings Worker Listening Session, a Quality department training to aware present responsibility to trainees; and also covers HR policies and ﬁre safety issues 65 Social Development 66 CHAPTER 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The stakeholder approach to business sees integration rather than separation, and sees how things ﬁt together. John Mackey, Co-CEO of Whole Foods Market At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and we take the matter very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders differ on the basis of the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant influence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly affected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS: Stakeholder Identiﬁcation Consultation Prioritization Collaboration Reporting There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups as situation demands and on need basis. KEY STAKEHOLDERS Suppliers NGOs Media Community Investors Board Members Employees Customers Shareholders Service (Buyers) Providers Knowledge Industry Partners Associations Government/ Public Sector EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 69 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and a principal ings covering topics, such as labor standards, leave days, asset is the workforce. Hence, DBL reserves a special working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, importance to creating the proper work environment for all health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so employees. Similar attention is also given to their families. on. Currently, the committees’ members are representaTo maintain a fully energized workforce we maintain a tives of employees and top management selected by each number of initiatives to strengthen employer-employee group respectively. However, the selection criterion is bonding. Some are discussed below. being replaced through election procedure: and hence simulating the process of a trade union. Issues discussed WORKERS PARTICIPATION COMMITTEE (WPC) include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality and even health issues. Collective bargaining agreement is not prohibited in DBL Group. To make a trustworthy relationship between the workers and the company, DBL Group has formed WorkEFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION PROCEDURES ers Participation Committees. These committees constitute of representatives of both the employers and the DBL Group has established different channels to commuworkers. Workers are encouraged highly in forming of this nicate with its workers: these include: committee, over 50% of each the committee comprises of • Meetings workers. • Poster boards • Suggestion boxes To promote mutual trust, understanding and cooperation • Open door policy. between the employers and the workers as to fulﬁll production target, reduce production cost and improve the The Welfare Ofﬁcers are responsible for these communiquality of products, the committees meet once every cations. In this way the company offers an open door month. They are working to effectively establish privileges policy for employees to discuss a broad range of issues as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and with senior management. This gives employees the their families. Through the WPC, workers can freely opportunity to share ideas and concerns directly with the contact the committees to discuss any issue. top level of the organization. Telephones, public address systems, newsletters, Welfare Ofﬁcers and section heads DBL Group makes an effort to encourage good relations facilitate the communication between top management between workers and managers, through hosting trainand employees. Stakeholder Engagement 70 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Apart from formal grievance procedures which are set up as per local laws, DBL Group has informal ways to resolve any sort of disputes quickly and effectively. The top management has an open door policy and grievance boxes are provided to assist employees maintain conﬁdentiality. DBL Group has established several channels for workers to ﬁle complaints, including anonymous complaints. These include suggestion box and an open door policy. The Welfare Ofﬁcers are responsible for handling complaints. The suggestion boxes are checked every Saturday and the grievances are recorded. Appropriate action is taken and results are reported back to employees. WELFARE OFFICERS There are currently 18 Welfare Ofﬁcers stationed at the factory complexes who oversee workers’ concerns and problems and communicate with the Human Resource and other concerned departments as required. These Ofﬁcers are involved with a number of tasks including: Maintaining ﬁrst aid boxes and checklists Dealing with complaints from workers Registering and provide extra care to pregnant employees working at the factories Ensuring washroom hygiene Coordinating and conducting trainings Facilitating meetings Informing workers of any changes in policies by putting bulletins and announcements on the notice boards on every floor in Bengali. Workers feel very comfortable expressing themselves to them. They handle every single case with great care and efﬁciency and maintain conﬁdentially depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken immediately to resolve any concern over workplace or even workers’ personal issues. THE KAIZEN SUGGESTION BOX DBL Group appreciates ideas from all of its employees, including the workers. Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, an additional box has been included with the aim of taking in suggestions from workers that relate to improving production efﬁciency. This method provides a way to involve workers in the decision-making process which makes workers feel important about themselves and they highly appreciate the management for such initiative. These boxes are referred to as ‘Kaizen Suggestion Boxes’ and are present in all units. These boxes are green in color – as opposed to the white for the Suggestion/Complaint Boxes – in order to help users easily identify and distinguish them. Users submit their ideas in the boxes including their names in order to be identiﬁed for recognition. All suggestions are discussed in the Kaizen Meeting held every month: the employee or worker with the best suggestion for the month is recognized with the ‘Kaizen Award’: multiple employees and workers have been awarded. Some of the suggestions have even been implemented: in some cases the best suggestion was chosen among the multiple good ones received. In addition to the award, the names, photos, and ideas of the accepted ones are displayed on the notice boards. 71 COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS SAMPLE KAIZEN SUGGESTIONS: To facilitate with increasing the motivation of employees and workers, it was suggested that the best performing unit be rewarded. The recognition is to be done by providing a crest to the performing unit. To provide more legroom for workers, it was required to make efﬁcient use of space. Earlier, a lot of oversized cartons were used for keeping hang tags, polythene, stickers, and hangers which was not efﬁcient. A better method was suggested: using plastic baskets instead of cartons. These occupy much lesser space, thus providing more freedom for workers. In order to promote efﬁciency, a suggestion was made regarding the inclusion of an air circulation system. This system is to be included for the fabric relaxation rack to aid the relaxation process. In addition, it will also reduce shrinkage and dust. EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH (EOM) In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion system, efforts of our employees and workers are also recognized through another monthly recognition system: the ‘Employee of the Month’. The program was inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for the others units too. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. A huge advantage of having an employee of the month incentive is the motivation it encourages the employees to work at their highest potential and move them towards empowerment. This is in terms of work performance as well as punctuality and attendance on the job. It promotes employees to work at their full potential without causing any adverse side effects. The Employee of the Month program is open for all employees and it gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. The evaluation system also encompasses suggestions provided by employees and workers that would improve working procedures. The employees and workers that win the award are provided certiﬁcates of achievements in addition to cash incentives. Moreover, their names and photos are displayed on the notice boards of the respective units in order to further motivate them to grow in their careers and for improving the company. Stakeholder Engagement 72 CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Foreign Foreign representatives representatives Local Local representatives Communication representatives Communication DBL Merchandising DBL Merchandising department department Standards Standards Facility Facility visits visits Other Other departments departments Guidelines Guidelines Buyers Buyers National National Exhibitions Exhibitions International International DBL management DBL management visits visits UnionUnion Councils CouncilsMeetings Meetings SurveysSurveys Community Community Develop infrastructure Develop infrastructure Planting trees trees Planting MonitorMonitor groundground Accommodate Accommodate requests requests water water level level QualityQuality of waste of waste water water discharged discharged BGMEA BGMEA BKMEA BKMEA BTMABTMA FBCCIFBCCI Industry Industry Associations Associations DCCI DCCI BGCCIBGCCI JBCCIJBCCI BoardBoard members members OthersOthers IndustryIndustry associations associations Government Government OverseasOverseas embassies embassies Overseas Overseas ministries ministries Press Press conferences conferences Press Press releases releases Communication Communicationteam team Press Press brieﬁngs brieﬁngs Coordinating interviews Coordinating interviews MediaMedia Industry associations Industry associations Securities and Exchange Securities and Exchange Commission Commission EXTERNAL EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT 73 Examining Examining DBL's DBL's parameters parameters Finance Finance DBL's DBL's Sustainability Sustainability Communication Communication Continual Continual interaction interaction Internal Internal Relations team team Strategic Relations Strategic management management Marketing Marketing Compliance Compliance Investors Investors ReportReport to topto top managemen managemen National National Sustainability Sustainability eventsevents International International Corporate Corporate valuesvalues Risks Risks Opportunities Opportunities AcceptAccept responsibilities responsibilities PolicyPolicy coverage coverage Workplace Workplace practices practices PublicPublic disclosure disclosure Management Management and measurement and measurement Exhibitions Exhibitions One-to-one meetings One-to-one meetings By DBLBy DBL AuditsAudits Self assessments Self assessments Suppliers Suppliers Industry best practices Industry best practices DBL Sourcing DBL Sourcing Update management Update management information TraderTrader information department department Raw material suppliers Raw material suppliers Communicate with traders Communicate with traders info@dbl-group.com info@dbl-group.com Community Communityeducation education development development Women empowerment Women empowerment NGOsNGOs Women healthhealth Women CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Environment Environment DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external stakeholders through stakeholders through various non-binding initiatives which the organizavarious non-binding initiatives which the organization subscribes and endorses. A constant OthersOthers tion communication is vital subscribes in order to and ensure business A endorses. constant communication sustainability: is vital DBL recognizes and in order acts on to ensure this principle. The tree below shows business the varioussustainability: external stakeholders that DBLand DBL recognizes acts on this is currently involved with and principle. The map how interaction shows is being madethe various each. external stakeholders that DBL is with currently involved with and how interaction is being made with each. 74 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT A wide variety of activities are integrated within DBL’s sustainability that promotes societal development: thus integrating the concept of “Community” included as a branch in the comprehensive coverage of sustainability. These activities include the following: Community surveys: To identify and address the needs of the local community Community educational support: Infrastructure and ﬁnancial support. Also focusing on improving education quality with international NGO Contributions with collaboration with NGOs in forms of education, vocational training, health training, etc. Community cultural program with NGOs In-house agriculture ﬁelds: For growing crops to meet community needs Health care assistance to various hospitals in the country: ﬁnancial as well as infrastructure supports. 75 MULTI-STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT A sustainable method to address the needs of different stakeholders is possible when multiple stakeholders such as public and private organizations come under a common platform. In this regard, DBL Group has worked with a variety of stakeholders with the variety of Sustainability programs. Some of these are included below. Nirapod: Saving Women from Partnership for Program Pillars in Practice Women in Factories Unwanted Cleaner Textiles Mini Fire Brigade Initiative Pregnancy and (PaCT) Unsafe MR IFC, Embassy of SAI, DIHR , CSR Centre Wal-Mart, Phulki, Embassy of Stakeholder(s) the Kingdom of Bangladesh CARE, Sheva the Kingdom of GIZ, BFSCD the Netherlands, the Netherlands Solidaridad MINI FIRE BRIGADE DBL Group and GIZ signed a cooperation agreement to establish a Mini Fire Brigade. Mr. M.A. Rahim, Vice-Chairman and Group CEO of DBL Group, Olaf Handloegten, Director, Global Initiative Disaster Risk Management (GIDRM), and Dr. Jochen Weikert, Program Coordinator, PSES II, signed the agreement on 11 March 2015 at Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defense Training Complex in Dhaka. The foundation stone was laid on 7 October 2015 by HE Dr. Gerd Müller, Honorable Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany, and HE Mr. Tofail Ahmed, Honorable Minister of Commerce, Government of Bangladesh. The objective of the Mini Fire Brigade rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent ﬁre in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The Mini Fire Brigade unit will be located outside Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which will also serve other factories in the Kashimpur-Konabari industrial cluster. DBL Group is providing land, a suitable construction for the Mini Fire Brigade and volunteers. The Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defense will undertake the initiative to organize training for volunteer ﬁreﬁghters and provide infrastructure support. GIZ will facilitate the procurement of ﬁre-ﬁghting equipment. The facility will be staffed 24 hours a day with a target to respond within the ﬁrst critical 10-15 minutes to both industrial ﬁre and building collapse. Stakeholder Engagement 76 MULTI-STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABLE TEXTILES Initiated by Dr. Gerd Müller, the Partnership for Sustainable Textiles focuses on achieving social, environmental and economic improvements in Bangladesh’s RMG sector. A “Declaration of Accession” on the program was signed by four Bangladeshi RMG companies: DBL Group, Niagara Textiles Ltd, Saiham Knit Composite Ltd and JMS Holdings. These companies have been collaborating with GIZ and DEG to improve their social and environmental standards. PARTNERS IN RIGHTS WORKSHOP The section for development cooperation at the Embassy of Sweden in Bangkok hosted a thematic workshop for the regional cooperation partners titled Partners in Rights-Promoting Regional Environmental Sustainability and Human Rights through Innovative Relationships between Business, Civil Society and Governments . It was held from 27 28 May 2015. Mr. Mohammed Zahidullah, Head of Sustainability, DBL Group was invited as a speaker by Embassy of Sweden in Bangkok to attend the workshop. The second session of day-2 was on the theme of multi -stakeholder cooperation and started with a presentation by Mr. Zahidullah. The presentation highlighted success stories of public-private partnership showcasing the successful implementation of women empowerment and PaCT: Partnership for Cleaner Textile at DBL Group. 77 VISITORS Apart from our buyers, distinguished guests, including ministers and ambassadors, from all around the world visit DBL Group’s factories throughout the year. Some of our visitors are shown below. Lee Yun-young: Ambassador of the Republic of Korea to Bangladesh Hans-Joachim Fuchtel: Parliamentary State Secretary .to the Federal Ministerfor Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany Stakeholder Engagement 78 Louka Katseli: Greek economist and politician Genet Zewdie, Ambassador of Ethiopia to India 79 Dr Christoph Schumacher-Hildebrand: Ministry of BMZ, Germany Just-Style journalists from the UK Stakeholder Engagement 80 United Nations Global Compact from 17 countries including USA, Europe and Asia Wei Yiliang: President, Wuhan Textile University 81 Dr. Thomas Prinz, Ambassador of Germany to Bangladesh Lilianne Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and Melanie Schultz, Minister of Infrastructure and Environment, Kingdom of the Netherlands Stakeholder Engagement 82 Dr. Gerd Müller Federal Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany Lars Sørensen, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer (COO), Puma SE 83 Stakeholder Engagement 84 Concept and design by CORPORATE OFFICE: BGMEA Complex, 12th Floor Phone: +88 02 8140367 23/1 Panthapath Link Road Fax: +88 02 8140214 Karwan Bazar, Dhaka-1215 Mail: info@dbl-group.com Bangladesh Web: www.dbl-group.com
