2014 Communication on Progress LUCOBIT AG 03.02.2015 Brühler Str. 60 c/o Basell Polyolefine GmbH – B100 D-50389 Wesseling Time Period: February 2014 to February 2015 Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that LUCOBIT AG continuous to comply with the United Nations 10 Global Compact Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anticorruption. In this annual progress report, we specify our efforts to integrate the Global Conduct Principles as they apply to our business strategy, business culture and daily operations. A highlight during this reporting period was the formation of an energy management team. This team identified and implemented measures to significantly reduce energy consumption e.g. by lowering the use of steam. Furthermore, a new ERP system was implemented to optimize various internal processes and thus reduce the respective workload such as order processing, logistics, etc. LUCOBIT AG was certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards and implemented an Integrated Management System. In addition, we are proud to report that since the founding of LUCOBIT AG in 2000, there was no reportable incident or accident. Sincerely Robert M. Riegler Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Policy, Objectives and Assessment At LUCOBIT AG, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any country or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated abductions etc. Implementation At LUCOBIT AG, we abide by all Human Rights policies. These include e.g. policies with respect to work, stress, pregnancy, illness, health etc. We have volunteer groups consisting of both management and staff regularly and continuously verify the adherence to these policies. Measurement of outcomes In the past year, LUCOBIT AG has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Labor Policy, Objectives and Assessment LUCOBIT AG supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization engaged in forced or child labor. All LUCOBIT AG employees were issued an employment contract which clearly states the terms and conditions including pay and overtime arrangements. LUCOBIT AG is going to obtain a safe-work-environment certification according to ILO standards. There is a strong focus within the company to ensure best possible work environment and conditions for our employees. Implementation In the last few years, LUCOBIT AG focused on improving labor conditions, especially in the areas of production leading to an Integrated Management System which includes all aspects regarding Quality, Environment, Health, and Safety. LUCOBIT AG has implemented volunteer groups consisting of both management and staff verifying the adherence to these policies at least twice a year. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG is continuously audited internally and externally on its progress with respect to its HSEQ certification. So far, there have only been very few remarks. Also, LUCOBIT AG registers all accidents and 'non-reportable -accidents', ensuring a stronger focus on possible problem areas. As a direct consequence, a slight reduction of these cases was observed during the certification period. Environment LUCOBIT AG has an environmental and energy policy and is certified to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. The main products of LUCOBIT AG are issued with an EPD (environmental product declaration). Implementation LUCOBIT AG fulfills the strong environmental requirements of German and European Authorities. LUCOBIT AG has implemented an Energy Team to obtain ISO 50001 certification to promote environmental and energy focusing initiatives. One objective is to identify or develop new technologies to decrease the total environmental impact. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG monitors continuously the consumption of different types of energy. We expect a significant reduction especially in the use of electricity and high pressure steam. Anti-Corruption Policy, Objectives and Assessment LUCOBIT AG will not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. LUCOBIT AG supports the UN Convention against Corruption and we will not cooperate with organizations that engage or are known to engage in any form of corruption. Implementation The Financial Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within LUCOBIT AG. Measurement of Results LUCOBIT AG has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events of corruption or bribery. To ensure that no corruption takes place, LUCOBIT AG has implemented a zero-tolerance policy.
