Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Posti Annual Report 2014 Contents Responsibility 1 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 1 Key achievements and challenges 2014 3 Strategy 5 Business environment 5 Risks 6 Corporate governance and management 7 Organization 7 Management 8 Financial responsibility management 9 Social responsibility management 10 People responsibility management 11 Environmental responsibility management 12 Cooperation with stakeholders 14 Stakeholder survey 16 Materiality assesment 17 Material responsibility themes and aspects 18 Customers 18 Financial profitability 19 Tax footprint 21 Sponsoring 24 Safe, high-quality services that are produced responsibly 25 Looking after the personnel 26 Recruitment 29 Well-being and safety at work 30 Awards for personnel 31 The employee satisfaction survey 32 Personnel reductions 33 Employee Code of Conduct 34 Energy-efficient solutions 35 Posti Green 36 Driving habit monitoring 37 Property maintenance services 38 Quality and environmental certifications for logistics 39 Environmental calculations 40 Environmental reporting 42 Responsible sourcing 46 Supplier audits 47 Sourcing policy 48 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 Posti Annual Report 2014 Involved in Sedex and EcoVadis 49 CASE: UFF 50 CASE: Tallinn Children’s Hospital 51 CASE: SETA 52 CASE: Carbon neutral transports 53 CASE: Green Office label 54 Reporting description and boundary 55 GRI G4 reporting 56 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Taking stakeholders’ expectations into account constitutes the core of responsibility and the foundation for the continuity of our business operations. Our corporate responsibility principles – such as the UN’s Global Compact principles – define our key areas and commitments. Corporate responsibility is subject to a wide variety of expectations. In terms of financial responsibility, the company should be profitable. In terms of the environment, it should reduce emissions. In terms of society, it should provide high-quality services. In terms of personnel, it should ensure well-being at work and the sourcing chain needs to be ethically sound. We divide our corporate responsibility into four areas: financial, social, people and environmental responsibility. Although we view corporate responsibility from a global perspective, we play a significant role in society in Finland and we are subject to the universal service obligation based on the Postal Act. For this reason, we have made social responsibility a separate area of responsibility. We mainly report on social responsibility in Finland. The four areas of corporate responsibility This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 1 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Contact information Noomi Jägerhorn, Head of Sustainability: noomi.jagerhorn@posti.com Hannele Parkkinen, Corporate Responsibility Manager: hannele.parkkinen@posti.com This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 2 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Key achievements and challenges 2014 Key achievements and challenges in 2014 We have determined our corporate responsibility targets up until the year 2020. These targets and their achievements are described in the table below. Indicators and targets of corporate responsibility For us, 2014 was a year of changes, and operational efficiency was improved through various means. We made major changes to both the organization and the operating model. We also renewed premises, fleet and subcontracting. In order to maintain the profitability of our operations, we must constantly seek new substitute services and consider new efficiency improvement measures. The changes influence all areas of corporate responsibility. The key challenges were the cooperation negotiations and personnel reductions caused by the decline in mail volumes, the transformation of the business environment and the difficult economic situation as well as handling these negotiations and reductions as responsibly as possible. We also invested a great deal in responsible sourcing and, in line with our strategy, customers and customer relationship management. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 3 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Key achievements and challenges 2014 In the fall, we revised our sourcing policy that defines how sourcing and supplier cooperation are managed and handled in Posti Group. We also achieved significant savings by improving sourcing efficiency. Increasing the efficiency of sourcing is also an integral part of the new two-year, EUR 75 million performance improvement program launched in August. We continued the extensive integration of the groupage logistics business operations acquired in 2012 and renewed our fleet. Some of the fleet was given up, and we increased subcontracting. We merged systems, consolidated inventories and revised the operating model. The aim was to improve the utilization and fill rates of the entire transport fleet in order to ensure competitiveness and profitability. As of the beginning of October, we centralized cleaning, property maintenance, waste management and technical building services in Finland to one partner, which ensures energy and cost efficiency. Key corporate responsibility achievements also included the awarding of the Green Office label to Posti’s headquarters and the expansion of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 systems in logistics. As a result of the audit by Det Norske Veritas, all logistics operations in Finland are now fully covered by quality and environmental certificates. In addition, the occupational health and safety certificate OHSAS 18001 covers more than 20 freight terminals. During the year, the also Group appointed a Chief Compliance Officer whose task is to develop compliance operations throughout the Group. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 4 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Strategy / Business environment Business environment The trends that have a strong impact on us include the dramatic transformation of the postal industry, the increase in ecommerce, the growing power of consumers, the period of slow economic growth in Europe and the challenging situation in Russia. The overall economic situation remained weak in Finland and the exchange rate of the ruble declined substantially. Furthermore, there was intense competition in Scandinavia. The volumes of addressed letter items continued to decline and newspaper and magazine volumes decreased as well. The market situation in logistics and retail is weak. Transport volumes in groupage logistics declined and the volume of heavy traffic has continued to decrease in Finland for nearly three consecutive years. On the other hand, the increase in the overall demand for parcels and in e-commerce as well as the growth of the cloud services offered by OpusCapita offer new opportunities for us. The Finnish Government issued a postal delivery license to three of Posti’s competitors. The postal delivery licenses that have been issued allow for competition in addressed deliveries, but competition did not yet have an impact on us in 2014. In our view, issuing the postal licenses with one-day delivery obligation reduces Posti’s opportunities to profitably provide services that fall under the universal service obligation in accordance with the Finnish Postal Act. For this reason, the decision increases the need for efficiency measures. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 5 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Strategy / Risks Risks Risk management serves to safeguard and improve business performance and the achievement of strategic goals by reducing the probability and effects of materialized risks and supporting the utilization of business opportunities. We update our corporate responsibility risks twice a year as part of our comprehensive risk management process, and they are reported as a separate item in the Group’s risk report. Starting from the risk reporting conducted towards the end of the year, compliance risks have been separated from other risks related to corporate responsibility, and both are reported as separate items. The risk report is processed by our corporate responsibility steering group, Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Executive Board. For us, corporate responsibility risks include, for example, outsourcing measures related to financial responsibility. In particular, they can have a negative effect on our reputation and, consequently, cause us to lose customers. Another key risk is the risk of potential information leaks, particularly those related to sensitive personal information. Compliance risks include, for example, corruption as well as risks related supplier management and the failure of internal control. These are particularly important in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. In addition, investments in Russia may be considered to be unethical because of the social and legal development related to the business environment. A key environmental responsibility risk is accidents that cause extensive damage to the environment. Our cooperation with PostNL, the national postal service of the Netherlands, launched in 2013, attracted negative attention. During the pilot phase, the coding service related to postal items with illegible address markings was purchased from a subsidiary of PostNL in the Philippines. Despite positive experiences, we decided not to continue the cooperation after the pilot project. By keeping work in Finland, we wanted to support Finnish employment and skills in the transformation of the postal industry. In the spring, delivery route changes, mail delivery disruptions and personnel reductions also attracted negative media publicity. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 6 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Corporate governance and management / Organization Organization Our organization is divided into four business groups: A more detailed description of our organization can be found in the Corporate governance section of the annual report. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 7 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Corporate governance and management / Management Management Corporate responsibility is part of our daily work and management. In our company, management is based on our values: succeeding together with the customer, driving for improvement and innovation, taking responsibility, and winning together. Good management supports the achievement of these targets and fosters a positive work atmosphere. Corporate responsibility is the responsibility of our Vice President, Stakeholder Relations, who is a member of the Management Board. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 8 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Management / Financial responsibility management Financial responsibility management We want to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can implement its responsibilities in terms of society, personnel, the environment and all stakeholder groups. We plan our finances from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, customer demands and risk scenarios in Finland and abroad. Financial responsibility management is supported by our risk management policy, internal control principles and corporate governance principles. We process all information in strict confidence, taking information security issues into account. Our corporate security policy determines the minimum level for all of our countries of operation. Exceeding legal requirements, our policy is based on international standards (SoGP, ISO/IEC 27001 and TAPA), which determine our targets, responsibilities and implementation methods in information security management. Our policy takes into account the information security requirements of our customers, the business environment and risk management. In terms of protection, we see as particularly important customer and personnel information as well as our and our partners’ confidential information and the related systems and business processes. Our risk management unit prepares information security guidelines and supports the management in implementing them. In all of our Group companies, the management is responsible for implementing our corporate security policy as part of their daily work. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 9 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Management / Social responsibility management Social responsibility management Our well-functioning and efficient infrastructure enables us to provide reliable services for all of our customer groups in a socially responsible manner. We deal ethically, openly and transparently with all of our stakeholders. We use various channels to provide our stakeholders with information and enable them to interact with us. We support and respect the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As an employer, we comply with the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to promoting employees’ rights, environmental protection, anticorruption work and human rights in working life. We comply with an approved equality plan and all laws and regulations related to equality in order to promote and ensure nondiscrimination and equal treatment. We maintain a system that makes it possible to report any deviations from our principles and guidelines and address them. We also expect partners to comply with equivalent, ethically sustainable principles. We present our environmental and ethical requirements in the tendering phase and ensure that they are addressed when agreements are signed. We expect our suppliers to provide feedback, and we respond to any shortcomings, as necessary. We have not identified any risks related to the use of child, forced or penal labor in our operations. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 10 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Management / People responsibility management People responsibility management Our human resources strategy provides guidelines for personnel development based on the needs of business operations and employees, in line with corporate responsibility. Our principles of people responsibility and ethical guidelines for personnel are in line with the UN Global Compact initiative. We measure the quality of the management and the state of the workplace community by carrying out annual personnel surveys. We use the results in the development of our organizational culture, processes and operating models. In addition, we use the unit-specific results in the development of the work atmosphere, operating methods and supervisory work. We actively cooperate with our personnel, and managers and employee representatives meet regularly at cooperation meetings. The leadership cornerstones lay the foundation for consistent management practices in all of our units. They indicate what is expected of a good manager or supervisor at Posti. Our change management concept supports the management of our business operations. The management of well-being at work is an important part of our human resources strategy. We monitor employee wellbeing by using various indicators, such as an annual employee satisfaction survey Voice, the number of sick leave days and the reasons for sick leave as well as disability, retirement and occupational accidents. Intended for all of our employees, our Employee Code of Conduct covers laws and regulations, good business practices, nondiscrimination, equality, conflicts of interest, ethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. It addresses core issues that help our employees choose the appropriate procedure in situations that require them to use their discretion. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 11 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Management / Environmental responsibility management Environmental responsibility management Environmental management is based on environmental management standards, particularly ISO 14001, as well as legal and authority requirements and the Global Compact principles. Our environmental policy covers all of our countries of operation. The targets for our environmental work are determined by our corporate responsibility steering group. Our business groups determine more detailed operating programs as part of their management model. Environmental issues are discussed by our Management Board and Board of Directors twice a year as part of more extensive corporate responsibility reporting. Our environmental program aims to reduce our carbon-dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to 2007). In addition, we are party to a freight traffic energy efficiency agreement in Finland and have made a commitment to improve our energy efficiency in our transport by 20% by 2016 (compared to 2008). We will improve the environmental efficiency of our transport by reducing fuel consumption and increasing the use of alternative vehicles, such as electric, biogas and biodiesel vehicles. Transport and emissions from vehicles represent over 80% of our carbon-dioxide emissions in Finland. As the largest transport and delivery company in the country, we play an important role in the development of environmentally friendly and energyefficient transport operations. As part of our ISO 14001 management system, we increase our employees’ environmental awareness through training and employee orientation. In addition, environmental issues are continually discussed in our internal communication channels. We have a system that enables employees to make suggestions related to the development of environmental management. Environmental balance sheet This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 12 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Management / Environmental responsibility management Environmental balance sheet This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 13 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Cooperation with stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders Our industry is undergoing a profound transformation, which is the reason we must interact with our stakeholders even more actively than before. Only through interaction can we understand our stakeholders’ needs and expectations and develop our operations accordingly. Our key stakeholders are customers, personnel, the state, as our owner, political decision-makers, authorities and the media, as well as our partners in subcontracting, research and the industry. Issues considered to be important by our stakeholders are reported under Stakeholder survey. This table presents our key stakeholders and their expectations. The table also includes information on key tools and forms of interaction in 2014. Stakeholder Expectations Key interaction tools and results in 2014 group Customers Reliable high-quality postal We made effective use of customer satisfaction surveys and and logistics services and feedback. financial management The number of Posti’s service points was increased by 138 during the services for a reasonable year. price We operate in an environmentally responsible way by reducing the Information security and emissions of our vehicles, for example. The emissions of Posti’s delivery protection of privacy in all vehicles reduced by 6% during the year. services Commitment to ethical principles Modernization in response to customer needs Solutions for digitization Environmental efficiency Personnel Equal treatment of The bonus plan covers the entire Group. personnel The Group invested in occupational safety and organized safety Competitive and fair walkabouts for management, for example. rewards Posti had to adjust its operations in response to the strong decline in Responsible management the demand for traditional mail, for example. Cooperation and supervisory work negotiations were carried through during the year to adjust the Development of well-being number of personnel to the prevailing situation. at work Posti launched the Uusi polku (New path) program, which offers not Engagement and flow of only financial support, but also training and support for job seeking, information retraining or starting a business. Employees have access to an initiative bank, an electronic channel for distributing and processing initiatives within Posti. Employees have a channel for submitting feedback on issues related to ethical guidelines and topics discussed by the equality committee. Feedback can also be submitted anonymously. We continued to actively cooperate with our personnel, and managers and employee representatives met regularly at This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 14 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Cooperation with stakeholders cooperation meetings. Owner, Reliable high-quality postal We continued to provide online training related to our Employee political decisionservices for reasonable Code of Conduct. makers and authorities prices throughout Finland The number of Posti’s service points was increased by 138 during the Profitability and solvency year. Good governance and Active dialog with political decision-makers, interest groups and transparency of operations authorities. Employees’ status and rights, and environmental responsibility Increasing ownership value in a sustainable and responsible manner Partners in Transparent sourcing Permanent membership of PostEurope, the Universal Postal Union subcontracting, research and criteria and equal (UPU) and the International Post Corporation (IPC). the industry treatment of suppliers Membership of the Finnish service sector employers’ association Pilot and research projects PALTA (a member association of the Confederation of Finnish for new technologies and Industries EK), the Finnish Federation for Communications and business models Teleinformatics (FiCom) and Finnish Business & Society (FIBS). An active role in international industry associations The media Fast and reliable flow of We issued approximately 300 media releases in 2014. information We organized meetings with representatives of the media and offered High level of availability reporters information on news and current events in our industry. and swift services Our MediaDesk serves journalists: we received nearly 600 contact requests from the media. We generally responded to all requests for an interview within 30 minutes. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 15 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Cooperation with stakeholders / Stakeholder survey Stakeholder survey During the fall 2013, we examined extensively which corporate responsibility issues our stakeholders consider to be important and how they think Posti has performed in terms of corporate responsibility. We received more than 2,000 responses to our survey from all of our stakeholder groups, including consumers, business customers, personnel, subcontractors, the authorities, the Parliament and the media. In 2014 we did not conduct a similar survey. We asked our stakeholders how significant they considered various aspects of corporate responsibility to be. All of our stakeholder groups agreed on the importance of corporate responsibility issues. Employees considered all aspects to be more important than did the other stakeholder groups. Our tax footprint was a new aspect included in the survey, and all of the stakeholder groups regarded it as being significant. We began reporting our tax footprint already in the summer of 2013 and developed the reporting further during 2014. Supply chain responsibility was clearly regarded as being more important than it was in our previous survey, which was carried out three years ago. In terms of supply chains, the need to ensure ethically sound operations in subcontracting has increased. The issues that our stakeholders found to be most important included information security, responsible management and supervision, and transparent operations. Ensuring long-term profitability, providing and developing basic postal services for citizens in Finland and making a commitment to ethical principles were considered to be very significant. Compared to earlier surveys, stakeholders’ expectations had increased in terms of transparent operations and financial responsibility, but their expectations had decreased slightly in terms of environmental issues, for example. However, environmental issues were still considered to be very important. For the first time, respondents also included our customers in Russia. Their expectations were similar to those of our Finnish customers. Based on the results of the stakeholder survey, we updated our materiality assessment and also determined key measures in terms of corporate responsibility. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 16 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Cooperation with stakeholders / Materiality assesment Materiality assesment Based on the materiality assessment, we have determined key measures in terms of corporate responsibility. The focus areas include further improving the customer experience and ensuring safety, which includes both traffic and occupational safety. We also want to be the best employer. This means that we will manage our operations responsibly, develop our employees’ competencies and offer career opportunities. Improving our electronic services further is also important to us. Below is the materiality matrix based on the results of our stakeholder survey. Materiality matrix This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 17 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Customers MATERIAL RESPONSIBILITY THEMES AND ASPECTS Customers Because the customer experience is key, we constantly request feedback, so that we can further improve our operations. We conduct business customer satisfaction studies both on a project and event specific basis and with more comprehensive customer satisfaction surveys that are conducted regularly once or twice a year. In 2014, information was collected and reported twice in Finland and Russia and once in other countries. Business customers are mainly interviewed over the telephone but also partly with online surveys. The surveys are targeted to those who decide on or participate in the decision-making on the purchase of services offered by Posti. In 2014, our customer satisfaction studies were based on the Taloustutkimus Corporate 360 content model. Each year, we also measure the satisfaction of consumer customers with Posti and the key operational processes: receiving, sending and customer service. Taloustutkimus collected information in May, receiving more than 1,000 responses. The consumers’ overall rating of Posti as a whole declined from the previous year. The customer service ratings as well as ratings given by consumers for sending and receiving transactions remained at the same level as in the previous year. The ratings for Parcel points continued to be very good. There were only minor changes in the ratings for sending and receiving transactions so they do not explain the decline in overall ratings. Indeed, declining overall ratings are more closely linked with the negative media publicity attracted by Posti’s delivery route changes, mail delivery disruptions and personnel reductions during the first half of the year. It seems that the overall ratings also reflect people’s assessment of Posti as a company in society. According to the business customer satisfaction study, our customers were less satisfied with us than they were in the previous year. In postal services, the results were poorer for all services. In logistics services, the results improved in the spring of 2014 but took a downward turn again in the fall. The highest customer satisfaction was achieved in parcel services and contract logistics. Of the geographical regions, the most significant year-on-year result improvement was achieved in the Baltic countries. In Russia, customer satisfaction did not change substantially compared to the previous year. When processing customer details, we comply with the legislation in force and protect our customers’ privacy. This includes, among other things, confidentiality, safe storage of customer details and their usage only for the purpose for which they were originally provided. In customer marketing communications, we adhere to generally accepted ethical and cultural standards, respect the privacy of consumers and protect vulnerable consumer groups, such as children. In addition, we comply with the ICC International Code of Advertising Practice and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 18 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Financial profitability Financial profitability We are a state-owned company that operates on market terms, and our operations are entirely based on the revenue received from our customers. We implement our financial responsibility by reforming our business operations and improving our profitability in line with our strategy. Our financial targets are that the company’s operating profit percentage exceeds 5%, return on invested capital is at least 10%, gearing does not exceed 35% and the annual net sales increases at least to an extent which corresponds to the sector’s growth. We also intend to double our net sales in Russia by 2020. The financial impact of our operations is comparable to those of the banking and telecommunications sectors, as our services are used by hundreds of thousands of private and public sector operators every day, in addition to consumers. Financial impact in accordance with the income statement The geographical distribution of our employees in Finland on December 31, This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 19 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Financial profitability The geographical distribution of our employees in Finland on December 31, 2014 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 20 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Financial profitability / Tax footprint Tax footprint 2014 In its tax footprint reporting, Posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of which the state is the majority shareholder, provided by the Ownership Steering Department on October 1, 2014. Tax strategy All companies in the Group have committed to operating responsibly and to meeting all obligations and requirements defined by the valid legislation of each country. All taxes are to be paid on time without delay. The Group’s long-term target is to ensure that the Group’s effective tax rate is at the same level as the corporate income tax rate valid in Finland at each particular time. Posti does not practice tax planning that would aim at artificially decreasing the Group’s taxable income. In tax-related issues, the Group operates within the framework of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable profit of Group companies. This can include the utilization of tax losses accrued in a subsidiary or the granting of group contributions, for example. To clarify taxation practices, some situations may involve contacting the tax authorities for either verbal guidance or a written decision on the taxation treatment of the planned action. Tax risk management is part of the Group’s risk management process. Management of tax-related issues The management of tax-related issues is centralized to the Group Finance unit, which is responsible for managing and monitoring tax-related issues at the Group level. Decisions related to taxation are made at the Group level. Significant matters of principle are presented to the parent company’s Board of Directors for decision-making. The Group’s CFO reports regularly on taxation-related issues to the Group’s Audit Committee. The key task of the management of tax-related issues is to ensure that all Group companies comply with the regulations of tax legislation in all countries of operation. Principles observed in tax reporting The information presented in this report is based on information collected from the Group’s accounting systems. Taxes refer to taxes or tax-like fees paid to public sector entities, whether they are paid or remitted by the company. The nature and amount of taxes vary significantly from country to country. Taxes paid refer to taxes paid by the Group companies which are, as a rule, expensed in the company’s financial statements. Taxes remitted refer to taxes or fees collected by the companies which are remitted to tax collectors, often on behalf of parties other than the company itself. Group’s tax footprint reporting concerns only relevant countries, and based on that, country-specific numbers are only reported for Finland and Russia. More than 82% of the Group’s net sales comes from these countries. According to the Group’s strategy, these countries are its main markets. Other operating countries are grouped under Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti also uses the same geographical categorization in its consolidated financial statements. For other countries than Finland and Russia, information is presented on a country group-specific basis as the information reported is not of material importance and on the other hand its presentation by country might jeopardize the non-disclosure of confidential information, such as customer or pricing details. From the Group’s perspective, the amount of information reported is not of material importance when the taxes payable for an individual country do not exceed EUR 5 million. The Group operates in 11 countries. In addition, Posti has several companies in countries where the Group no longer has business operations. When assessing the materiality threshold, net sales of EUR 1 million for each individual subsidiary is This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 21 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Financial profitability / Tax footprint considered the threshold for non-materiality. Non-material companies are excluded from the reporting, as the amount of taxes paid by the companies is minor in proportion to the figures disclosed by the Group. These companies are in the categories Scandinavia and Other countries. Changes in Group structure during the financial period are described in more detail in the Group’s financial statements release. MEUR Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Net sales 1,359 172 212 117 Result before taxes 77 8 -21 1 Number of personnel 18,033 3,063 656 1,400 Paid taxes 32 11 6 3 Remitted taxes 306 18 13 6 Received public support 0 0 0 0 In 2014, Group's effective tax rate was 3.4% (2013: 418.2%). The effective tax rate was significantly affected by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities on the balance sheet during the financial period. The Group’s parent company received a significant amount of dividends from subsidiaries that are exempt from tax in Finland. These dividends came from subsidiaries in the Other countries category. The amount of income taxes paid in Finland by the Group was significantly reduced from the previous year due to the weaker operating result. Taxes by category and by geographical area Paid taxes, MEUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Income taxes 2 1 1 0 0 Real estate taxes 4 3 2 0 0 Employer taxes 30 12 9 6 3 Environmental taxes 14 14 0 0 0 Remitted taxes by category and by geographical area Remitted taxes, MEUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Value added taxes 197 178 13 4 2 Salary taxes 145 127 5 9 4 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 22 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Financial profitability / Tax footprint This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 23 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Financial profitability / Sponsoring Sponsoring The Board of Directors decides on donations and sponsorship targets annually. We want to offer financial and emotional support for projects and operations that touch many people’s lives. Our cooperation is not only about funding, but also about being an active operator. This cooperation is related to sports, culture and social development. In Finland, we have focused on sponsoring football in recent years. We have systematically provided support at the top and grassroots levels. We are the main cooperation partner of the Football Association of Finland. Our cooperation dates back to 1994. In addition, we have collaborated with the Sibelius Academy for a long time, supporting the music culture and the training of young talented people to become top performers nationally and internationally. Our cooperation offers students an opportunity to perform at a diverse range of events. During the year, we treated our customers to concerts at the Sibelius Academy and actively developed new event concepts with the Sibelius Academy. We donated our customer and partner Christmas gift funds to the support of the operations of the Finnish Red Cross in Finland. The Finnish Red Cross provides friend visitor and first aid training to volunteers, maintains disaster preparedness and operates safe houses for young people, among other activities. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 24 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Safe, high-quality services that are produced responsibly Safe, high-quality services that are produced responsibly Providing premium mail services to everyone across the country is our main mission in Finland. We ensure that the letter and parcel services that fall within the scope of universal service obligation are available to everyone. We are the only operator in Finland to provide five-day delivery services that cover the entire country. The universal service obligation covers the entire country, with the exception of the Åland Islands. The obligation is monitored by the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. According to the decree on postal service points, the nearest service point must be located within three kilometers of the majority (82%) of service users. Reasonable distances are promoted by a policy stating that the distance for a maximum of 3% of people may exceed ten kilometers from their permanent residence. During 2014, we delivered items that fall within the scope of the universal service obligation on five weekdays to all households in accordance with the Finnish Postal Act. In areas that are difficult to reach, we deviated from the five-weekday obligation for an average of 182 households, with the allowed maximum being 300. In 2014, Posti received 8,138 inquiries related to normal letters. Altogether 6,555 inquiries were unresolved, and 197 items were declared as having been lost, while 1,386 lost items were found. Inquiries related to normal letter items represented 0.001% of the total volume. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 25 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Looking after the personnel Looking after the personnel At the end of the year, we employed a total of 23,289 people. Our average number of personnel was 24,617. A total of 19,250 people on average were employed in Finland. Women made up 38% and men 62% of our employees. Our Supervisory Board has 12 members and our Board of Directors has eight members. The Executive Board is composed of seven members, and the Management Board is composed of 12 members. Our Board of Directors has an equal number of men and women as members, while men constitute the majority on the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and Management Board. Of our total personnel, 81% are covered by collective labor agreements. In Finland, 99% of our employees are covered by collective labor agreements. The Baltic countries, Poland and Russia do not have binding collective labor agreements. The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 78% of our total personnel. In Finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was 96%. The share of the personnel within the scope of regular personal development discussions and performance reviews is approximately 3,100 people. The discussions are held at least twice a year. With the people working in production in Finland, the accomplishments of the previous year as well as the objectives and targets for the coming year are discussed with the working group once a year. In addition, a personal discussion is held in relation to personal development and well-being at work. Personnel per country on December 31, 2014 Finland 18,025 Russia 3,063 Poland 575 Sweden 297 Estonia 399 Norway 272 Denmark 87 Latvia 186 Lithuania 250 Germany 106 Others 29 23,289 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 26 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Looking after the personnel This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 27 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Looking after the personnel This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 28 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / Recruitment Recruitment We are a significant employer in Finland. We are an equal, international, multicultural and tolerant workplace community. We want to be the best employer. During the year, we received approximately 28,000 job applications. In Finland, we entered into 505 new permanent employment contracts. Seasonal changes are significant in our industry, and we hire the highest number of seasonal employees in the summer and around Christmas. We provided summer jobs for approximately 2,000 people in Finland. We prepared for the Christmas season by hiring 3,300 seasonal assistants in different parts of the country. Most of the seasonal assistants worked in mail delivery, sorting and transportation. We also participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign, alongside many other companies, making a commitment to its principles: a meaningful job and reasonable pay, a good applicant experience, employee orientation and guidance, fair and equal treatment and a written employment contract and reference. Multiculturalism is a significant resource for our company. In Finland alone, our employees represent 85 nationalities. Since 2012, we have been a member of Diversity Chapter Finland, which is coordinated by the corporate responsibility network FIBS. We were among the first companies in Finland to sign the charter. Diversity Chapter Finland offers its members information on best practices in the management of diversity and support in business development. The dimensions of diversity include age, sex, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, operational capability and religion, among other aspects. Employee leaving rate in Finland Leaving rate, Finland* Permanent employment of which females 40% under 25 years 8% 25–34 years 21% 35–44 years 19% 45–54 years 15% 55 years or older 37% of which males 60% under 25 years 12% 25–34 years 31% 35–44 years 18% 45–54 years 13% 55 years or older 27% *Total leaving rate 12.6% without seasonal employees (excl. OpusCapita Finland) This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 29 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / Well-being and safety at work Well-being and safety at work The task of Posti Group’s Foundation for Well-being at Work, established in 2006, is to promote the physical and mental health of the mail communications and logistics personnel. The Foundation’s operations is divided into measures improving well-being at work and into research activities. Events organized by the Foundation include sports festivals and Kuntoremontti fitness overhauls, for example. The activities are intended for all Group employees in Finland. Improving occupational safety is one of our company’s most important areas of development. Altogether 1,971 (2,613) accidents were recorded at Posti in Finland during 2014. Figures include both accidents that happened at the workplace and during way to and from work. The indicator describing the accident frequency at Posti was 39.1. In 2013, the corresponding figure was 47.9. Figures don’t include OpusCapita. Our top management is committed to the improvement of occupational safety management. During the year, they participated in safety tours at different workplaces. During the tour, the management representative learned more about the occupational safety situation in the area and the everyday operations at the workplace. The idea is to listen to the employees’ views about both good experiences related to occupational safety and safety challenges. In order to ensure occupational safety, we started gas measurements in all imported containers arriving at Posti’s warehouses before the containers are opened and goods unloaded. If the measuring equipment detects gas in the container, the container will be aired properly before unloading. The fumigation of containers prevents damage to cargo caused by insects, rodents and other unwanted organisms as well as their spreading from one country or continent to another. Our new logistics center Pennala II in Orimattila, completed in 2013, is one of the largest service warehouses in Europe that fulfils the highest (A) level safety requirements of the TAPA FSR (The Transported Asset Protection Association – Freight Security Requirements) safety certificate. Accidents and sickness related absences 2014 2013 2012 2011 Sickness related absences (%) 6.2 5.7 5.9 6.0 Lost time accidents (number) 1,027 1,306 1,329 1,318 Accident frequency 39.1 46.7 48.7 45.1 Disability pensions 78 76 84 89 Part-time disability pensions 62 74 103 76 Total disability pensions 140 150 187 165 Average age for retiring on disability pension 56.3 56.7 56.5 56.1 Average retirement age 62.5 60.9 60.7 60.4 Retired 301 342 315 400 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 30 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / Awards for personnel Awards for personnel In December, Economic Information Office recognized the Oulu Regional Sales efforts to develop students’ working life skills with the Kultaiset kiikarit award. For a year now, Area Manager Aila Orabi has cooperated with the Laivakangas school in Oulu, organizing visits to companies, providing material for history and Finnish lessons and telling about her own career. In November, the Finnish Fair Foundation granted a EUR 3,000 award to Posti’s Foundation for Well-being at Work. The grounds for the award was the exemplary promotion of well-being and safety at work with the Safe Workplace training. This training was planned in cooperation among Posti, Posti’s Foundation for Well-being at Work and the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health. In 2013–2014, more than 1,000 Posti employees took part in the training. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 31 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / The employee satisfaction survey The employee satisfaction survey The content of Posti’s annual employee satisfaction survey was revised in 2014. At the same time, the name Voice, selected as a result of a name poll, was adopted. The aim of the revised survey was to find out how dedicated to their work and their employer employees are and how well the employer facilitates good performance. The main themes of the Voice survey were the employees’ dedication to work and performance facilitation. Other themes included teamwork and cooperation, future and leadership, performance management, well-being, safety, and cultural transformation. The survey was conducted in Finland and Russia in September–October. This year, the survey was taken by more than 12,000 Posti employees, or 59% of the personnel. On the basis of the results, the employee dedication index was 48%. This means that slightly under half of employees expressed a positive attitude towards the four aspects measuring dedication. When compared to the norm in the postal and logistics industry on a global scale, the result can be considered low. However, the performance facilitation index was higher. This index measures the extent of an organization’s commitment to producing excellent customer service and high-quality products or services and to basing its operations on the practices of continuous improvement. Especially cooperation with one’s closest colleagues was at a good level. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 32 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / Personnel reductions Personnel reductions During the year, we had to make difficult decisions related to personnel and launch several cooperation negotiations. In 2014, personnel reductions amounted to a total of 1,646 person-years. Out of this total, 741 person-years were reduced for reasons related to production and finance, and 59 person-years were reduced through voluntary resignations and pension plans. In addition, 846 person-years related to acquisitions were reduced. Cooperation negotiations were carried out in basic delivery, line haul, OpusCapita’s financial accounting outsourcing services, sorting operations, Scandinavian logistics operations as well as with regard to expert and supervisory positions in administration and planning and supervisory positions in production. Acting in a responsible and controlled manner is important to us. We are seeking solutions to the effects on employment in cooperation with personnel organizations. In Finland, we have made an agreement on change security with the Finnish Post and Logistics Union PAU. Change security will be applied to all of our personnel groups in accordance with the agreement. It will be implemented in conjunction with cooperation negotiations based on production-related and financial reasons. As a responsible employer, we want to provide stronger support for the personnel in coping with the change situation in which demand for traditional postal work decreases. Early in the year, we launched the Uusi polku (New path) support program for our personnel. In addition to a monetary one-time compensation payment, the program offers training and support for job seeking, retraining, or becoming an entrepreneur. By the end of the year, nearly 1,000 employees had applied for the program and over 600 had been approved. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 33 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Looking after the personnel / Employee Code of Conduct Employee Code of Conduct Intended for all of our employees, our Employee Code of Conduct covers laws and regulations, good business practices, nondiscrimination, equality, conflicts of interest, ethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. It addresses core issues that help our employees choose the appropriate procedure in situations that require them to use their discretion. It also describes notification, investigation and sanction procedures in cases of noncompliance. If we learn of a case of possible noncompliance, we investigate the case discreetly without delay. We communicate our ethical guidelines through internal channels, such as the intranet and our personnel magazine. We updated the Code of Conduct towards the end of the year and its implementation in practice will continue in 2015. All employees in all our countries of operation are required to familiarize themselves with the guidelines and comply with them. Online training related to the guidelines is compulsory for all employees. We systematically monitor completion of the training. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 34 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Energy-efficient solutions Energy-efficient solutions Our goal is to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020. Between 2007 and 2014, our carbon-dioxide emissions in relation to net sales decreased by 17%. In 2007, the International Post Corporation (IPC) set a common goal for its members to reduce the carbon-dioxide emissions of the postal industry by 20% by 2020. The amount of energy purchased during the review period decreased by 6% in the overall group and by 7% in Finnish operations, compared to 2013. However, at the same time, the overall emissions of the group increased by 1% when compared to the overall emissions of 2013, particularly due to the increase of fuel usage in the real estate properties in Russia. In Russia, the growth of fuel consumption was affected by the cold spring and autumn of 2014 and the changes in the heating and refrigeration systems carried out in some storage targets. We are committed to continually improving our operational quality and environmental responsibility. Through certification, we can prove to our stakeholders that our operations meet specific requirements. At the end of 2014, our certified environmental management systems covered 88% (77%) of the Group’s employees. We also have an ISO 14001 compliant environmental management system in our warehouses in Russia. We identify, evaluate and manage the environmental aspects of our operations and are committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and standards, including ISO 14001 reducing the fuel consumption of our vehicles reducing the energy consumption of our facilities improving recycling and reducing landfill waste considering environmental aspects in sourcing, subcontracting and investment decisions engaging in open discussion with our stakeholders in order to minimize our environmental impact ensuring sufficient resources for maintaining and continually improving our environmental operations reporting our environmental impact annually and providing our employees with information and opportunities in order to operate in an environmentally efficient manner. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 35 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Posti Green Posti Green All of the letters, publications, parcels and direct marketing items delivered by us are completely carbon neutral Posti Green services for our customers. By using Posti Green products, our customers can reduce CO2 emissions in their supply chain processes. We primarily reduce emissions through projects that are directly related to our operations. The carbon-dioxide emissions generated by our services are calculated as part of our annual environmental calculations. We neutralize the remaining carbon-dioxide emissions related to the transport and delivery of Posti Green products by funding climate projects. In practice, if transporting one letter produces 20 grams of carbon dioxide, we use certified climate projects to ensure that an equal amount of emissions is reduced somewhere else. We carry out climate projects in countries that have no emission ceilings. We do not implement climate projects in Finland or other Kyoto Protocol countries that have binding targets. In 2015, we will expand Posti Green so that, in addition to postal items, it covers all operations in Finland. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 36 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Driving habit monitoring Driving habit monitoring Our fleet of 4,000 commercial vehicles in Finland records a total of 118 million kilometers each year. The vehicles represent 80% of the total carbon-dioxide emissions of our company. We reduce fuel consumption and carbon-dioxide emissions by planning routes efficiently, combining deliveries and driving in an environmentally responsible manner. In addition, our goal is to increase the share of alternative vehicles to 40% of our delivery vehicles by 2020. In 2013, we began the installation of driving habit monitoring devices in our delivery and transport vehicles in Finland. The installation was completed in May 2014 and devices have now been installed in approximately 4,000 vehicles. The driving habit monitoring devices help to reduce fuel consumption and drive down carbon-dioxide emissions. What’s more, it will be possible to set and monitor regional targets for both consumption and emissions. This will also cut down vehicle costs. With the devices, we can also invest in the improvement of occupational safety. We also deliver mail by foot and by bicycle. A total of 1,200 delivery routes are handled by bicycles every day. In addition to bicycles, we also use environmentally friendly electric carts, mopeds, scooters and cars. Up until now, increasing the number of electric cars in delivery has been challenging, as electric cars suitable for winter conditions in Finland are not available. About half of the mopeds we use are electric. IPC has organized the international Drivers’ Challenge competition twice, in France and in Ireland. In March 2015, we hosted the event in Ivalo. The driving habit index by the driving habit monitoring device played a decisive role in the selection of the Finnish competitors. The index must be at least 95 for a period of several months. The competition involved driving efficiency and safety tests as well as customer service-oriented tasks. In addition to vehicle handling skills, points were awarded on the extent of the postal companies’ commitment to environmental objectives and sustainable development. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 37 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Property maintenance services Property maintenance services As of the beginning of October, we centralized cleaning, property maintenance, waste management and technical building services in Finland to one partner. The contract covers the production, management and development of these services. By centralizing the services to one operator, we could adopt a single steering model and reduce administrative workload. The contract ensures energy and cost efficiency. Energy consumption can be kept in control through good property maintenance and constant monitoring of technical building systems. Number of operating locations 2014 Finland 662 Russia 21 Other countries 30 Total 713 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 38 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Quality and environmental certifications for logistics Quality and environmental certifications for logistics Posti’s logistics business expanded the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 systems in April. As a result of the audit by Det Norske Veritas (DNV), all logistics operations in Finland are now fully covered by quality and environmental certificates. In addition, the occupational health and safety certificate OHSAS 18001 covers more than 20 freight terminals. The audit in the spring covered the transport terminals in Espoo, Herttoniemi (Helsinki), Kajaani, Kemi, Oulu and Rovaniemi and the warehouses on Alaniementie in Espoo and Makasiinikatu in Lahti. Management, sales and customer service were audited in Helsinki, Tuusula and Vantaa. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 39 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental calculations Environmental calculations We use environmental calculations to monitor the environmental impacts of our operations, and we seek to continually improve the quality and expand the scope of the calculations. We use a Group-wide tool for the collection of environmental information. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 40 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental calculations This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 41 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental reporting Environmental reporting These tables present information on environmental impacts in the following areas: Our vehicles Our premises Subcontracted transport Group's environmental impacts, CO2 emissions Tons 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Fuel use in buildings – energy generation, Scope 1 15,020 9,268 10,724 11,254 13,019 Fuel use in transport – Posti's vehicles, Scope 1 53,396 60,406 46,169 46,005 48,185 Electricity and heat use in buildings, Scope 2 44,199 38,272 46,496 49,604 56,836 Subcontracted transport by vehicles*, Scope 3 62,888 65,606 50,878 42,376 41,479 Subcontracted transport by air, Scope 3 7,913 7,884 8,409 8,442 9,027 Business travel flights, Scope 3 2,139 2,190 2,260 2,221 493** Total 185,555 183,625 164,936 159,902 169,040 *) Includes subcontracted transport in Finland Scope 1: Fuel use in buildings and own vehicles 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Group Group Group Group Group Finland Finland Finland* Finland Finland Fuel use in buildings – energy generation TJ 268 165 192 199 220 0 0 0 0 0 Fuel use in transport – own vehicles million liters 21.7 24.4 18.7 17.3 18.4 18.7 19.9 14.4 12.7 12.9 TJ 782 882 675 628 659 676 719 520 462 461 Kilometers driven million kilometers n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 118 125.0 103.8 99.4 101.3 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Emissions to air – own vehicles This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 42 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental reporting Emissions to air – own vehicles 2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Tons/year Group Finland Finland Finland* Finland Finland CO2 53,396 46,132 49,229 35,547 33,545 33,743 CO n/a 59 60 56 54 57 HC n/a 15 16 14 13 13 NOx n/a 130 166 97 84 84 Particles n/a 5.8 5.9 4.7 4.5 4.2 SO2 n/a 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Source of information: VTT/LIPASTO emissions of traffic, fuel consumption and kilometers driven of own vehicles. Scope 2: Purchased electricity and heat Carbon dioxide emissions from the use of electricity and heating in buildings 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Group Group Group Group Group Finland Finland Finland* Finland Finland Electricity use in buildings GWh 151 158 153 151 153 90 97 90 91 97 TJ 545 568 550 544 549 325 348 326 326 346 Heat use in buildings GWh 90 98 96 94 118 74 81 72 68 86 TJ 324 352 346 337 424 265 290 258 244 310 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Amount of renewable energy in consumed electricity This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 43 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental reporting Amount of renewable energy in consumed electricity 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Group Group Group Group Group Finlnad Finland Finland* Finland Finland Electricity 69% 71% 62% 58% 57% 100% 100% 85% 81% 76% Heat* n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 33% 29% 26% 21% 18% *) Source of information: Finnish Energy Industries Scope 3: Subcontracted transport Carbon dioxide emissions from subcontracted transport The subcontracting emission figures represent the Finnish functions 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Suomi Suomi Suomi* Suomi Suomi Subcontracted transport by vehicles, Finland million kilometers 98.0 106.4 93.9 99.4 101.6 CO2 t 62,888 65,601 50,878 42,376 41,479 Domestic air transports, Finland CO2 t 3,202 3,074 3,199 3,443 3,288 International air transports, Finland CO2 t 4,710 4,810 5,210 4,999 5,739 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Waste management in 2014, Finland Other Hazardous Recycled Inceneration Landfill Total Tons recover waste Properties included in agreement* 6.706 3.010 813 462 88 11.081 Recovery rate, % 95% *) The figures have been revised since 2014. Excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. Emissions from waste management, 6,874 tCO2ekv, are not included in the Posti Group's environmental reporting. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 44 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Energy-efficient solutions / Environmental reporting Emissions from waste management, 6,874 tCO2 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 45 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing The aim of sourcing is to provide Posti’s business operations with the high-quality products and services it needs. We are committed to responsibility in all of our sourcing, too. Increasing the efficiency of sourcing was an integral part of the two-year, EUR 100 million performance improvement program launched in 2013. The program was completed ahead of schedule in the third quarter of 2014, and a significant portion of the savings were achieved by improving sourcing efficiency. In August 2014, we launched a new performance improvement program for 2015–2016, aiming at EUR 75 million in cost savings. In addition to achieving savings in sourcing, operational efficiency is sought by achieving synergy benefits through the consolidation of production, improving the efficiency of the ICT function and simplifying the product portfolio, for example. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 46 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Responsible sourcing / Supplier audits Supplier audits We have defined a Supplier Code of Conduct and require all of our service providers and suppliers to adhere to it. In addition to legality, the Supplier Code of Conduct includes principles related to corruption, human rights, child labor, discrimination, working conditions and environmental concerns. During the year, we carried out a self-assessment covering all approved key suppliers. Of our countries of operation, the assessment applied to Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Other countries of operation were excluded from the scope of the assessment. We contacted a total of 740 suppliers, and the aim was that at least 75% of the suppliers would complete the assessment. The target was exceeded: by the end of the year, the response rate was 84%. We also started supplier audits and completed 10 audits during the year. The auditing process was planned in cooperation with sourcing and risk management. All audits were conducted on-site at the supplier’s premises and they contained the inspection of the following aspects: the Supplier Code of Conduct, contract compliance, operational compliance, quality management, environmental management and risk management. The supplier assessment was included in the new supplier criteria to enable us to ensure that all of the Group’s suppliers meet Posti’s requirements. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 47 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Responsible sourcing / Sourcing policy Sourcing policy In the fall, we revised our sourcing policy that defines how sourcing and supplier cooperation are managed and handled in Posti Group. The policy is divided into two parts: the first defines the general sourcing framework and the second describes sourcing-related guidelines and processes in more detail. During the year, more than 90% of Posti’s sourcing in Finland originated from domestic suppliers. In other countries of operation, too, we favored local suppliers. We acquired 840 vehicles and 211 trailers, dollies and swap bodies during the year. We also started using new double deck trailers which increase the transport capacity on our main routes. One double deck trailer can accommodate one third more goods than an ordinary trailer, and consequently, two trailers can transport the same amount of cargo as three ordinary trailers. In this way, we can save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions. Nearly all trailers, dollies and swap bodies were acquired from a Finnish supplier after tendering. Purchases related to the brand reform were sourced from Finnish marketing agencies and material providers. Of the suppliers approved during the year, 84% were within the scope of self-assessment, corresponding to a nearly EUR 400 million purchase volume. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 48 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Responsible sourcing / Involved in Sedex and EcoVadis Involved in Sedex and EcoVadis We belong to the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) network as a service provider. We hold B membership of the network. With more than 30,000 members, Sedex is the largest collaborative platform for managing and sharing ethical supply chain data. In addition to Sedex, we have joined in the EcoVadis system in the Supplier role. Through EcoVadis, we can provide our current or potential customers who have joined the system with information about responsibility and ethical issues related to our operations. As for our customers, they can use the EcoVadis system to assess our corporate responsibility and to manage responsibility information. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 49 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / CASE: UFF CASE: New life for work clothing through UFF Used clothes and shoes are recycled within Posti, and clothes are used for as long as possible. Nevertheless, some clothes become redundant. Since September 2014, Posti has donated work clothing that is no longer used to UFF, which delivers them to Malawi, Africa, for further use. Re-use is the most ecologically sustainable way of recycling clothes. During the first four months more than 2,460 kilos of clothes were delivered to Malawi. In Africa, UFF’s partner, a local charitable organization, passes the clothes on for re-use. Clothes are sold to local people who, in turn, resell them on a local marketplace to earn money for their families. In this way, the clothes business provides a new profession and a source of livelihood for the family. In Malawi, more than 12,000 locals have found a new means of earning their living by selling clothes. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 50 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / CASE: Tallinn Children’s Hospital CASE: Toys for Tallinn Children’s Hospital The Uuele Ringile! initiative collected toys for the patients at the Tallinn Children’s Hospital. Itella was the initiator of the campaign and participated by making SmartPOST parcel points available for the initiative. No child dreams of spending a long time in hospital, but sometimes it is necessary. The treatment provided by the doctors is very important, but it is equally important to offer the patient a cozy and attractive environment, says Estonian singer and pop-star Lenna Kuurmaa who acted as the campaign’s spokesperson. People could take part in the campaign by sending toys through SmartPOST parcel points to the Aarete Laegas organization, which sorted the toys and delivered them to the Tallinn Children’s Hospital. In the campaign, thousands of toys were delivered to equip the hospital’s playing rooms. Parcels sent to the campaign only cost one euro to send with a SmartPOST parcel point. With the collected fees, SmartPOST gave the hospital a toy post office as an additional gift. The summer is a quiet season for parcel points, making it possible to organize this kind of campaign. The campaign also made the sending of parcels with a parcel point familiar to the participants. In previous years, we have utilized the SmartPOST parcel point network to collect sports equipment for families with many children, school supplies for a children’s home and footwear for the deprived, says Risto Eelmaa, Managing Director of Itella SmartPOST Estonia. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 51 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / CASE: SETA CASE: Seta grants Posti the Apple of Good Information honorable mention Seta – LGBTI Rights in Finland awards annually its Apple of Good Information honorable mention to someone who has contributed positively to the situation of sexual or gender minorities. According to Seta, Posti’s stamp collection featuring the art of world famous Tom of Finland, published in the fall, was a “significant cultural achievement and an example of how a company can positively use the ideas of sexual orientation and gender diversity in its business operations”. The Tom of Finland stamps were published in honor of one of Finland’s best-known artists. The stamp committee regarded Tom of Finland creator Touko Laaksonen as an internationally distinguished artist whose works have significantly contributed to popular culture. The Tom of Finland stamps showed that stamps matter. No one passed the topic with a shrug; instead, the publication of the stamps was accompanied by unparalleled media attention, even at the international level. Most of this attention and feedback we have received has been positive. It is important for us that Finnish stamps are diverse. From time to time, the familiar floral motifs and sceneries are complemented by topical–even surprising– motifs, says Markku Penttinen, Development Director at Posti. The Tom of Finland stamps feature the sexual minority portrayed in the art of Touko Laaksonen. For Posti as a company, everyone is equal. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 52 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / CASE: Carbon neutral transports CASE: Carbon neutral transports support the mission MakroBios is the largest wholesaler of organic and allergyfree products in Finland. The company’s mission is to support the well-being of people and the environment. This was also taken into account in the choice of transport services: environmental impacts were important criteria in addition to costs and speed. Posti’s carbon neutral transports and the underlying practical measures convinced the company. The number of pallets has also been successfully decreased by shifting from disposable pallets to Posti’s rolltainer transports. The solutions of a major logistics operator can, in fact, significantly improve the eco-efficiency of a small company. Jouko Riihimäki Managing Director MakroBios This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 53 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Material responsibility themes and aspects / CASE: Green Office label CASE: The Green Office label awarded to Posti’s headquarters In November, Posti’s headquarters in Helsinki was awarded the Green Office label. WWF’s Green Office is a practical environmental management system targeted at offices that aims to reduce the ecological footprint and greenhouse gases. Posti’s long-term efforts to reduce its environmental impact will be continued in line with the Green Office criteria. Environmental responsibility work is a joint effort that is carried out both behind the wheel and in the office. Green Office is a system that allows us to reduce our environmental load whilst achieving cost savings, says Hannele Parkkinen, Corporate Responsibility Manager. The headquarters of OpusCapita in Keilaranta in Espoo has also been awarded the Green Office label. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 54 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary Reporting description and boundary The data is reported on an annual basis, and the reporting period runs from January 1 to December 31. We report the key indicators of the corporate responsibility areas to the Board of Directors twice a year. We report on corporate responsibility through our website, annual report and corporate responsibility report. Unless otherwise mentioned, the reporting covers all operations of our parent company and subsidiaries. It also covers all Group functions in all countries of operation. The reporting does not include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. The coverage of the indicators is reported in conjunction with the indicators. Although we aim for global examination of corporate responsibility, our universal service obligation causes our role in society to be more essential in Finland than in our other countries of operation. For this reason, we have made social responsibility a separate area of responsibility. We mainly report on social responsibility in Finland. The information on personnel is primarily included in GRI reporting in Finland. With regard to personnel, we have calculated the key indicators in accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s general guidelines on annual reports. Since 2009, our environmental reporting has covered all of our countries of operation. The indicators for environmental responsibility cover our operations with the greatest environmental impact in all of our countries of operation. In Finland, the environmental calculations also include the environmental impact of subcontracted transport. Carbon-dioxide emissions cover all of Posti’s business operations. The key standards applied in our environmental calculations are: The WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and The GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector, which includes more detailed instructions for the postal industry. The data and indicators for financial responsibility are obtained from the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards approved by the European Union. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in compliance with the IAS and IFRS standards valid on December 31, 2014, and the related SIC standards and IFRIC interpretations. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are prepared in compliance with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. As an issuer of two publicly listed bonds, we are obliged to disclose periodic information to a limited extent. Our duty of disclosure is based on the Finnish Securities Market Act and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. A more detailed description of our financial communications policy is available on our website at www.posti.com/financials. In connection with our financial statements, we also publish our Corporate Governance Statement, referred to in Recommendation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of the Securities Market Association. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 55 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting GRI G4 reporting Our corporate responsibility reporting is based on the GRI G4 guidelines (the Global Reporting Initiative). In addition, we comply with the reporting requirements of our owner, the Finnish State. In accordance with the guidelines, we focus on factors that are key to our operations and essential to our stakeholders. This report complies with the GRI G4 guidelines and covers the most essential areas of the financial, social, people and environmental responsibility. Posti has self-declared its corporate responsibility reporting to be in accordance with the Core level of GRI G4 guidelines. Accordingly, Posti reports material corporate responsibility details and indicators related to its operations so that the report provides a sufficient and balanced view of corporate responsibility and its impacts. The comparison of the report content with the GRI G4 guidelines has been presented in the GRI index. The report has not been confirmed externally. The accuracy of information presented has been confirmed internally. An external valuer has scrutinized the compliance of the materiality assessment process with the GRI G4 guidelines. GRI content index Code GRI Standard Disclosures (G4) Reference Page Remarks Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO's statement President and CEO's Review G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategy Materiality assessment Risks related to corporate responsibility Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Posti Group Corporation G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Posti Group in brief G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Posti Group's headquarters is based in Helsinki G4-6 Number of countries and names of countries with major Posti Group in brief operations or that are relevant to sustainability issues G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Share capital and shareholding G4-8 Markets served Postal Services Parcel and Logistics Services Itella Russia OpusCapita G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Key figures G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment Personnel contract, region and gender This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 56 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Personnel bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Responsible sourcing G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, during the reporting or its supply chain period G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or The precautionary principle is addressed by the organization approach and principle has been taken into account in accordance with statutory requirements G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and Managing responsibility social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry Cooperation with associations) and/or national/international advocacy stakeholders organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Posti Group in brief Group companies G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Boundaries Materiality assessment G4-19 Material Aspects Identified material aspects G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect within the Reporting description and organization boundary G4-21 Aspect boundary for each material aspect outside the Reporting description and organization boundary G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous No significant changes reports during the reporting period G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in No significant changes the scope and aspect boundaries during the reporting period Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Cooperation with stakeholders G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Cooperation with with whom to engage stakeholders G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Cooperation with group stakeholders G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Cooperation with stakeholder engagement, and how the organization stakeholders has responded to those key topics and concerns This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 57 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Reporting description and boundary G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Reporting description and boundary G4-30 Reporting cycle Reporting description and boundary G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Reporting description and contents boundary G4-32 GRI content index GRI G4 reporting Self-assessment has been made, no external assurance G4-33 The organization's policy and current practice with GRI G4 reporting regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation and Corporate Governance committees Statement G4-35 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for Management economic, environmental and social topics G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders G4-42 Board of Directors’ role in setting purpose, values and Corporate Governance strategy Statement G4-45 Board of Directors’ role in the identification and Corporate Governance management of risks Statement G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance Statement G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation's sustainability Reporting description and report boundary G4-49 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and senior Remuneration Statement executives G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and codes Management Employee Code of Conduct Corporate responsibility principles Supplier guidelines G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Employee Code of Conduct ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 58 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Employee Code of Conduct concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Code Indicators Reference Page Remarks Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Category: Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial profitability Tax footprint G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Other operating income G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Sourcing policy locations of operation Category: Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental reporting G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environmental reporting G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy efficiency G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) Environmental reporting G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope Environmental reporting 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope Environmental reporting 3) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity Energy efficiency G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions Energy efficiency G4-EN21 Nox, sox, and other significant air emissions Environmental reporting G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental reporting G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills occurred during the reporting period G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts Posti Green services of products and services G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with sanctions during the environmental laws and regulations reporting period G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Environmental balance products and other goods and materials for the sheet organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Responsible sourcing environmental criteria Category: People G4-LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Looking after the Finland only. The aim is to contract and region personnel develop reporting This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 59 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Looking after the changes, including whether it is specified in collective personnel agreements G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Looking after the lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workpersonnel related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Looking after the performance and career development reviews, by personnel gender and by employee category G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Looking after the men by employee category, by significant locations of personnel operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sourcing policy labor practices criteria G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, There were four addressed, and resolved through formal grievance grievances about labor mechanisms practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and No reported corrective actions taken discrimination incidents G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sourcing policy human rights criteria G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts There were no grievances filed, addressed, and resolved through formal about human rights grievance mechanisms impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period Category: Society G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Employee Code of Conduct and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption during the period under review G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and Posti Group does not recipient/beneficiary support any political parties or institutions G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive The Finnish Competition behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their and Consumer Authority's outcomes decision on June 25, 2014, on the matter in which Posti was suspected of misusing its dominant market position in the delivery of unaddressed This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 60 Posti Annual Report 2014 Responsibility / Reporting description and boundary / GRI G4 reporting direct marketing. It was stated that Posti has not violated the Finnish Competition Act. The hearing of the matter will continue in the Market Court and the District Court of Helsinki G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws sanctions during the and regulations reporting period G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Sourcing policy criteria for impacts on society G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Board of Directors’ Report None during the period regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health under review and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer promises Indicators and goals G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with None during the period regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing under review communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Risks breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Customers data G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance No significant fines or with laws and regulations concerning the provision and sanctions during the use of products and services reporting period This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2014 61 www.posti.com
