COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 8th December 20148th December 2015 Prepared for: Prepared By: Sample Statement of Continued Support Date: 26th November 2015 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that GreenA Consultants Pte Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Farizan d’Avezac de Moran Senior Partner 1|Page United Nations Global Compact Submission Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals  Safety of employees and workplace insurance.  No discrimination against employees (race, gender, age)  The company prevents discrimination by adopting a multi-cultural workforce.  Our rights are defined from the law of Ministry of Manpower of Singapore: o Medical benefits: The Company will reimburse all outpatient treatment (medication and consultation only) for medical sickness, excluding injury. The employee may consult any licensed medical practitioner registered with the Medical Council of Singapore. Dental claims are permitted. o Leave: Child Care Leaves: Singapore based employees who are working parents will be eligible for 6 days paid Childcare Leave per year, regardless of number of children until the child turns 7 years old. Child Care Leaves is also available for Non-Singapore Citizen but solely for 2 days paid Childcare Leave per year. Implementation  Human Resource policies  Employees come from different backgrounds and nationalities (Singaporean, Malaysian, French, Colombian and Chinese). They are employed solely on their merits and capabilities.  Yearly management reviews that covers topics on human rights.  GreenA has also pledged to be the “Better Workplace”, under the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) initiative.  The company has employed a buddy system to help new employees better integrate and understanding their job scope. Measurement of outcomes  Open discussions during the annual management review to discuss workplace satisfaction. 2|Page Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals  Flexible working hours granted to employees.  HR policies, public commitments and company goals. Implementation  GreenA has included flexible working hours into its HR policies. Employees are able to report to work at different timings between 6.30am to 10.30am.  An employee can report to work up to a maximum of 2 hours before the actual reporting time. The number of working hours shall remain 8 hours per day.  Employees are given the opportunity to discuss and propose strategies to higher management on how to develop and shape the direction of the company. Measurement of outcomes  Annual peers assessments to identity areas of improvements employees.  Peer appraisals to highlight employee achievements.  Annual remuneration adjustments based on assessment/ appraisal results.  HR personnel to monitor and maintain positive employee relationships and workplace conduciveness.  Higher management reviews proposals and implement relevant strategies. (i.e. exploring new market options proposals) 3|Page Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals  Designated printer solely for recycled paper.  We are ISO14001 certified.  Our offices design optimizes daylighting to reduce reliance on artificial lighting and only installs energy efficient light tubes. Daylighting also creates a more inviting space.  Our core services include the facilitation of Green Building Certifications to assist developments to achieve an environmentally and sustainably built environment based on energy efficiency, water conservation and efficiency, indoor air quality, environmental protection and other green features and innovations.  Environmental Bodies that we work with o Singapore Environment Council o Tanzania Green Building Council o Singapore Green Building Council o World Green Building Council  Our company encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. o Source out for green materials and suppliers for our projects. o For example, energy efficient lighting, water efficient taps, flooring with recycled content, low VOC paint etc. Implementation  Sending employees for environmental management courses/ seminars to conduct internal environmental audits and improve workplace performance.  Recycling boxes for collection of used papers  Ink cartridge recycling  We pay special attention to turn off the switches when not in use.  We set air-conditioning temperatures to 25 degrees. 4|Page  Paperless culture is adopted through the usage of Dropbox for file sharing and cloud document storage to minimize the need to print, photocopy and send paper based documents to external parties.  We abide by the ISO1400I standards to fulfil our environmental responsibilities. Measurement of outcomes  Number of buildings being certified Green in the fiscal year.  Electricity and water bills monitoring – generally consistent and no sudden spikes.  All of the consultants are LEED AP certified.  One in-house environmental management auditor  Monitor the amount of paper reams used and amount of paper recycled on a monthly basis. 5|Page Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals  The employee shall not (except in writing) permitted by the company be directly or indirectly engaged or concerned or interested in any other business or undertaking where there is in conflict with the interest of the company.  The employee shall in all respects diligently, and faithfully observe, obey and comply with the company’s lawful instructions (amended from time to time) and shall devote the whole of his time, attention and abilities to the employment of the company and shall use his best endeavours to improve and extend the business of the company.  Assessment of risk of bribery and corruption in the company’s industry and line of operation.  Protocol to guide employees in stations dealing with extortions and bribery. Implementation  Appointing external auditors to prepare yearly financial audit report  Communicate with stakeholders encourage them to also make UN Global Compact commitments.  Communicate to employees on the procedures to handle potential bribes and extortions. Measurement of outcomes  External auditors will be able to identify any signs of bribery within the organization and highlight it to higher management for action. 6|Page
