TE Connectivity, Ltd. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 TE Connectivity, Ltd. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Global Compact Principles TE Connectivity’s Commitments Human Rights Assessment Principle 1: Businesses should support and TE is committed to human rights for all people, everywhere respect the protection of internationally in the world, and comply with employment laws in the proclaimed human rights; and markets where we operate. The company prohibits the employment of underage children or forced labor, as well Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit as any form of physical punishment or abuse. Child labor in human rights abuses. and forced labor are forbidden at both TE and TE’s subcontractors’ facilities. Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct (please see page 63 for our statement on human rights) TE Connectivity Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility Conflict Minerals Policy Outcomes TE Connectivity 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Labor Assessment Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the TE Connectivity is committed to equal opportunity and fair freedom of association and the effective treatment, and we prohibit discrimination on the basis of an recognition of the right to collective bargaining; individual’s race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced citizenship status, disability, sexual orientation, gender and compulsory labor; identity, veteran status or any other protected status. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Policies and Implementation and TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in *please see respect of employment and occupation. page 63 for our statement on human rights page 39 for our policy on Harassment Free Workplace page 41 for our policy on Violence-Free Workplace page 23 for our policy on Equal Employment Opportunity TE Connectivity Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility Outcomes TE Connectivity 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Environment Assessment Principle 7: Businesses should support a TE is committed to environmental protection and precautionary approach to environmental sustainability. We show our commitment through our challenges; company-wide efforts to reduce our energy and water usage, waste, and greenhouse gas emissions, and by Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote publicly reporting on our progress. greater environmental responsibility; and Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Environment, Health and Safety Policy Principle 9: encourage the development and TE Connectivity Carbon Project Disclosure Report diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. TE Connectivity, Ltd. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Environment (continued) Outcomes TE Connectivity 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Anti-Corruption Assessment Principle 10: Businesses should work against all TE’s policy prohibits an employee from offering, promising forms of corruption, including extortion and or giving a financial or other benefit to gain an improper bribery. advantage or for inducing or rewarding someone for a decision to retain or obtain business. It also prohibits employees from requesting, agreeing to receive or receiving a financial or other benefit from someone to induce the employee to do something improper on his or her behalf. Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct (please see page 27 for our Global Anti-Corruption Policy) Outcomes TE Connectivity 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Ethisphere Most Ethical Companies 2015
