11 I T Y 0 2 IAL I B I L T O C N S P O R S SPO R E RE 2011 [ Social Responsibility Report ] [ From The Chief Executive Officer ] As we at Vestergaard Frandsen look back on 2011, we’re happy to report our contributions and grateful for the opportunities we’ve had to become better corporate citizens. Ours is a small company—less than three hundred employees—but one with global reach, and we don’t let our size limit our social contributions. With our broad sphere of influence comes the responsibility to protect human rights, maintain fair labour practices, defend the environment, and root out any corruption we may encounter. Vestergaard Frandsen, as a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2006, wholly supports cooperation between the international public sector and corporate players, both large and small. We firmly believe that companies must look beyond their legal obligations to proactively influence issues that affect people and the planet. Table of Contents While we fully uphold the tenets of corporate social responsibility, we think of it as just one part of corporate social ability. The very nature of the work we do—creating technologies to address public health challenges in the developing world—speaks to our commitment to bettering the lot of From The Chief Executive Officer.................................................. 1 humankind. Many years ago we elected to pursue only those opportunities that would save and enrich the lives of people whose basic health is threatened by the circumstances of poverty and crisis. Over time Doing Well By Doing Good........................................................... 3 our business activities have led to major improvements in global health—the near eradication of Guinea worm disease, and the recently recorded drop in malaria deaths, to cite two examples. We are in total agreement with the objectives defined by the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, and each Global Partnerships and Development Goals................................. 4 and every decision we make as a business is influenced by them. Human Rights and Labour............................................................. 6 We nonetheless recognize that it’s not just the goal of our business, but also how we do business, that matters. Looking forward to 2012, we’re very excited about several initiatives we’re undertaking to Anti-Corruption............................................................................ 7 become better corporate citizens. This report includes details about our new green efforts as well as the planned strengthening of our responsible supply chain unit. Anti-corruption measures remain firmly in place, and we hope to diversify our workforce even further as we go about hiring this year. Environment................................................................................. 8 At Vestergaard Frandsen, the wellbeing of people is extremely important, and we look forward to Philanthropy............................................................................... 12 achieving that in both our business objectives and our approach to reaching them. Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen Chief Executive Officer [ Doing Well By Doing Good: The LifeStraw Carbon For Water Programme ] In April and May 2011, Vestergaard The free distribution is anticipated to lessen Frandsen gave away 880,000 of its the incidence of diarrheal diseases, and LifeStraw® Family household water purifiers thereby improve health for all, especially to households in Kenya’s Western Province, children, expectant mothers, and those reaching approximately 91 percent of the whose immune systems are compromised by population of almost 5 million people. HIV/AIDS. (Health data are being collected Most of these Kenyans previously had no at the time of publication.) The filters also cost-free way of treating their drinking spare many women and girls the need to water, and as a consequence waterborne collect wood for boiling water, which frees illness has been a major cause of morbidity up time to spend in school or earning a and mortality in the region, particularly livelihood. among children under 5 years of age. In solidarity with the international community, The LifeStraw Carbon For Water programme Vestergaard Frandsen considers safe water a also contributes to transparency in human right, and has brought into Kenyan development. The programme’s financial homes technology that puts this right and regulatory structure strengthens within the reach of millions. accountability through the multiparty monitoring, verification and audit functions. The initial distribution of water filters It reduces risk of corruption by streamlining cost Vestergaard Frandsen almost financial transactions and reducing the USD 30 million. Neither the recipients nor number of institutions that manage the Kenyan government were asked to the financing for the programe. The pay for the purifiers, which filter essentially programme’s design also ties investment all harmful microbiological pathogens to revenue and incentivizes Vestergaard from contaminated water. The company Frandsen to be cost-efficient and effective has committed to maintain and replace in implementation. the filters for ten years, and is financing the project with carbon credits. These The programme was designed with fair credits are earned based on greenhouse labour practices in mind, and pays Kenyans gas emissions avoided by use of the filters, above-market wages. Carbon For Water without which many households would employs dozens of local people full-time, boil water over wood fires as a means of and thousands on a temporary basis treating it. Having a filter also means that during the semi-annual education and those who have wanted to boil with wood, monitoring campaigns. Training is provided, but couldn’t afford to do so, won’t ever and community health workers are given have to resort to such an expensive and ownership of the smart phones they use environmentally harmful option. In this to collect data. way, Vestergaard Frandsen is exercising environmental stewardship in a region threatened by quickening deforestation and the effects of global warming. 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 3 [ Global Partnerships and Development Goals ] In terms of anti-malaria efforts, Vestergaard Frandsen the task force on innovative financing for malaria. has represented the private sector on the Roll Back The former has worked on establishing financial Helping developing countries to meet the Millennium Development Goals is Vestergaard Frandsen’s Malaria board for over three years. During this time management tools to improve financial oversight of top priority. The company is highly decentralized, with offices in Abuja, Accra, Delhi, Hanoi, Jakarta, the main focus of the private sector members has the Roll Back Malaria secretariat. Johannesburg, Lausanne, Nairobi, New York, and Washington. And in 2012, the company will open a São been on creating an accountability framework for Roll Back Malaria and its partners. This framework In October 2011, Vestergaard Frandsen became a Paulo office, its first in Latin America. Vestergaard Frandsen is therefore well positioned to bolster global board member of the International Union Against allows the partnership to measure progress and partnerships in multi-stakeholder forums and also “on the ground.” Tuberculosis and Lung Disease. The company looks gaps in achieving the global malaria action plan, and accordingly formulates strategic priorities for forward to providing support and bringing to this partnership the knowledge it has gained through its Global Policy the partnership. Vestergaard Frandsen has also work in other health sectors. chaired the finance and performance committee and The company maintains close relationships with and Scale-up. One of the objectives of the working public health authorities ranging from district group is to assist a number of identified countries officers to cabinet-level officials, and is active in to submit proposals to major donors for the Support to African Science international dialogues concerning a wide range scale-up of household water treatment through of diseases, development, and climate change integrated approaches (such as through antenatal In addition to its leadership in international policy In December, the company celebrated the opening challenges. Vestergaard Frandsen has led the health clinics, basic care packages to people living settings, Vestergaard Frandsen also works at of the Noguchi Memorial Institute of Medical private sector not just in product innovation, but with HIV/AIDS or others). the regional level to support scientific advances Research at the University of Ghana (pictured also in fostering meaningful conversation about and build research capacity in the global South. above). Vestergaard Frandsen is a major funder of policy approaches, the role of industry vis-à-vis The company has supported the World Health In 2011, the company fully funded the creation the facility, where African scientists will conduct public sector partners, and scientific advances. Organization’s Regional Office for South-East Asia of the Sennar Molecular Biology Laboratory in research and share knowledge leading to infectious in many respects in 2011, including its efforts to Sudan, enabling African experts to research the disease control solutions in West Africa and beyond. In the field of climate, Vestergaard Frandsen has fight leishmaniasis through field trials. Vestergaard challenges of insecticide resistance on their own soil. The two-storey research centre contains insectaries been a contributor to policy debates on the issue of Frandsen staff have provided training to Indian Vestergaard Frandsen scientists—both European and housing three mosquito colonies and one fly suppressed demand—the quantification of avoided experts in various vector control strategies. The African—trained their Sudanese counterparts on colony, and two large bioassay laboratories. A new emissions in countries where lack of development company also contributed expertise at WHO’s genetics, molecular entomology, vector control, and molecular biology lab will assist in providing a wide has limited carbon output. The company is active November meeting on neglected tropical diseases resistance, and led them through a practicum on the range of tests from identifying mosquito species in the United Nations Framework Convention on in Puducherry, India. new equipment including bioassays, DNA extraction, to characterizing insecticide resistance types. By Climate Change’s Clean Development Mechanism polymerase chain reaction, electrophoresis, studying the fly colonies, scientists will be able to working group on suppressed demand, and has During the UN General Assembly ministerial week vector identification and observation of resistance develop next-generation tools to better protect also worked with UNDP on increasing developing in September, Vestergaard Frandsen hosted a mechanisms. The company will provide support to crops and livestock, and thereby contribute to food countries’ access to carbon markets. Vestergaard side event attended by high-level health officials the lab on an ongoing basis. security. The university’s department of parasitology Frandsen management also advocated for these from several African countries, as well as NGO will share the facility to conduct its own malaria issues at the December World Climate Summit. leadership, senior UN management, and celebrity Vestergaard Frandsen has also initiated support control research. The Ghanaian National Malaria advocates. The event offered participants an to the newly founded Nigerian Mosquito Control Control Programme will use the new research centre As part of its mission to expand the ability of people opportunity to engage in dialogue about the role Association, in conjunction with the Nigerian to test the durability of bed nets, and to conduct to purify water in their own homes, the company of safe drinking water as a pre-requisite for good Institute of Medical Research in Lagos. On behalf of research on the efficacy of novel pesticides for has served as a co-convener on the Household health—and therefore the achievement of the the association, the company is designing a website malaria control. The facility will also house a water Water Treatment and Safe Storage Network’s health-related MDGs 4, 5, and 6. that will link its members, thereby facilitating a research laboratory where technicians will test Working Group on Implementation, Integration community of practice and a repository for research prototype water purification systems. data. Partners expect the site to launch in 2012. 4 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 5 [ Human Rights and Labour ] As a company that seeks to help some of the most resource-deprived people in the world, subcontractors that managed the abusive line of new, more robust responsible supply chain unit, Vestergaard Frandsen is very much concerned with human rights issues. The company aims to production. The company has also developed and reporting directly to the new chief supply chain protect human rights as defined in several international conventions—both for our employees and implemented a tighter supply chain management officer. A team of responsibility auditors will rotate the beneficiaries of our products. system including a supplier code of conduct and over time through different suppliers and product regular site visits to ensure that labour abuses do lines, visiting sites and ensuring responsible supply not occur in its supply chain.”In 2012 Vestergaard in a transparent and ethical manner. Supply Chain Frandsen will complete the establishment of its 2011 was a year of both great challenge and training. The same training was deployed to 40 opportunity for Vestergaard Frandsen with top executives and managers at Vestergaard Diversity respect to labour issues. In May the company Frandsen’s largest contractor. was alerted by Human Rights Watch that one Vestergaard Frandsen is working to increase the all, 26 countries are represented in the company. of its subcontractors in Vietnam acted in clear In addition to its already established code diversity in its workforce, and is pleased to report More than 41 percent of Vestergaard Frandsen violation of its code of conduct: without the of conduct, which is based on the UN that more than 69 percent of Vestergaard Frandsen employees are women. company’s knowledge, the subcontractor Global Compact, the company is presently jobs are held by citizens of developing countries. In outsourced some work in the manufacture of implementing KPMG’s recommendations, bed nets to other Vietnamese companies that including the creation of a new supplier code of [ Anti-Corruption ] used the work of detainees at governmentconduct, site visits with standardized checklists, run drug rehabilitation centres. These centres and third-party auditing. Vestergaard Frandsen produced less than one-third of one percent has also worked closely with Human Rights of the company’s overall annual output of bed Watch and informed the watchdog group of its progress. In its report, Human Rights Vestergaard Frandsen does not tolerate any Vestergaard Frandsen’s approach to corruption nets, but Vestergaard Frandsen takes labour Watch wrote that it “believes that Vestergaard bribery, kickbacks, or influence peddling in any of is one of zero tolerance. In 2011, the company’s issues very seriously and does not in any way Frandsen responded to the allegations brought its operations, and in 2010 redrafted its contracts agent in a large market was suspected to be in condone or tolerate what happened. One net to its attention with appropriate seriousness with agents to yield maximum transparency. The breach of the business conduct principles. When produced under such conditions is too many. and speed, and welcomes the company’s company maintains a strict set of business conduct queried, the agent would not disclose relevant When the matter was brought to its attention, commitment to prevent such incidents in the principles that address corruption issues, and these information to Vestergaard Frandsen, and so the Vestergaard Frandsen immediately moved to future.” principles were revised in late 2011 to strengthen relationship was immediately terminated. address the situation by launching its own their prohibition of political contributions. An investigation and hiring KPMG to conduct In an update following the publication of internal compliance council meets as needed, and an external fact-finding mission. Those the report, Human Rights Watch wrote that at least semi-annually, to adjudicate any suspected Vestergaard Frandsen employees in Vietnam “Vestergaard Frandsen’s own investigation violations of the business conduct principles. most involved in sourcing and manufacturing confirmed our findings, and the company received introductory responsible supply chain has since terminated all relationships with the 6 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 7 [ Environment ] A Greener Company A Greener Lab At the end of 2011, Vestergaard Frandsen’s nn Green Vestergaard Frandsen. The company In 2011 Vestergaard Frandsen’s research facility Vestergaard Frandsen scientists have also management approved a collection of eco-friendly will phase in offsets of its own operational in Vietnam took a major step in reducing water developed a reuse strategy for the solvents measures intended to reduce the company’s direct carbon dioxide emissions, and emissions use in the testing process for the company’s employed in the lab’s high performance liquid carbon footprint. The four planks of this plan, to related to its energy consumption (also known water filters. Scientists at the lab developed an chromatography assessments. These compounds be implemented over the course of 2012, are: as scope 1 and 2 emissions), via carbon credits. accelerated aging procedure which gives results are expensive and require energy-intensive equivalent to the conventional aging procedure. incineration after use, but the lab’s innovation nn Green IT. Vestergaard Frandsen’s information The company also rolled out videoconferencing The validity of this faster process, which reduces has enabled the solvents to be reused several technology department will progressively source equipment to all of its offices in 2011. It is the amount of water needed to test a filter by 95 times without compromising quality. (Vestergaard more hardware with green credentials, when anticipated that this will reduce the need for percent—from 18,000 litres to 900 litres—was Frandsen contractors also use these solvents to such hardware exists and meets the company’s international travel and thereby lesson the confirmed by faculty of the University of Arizona assess efficacy in the manufacturing process, and performance standards. All outsourced server company’s carbon footprint. in a presentation at the 2011 Water and Health the lab has shared the reuse concept with them hosting will be awarded to green data centres. Conference. Using this process, Vestergaard as well.) Frandsen saved 5.2 million litres of water in the nn Green automobiles. Every company-owned testing of 300 filters in its laboratories in 2011. The water lab also replaced all its disposable plastic vehicle replacing another vehicle will consume testing materials with reusable glass equipment. at least 10 percent less fuel than the car replaced, or, if not a replacement, 10 percent less than the average consumption of the A Greener Factory company’s cars. “Consumption” shall always mean average fuel consumption expressed Vestergaard Frandsen’s largest contractor The company has also been working with a key through EU, CAFE, or similar norms. in Vietnam has instituted a waste reduction supplier to improve its practices to meet ISO 14001 programme through which defective polypropylene environmental standards—a goal the supplier aims nn Green energy. All company facilities will from the manufacture of LifeStraw® Family is to reach in 2012. Vestergaard Frandsen believes progressively increase the percentage of taken to a local recycler. The plastic is turned that abiding by local laws is necessary but not renewable energy (hydroelectricity included) into pellets and chips that are then used in the sufficient, and seeks to implement global best consumed, where possible. The target, by the production of other items such as water piping. practices in terms of environmental impact. end of 2012, is 100 percent renewable energy for every company property in the world where a choice is possible. (The company’s headquarters in Switzerland already obtains 100 percent of its energy from renewable sources.) 8 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 9 [ A Greener Bed Net ] Vestergaard Frandsen, seeking to reduce discharged. Of course, heat energy and environmental impact, has recently taken water are required to wash these oils off steps to decrease the amount of oil used in the process. in its bed net manufacturing. PermaNet® 2.0 and much of PermaNet® 3.0 are made In April 2010, Vestergaard Frandsen lab from polyester texturized multifilament specialists visited one of the company’s yarn, which yields durability and softness biggest yarn suppliers with the objective of in the nets and serves as a substrate for the collaborating to reduce oil content without deltamethrin coating layer and chemical compromising quality and productivity. This binders. Vestergaard Frandsen has been meant coming up with a modified yarn with working with the suppliers of yarn and less oil that could still make it smoothly the binders to “green” the process of through all manufacturing processes. treating the nets. Eventually the company was able to Polyester texturized multifilament yarn sustainably source a lower-oil yarn from the typically contains at least 1.5 to 2 percent supplier, and to overcome the production oil, which aids in several production stages, problems these drier yarns had created. including spinning, warping, and knitting. The manufacturing units were pleased with Most of this oil is removed from the fabric the reduction of oil in waste water and at a later stage of processing, burdening the overall reduction in water consumed. waste water treatment plants. A simple Vestergaard Frandsen subsequently calculation: If one million nets are made made low-oil yarns a requirement for all of about 600 tons of yarn, and assuming PermaNet® production. By September 2 percent-oil yarn is used, that means 2011, all of the Vestergaard Frandsen’s yarn that 12 tons of oil (specifically, a mixture suppliers were operating within the new, of mineral and silicon-based oils) are more environmentally friendly parameters. 10 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 11 In 2011 Vestergaard Frandsen donated thousands of LifeStraw® water filters, like the one shown here, to people in need. [ Philanthropy ] Vestergaard Frandsen routinely donates both funding and product to worthy causes around the globe. nn CarePack® multi-tool disease prevention kits, nn PermaNet® bed nets to the Kenya Network From bed nets for orphanages to sponsorship of scientific prizes, our 2011 giving aimed to address distributed with Miss Universe 2010 Jimena of Women With AIDSPermaNet® bed nets for immediate needs and also pave the way for future progress in the fight against disease and poverty in Navarette, in Delhi, India distribution to 1,400 families through Kenya’s developing countries. national maternal health programme nn LifeStraw® Family water filters to the Government of Thailand, in the wake nn PermaNet® bed nets for distribution by In 2011, Vestergaard Frandsen provided hundreds of floods Nothing But Nets through Cameroon’s national of thousands of dollars in financial support to a programme variety of non-profit organisations, including the nn LifeStraw® Family water filters for use in a Against Malaria Foundation, Malaria No More World Vision-WHO-UNICEF water and sanitation nn Pipe filters for prevention of dracunculiasis in (US), Malaria No More (UK), World Vision India, study in Tamil Nadu, India Chad, Mali, and South Sudan and Music For Life (Belgium). The company also contributed funds for: nn ZeroVector® Durable Lining to a Government of nn PermaNet® bed nets for distribution by the India-WHO study on leishmaniasis in Bihar state Nigerian Ministry of Health nn The opening of a research facility in Ghana nn PermaNet® bed nets to the Ogada Orphanage nn PermaNet® bed nets and LifeStraw® Family (see page 5) Home in Kisumu, Kenya water filters for distribution throughout Africa by Kingsley Holgate’s Great African Rift Valley nn The operation of the Emusanda Health Clinic in nn Insecticidal curtains to 15,000 households in Expedition Lurambi, Kenya. (Vestergaard Frandsen has paid Western Province, Kenya salaries, recurrent expenses, and supplemental nn PermaNet® bed nets through the US-based drug costs for the clinic since 2009.) nn Insecticidal curtains to the national malaria Women’s Microfinance Initiative to the Buyobo control programme in Uganda for use in Women’s Association in eastern Uganda nn Sponsorship of World Water Day in Nigeria government hospitals and schools nn PermaNet® bed nets to villages in Nigeria’s nn A national bed net distribution in Togo nn Insecticidal curtains to the national malaria Ondo state, through the CDC control programme in Zambia for distribution nn Sponsorship of Mozambican scientists to to schools nn Children’s bed nets to 1,400 members of the attend a CDC insecticide resistance training Kenya Network of Women Living with AIDS course in Tanzania nn CarePack® to Malawi’s National Association for In addition to support in the form of funding, People Living with HIV/AIDS Vestergaard Frandsen made in-kind donations For additional highlights of Vestergaard Frandsen’s of more than 1.4 million units of its products, nn CarePack® for distribution on World AIDS philanthropy, see the next page. including those shown on the map pages Day through the AIDS Commission Programme 14-15, and: in Uganda 12 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 13 [ Where We’ve Given ] Vestergaard Frandsen provided financial and in-kind support in more than 20 countries (those shaded on this map). Some examples of the company’s CHAD, ETHIOPIA, MALI and SOUTH SUDAN philanthropy are described in the text on this page. Donated 608,000 cloth filters through the Carter Center for the prevention of dracunculiasis. UK BANGLADESH, INDIA, AND NEPAL Partnered with MTV Europe and Malaria No More Donated 2,200 bed nets for three-country (UK) on Music To Save Lives, a malaria awareness study of leishmaniasis, run by Bangladesh’s campaign aimed at attendees of the UK’s biggest ICDDRB and the ministries of health of India summer music festivals. and Nepal. INDIA Funded science prize for excellence in insecticide resistance research. THAILAND USA Collaborated with Chelsea Football Club Donated several thousand feet of and Didier Drogba to donate 500 bed untreated netting to the US Fund for nets for the prevention of dengue fever. UNICEF to use as décor at its annual Snowflake Ball event, which raised more than USD 2 million. COLOMBIA Donated 18,000 LifeStraw® KENYA water filters to the Colombian Red Cross. Provided bed nets for children living at the Daisy Centre, PERU a children’s home in Kakamega. Donated another 700 nets Donated LifeStraw® water for use in a University of Washington HIV treatment study filters to schoolchildren in in western Kenya. conjunction with Right To Play. 14 | Vestergaard Frandsen 2011 Social Responsibility Report | 15 Chemin de Messidor 5 7 CH 1006 Lausanne Switzerland www.vestergaard-frandsen.com 16 | Vestergaard Frandsen
