Social Responsibility Report Company name: “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB Country: Lithuania Sector: production of beer, refreshment drinks and alcohol-containing cocktails Report for 2011. 1 2 5 W or d 7 fr Ab om ou th t“ e 8 Šv Ge “Š yt ne vy ur ral tur ys 9 ys -U Di “Š –U te re vy no ct tur te or no s 11 ys s alus So –U alus ci “U al te no “U AB 15 Re s AB So sp alus ci on Bus al si b “U in 19 Re il i AB ess So sp ty So Ph ci on al an ci al ilo 21 Re si b d so il i Re Re So sp ty la sp ph ci al on an ti on y si b d on si b Re sp il i W sh ty or ip il i on k w ty Contents an En it Po si b d vi h lic il i En th ty vi ro e y an ro nm So d nm en ci Fi gh en t et y t t aga Pr ot in ec st ti Co o rrup n ti on 4 WORD FROM THE GENERAL DIRECTOR “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB is submitting its Social Responsibility Report to the public and the United Nations Global Compact organization for the fourth time. We are urged to keep to the principals of social responsibility by our understanding that our company is operating and growing together with the Lithuanian society and nature, because we purchase most of raw materials for our produce in our native country. Thus, we are happy that people notice and appreciate the social responsibility projects that our company has been engaged in. We provide not just the outside financing for the social projects; we transform them into internal corporate culture and encourage the company employees to take part in them. “Švyturys-Utenos alus” UAB social report has been prepared on the basis of the United Nations Global Compact principals in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. Rolandas Viršilas General Director, “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB 5 6 ABOUT “ŠVYTURYS“Švyturys–Utenos alus“ UAB UTENOS ALUS“ UAB Business Philosophy Danish company “Carlsberg“ is a major shareholder of “Švyturys-Utenos Mission alus“ UAB. The interest of one of the biggest world’s brewer in the Lithuanian company was stimulated by perfect financial results and the popularity Provide people with opportunity to enjoy the best beverages. of the brewed beer. “Carlsberg“ shared its long-standing experience, has renewed the company, expanded its production capacity, increased qualifications of its employees and invested in quality improvement. Vision In 2011, “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB produced and sold 170.5 million litres of beverages: 3.3 per cent more than in 2010 (165.1 mill. litres). The sales To be the leader in the Lithuanian market of drinks having the strongest in domestic market (145.4 mill. litres) remained nearly the same as in 2010 brands that represent Lithuania in the world, utilizing its distribution network (-0.4%), while the volume of exports increased by 31.4% – up to 25.1 mill. most effectively and assuring top-level management. “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ litres. Exports of private labels to foreign markets increased by 16% – up to is always one step ahead in meeting consumer and client needs, employing 4.24 mill. litres. cutting-edge technologies and presenting innovations to the market. “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ is the most-preferred employer and the most reliable business partner. Exports of “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB Our Values Year Exports of private Total exports • Our customers and consumers are at the heart labels (mill. l.) (mill. l.) of every decision we make 2011 4,24 25,1 • Together we are stronger 2010 3,66 19,1 • We are each empowered to make a difference Table 1 • We are engaged with society • We want to win 7 8 ”ŠVYTURYS–UTENOS ALUS“ UAB SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB follows responsible business principles of “Carlsberg“; conducts its business responsibly with regard to the society, its employees, partners and other interested parties; keeps to high standards of fairness, decency and safe working places. The present Report has been prepared in accordance with 10 Global Compact principals (see: Table 2), as well as the guidelines of the General Principals for reporting and those of the “Carlsberg“ group. Ten Principals of the Global Compact: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1 principal: human rights; 2 principal: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 3 principal: of the right to collective bargaining; 4 principal: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 principal: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 6 principal: employment and occupation; 7 principal: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 principal: responsibility; Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 9 principal: friendly technologies; Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 10 principal: bribery. [http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html] Table 2 9 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND On the basis of the Code of Honour of the Lithuanian brewers, “Švyturys – Utenos Sea Festival. The cooperation Agreement was extended with the city municipality and RELATIONS WITH THE SOCIETY alus“ has not been producing beer that is the public company “Jūros šventė“ (“Sea stronger than 9.5%, and the company does Festival”); in accordance with the Agreement, not sell beer stronger than 6% during public the Company will continue with its festivities. Besides, preventive protection sponsorship of the unique festival of Klaipėda A representative survey of Lithuanian residents conducted by market research company „GfK measures have been introduced against city and marine culture. The new Agreement CR Baltic“ in 2011, 57% of Lithuanian citizens named “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB as the most is concluded for five years; during this period socially responsible company. According to the data of the survey, the highest number – even minors in “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ web “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ will donate LTL 1 one fifth of the respondents would like to be employed by “Švyturys-Utenos alus“. sites in accordance with the Code of Honour million for the Sea Festival. provisions. In 2011, “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ became Products and Their Issues Related to the Sponsorship in 2011 general sponsor of the sailing festival “The Culture 2011 Tall Ships Regata“, during which Quality Consumers The social responsibility programme placed in September the port city was visited again by large sailing-ships. Besides, the Company International Taste and Quality Institute In 2011, a responsible advertising was greatest attention on the communities of continued with its long-term sponsorship of (ITQI) based in Briuxelles, which unites prepared in accordance with the Code of Utena and Klaipėda; the programme of the wooden sailing boat “Meridianas”, which the best chefs and sommeliers of Europe, community relationship was maintained Honour of the Lithuanian brewers. The has become a symbol of Klaipėda. awarded “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ brewers throughout the year 2011. The Company feels commercial videos included people only if with two exclusive „three stars“ awards in its responsibility before the communities: in At the end of July, a universal multi-functional they were at least 25 years old; we always 2011. The awards were given for the dark 2011, it provided sponsorship and donation sports and entertainment complex “Švyturio turned to the State Tobacco and Alcohol “Baltijos“ and strong “Adler Bock“ beer worth 2.813 million for various organisations. arena“ was opened in Klaipėda: “Švyturys Control Agency for preventive consultations brewed in Klaipėda, which collected 92 per – Utenos alus“ provided sponsorship for its before we placed an advertisement for cent each of positive assessments of the culinary experts. production. Sponsorship construction. The goal of “Švyturio arena“ is to become the largest leisure time attraction We continued with the social campaign “For of the Communities centre in all of Western part of Lithuania “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ consistently invests during its first year of operation. Self-expression of the Youth 18+” together In September, 2011 the town of Utena in the products and production processes to assure the product quality. “Utenos alaus“ with the Brewers Guild of Lithuania. The celebrated its 750-th anniversary. On the brewery produce is in line with ISO – 9001 brewers – members of the Guild, “Švyturys occasion, the main sponsor of the anniversary Sponsorship of Sports quality standard requirements. – Utenos alus“ among them, marked their festivity, organised feast-day at the brewery’s product with special plugs bearing the brand back yard and presented the town residents, In 2011, “Švyturys-Utenos alus” UAB direc The Company is open to its customers: they “18+“. This brand shows that in Lithuania workers of Utena region and the town guests sponsorship for sports accounted for LTL can use a toll-free quality phone line to alcohol can be legally consumed only by with the fireworks. Besides, demonstrating 1.8 million. “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ UAB report about any violations of the produce. people over 18 years of age. its transparency and openness to the society, was the official sponsor of “Eurobasket2011“; The customers’ claims are answered within the company provided the people with an additional LTL 0.6 million was allocated for 24 hours after they are submitted. The focus of the campaign was on the exclusive opportunity to walk around the the arrangement of the fan areas next to the young people in order to show that one brewery and find out about the secrets of arenas where basketball games took place. can be original and interesting to other beer brewing. 1.000 people participated in the guided tour around the brewery; 5.000 took “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ sponsorship mainly contemporaries without consuming part in the festive event. goes to basketball: this is a consistent alcohol. The Brewers Guild of Lithuania policy we have been pursuing for the last was awarded with the title of Socially “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ is an active sponsor thirteen years. Thus, the largest share of all Responsible Business of the Lithuanian of Klaipėda community, too: in 2011, the sponsorship for sports went for basketball in Business Confederation | “ICC Lietuva“ for Company traditionally sponsored one of the 2011. Not just the national basketball team is that campaign in 2011. biggest festivities of the Lithuanian city, the among the ones we sponsor; others include 11 12 “Lietuvos rytas” basketball club, “Neptūnas” of Klaipėda, “Juventus“ of Utena, Vilnius and Klaipėda Sunday basketball leagues, etc. The purpose is for the sponsorship to raise the mastery of the game and its popularity on different levels. Other sports have not been forgotten, too: “Carlsberg” has sponsored Lithuanian national soccer team for the fourth year; “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ is a sponsor of the National Olympic Committee of Lithuania; it supports the dancesport formation team “Žuvėdra“ of Klaipėda University and other initiatives. “Švyturys-Utenos“ UAB Sponsorship Klaipėda Community: Other sponsored sports, culture • The Sea Festival; and arts organisations: • “The Culture 2011 Tall Ships Regatta“; • Basketball Federation of Lithuania; • Basketball club “Neptūnas“; • Basketball club “Lietuvos rytas“; • Klaipėda city dancesport formation team • Soccer Federation of Lithuania; “Žuvėdra“; • National Olympic Committee of Lithuania; • Gargždai soccer club “Banga“; • Santariškės clinics of Vilnius University • Klaipėda amateur basketball league; hospital; • Klaipėda soccer academy; • National Opera and Ballet Theatre of • Klaipėda Jazz Festival; Lithuania; • Sailing-boat “Meridianas“ Support Fund. • Lithuanian Musicians Support Foundation; • St. Christopher Chamber Orchestra; Utena Community: • Public company “Kino pavasaris“ (“Cinema • Utena regional municipality administration; Spring”); • Utena district fire fighter office; • Vilnius Festivals; • Basketball club “Juventus“. • Public company “Džiazo namai“ (“Jazz House”) and others. This is just a part of the whole list as sponsorship and donation was provided also for other community events and local teams. 13 14 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Confederation of Lithuania. The employees had an opportunity to improve their language Collective Agreement skills during their working hours. AND WORK ENVIRONMENT “Carlsberg Baltic Bridge“ is a talent In 2011, a collective dispute occurred between the Trade Unions and administration of development programme, which is “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB about different In 2011, the young people chose “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ as the most favoured employer in undertaken by the “Carlsberg“ group interpretation of the Collective Agreement the sector of industry and production. “AIESEC Lietuva“ andr CV-Online performed a survey employees from the three Baltic countries. article, which stipulates that te employees’ which showed that the largest brewrer of Lithuania as best assessed by the youth because The aim of the programme is to encourage wages should be reviewed annually. it is the leader in its own market, it has a good image and reputation, and it is modern and employees’ movement among the innovative. countries, increase the company’s ability on The Collective Agreement provision valid at international level and deepen employees’ “Švyturyje–Utenos alus“ on annual review of The Company has been supporting students for several years: it offers them to take up their understanding of the organisation and the the wages embraces several criteria: external practical training sessions at “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ UAB, so that when they graduate it business. competitiveness of the wages (compared to will be easier for them to get integrated into the labour market. In 2011, 18 students went the wages in other companies), the company In 2011, 5 participants from Lithuania through their practical training, and later 4 of them were employed by the Company. results, macro-economic situation, mean were selected to take part in the talent development programme: they participated wage level in the country. “Švyturys-Utenos in the training of the first programme module alus“ initiated negotiations on a number of Employee Opinion Polls “Managing Myself“. In 2012, another two occasions and several complex suggestions training sessions will take place, and the were presented; however, the consensus In 2011, an opinion poll was conducted with fast feedback. They are designed to was not reached, and the district court programme participants work in teams to in “Švyturys – Utenos alus“, like in all create a structured and regular dialogue implement the projects that create added of Klaipėda city was asked to provide its companies of the “Carlsberg“ group. The between the general director and his value and bring benefit to the organisation. explanation of the Collective Agreement employees were actively participating in subordinates on important issues and base the poll: 88% of “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ it on mutual cooperation. Since 2011, such interpretation. The final decision is expected “Utenos alus“ brewery technologist was employees expressed their opinion, i. e. 12% surveys are being conducted in a semito be taken in 2012. studying beer brewing technologies at the more than in 2009. The aim of the poll was annual basis. Scandinavian Brewrers School in Copenhagen to find out which areas are the strongest in the organisation and which need to be When we compare the data of the spring (Denmark). The Hop Awards improved. Previously the poll had been and autumn, we see the improvement of As in previous years, employees of “Švyturys conducted every two years, but a decision the results. The most noticeable positive Equal Opportunities – Utenos alus“ were assessed for their was taken to do it every year in order to changes have been identified in the area of monitor the changes more effectively and development opportunities available for the for Employees contribution to the fostering of the company employees. The employee activity was also values in 2011: 7 “Silver Hop Sprays“ and 8 react faster to the problematic issues. very high: just 3 questionnaires remained “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB assures the “Golden Hop” awards were presented to the The poll results showed the strong sides of blank out 216 distributed ones. working environment free of any harassment, winners. The value ambassadors who were the organisation such as team work, being illegal discrimination and repressions. awarded with the “Golden Hop” also received a part of the “Carlsberg“ family, opportunity to develop and competencies of the top Training and Professional With regard to the age distribution among the another prize – a possibility to visit “Baltika“ brewery and spend a weekend in Saint executives. Ths, these areas will be actively Development employees it is worth noticing that there were Petersburg (Russia). supported further on. The employees no discrimination evidence reported in 2011. indicated that most improvements should In 2011, LTL 183,000 were allocated for The company employees are nominated for be done in the areas of assessment and training; 40 employees ascended in their the Hop prizes in the following categories: incentives. A working group consisting of the career (it accounts for 62% of all annual Age Number of people for the passion to win; the bravest man; for representatives of all departments will turn appointments). orientation towards the customer; we are their suggestions and ideas into a real plan 19 – 29 97 86 employees took part in half-year long 30 – 39 118 stronger together: agent of change; other for 2012. English language courses, which were small good works; for socially responsible 40 – 49 115 In 2011, two C15 leadership surveys were financed by the European Social Fund and works. One Silver Hop was awarded for the conducted, which provided the leadership organised at the initiative of the Industrialists More than 50 92 environmental protection. Table 3 15 16 Month of Good Works The employees are supplied with the means of personal safety. Possible In December, “Utenos alas“ Logistics accidents started to be registered in order warehouse employees recalled their former to encourage the employees to care about colleagues. They decided to visit a number the prevention and notice possible safety of people who spent many years working threats. Special questionnaires have been at the warehouse. The employees prepared prepared for official and anonymous symbolic gifts, signed greeting cards, split into registration of sightings at working places; groups and paid surprise visits to the veterans’ the questionnaires are analyzed on a weekly homes. basis and their data are used for creation of „Švyturys – Utenos alas“ employees’ initiative a safer environment. has become a tradition: they collect clothes, toys and other items to donate them to the “Utenos alus“ brewery has modernised its care home of the Women’s Crises Centre. bottling workshop: the ventilation system This way they participate in the support for has been upgraded; lifting equipment, the women who are single mothers, who air conditioners, air curtains and other are homeless or have experienced domestic improvements have been installed. Traffic violence and have found temporary shelter at roads and obstacles have been marked the care home of the Women’s Crises Centre. at Švyturys and Utena breweries; internal Moreover, the employees decided to support traffic rules have been prepared. Special single elderly people, who live poorly and do booklets have been published for the not have anybody to take care of them. guests of the breweries, which present a summary of work safety rules and company Focus on Employees’ environmental principals. Another booklet Children has been prepared for the drivers who enter the territory of the breweries. A week of safe traffic was organised for “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ UAB employees’ “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ UAB registers children in the regions of Vilnius, Klaipėda not only possible accidents, but also real and Utena on the occasion of September 1-st. accidents or incidents. In 2011, there was a During the event the children were reminded decrease of such events mainly due to the of how they should behave safely while prevention measures undertaken at the walking on the street or driving a car. company. The employees are informed All the children who took part in the events about the incidents; analysis of the events in all cities received reflectors as gifts so that is performed and the company tries to they could be seen on the streets on darker find the ways of preventing them from evenings of the season. happening in the future. Besides, the training of the employees on safety and health was Health Protection and organised in 2011. Safety at Working Places The bottling workshop in Utena has been equipped with a room for relaxation. The 2011 was announced by “Carlsberg“ the year of safety and health at the supply chain. room is arranged for the employees to have “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ successfully met a rest and a meal during their breaks. All the the goals in the areas of risk assessment, employees of “Švyturys-Utenos alaus“ are possible accident management and supplied with free refreshment drinks during contractor control. their working hours. 17 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND Power consumption (kWh) Change kWh / % For 1 litre of product (excl. production increase) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ production +3,38% -2,22% Water consumption Change For 1 litre of product (m³) m³/ % (excl. production increase) At the National Awards of responsible business of 2011, “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ UAB was awarded with the prize of Environmental Business of the Year for its perfect results in saving “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ production +4,5% -1,6% energy resources and decreasing of pollution as well as for the involvement of the company employees and customers in environmental initiatives. The National Awards of responsible Wastewater Change For 1 litre of product business are presented to those companies that contribute mostly to the creation and (m³) % (excl. production increase) strengthening of social welfare and the decrease of environmental impact in Lithuania. “Švyturys-Utenos alus“ production +8,84% +3,24% Tasks for packaging Environmental Initiatives Packaging waste usage and/or Recycled, t recycling, % “Utenos“ brewery is located just about organisers before the start of the campaign, 2009 39% 1806 a dozen kilometres from the border of the company found out about the locations 2010 44% 1882 Aukštaitija National Park. In the summer that needed clearing most of all. The 2011 49% 2404 of 2010, it started a wide programme employees were clearing up the territory in of environmental initiatives, which was Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda and Utena. consistently continued into 2011 and will be followed throughout 2012. Energy resources saving programmes, which had been started earlier, were continued According to “Ežerų krašto“ (“Lake Country”) in 2011. The focus was also on smaller, but programme, free degradable trash bags are effective investments. E. g., 200 lights at the being delivered to holidaymakers; taking out logistics warehouse were changed to new trash from Aukštaitija-located Eco-stations ones that are 30 per cent more effective. is being funded; eco-hiking tour is organised Energy unit employees were stimulated to for the company employees, when Aukštaitija save energy resources by special incentives as National Park is being trimmed. Extensive premiums to their usual wages. environmental production programmes are being implemented internally in the company. The efforts produced good results: the company managed to reduce energy and Nearly 2,500 m³ of trash were taken out of water consumption, and, most importantly, six Eco-stations. About LTL 180,000 were CO2 emissions with respect to 1 litre of a allocated by “Utenos“ brewers in 2011 for the product produced. The re-processing and arrangement and maintenance of the Ecorecycling of the produced packaging was also stations and for taking out of thousands of increased significantly: last year it reached tons of trash. 49%, which accounts for nearly half of the packaging produced. In 2011, “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ was an official partner in the annual public campaign “Darom 2011“ (“Let’s Do 2011”), when trash Air pollution: CO2 Change was being collected in all of Lithuania: the emission (g/1l product ) company supported the campaign not only by funding but also by active actions of Mean with respect to -3,2% volume produced its employees. During a meeting with the 19 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION In 2011, “Švyturys – Utenos alus“ completed the implementation of the “Carlsberg“ group business ethics policy. This policy defines the company employees’ behaviour rules, which assure that the behaviour in business is ethical and that the company follows all the relevant laws and legal acts. “Carlsberg“ group business ethics policy embraces eight principal areas: 1. Bribery. “Carlsberg“ group and its employ6. Confidential information. “Carlsberg“ ees shall avoid all forms of taking and giving group employees shall not have the right to bribes. disclose or improperly use confidential business information. Confidential “Carlsberg“ 2. Facilitation payments. “Carlsberg“ group group relations with interested parties shall does not approve of facilitation payments be protected. policy. 7. Adherence to competition laws. “Carls3. Gifts, treats and entertainment. Gifts, berg“ group and its employees shall assure treats and entertainment offered to or that the “Carlsberg“ company business accepted by the “Carlsberg“ group and its practices always are in compliance with the employees should be adequate. “Carlsberg“ valid competition rules, laws and “Carlsberg“ group and its employees shall not extend company’s internal business ethics policy. gifts, treats and entertainment that are not related to legal business goals to public and 8. Fraud. “Carlsberg“ group employees private interested parties, and receive such are prohibited from appropriation of the gifts, treats and entertainment from them. company property and resources. The employees may use the company property 4. Donations. “Carlsberg“ group does not do and resources exclusively for the purposes of any political contributions and does not use “Carlsberg“ company business. The emany donations in order to acquire improper ployees shall keep to the fraud prevention business advantage. procedures defined in the accountancy policy of the “Carlsberg“ group. 5. Conflict of interests. “Carlsberg“ group employees shall not be engaged in activiA telephone line was established to ties that may evoke conflict of private and report about incidents in order to assure “Carlsberg“ group interests. a comprehensive implementation of this policy. It also may be done via internet. The system assures complete confidentiality and annonimity. 21 22 Publication and Openness of the The Report is published on “Švyturys–Utenos alus“ UAB website (http://www.svyturys.lt) and sent to the “UN Global Compact“ partners. Social Responsibility The Report is submitted to all “Švyturys–Utenos alus“ UAB shareholders and employees. The Report may also be provided to all interested parties; the contact Report information hereof is given below. Contact person for comments and additional information: Dainius Smailys, Director, Corporate affairs. 23 Phone: +370 5 2397600, 2 e-mail: dainius.smailys@svyturys.lt
