Global Citizenship Report 2011 Going further together In this report 2 Welcome 3 A few words from our CEO 4 About AMS 7 Global Citizenship 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Culture & Practices Social & Economic Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability 35 Employee Wellbeing 43 Inclusion & Diversity 49 Priority summary 54 Future aspirations 1 Global Citizenship Report Welcome Welcome to Alexander Mann Solutions’s (AMS) fourth Global Citizenship report. Within the following pages, we describe our approach to Global Citizenship, including our performance in 2011 and our future commitments. Through this report, we aim to: • Increase awareness of our Global Citizenship approach and how we’re implementing our strategy • M easure our progress to date, committing to priorities for 2012 and highlighting our aspirations • P rovide transparency and accountability, and support continuous improvement within the programme • D emonstrate our participation in the UN Global Compact and provide our Communication on Progress (COP) This report covers our global business (unless otherwise stated). Self-declaration Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) application level The below table provides a detailed overview of points that have been covered throughout this report against the GRI performance indicators. This is a self-declaration by AMS. Topic Points Covered Application Level 1.1 C Strategy & Analysis 1.2 B Organisational Profile 2.1 to 2.10 C 3.1 3.8/3.10 3.12 C Report Parameters 3.9 and 3.13 B 4.1 4.4/4.14 4.15 C Governance, Commitments & Engagement 4.5 4.13/4.16 4.17 B We’ve taken into account the GRI sustainability Information online reporting guidelines when putting together this report. Find out more at www.globalreporting.org More information on our Global Citizenship programme can be found on our website www.alexandermannsolutions.com/global-citizenship 2 Global Citizenship Report A few words from our CEO Sharing together our global community support On reflecting back on the year that was, I think we at AMS had some triumphs – big and small. It can be said that a measure of the value of a community is that in the face of adversity, people come together to support those in need. 2011 certainly provided adversity, from the fiscal issues in Europe to floods in Australia and earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand – I was moved by the spirit of our people in facing these challenges and supporting those affected. In 2011, a passionate and diverse group of AMS volunteers came together to form project teams. Together, they’re focused on delivering our Global Citizenship commitments and evolving the ways we can drive it within our expanding community. This employee-led approach has enabled us to gather a greater number of thoughts and ideas from across our regions for the benefit of the whole organisation, ranging from a Queensland flood relief appeal to analysing Employee Wellbeing pressure points globally to offering Inclusion & Diversity best practice advice to our clients. Through these project teams, I’ve witnessed an enhanced enthusiasm for making a difference within our community and in 2012, we reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. There is no better way to highlight this than our support of this year’s Paralympic Games. AMS is delighted to be teaming up with some of the most inspirational sportspeople from around the world to create Team AMS, a group of athletes who are training to qualify for the Paralympics. I’d like to take this opportunity to thank our people for their commitment to a more sustainable future, both for our company and the global community within which we operate. I look forward to reporting on the progress of Team AMS in 2012 and other exciting initiatives next year. Rosaleen Blair Founder and CEO Alexander Mann Solutions 3 Global Citizenship Report About AMS About AMS What we do AMS builds world-class talent and resourcing capability for We listened to the market and have never stopped delivering leading organisations across the globe, based on the shared innovative solutions. Focusing on our clients, our services have belief that people are the foundation for success. been blended over the years to deliver significant financial, performance and competitive benefits for many of the world’s As a trusted advisor, we deliver a range of innovative and leading brands. By early last decade we had rapidly grown and measurable solutions through integrated outsourcing and were deploying solutions for a wide range of organisations consultancy services. AMS pioneered Recruitment Process across Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. Outsourcing (RPO) in the European market in 1996, and what followed was a step change in the professionalism of the While outsourcing remains a core component of what we do for recruitment industry. our clients, we also have a range of consulting teams who work across all stages of the talent and resourcing lifecycle – whether it’s part of a larger RPO contract or a discrete, one-off project. 5 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Where we are Our unique global infrastructure has been designed to deliver in-country, onsite, high-touch support to clients while leveraging a range of operational centres across the world. This enables AMS to offer clients a unique blend of recruitment and resourcing expertise, recruitment processing capacity and scale, combined with the benefits of Global Client Service Centres in Bracknell, United Kingdom; Krakow, Poland; and Manila, Philippines. In all, we are active in over 60 countries globally (including our head office in London, United Kingdom and smaller regional centres in places like Melbourne, Australia, Boston, USA and Hong Kong, China), and employ over 1,500 people. At any hour, on any day, in any time zone, our people are delivering resourcing and talent services to over 45 outsourcing clients and an even more extensive range of consulting clients, across these countries. Who we are Who we work with Mission: We build world-class talent and resourcing capability for organisations, based on the shared belief that people are It’s our clear intention to build deep vertical the foundation for success. As a trusted advisor, we deliver industry knowledge and expertise. Our global this through innovative and measurable outsourcing and clients now cover a wide range of industry consulting services. sectors, including: defence, engineering & energy; retail bank & financial services; FMCG; Vision: Our business is about people. Our clients, candidates, professional services; information technology & partners and the communities in which we work. And of telecommunications; investment banking; and course our people, who make it all happen. As such, the vision pharmaceutical & healthcare. Our clients include: we have for our organisation is “making people the foundation for success”. • BAE Systems • Microsoft Employee Value Proposition (EVP): We offer an inspiring • Citi • Novartis environment where our people can use their energy, • Covidien • Origin Energy enthusiasm and expertise to realise their aspirations and really make a difference. It’s our promise to our employees. • Credit Suisse • Rolls-Royce Values: Three values encompass our approach to our • CSC • Royal Mail business, our people and our clients: we are passionate, • Deloitte • Santander distinctive and authentic. • Freshfields • Vodafone Strategic Pillars: Core pillars underpin all AMS’s strategic initiatives – in other words, we want to be known in the market • GE Capital • Zurich for three key elements: global service, operational excellence and strategic insight. 6 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Global Citizenship Global Citizenship At AMS, Global Citizenship is how we give something back. For us, it’s more than donating money to charity. It’s about being accountable for how we manage our impact on the environment and our communities. It’s about the integrity with which we govern our business, Guiding principles the values we have and what we stand for as a company. Our Global Citizenship programme has a broad remit, grouped into three streams: When we developed our Global • Corporate Social Responsibility Citizenship programme, we had a number of key principles in mind: Corporate Culture & Practices • T o build a picture of best practice Social & Economic Accountability in the industry: what industry Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability standards exist and what blue-chip client organisations are doing • Employee Wellbeing • T o determine our stakeholder • Inclusion & Diversity needs: what our people want, what our clients require and how our communities could or should benefit from our involvement • T o understand what we should achieve from the programme as a business: how it will support our business strategy and goals, how it can help us deliver our EVP and how it will bring our people policies to life • T o identify the strengths and skills in our organisation: how these add value to our communities and stakeholders 8 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Our strategy Global Citizenship is an important part of our culture and it is an embedded component of our business ethics. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our society and our environment and it is integral to all our relationships – with employees, clients, suppliers and communities worldwide. We take our corporate social responsibilities seriously, and we don’t believe it’s something that companies should stand still on; we know that we can always do more. We’re constantly looking at new and different ways to make sure that our people are proactive global citizens who have a positive impact on the world around them. In 2007, we signed up as a participant to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, formalising our long-term commitment to being a globally responsible organisation. Participating in the UN Global Compact ensures we remain focussed – on structure, discipline, timescales and deliverables, today and in the future – in our day-to-day activities with regards to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Stakeholder engagement We understand the importance of identifying and engaging Global citizenship project teams our key stakeholders; they provide us with a diverse range • B  y formalising our relationships with Global Citizenship of perspectives and experience. This gives us a greater volunteers, we can expand the types of stakeholders we understanding of their expectations and how we can meet engage, outline our stakeholder engagement standards them, plus how they can help us achieve our business and and regularly capture different perspectives Global Citizenship goals. These groups include: Non-profit organisations Employees • B  y building close and long-term relationships with a number • T hrough surveys and roundtable discussions, we can have of global non-profit organisations, we can respond to the open dialogue to find out what matters to our people and needs of our local societies, undertake actions to improve how they want us to make a difference our environment and shape the relevancy of our Global Clients Citizenship policies • B y listening and learning from the world-class organisations Suppliers and partners that we work with, we can develop our Global Citizenship • W  orking with third-party partners and suppliers, we can strategy further implement best practices and influence these relationships Opinion leaders and industry thinkers to ensure stable growth and responsible business practices • B y developing relationships with leading bodies, such as the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their extensive knowledge and experience 9 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Accountability We consider Global Citizenship to be of such paramount The Point importance that ultimate responsibility for the programme The Point is our internal AMS magazine, produced since lies with AMS’s Leadership 2008 and distributed to every AMS employee (see more Team. Our Global on page 15). The magazine is a great place to showcase Citizenship sponsor is successes and initiatives in Global Citizenship because David Heath, Global it helps: Director of People Capital and Head of IT • S hare knowledge – The Point is an important tool in & Telco and Healthcare our business’s attempt to share the knowledge and & Pharma business experiences of internal experts, external contributors units. As a member of and research findings. our Leadership Team, David reports on • B e an inspiration – By showing everyone the strength in our Global Citizenship progress to the group. experience possessed within our organisation, We also have a network of employees across our business The Point hopes to inspire readers and to demonstrate that helps us achieve our programme goals via our Global to them that they can have a long and varied career Citizenship project teams, led by a stakeholder panel. within AMS. Membership to the 55-strong project teams is open to • A ct as a social focal point – The Point is produced all employees globally but we do look for a cross-section exclusively for AMS employees and we want it to of AMS people who are passionate about managing our remind employees (especially those that “work, rest impact on our communities, driving change in our business and play” onsite at a client site) that they are part of and setting best practice for our industry. our AMS global family. Ultimately, we’re a firm believer that being a global • C onvey our career advantages – AMS is an international citizen is something that every individual has a chance to player, with all the opportunities and flexibilities that champion and so at AMS, everyone’s involvement in Global come with this position, where employee development Citizenship is supported. is concerned. The Point reminds our people of this and frequently demonstrates how our global reach Internal communications has helped employees climb the corporate ladder and gain professional experiences that simply cannot be We use a wide range of offline and online channels to keep achieved elsewhere. our people up-to-date, using as many of these channels as possible and appropriate to engage employees. As part of the The Point Making C onnectio ns Professiona l Services UN Global Compact, Global Citizenship forms an important The Point part of our internal communications and it has a dedicated Makin g Con nectio ns stream within our Marketing plan. Some highlights on how for our people AMS’s magazine 2011 Edition 08 | October we raise awareness and gain interest include: AMS’s Magazi ne for Our People Edition 07 | April 2011 Knowledge Exchange Resourcing Our new line Augmenta of business tion up a world is opening of opportunity As an international organisation, our primary business How AMS A Healthy is supporting healthcare and pharm Business innovation aceuticals in the sectors communications and knowledge-sharing tool at AMS is change Situational Why they’r Judgement e making on candidates a big impression Tests The challenge of and clients the Knowledge Exchange, a SharePoint-based Intranet. Its alike ey Expert Dermot McConk shares his insights A world of good ip teams A perfect fit AMS’s Global Citizenshfar online platform allows our people – whether working from How we stepped into the world of Nike on their work so home, at a client site or from one of our offices – to work April 2011 collaboratively on an international basis. It also provides The Point | 2 a mechanism for corporate content distribution, including company news and information about our business areas. We have a dedicated Global Citizenship portal where people can read and download information about the programme, and a site where Global Citizenship project team members can openly collaborate on initiatives and ideas. 10 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate induction Measurement It’s no surprise that the strongest companies are those that We set priorities at the beginning of each year and report are built on solid foundations. The same came be said about on these Global Citizenship targets on a quarterly basis to providing AMS new joiners with a solid ‘launchpad’ when our Leadership Team. We publish the overall results, our they join our team. Done right, an induction programme progress and our future priorities ever year in this Global creates a good first impression, aligns employee Citizenship report. expectations with our company’s goals, enables immediate Beyond this, over the past three years, we made productivity and encourages integration into the wider AMS the decision to actively increase our reporting and community. accreditations – especially those requiring external One of the ways that we achieve this is monthly corporate validation. This ensures we not only self-assess but are inductions. Hosted by guest speakers from across all reviewed by external auditors and bodies with specialist levels and teams, a range of topics (including our Global knowledge. For instance, the International Organisation Citizenship programme and how anyone can get involved) for Standardisation (page 31) plays an enormous part in is covered at a leisurely and social pace ensuring we are consistently reviewing our targets and measuring our performance against our long-term plans. Towards the end of 2010, we also made the decision to incorporate Global Citizenship within our Balanced Business Scorecard by including a measure of overall gender diversity in our organisation. CheckPoint AMS has a real focus on sharing information about the business with the people who drive the business – our employees. Since 2008, we produce frequent videocasts – CheckPoint – where our Leadership Team delivers key business updates on performance, pipeline and strategic programmes. We chose this method of interaction to ensure consistent communications across all geographies and client-site locations. Accessible from any internet point in the world at a time best convenient to our employees, CheckPoint allows people to hear our Leadership Team directly present key messages on a regular basis. This supports our environmental aspirations (using technology to reduce our carbon footprint) and Employee Wellbeing initiatives (worklife balance). CheckPoint often takes the opportunity to report back to the business on our Global Citizenship progress, featuring different global activities (refer to page 16). 11 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitment Status Increase our stakeholder engagement by formalising a group of employee representatives from across Complete our business to become our Global Citizenship project team. These volunteers will commit to allocating a percentage of their time and overall objectives to Global Citizenship at AMS. 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitment To ensure our Global Citizenship achievements leave a lasting legacy with all the stakeholder engagement groups we work with. This includes the Paralympians we support in Team AMS; each athlete will receive practical and financial support that will enable them to perform to their full potential on the way to the 2012 Games, plus assistance that will help them prepare for their post-sporting careers. 12 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is made up of three distinct areas – Corporate Culture & Practices, Social & Economic Accountability, and Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability. Key achievements Corporate Culture & Practices • T o produce and globally distribute two editions of The Point to ensure our employees are informed and engaged on a range of subjects across the business. • To produce three CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. • T o conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. • To host one People Managers Summit. • T o maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010 Academy participants. • T o produce our third annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting our UN Global Compact COP requirements. Social & Economic Accountability • T o remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via fundraising, educational support (a minimum of 30 hours of courses during 2011) and knowledge share. • T o promote more individual volunteering and fundraising and work towards a shared goal for the Australian population in regards to helping our local communities. • To inspire our people by partnering with inspiring sporting talent in Team AMS. Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability • T o continue using our EMS and remain ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accredited throughout 2011. This includes implementing a managed print service in our UK Global Client Service Centre and to engage an energy advisor to review our energy expenditure and highlight areas where energy can be reduced. • T o continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance and maintain our 100% response rate to the CSR survey from our AMS core PSL suppliers. • R educing power consumption used by personal computers and laptops across AMS offices globally. • Continuing e-cards throughout all regions. 14 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Culture & Practices To really make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we must review the As our business continued to expand globally and our initiatives, codes and schemes in order to learn from, and focus on sustainability sharpened, The Point’s October pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to edition went digital – for the first time in our magazine’s our business, our people and our clients. history. The electronic publication was equally comprehensive as previous print versions, with articles such as: Achievements made • It’s all about give and take: working flexibly at AMS To produce and globally distribute • A world of good: AMS’s Global Citizenship project two editions of The Point to ensure our teams on their work so far employees are informed and engaged on a • A win-win partnership: AMS and Leonardo, Charity range of subjects across the business. of Choice The Point is our half-yearly employee magazine. We met • A change for the better: internal mobility our commitment of producing and globally distributing two editions of The Point – edition seven and eight were • Diversity & inclusion within Talent Management distributed in April and October respectively. In addition to producing these two publications, the The April edition covered a number of diverse Global Citizenship Corporate Culture & Practices Global Citizenship topics, including: project team undertook a survey of The Point readers in July 2011 to ascertain its relevance, its readership • F rom the Home Counties to Hong Kong: moving and to seek guidance from our readers as to how we internationally with AMS can improve the publication. 115 people responded • Equality legislation: get yourself in on the Act directly to our request (9% of AMS employees); comments made and changes suggested include: • It’s good to share: effective account collaboration on the Knowledge Exchange • O verall The Point is well liked, with 76% of respondents having a very positive “overall impression” • AMS launches ActiveSource Accreditation Programme • 55% read most of the articles, 26% read about half • Our information security: it’s everyone’s responsibility • 1 1% share it with the people they live with; 11% with colleagues; 4% with a client “Proves that investment is • R eaders want more fun, less “corporate sounding editorial” as well as a wider variety of content being made to ensure that we • E xternal writers and research findings would be achieve our aim as being the welcomed by the readership, as 28% and 26% of our readers have expressed a special interest in these global leader in our field” respective types of content 15 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility In November 2011, we followed up this survey with a To produce three CheckPoint videocasts second readership questionnaire to hear their thoughts featuring messages from the Leadership on our e-magazine format. Highlights include: Team. • 9 2% agree that cost and sustainability should be CheckPoint is our regular web presentation where the taken into consideration when AMS communicates Leadership Team delivers key global business updates on externally and internally performance, pipeline and strategic programmes. During 2011, four CheckPoint videocasts (above our commitment • 1 /3 thought our changes to the October content had of three) were made available to our employees in January, improved their experience of reading The Point. 83% February, May and September. Topics included spotlights said the variety of articles was good or excellent on Global Citizenship initiatives such as: • 6 7% said the articles was good or excellent in terms of • Announcing our quarterly Inspiring Award winners making them feel proud to belong to AMS • Promoting our Australia flood relief appeal • H owever, 45% of readers thought the digital format had negatively affected their reading experience of The • A ddressing the results and subsequent action plan Point. Issues raised varied from technology issues to from our employee survey, PulsePoint finding the time at work to read an online magazine The Global Citizenship Corporate Culture & Practices project team also ran focus groups throughout August “A useful, engaging tool on CheckPoint viewership. Seventeen people across the business – representing accurately the company’s that gives the reader an employee demographics in terms of location and role – were interviewed for an hour each. Results include: opportunity to understand • 7 0.5% of participants either watch every edition of AMS’s global footprint” CheckPoint (47%) or watch it frequently (23.5%) • T here’s an even balance between types of CheckPoint consumption – people tend to choose the most convenient option, live vs. on demand version “Brings together the AMS family” Our Melbourne team listening to CheckPoint as a group in September 2011. A great opportunity to talk together on the messages shared! 16 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility • C  heckPoint is a social occasion – 46% of attendees are To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business watching in groups of over 15 people, and 71% are watching Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. in groups of more than five people. Nearly every group that Operating in a global environment with senior management watches CheckPoint together then discusses it or provides in all key geographic locations requires a strategic approach direct feedback through its ‘Question and Answer’ session to management communications. In 2011, we conducted • U  sers were generally pretty happy with CheckPoint – the quarterly Senior Management Business Updates with a member strong points were the authenticity of information and the of our Leadership team chairing each call. This is a critical range and relevance of information communication tool to ensuring that every senior manager has the same access to important business information, regardless of their physical location. “It’s very informative and The underlying focus of these regular calls is centred on the commercial elements of the business and allows managers useful, especially for Manila to understand overall organisational performance and how individual contribution impacts the wider business. Managers are who are oceans away from encouraged to share these messages with their respective teams the head office. It’s very in a swift communication cascade. helpful to see the faces of key people in the business, know “It is incredibly useful to have a the financial status of the forum where senior managers business, its growth and its come together to understand the global activities. Our people most recent commercial results take pride whenever they from the business. Moreover, it hear AMS new wins and great ensures that messaging across accomplishments” the business regarding key commercial matters remain consistent and allows us to “Very valuable, especially as cascade key information in the onsite and abroad, as this is most relevant manner” sometimes the only link into what is going on (besides The Point and the Knowledge “I value the fact that we are Exchange). CheckPoint gives encouraged to ask questions top business related info and participate in a ‘warts and and shows AMS cares about all’ discussion on our company people outside UK” performance. It is testament to how transparent our Leadership Team is prepared to be” 17 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To host one People Managers Summit. “Uplifting and motivating” We’re committed to empowering our managers to deliver the highest quality of services to our clients and enabling the people in their teams to achieve this goal. As part of this, in June 2011, a “Passionate, invigorating, one-day event was organised in London for approximately 250 exciting and informative” global managers to enable our Leadership Team to share their vision for our company and our role in an ever-changing market. “A great inspiring networking After an introduction by our CEO on the history of AMS and the overall direction of the company going forward, business unit event” and regional heads talked about where the industry is heading and our position within it. They shared success stories and “I felt proud to work for AMS” highlighted how these could be capitalised on. They also focused on how people management is the most valuable skill within our organisation, and helped our managers build a clear picture of “A useful opportunity to gain their own strengths and how to apply these effectively. After the a high-level overview of where event, we distributed presentations from the day to all attendees to ensure the managers had the right tools to cascade the AMS is today” information to their respective teams. One month after the event, our Global Citizenship Corporate “A great way to get on board Culture & Practices project team surveyed attendees to check whether the content was remembered, if the information had and understand the journey been used and how we could improve the event next time round. for AMS and how everyone 105 people (42% of the event attendees) responded to the survey. Here are some results: can play an integral part in it” • 3 0% found the event “informative” or “information packed”; 26% “inspiring and motivating” and 20% “exciting and “Great opportunity to engaging” understand the many • 2 1% said the event gave them information on AMS’s business additional elements of strategy and full service offering AMS that you don’t always • T he overall presentation content was rated as good or excellent by 92% of attendants, and presentation delivery was see/understand when you rated as good or excellent by 93% of attendees are working onsite with • 9 7% of the audience thought that the videos were a good way to convey information and break an information-heavy day your customer” We also gathered suggestions from attendees on ways to enhance the next People Manager Summit: • A wider variety of presenters, not just the Leadership Team • Less content compressed in one day’s agenda • Film the day for team members who could not attend 18 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To maintain our focus on the delivery of • “ The Leadership Academy was a very busy, AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior challenging and rewarding three days where I really managers across the business, extending felt pushed and I learned an enormous amount. The the Academy to aspiring leaders within theme/case study that ran through the Academy was our management community as well as relevant and it was great to interact so closely with delivering structured follow up modules to a similar-level peer group for three days (something the 2010 Academy participants. that we rarely do). I personally got an enormous amount from the course and thought it was the most Supporting our leadership and aspiring leadership relevant training that I had done for a very long time” population in their ongoing professional development is – Lenka Burnett one of the cornerstones of our people strategy. • “ I think it is a great course, even for the networking. In 2011, we delivered both our Management Meeting the Board and colleagues in similar roles Development Programme (to over 200 participants) globally is one of the best things I got out of the and our Leadership Academy (in a January session with session” – Ian Kirkland 10 attendees and in a June session with 11 attendees) to a core group of our management community from • “ I found the AMS Leadership Academy one of the across the globe. best programmes I have attended in years. I enjoyed the intensive learning aspect and it refreshed my Designed to support managers from every business thoughts on how to deal with clients and offer the stream in all aspects of their role, these programmes are best service. As a new AMS employee at the time, it instrumental in developing core leadership capability helped ‘induct’ me into the AMS way of doing things in our senior population. But don’t take our word for it; and I learnt a huge amount in the few days of the here is a selection of participants’ feedback: course. More valuable, however, was the excellent • “ I found the Leadership Academy extremely networking opportunity and I really enjoyed meeting beneficial; I felt it was a very good mix of conceptual peers from around the world and hearing about and practical exercises which certainly suited my own their AMS experiences throughout their careers. The learning style. I took a lot from the Academy, both in network of people I made on my course has put me terms of how I engage and build relationships with in an excellent position to navigate around AMS and my client stakeholders and in terms of how I manage assist people on other accounts. I highly recommend my own direct reports” – Jim Sykes it as a development programme” – Lisa Forrest • “ An effective overview to client relationship development and management. Really beneficial to spend time with colleagues from other parts of AMS, especially global ones” – Sarah Simpson Management Development Programme feedback: 85% of delegates said their objectives were fully to more than fully met 88% said that the training was highly applicable up their return to work 91% said the content of the Management Development Programme modules was good to excellent 93% said the course trainers’ communications skills were good to excellent 93% said the course trainers’ knowledge and delivery of the modules was good to excellent 19 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To produce our third annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting AMS’s UN Global Compact COP requirements. Our Global Citizenship report is our annual Communication on Progress (COP) required by the UN Global Compact from all companies within the programme. The COP drives improvements and commitment to CSR goals and ensures that participants hold themselves accountable for the actions they commit to and provide transparent information on their progress. In May 2011, we produced our third Global Citizenship report, “Shared Commitment”, describing our shared approach to Global Citizenship, our performance in 2010 and our goals for 2011. The report clearly opened dialogue with our wider community on our commitments within each of AMS’s Global Citizenship programme streams. Accountability Global Citizenship is really important to us and to reflect The Point our commitment to the programme, ultimate responsibility lies with AMS’s Leadership Team. Our Global The Point is our internal AMS magazine, produced Citizenship sponsor is David Heath, Global Director of twice-yearly since 2008 and distributed to People Capital every AMS and Head of IT & Telco and Healthcare & employee at their home address, no matter Pharma business where they units. As a member of our Leadership Team, are in the world. Its articles – covering everything ip itizensh David reports from on our Global Citizenship progress to the group. our achievements with clients to developments from our Global C 0 Central Services teams to industry viewpoints We also have a network of global citizens – enables across our us to share knowledge around the business, business who help us achieve our programme and promote goals via news stories and successes from our teams. our Global Citizenship Project Team, led by The magazine a stakeholder is a great place to showcase successes and 01 panel. Membership to the 55-strong Project initiatives in Report 2 ent Team is open Global Citizenship and it features in every to all employees globally but we do look for a cross-section Achievem issue. of AMS people who are passionate about managing our ents made impact on our communities, driving change in our business and setting best practice for our industry. Continuing to provide m we’re a firm believer that being Commitcitizen (EAP), ana Ultimately, lysing res the Global Emplo EAP Servi Shared ce a global ult Thes Point and implem yee Assistance Areas is something that every individual has a chance In June 200 enting init Pro 8, we laun iatives as gramme nnections to Making Co ched a glob Our EAP is champion and so at AMS, everyone’s involvement wellbeing. al EAP to required a confide in Global We decided support our ntial and Citizenship is supported. demonstrate to prov employees independen our commitm ide this service to in their ove information t counselling and employees. ent to cari be proactiv rall e in this area Our People service avai AMS’s Magazine for The EAP is ng for the 2010 Edition 06 | October wish to disc provided as health, safe and employees. lable to all Internal Communications uss anythin an addition ty and welf It’s availabl our g confidentia al resource are of our day, 7 day e 24 hours During 201 lly and outs should our s per wee per 0, we con Finger on the Pulse ide of the emp loyees k, all year roun We use a wide range of offline and online tinued to A How we’re listening to your views workplace. d. channels to keepparty prov revi ew – and acting on them Personal our people up-to-date, using as many of these ider , Validium on a The Poi Down Under quarterly s or Family Issu nts the EAP Preconception channels asusage. With , focussin Overcoming g on key ana basi es possible and appropriate to engage people. our usage AMS Australia tackles cultural differences and offshoring Makin g Con lysis and tren necti with our third• Work-life rates sligh towards outsourcing As part of the increase our ons tly belo ds regardin balance UN Global Compact, Global Citizenship forms level of prom Window on the World w the EAP g global • Financia have the con on international an important otion to ensu Three different views job transfers within AMS industry aver l or legal refe part of our internal communications and it fidence to re our peo age, we deci rrals has a dedicated access it – ple are awa ded to • Concern stream within our Marketing plan. Some highlights • Employe if and whe re of this serv s about child n required The AMS magazine e informa ice and Edition 05 ren | May 2010 on how tion sessions 2 . Promotio • Stress man we raise awareness and gain interest include: conducted ns included agement • Regular : 8/10/10 09:19:37 emails prom 2 in the UK, • Relation EMEA and The Point_6_1to18.indd Knowledge Exchange oting the The Innovati Asia ship issues • An info serv ice to each The iLab members tested and have their on Lab creative agility Paci fic • Substan their first rmation pam ofATOMic meeting at our geograp Google phlet in our hies ce abuse (inc As an international organisation, our primary new joiner Achieving Power luding toba business • “Managing sustainable • Grief and a scalable, success through cco) world-class welcAfter delivery model communications and knowledge-sharing Pressure” ome packs loss tool at AMS is managers. sessions con How our team the Rain • Emotion in the Philippines These sess ducted acro affected by assisted communities the recent the Knowledge Exchange, a SharePoint-base al or physica devastating ions were ss the UK floods by wellbein d Intranet. Its produced and EMEA l abuse online platform allows our people – whether g experts and conduc for our peo • Low selfworking from ted by Vali ple esteem home, at a client site or from one of our offices The Point_5_1to16.indd dium and host 2 – to work 2 ed Clinical Issu collaboratively on an international basis. 14/4/10 es It also provides 11:43:43 a mechanism for corporate content distribution, • Anxiety including company news and information about our • Depress business areas. ion We have a dedicated Global Citizenship portal • Alcohol, where drug or othe people can read and download information r dependenci about es the programme, and a site where people Work Issu can openly es collaborate on initiatives and ideas. • Managin g conflict • Handlin g work stre ss • Adjustin g to change • Relation ships betw een co-worke • Making rs career cho ices • Dealing with traumat • Problem ic events s with perf ormance 10 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship 35 Global Citi zenship Rep ort Emplo yee Wellbeing 20 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitments Status To produce and globally distribute two editions of The Point to ensure our employees are informed Complete and engaged on a range of subjects across the business. To produce three CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. Complete To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Complete Leadership Team. To host one People Managers Summit. Complete To maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across Complete the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010 Academy participants. To produce our third annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting AMS’s UN Global Compact Complete COP requirements. 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To produce and globally distribute at least two editions of The Point to deliver on as many of the readership survey suggestions as possible, while ensuring the objectives of The Point are also met. • Decrease to 15% those who describe The Point as being poor in terms of its fun nature (26% in 2011) • Decrease to 25% those who say that its variety of topics is either poor or okay (45% in 2011) • Address feedback regarding the digital format reading experience To produce at least two CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. • Increase the post-webinar relevance and discussions by giving topics and examples for employees to think about applying in their own roles and to discuss with immediate colleagues • Increase the interaction of CheckPoint by creating senior manager guidelines for encouraging watching CheckPoint in teams (86% of those who watch CheckPoint alone do not discuss it with anyone) • Improve the quality of sound/video of the CheckPoint To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. • Include broader updates including business development from both our consulting and outsourcing teams and insight into geographical specific developments • Maintain current frequency of once a quarter, with two sessions each time, to accommodate the majority of employee time zones To host an impactful Senior Manager Summit(s), that reflects managers’ event expectations. • Increase by five points the results of the 2011 post-event survey in terms of the event being informative, inspiring, exciting and full of info on the business strategy and the full service offering • Lighten the presentation time, to allow for more networking amongst managers 21 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010/11 Academy participants. • Host two Leadership Academy sessions in 2012 To produce the annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP. • Formally submit the report by its May deadline • Provide consistent editorial and content guidelines to ensure the report is an employee-led initiative via the Global Citizenship project teams, and that it’s a comprehensive overview of progress in 2011 and objectives in 2012 22 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Social & Economic Accountability As a global organisation, we must ensure that we are protecting and improving the local communities in which we operate. We should invest in projects that have positive, long-term effects on our communities. Achievements made To remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via fundraising, educational support (a minimum of 30 hours of courses during 2011) The Foundation for Social Development Support and knowledge share. ‘Leonardo’ was established in October 2002 in Krakow, Poland, and works with individuals and AMS’s support for Leonardo is an ongoing journey for both families from difficult social backgrounds, or those parties. In 2011, we committed to support them with English disconnected from the community and job market. classes (these language skills are considered a must in a The charity supports these individuals with the aim number of working environments in Poland) for at least 30 of increasing their chances of gaining employment. hours throughout the year. Feedback from both AMS tutors We at AMS have been working with them since and Leonardo participants was so positive that we continued February 2008. with the training during the summer period, typically a holiday period. We’ve overachieved the target we set ourselves by 170% – delivering a total of 81 hours of language conversations in 2011. In addition to that, one of our employees, Marek Musial, now supports Leonardo on a regular basis, delivering classes to them outside of our usual programme. We also fundraised for Leonardo in 2011 and in total, we managed to raise over PLN8000 for our Charity of Choice. The Three Peaks Challenge is an annual fundraising event in AMS Poland, where we fundraise for the benefit of Leonardo’s organisational goals by having over 25 employees climb three summits in less than 36 hours. In 2011, we decided the walk’s money would go to equipping Leonardo’s classrooms with educational materials – whiteboards, PCs, projectors and other classroom equipment. These will help those training courses aimed at increasing the skills of Leonardo’s clients, enabling them to more easily enter the employment market. Additionally, one of our people, Katarzyna Wierciak, participated in the Cracovia Marathon, fundraising 12zl for each of the kilometres she ran in the marathon. 23 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To promote more individual volunteering and “We talk about fundraising and work towards a shared goal for the Australian population in regards to helping different issues our local communities. each week – Our people in Australia were encouraged to volunteer their individual skills and knowledge to charities and causes which has ranged where they could make a real difference. As part of our from physical and volunteer day programme, all employees worldwide are offered the opportunity to take a paid day off to participate mental bullying, in a local or global community initiative. alcohol and drugs, fighting One such example is Ed Atkinson, Head of Talent Services at school, cyber bullying, (Asia Pacific), who acted as a mentor for young men and women through the charitable foundation, The Smith relationships, role models, Family. Ed’s contribution involved interacting with young people in a chatroom environment provided by The Smith issues connected with Family. During his lunch hours, he would go online to parents not working or ill, and listen and provide advice and feedback to 15-16 year old disadvantaged teenagers. bereavement. We also talk Group efforts about work and career-related In addition to encouraging staff to volunteer their time and aspirations and how to create expertise to help the local community, there were several critical natural events in Australia in early 2011 which drew a plan to either continue with an immediate collective response. education or training” In late 2010, record rainfall, a tropical cyclone and a huge and slow-moving flood devastated regional and suburban Ed Atkinson, on his volunteer work Queensland. It caused billions of dollars in damage. Many with The Smith Family farmers and small townships lost their livelihoods and were faced with the unenviable task of cleaning tons of debris from their properties before even considering rebuilding. There are many Australian connections in Alexander Mann Solutions, and staff in our offices throughout the country and the rest of the world wanted to know how they could help. In response, our Australian team launched a fundraising initiative to provide our people the opportunity to donate money. This was aligned with flood relief appeals with AMS donations directly benefiting individuals, families and communities. AMS as an organisation started the fundraising with a pledge of £1,000, however our employees quickly added to that tally with donations coming in from various countries across the globe. The final amount transferred to the appeal was a considerable AUD $4,755.87. 24 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them through various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives, specifically our ‘Getting People Back to Work’ initiative which we commit to completing at least 20 skills workshops and 10 work experience placements during 2011. Since 2005, our UK Charity of Choice has been Tomorrow’s People. Since the charity was founded in We started with a focus on fundraising, but over the last seven years 1984, Tomorrow’s People has helped the relationship has developed significantly. We now have a strategic 440,000 unemployed people into partnership with shared objectives, and we work closely together with work. Their mission is to empower Tomorrow’s People to achieve these individuals to move forward with their lives, often overcoming difficult Getting People Back to Work or demoralising circumstances to During 2011, we continued to support Tomorrow’s People through our move into sustainable jobs. skills development workshops and work experience programme, “Getting People Back to Work”. Created in partnership with the charity, it focuses on supporting their clients into full-time paid employment. Skills workshops In 2011, volunteers from around our business hosted 23 workshops covering 184 participants which focused on ‘work ready’ skills such as building a good CV and interview techniques. Workshop locations across the UK included London, Bristol, Plymouth, Glasgow, Merseyside, Brighton and Newcastle. The number of workshops is an improvement from 2010 and exceeds our 2011 target of 20. All AMS volunteers are accredited to deliver these skills workshops after successfully completing a one-day ‘Trainer Engagement Training’ course provided by our Career Development Centre. Work experience After attending our skills workshops, clients of Tomorrow’s People are qualified to participate in an unpaid work experience placement at AMS or at one of our clients. Work experience placements provide people the opportunity to develop and practice key skills, gain a valuable addition to their CV and build confidence. We benefit by having access to enthusiastic and job-ready individuals for up to 16 hours per week, for anything from two weeks to three months. The placements are at no cost to AMS and can help with specific projects, tasks or peaks in activity. During 2011, we were able to facilitate one work experience placement within our head office, falling short of our target of 10. The reduction in opportunity was due to external changes in the funding of Tomorrow’s People Welfare-to-Work programmes and the subsequent reduction of their adult employment support programmes in London. Now, Tomorrow’s People has a particular focus on developing their young people’s services in order to help meet the challenges facing this demographic who are not in employment, education or training. Throughout 2012, we at AMS look to realign our skills workshops with this same focus. 25 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Ad-hoc support Further support for Tomorrow’s People was delivered through: • H  osted the Tomorrow’s People Social Enterprise Flower Stall in our London headquarters on Valentine’s Day and Christmas, offering a selection flowers, plants and gifts for sale to our employees • O ffered our Career Development Centre training to Tomorrow’s People staff members. During 2011, 12 staff (almost twice as many than in 2010) participated in AMS training courses varying from Employment Law to Negotiation Skills. These courses represent a £4,200 cost saving to Tomorrow’s People • P rovided free office space to Tomorrow’s People. They continued to be located in our head office in central London, with full access to all support facilities including meeting rooms, kitchens and shower rooms. This represents a cost saving to Tomorrow’s People of £31,000 • F undraised as part of our annual fundraising event in the UK. In December 2011, UK volunteers organised pub quizzes held simultaneously in four locations around the UK. More than 45 teams participated raising over £1,200 for our UK Charity of Choice in the UK, Tomorrow’s People and Limb Power, our Team AMS Mentor’s preferred charity. The winning team had the opportunity to experience cycling in a Velodrome with our Team AMS Mentor, Jody Cundy 26 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2010 with a fundraising goal of £20,000 “My highlight of the in total. day was when three We did not fully achieve fundraising £20,000 globally in 2011, but not for a lack of effort. In addition to the fundraising events mentioned in previous of my team were in pages, like the Poland Three Peaks Challenge, Queensland Flood Appeal and the kitchen roaring UK pub quizzes, our people held a variety of charity activities globally:. • In February, our team in Krakow fundraised for the orphanage of with laughing at each St Luise with a number of educational toys and items collected for other’s outfits. It’s the children • In March, our Bracknell office hosted a range of fundraising events for brilliant that we can Red Nose Day. Money raised is used both in the UK and Africa on 17+ raise money for good projects including helping people living in slums, providing homes to orphaned children who work on the street and supplying medication to causes and have a those with malaria. Our teams raised £250 for the charity good laugh at the • In March, three of our people in Coventry, UK helped on a project for the Warwickshire Wildlife Trust, to create a wildflower meadow in same time!” addition to planting trees and constructing a habitat for invertebrates Elin Smith, • In April, a group of 19 AMS employees from our Krakow office took part Head of UK Resourcing Centre, in a tree planting event which aims to strengthen the biodiversity of recaps on Bracknell’s great woodlands in the region fundraising day • In July, a member of our AMS investment banking team in New York spent an entire day building a home with Habitat for Humanity • In September, an AMS employee volunteered a day to travel around Singapore for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) to collect money donations from all the ‘doggie boxes’ located around the island • In December, in lieu of traditional holiday cards to our clients, candidates and suppliers, a £500 donation was made to our Charities of Choice in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific • In December, over PLN3000 worth of gifts were fundraised for the poorest families in Krakow as part of Szlachetna Paczka, a nationwide campaign of Christmas aid 27 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To select and work with appropriate Charities of Choice in both Asia and the US. StreetWise Partners works with low-income individuals to help them In 2011, AMS in the Americas partnered with two non-profit overcome employment barriers, obtain organisations, StreetWise Partners in New York and Boston Career better jobs and achieve economic Collaborative in Boston. self-sufficiency. They do this through Our team in New York participated in events with StreetWise Partners a 14 week mentorship programme ranging from mock interviews to CV writing. Nine colleagues from our with volunteer business professionals investment banking account participated in these events for a total of who provide job skills training, career 18 hours of volunteering. One member of the AMS team continued to coaching and job search assistance. mentor a trainee for a full 14 weeks, which consisted of weekly meetings and phone calls plus homework assistance. Similarly, four members of our AMS team in Boston participated in mock Career Collaborative helps motivated, interview days with Boston Career Collaborative. These sessions gave our low-income adults set and reach the people the opportunity to not only give feedback to trainees about their challenging but attainable goal of interview skills but also provide advice on job searching and networking getting and succeeding at a good job skills. Between our four volunteers, 21 hours were contributed. with career potential. Their job search programme includes a four-week Research was undertaken into potential Charities of Choice partners in job-search/job-readiness class, an eightAsia, however no formal relationships were established. This will be a key week structured support group, and 20 priority for 2012. practice interviews with volunteers from a variety of professions. Once clients find work, they are mentored through their first two years of employment so Charity of Choice criteria they have the support they need to be effective and stay on the job. Charities of Choice are nominated by our employees and voted on by all employees within the designated country. To qualify as a Charity of Choice of AMS’s, the charity should: • Be registered • Operate nationwide • B  e aligned with our business and have a common interest • Have no strong political bias or affiliation • B  e willing to work with us on a long-term basis, for at least three years 28 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To inspire our people by partnering with inspiring sporting talent in Team AMS “Thank you to everyone at During 2011, we launched an engagement programme Alexander Mann Solutions for called Team AMS, a group of athletes who are training to selecting me to be one of your qualify for the London 2012 Paralympic Games. The team includes one mentor – an established athlete from the sponsored athletes. It is UK with a track record of sporting success and personal achievement – plus aspiring disability athletes from around indeed a privilege to be a part the world. of a company that ‘builds We want to show our support to global athletes who have the power to unite and inspire everyone. Our athletes were world-class talent’. I am specifically selected because they reflect the spirit of our business: passionate, talented and with an unrivalled will striving to be the fastest to succeed. wheelchair racer in the world! We are supporting the athletes with a combination of funding, professional training and knowledge sharing. All Thank you so much for your of this will help them to reach their full potential in what support in helping me to race promises to be one of the most important periods of their sporting lives. It’s also an important part of the project that towards my dreams!” we’ll be extending our support past September 2012, to ensure we leave a lasting legacy with each of the athletes Tatyana McFadden, US Team AMS athlete on Team AMS. Specific support includes: • F inancial support to improve access to training facilities, expertise and equipment. Funding will also be provided for competition travel • P rofessional support to the athletes to help prepare for their post-sporting careers • W orking with the senior ‘mentor’ athlete, who will provide advice and assistance to the two aspiring athletes • P rovide opportunities for all AMS employees to become part of Team AMS. There will be opportunities to meet, follow, support and interact with the athletes both online and at events 29 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitments Status To remain a strong partner of Leonardo and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them via Complete fundraising, educational support (a minimum of 30 hours of courses during 2011) and knowledge share. To promote more individual volunteering and fundraising and work towards a shared goal for the Complete Australian population in regards to helping our local communities To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting Partially Complete them through various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives, specifically our “Getting People Back to Work” initiative which we commit to completing at least 20 skills workshops and 10 work experience placements during 2011. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2010 with a fundraising Partially Complete goal of £20,000 in total. To select and work with appropriate Charities of Choice in both Asia and the US. Partially Complete 2011 additional progress 2011 further progress To inspire our people by partnering with inspiring sporting talent in Team AMS. 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To inspire our people through our Team AMS sponsorship programme. To continue to support Leonardo, our Poland Charity of Choice, with fundraising and education, including a minimum of 50 hours of language and knowledge sharing sessions. Raise a minimum of PLN9000 through employee-led events to support their organisational goals. To extend opportunities for our people to volunteer their time to work with additional not-for-profit organisations to compliment the work undertaken with our UK Charity of Choice Tomorrow’s People. To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them with various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives. Move focus to align with Tomorrow’s People’s Young Peoples Programmes in line with their strategic programmes. Continue to deliver within the adult ‘Getting back to Work’ programme and deliver 20 workshops in 2012. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2012 with a total global fundraising goal of £10,000. To continue to support StreetWise Partners and Boston Career Collaborative as the US Charity of Choice. Contribute at least 36 hours of volunteer work in 2012 in the Americas. To select and work with Charities of Choice in the Philippines, Australia and Singapore. 30 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Our focus here is to mitigate the potentially damaging effects of our company activities and help protect the environment. As a services provider, our main impacts relate to the use of energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as the natural resources we use and the waste we produce. We seek positive environmental impacts through relationships with responsible suppliers and clients that share our views and aspirations. Achievements made International Organisation for To continue using our Environmental Management System (EMS) and Standardisation (ISO) remain ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001 accredited throughout 2011. This includes implementing a managed print service in our UK Global Client ISO is the world’s largest developer and Service Centre and to engage an energy advisor to review our energy publisher of International Standards. expenditure and highlight areas where energy can be reduced. It’s a network of the national standards institutes of 163 countries, one Maintaining a high level of compliance in regards to our EMS continues to be important for member per country, with a Central AMS to ensure we are complying with our legal obligations, measuring our performance Secretariat in Geneva, Switzerland, that against our plans and reviewing our targets. At a basic level, our EMS requires us to: coordinates the system. Between 1947 • Identify our biggest environmental impacts and the present day, ISO has published • Set targets to reduce those impacts more than 18,500 International Standards, ranging from standards • Put in place initiatives, projects and awareness campaigns to help us meet the targets for activities such as agriculture and • Check to see if the above projects have been met construction, through mechanical ISO14001 is an internationally accepted standard that recognises organisations like AMS that engineering, to medical devices, to have an effective EMS in place, and is designed to help organisations address the balance the newest information technology between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact. developments. To ensure continuation of our ISO14001 certification and to independently verify the robustness of our EMS, we undertake annual external audits from reputable certification bodies. In August 2011, we participated in our annual ISO14001 audit and passed with flying colours for our London site. There were no non-conformities, with our focus being on continuous improvement Occupational Health & or on-going management of our processes. Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 Examples of ISO 14001 in practice during 2011 are: • W e expanded our managed print service (originally deployed in our London headquarters in OHSAS 18001 promotes a safe and 2010) to encompass our Bracknell office. This involves using more environmentally-friendly healthy working environment by machines with less energy output and built-in sleep timers. These multifunction machines providing a framework that allows our meet requirements for the Blue Angel environmental award, produce fewer CO2 emissions organisation to consistently identify and use environmentally-friendly toner which emits 65% less carbon during manufacture. and control our health and safety risks, This has reduced our number of printers from 13 to nine and also removed one fax machine. reduce the potential for accidents, aid Toner and paper usage also has reduced as all machines have been set by default to print in legislative compliance and improve black & white and in duplex mode overall performance. This international standard requires us to hold an annual • W e engaged with an energy advisor who worked with AMS and our landlord at our internal and external audit to retain London headquarters to review our energy expenditure. They confirmed there were little the award. opportunities to reduce our energy usage further 31 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance and maintain our 100% response rate to the CSR survey from our AMS core Preferred Supplier Code for Responsible List (PSL). Procurement (CRP) For 2011, we decided to expand our CSR survey beyond our core PSL to a To manage our business carefully number of niche suppliers. These key suppliers specialise in supporting us and responsibly, we have adopted fill highly technical, ‘hard to fill’ vacancies for a number of clients. Their a set of core values to govern our continued support is extremely important to our client delivery success. activities and interactions with all The annual survey resulted in a total of 44 suppliers being reviewed our stakeholders across the world, (compared to 29 in 2010) and once again, we achieved a 100% response including our suppliers. To inform and confirming compliance from our core PSL and selected niche suppliers. enable this, we follow our own CRP – clear guidelines against child and To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment forced labour, providing healthy and Agency Engagement Charter, a two-way document safe working environments, and antioutlining the approach to working in partnership, which bribery practices. Each of our suppliers will include commitments from suppliers to source from annually is asked to complete an online the broadest reach of applicants. CSR questionnaire plus sign our CRP. An AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter was originally drawn up as a strategy for AMS to implement once we brought back in-house a currently outsourced supplier management process. However, due to the late time of year when we reached agreement, the charter remained in draft in 2011 and is being circulated for formal endorsement. Reducing power consumption used by personal computers and laptops across AMS offices globally. With the introduction of a technology called System Centre Configuration Manager, our Information Services function now has the ability to remotely set criteria around power management of individual employee’s computers and laptops. After testing successfully, it was deployed across all AMS offices globally and automatically turns off computer and laptop components after a period of inactivity: Out of office hours During office hours Turn off display after (minutes) of inactivity 10 20 Turn off hard disk after (minutes) of inactivity 5 20 32 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Continuing e-cards throughout all regions. Over the last five years, we have promoted the use of electronic greeting cards for the festive season instead of printed cards. During 2011, we continued this initiative from an environmental perspective, saving paper and post impact; we also used the opportunity to donate money from the reduction in print costs to our Charities of Choice in the UK, Continental Europe and US. 33 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitments Status To continue using our EMS and remain ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accredited throughout 2011. Complete This includes implementing a managed print service in our UK Global Client Service Centre and to engage an energy advisor to review our energy expenditure and highlight areas where energy can be reduced. To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance and maintain our 100% response Complete rate to the CSR survey from our AMS core PSL suppliers. To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter, a two-way Partially Complete document outlining the approach to working in partnership, which will include commitments from suppliers to source from the broadest reach of applicants. 2011 additional progress 2011 further progress Reducing power consumption used by personal computers and laptops across AMS offices globally. Continuing e-cards throughout all regions. 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To continue using our EMS and remain ISO14001 accredited throughout 2012. This includes increasing the scope of our ISO14001 to our Krakow office, continuing to engage our environmental project team and adopting best practice from our clients. To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to the AMS Code for Responsible Procurement. To review and re-design CSR Survey to ensure fit for purpose for 2012 and aim to issue to the revised PSL, which form part of the AMS Partner Programme. To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter (RAEC), a two-way document outlining the approach to working in partnership. It will include commitments from suppliers to source from the broadest reach of applicants. The AMS RAEC will be reviewed to ensure compliance to the our diversity and inclusion policies and commitments. 34 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Social Responsibility Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing focuses on providing all our people with the opportunity to develop healthy lifestyles and to build a balance in their lives. Health (mental, physical and financial), nutrition and diet, fitness and life balance all play a valuable part in an individual’s wellbeing. Key achievements • T o continue providing the global EAP service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one initiative to combat any concerning trends. • T o distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. To extend the survey questions to analyse sub-teams and develop localas well as company-level action plans. • To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. • T o implement in key regions Employee Wellbeing initiatives (for example, fruit bowls and massage). • T o deliver against some of the recommendations made by the IiP Bronze assessment in the areas of measurement of training and development in preparation for reassessment in three years’ time. • To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. 36 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Achievements made EAP service areas To continue providing the global Employee Assistance Programmed Our EAP is a confidential and (EAP) service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one independent counselling and initiative to combat any concerning trends. information service available to all our employees. It’s available 24 hours per In June 2008, we launched a global EAP to support our employees in their overall day, 7 days per week, all year round. wellbeing. We decided to provide this service to be proactive in this area and demonstrate our commitment to caring for the health, safety and welfare of our Personal or family issues employees. The EAP is provided as an additional resource should our employees wish to discuss anything confidentially and outside of the workplace. • Work-life balance • Financial or legal referrals During 2011, we reviewed the EAP analysis in parallel with our PulsePoint employee engagement survey results. We decided a detailed review of work-life balance issues • Concerns about children was warranted to help identify root causes of work pressures. To begin with: • Stress management • In May 2011, we shortened internal job transfer timescales • Relationship issues • Substance abuse (including tobacco) • In May 2011, we undertook a Head of Client Service activity analysis and subsequent actions to reduce pressure points (e.g. introduction of administrative • Grief and loss support) • Emotional or physical abuse • In July 2011, our Internal Resourcing team transformed to more effectively • Low self-esteem support global internal hiring needs Clinical issues • In October 2011, The Point (our employee magazine) featured three employees • Anxiety globally who ‘work flexibly’ • Depression Additionally, in September 2011, we used volunteers from our Employee Wellbeing • Alcohol, drug or other dependencies project team – which is made up of global representatives across roles and sectors – to gather data on causes, trends and potential solutions to issues that contribute to Work issues poor work-life balance and productivity. To do so, they undertook a series of focus • Managing conflict groups and structured interviews across role types and geographies. The project team presented their findings and recommendations to our Leadership Team, • Handling work stress including our CEO, in November 2011 about how to address issues. • Adjusting to change Several findings on flexibility emerged; some of which were ‘quick wins’ and some • Relationships between co-workers were deemed longer-term cultural changes: • Making career choices Quick wins • Dealing with traumatic events • Problems with performance • Identify and remove duplicate requests from central functions for data • Streamline reporting processes Longer-term changes • Implement more sophisticated technology to improve process delivery • A ddress structural issues that contribute to poor work-life balance, e.g. job and solution design, ‘realistic expectations’, scope • Promote a ‘working smarter’ culture We continue to measure results of our PulsePoint survey in the area of work-life balance to look for measurable improvements. 37 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. To extend the survey questions to analyse sub-teams and develop local – as well as company-level action plans. Launched for the first time in May 2009, PulsePoint is AMS’s employee engagement survey aims to capture how engaged people feel working globally at AMS. In 2011, we distributed and analysed a survey in both March and September. Overall, our PulsePoint results improved from the preceding surveys in all action areas. These scores show that AMS continues to take the right actions in response to employee surveys. Despite the positive showing, and the fact that no negative results were statistically significant, there’s always room for improvement. For instance, for the first time since its launch, we added some additional demographic data points which enabled each of our Business Units to receive a data set specific to their area with further data drill downs for our largest client accounts. This made our business leaders accountable for the results they could influence and enabled the development of locally specific action plans. One of the first major account teams to embrace the local plans was within our Investment Banking sector. Based on the March 2011 survey results, they set about involving all employees within the account to specific work groups targeted with making changes that would improve their scores. Some of the changes made included improvements to account-specific communications and the creation of employee recognition programmes. Engagement results for the account continue to improve and the account leader has now taken responsibility for sharing success across our other accounts in the banking sector. PulsePoint four action areas PulsePoint is voluntary, autonomous and confidential Communication and Involvement Our target is to create a positive, inclusive and fun It’s really important that our employees feel they can be environment where employee views are heard and where open and honest in their feedback, so we make the survey opinions matter. To ensure all communication is honest, completely confidential. We can’t find out who says transparent, consistent and delivered in a timely manner. what, and we’ve set some rules about how we analyse the results. We don’t reveal feedback that could identify Reward and Recognition people in small demographic groups or teams, and we Our target is to create an environment where success is need at least 25% of people across the company to recognised and celebrated. To ensure transparency on complete the survey before we analyse the results. the link between performance and reward, and that our reward philosophy is communicated and understood. To ensure people understand our organisational goals and their role in our success. Flexibility Our target is to create an environment where flexibility Give Us Your Views! is encouraged and available to all. To prioritise the health Complete our AMS employee of our employees and strive to give our employees more engagement survey – PulsePoint – from Monday 7th March. balance in their lives, and help people be productive and To make sure AMS is an inspiring place where energised by their work. you’re able to succeed and are equally proud to work, we want to know what matters to you. All we need is 10 minutes of your time so you can give your honest opinions on AMS and how Development and Progression you feel about working here. The survey is open to everyone globally and is voluntary, confidential and anonymous. Visit the Our target is to create an environment where employees Knowledge Exchange before Monday 21st March for a link to the survey. feel excited about their career at AMS and empowered to drive it themselves. To provide the tools and structures that enable people to progress, are easy to understand and recognise good performance. 38 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing To host at least one event per region to “A unifying, motivational, celebrate success and bring our employees together. inspirational kick in the pants!” Celebrating success is an important part of the AMS culture. Whether it be through our Inspiring Awards or our “ It was an event that made me reward and recognition scheme, we are always looking for ways to ensure we thank our employees. fall in love with AMS” As an example, on 14th June 2011, we held ‘AMS World of Difference Conference’ attended by about 700 of our “ Made me feel really positive global people in London. The day could be described and proud about working as ‘packed’. Packed with people, information, case studies, emotions, recognition, inspiration, testimonials for AMS” and fun. First, we had a great intro by our CEO, who reminded us about AMS’s beginnings, our great successes and the entrepreneurial approach that gives us all a “ An excellent day that chance to make a difference to our business and grow reinforced the reasons I have professionally. After this, sector and service heads updated the audience with the latest best practice, stayed with AMS for six years!” trends and strategic insight into how 2011 was panning out and giving us a taste for 2012. “Great – it reminded me At this event, we also recognised the individual and team winners for the following award categories: Citizenship why AMS is such a great place Award of the Year; Innovator of the Year; Consulting to work” Assignment Team of the Year; Support Team of the Year 2011; Most Improved Team of the Year; Business Development Team of the Year; and Team of the Year 2011. “ This has been the most interesting and inspiring conference I have attended in my near nine years at AMS” 39 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing To implement in key regions Employee Wellbeing initiatives (for example, fruit bowls and massage). Our major focus in 2011 with regards to the Employee Wellbeing agenda, as described earlier in this section, was to help our employees be more productive, flexible and energised in their work. This was about removing some of the organisational barriers to productivity; across the business, this improvement will remain a key focus in future years. In addition, we continue to encourage employees to develop a healthy lifestyle. For example: • o ur Bracknell office in the UK offered subsidised massages to employees on a quarterly basis • o ur Poland employees were extended a new option to buy family medical packages at a discounted rate • our London headquarters provided free fruit on a daily basis • o ur Three Peaks Challenge and Team AMS programme as detailed on page 23 and 29 respectively raised awareness of the importance of sport and exercise • o ur Krakow Global Client Service Centre hosted a ‘Health Day’, where our people had a chance to attend health checks by our medical care provider and lectures about healthy lifestyle and wellbeing To deliver against some of the recommendations made by the Investor in People (IiP) Bronze assessment in the areas of measurement of training and development in preparation for reassessment in three years’ time. In July 2010, AMS secured the prestigious IiP Bronze award, reflecting our continued commitment to making people the foundation of our success. IiP is a globally recognised framework which sets out how good people management practices can help achieve business goals. The Bronze award places AMS within the top three percent of organisations to achieve this sought-after recognition. AMS was awarded the accreditation following a rigorous, independent assessment. This involved meetings with a cross-section of 70 employees globally to review AMS’s people management practices. The final report issued by the IiP assessors contained several recommendations about measuring the impact of training and how to ensure learning is embedded after a classroom event. In 2011, our Career Development Centre team introduced the concept of ‘Action Based Learning Sets’ to the curriculum whereby classroom attendees are tasked with specific development objectives after a course to assess how they’ll embed the knowledge and skills they have acquired. They meet with other delegates and hold each other accountable for the targets they have set themselves. This is a major step forward in our being able to fully demonstrate the business impact of our significant investment in our people’s learning and development. 40 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. In November 2011, we successfully renewed our Investors in Human Capital (“Inwestor w Kapitał Ludzki”) accreditation. The one-year accreditation is recognised locally as establishing companies as ‘employers of choice’, particularly as the management and investment in people can be a crucial factor in the success of Poland’s knowledge-based economy. In both November 2010 and November 2011, only 30 companies in Poland were accredited, placing AMS in the top companies in Poland for developing human capital, people management practices and employee engagement. Investor in Human Capital was awarded to AMS following a robust, independent assessment including an expert audit, onsite visits and an employee opinion survey of AMS’s HR and management procedures and tools. Our appraisal report paid special tribute to our efforts in developing and empowering our people in AMS. 41 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitments Status To continue providing the global EAP service, analysing results and creating a minimum of one Complete initiative to combat any concerning trends. To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans Complete based on employee feedback. To extend the survey questions to analyse sub-teams and develop localas well as company-level action plans. To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. Complete To implement in key regions Employee Wellbeing initiatives (for example, fruit bowls Complete and massage). To deliver against some of the recommendations made by the IiP Bronze assessment in the Complete areas of measurement of training and development in preparation for reassessment in three years’ time. To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. Complete 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To utilise the EAP service provider to support AMS in improving employee wellbeing; specifically use them as subject matter experts in improving our overall sickness absence management. To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. Define and achieve business unit, function and account specific employee engagement improvement targets. To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. To make structural changes to key client facing roles to enable employees to achieve effective stress-free productivity. Evidence will be improvements in work-life balance scores in our PulsePoint survey in 2013 and beyond. 42 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Inclusion & Diversity Inclusion & Diversity Our Inclusion & Diversity programme focuses on creating an inclusive, diverse and flexible environment within which our employees can contribute to their full potential. In any company, teams that reflect the widest possible variety of ideas, backgrounds and experiences should Key achievements deliver the most innovative solutions to clients worldwide. Our initiatives focus on our role as a • T o continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity company that employs diverse talent to ensure our assignments, bringing expert resourcing resourcing solutions and operations are aligned with the knowledge to our clients in the delivery of their global markets in which we operate. Inclusion & Diversity priorities. • T o use the Employers’ Forum on Disability and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. • T o implement an employee representative group from the Global Citizenship project team to advise on cultural suitability of communications. 44 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Achievements made What sort of diversity & To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, inclusion services do we bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our clients in the offer to our clients? delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. • T alent mapping: taking a particular Many of our clients operate Inclusion & Diversity programmes and look to market segment, e.g. women in banking, AMS to deliver bespoke projects. During 2011, we led a number of consulting and creating a pool of candidates who assignments on a range of areas within talent management. For instance, are within that minority group one of our financial services clients in the Americas was interested in identifying how to maximise their relationship and brand presence within • A ssessment: using the science of third-party diversity partners. Our consultants assessed nearly 15 diversity psychology to develop approaches partners and provided our client recommendations on new opportunities and to assessment and selection that are enhancements to existing efforts. fair and do not adversely impact one minority group over another Another example is that for a large defence client, we helped widen their overall diversity within the organisation by increasing the proportion of • T raining & development: designing individuals with different mind-sets and experience. Some quick wins programmes for clients that shift included posting all roles on those job boards focused on recruiting minorities attitudes and inspire behavioural change and changing their advertising imagery to better reflect a diverse workforce. • N etwork mapping: creating a visual We also enhanced their recruitment process to ensure that candidates map of the pattern of relationships with disabilities had ever opportunity to apply – including access to written within an organisation to understand application forms, adjusting interview questions on the screening form and the level of diversity & inclusion scheduling interviews around workplace adjustments. • I nclusion networks: establishing a network of like-minded individuals who connect people from a minority background to new opportunities 45 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity To extend our level and coverage of manager and Central Services Equality employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. We continue to train and educate our managers and employees on cultivating an inclusive working environment. In 2011, we introduced a Get Yourself in on the Act Dharmender Singh new course for all managers and employees called ‘Creative and Innovative Imagine an employer doesn’t give the most suitable applicant a job because they find out that the applicant has a disabled partner. Thinking’, which focuses on enabling others to think creatively about how Is this wrong in the eyes of the law? A t AMS, we pride ourselves on leading the way in the outsourcing and consulting market. they do their work and the acceptance of ideas from all parties. Its objective We do that not only with our cutting-edge solutions, but also through our ability to deliver compliant solutions across multiple geographies. Take the case of employment law, however, and we have to work hard to keep abreast of each development. It’s the fastest changing legal area courtesy of European dictates being passed almost daily, is to help employees unlock learned methods of problem solving to ensure Whereas previous combined with the challenge of local laws from the far corners of the world. And in October 2010, laws passed over one of the most significant pieces of law in many decades arrived in the shape of the Equality Act. a period of thirty years struggled to Whether it be placing a candidate in a permanent position or sourcing a contractor for a particular the most diverse and innovative solutions are sought. The course has been keep pace with project, our clients expect us to find the very best person for the role. Discriminatory behaviour in the the evolution recruitment process means we run the risk of failing in this objective, and consequently opening AMS and our clients up to a potential legal claim that is without any financial limit. It’s no surprise, then, of political that ensuring our people and processes are kept up to date with all changes in legislation that affect correctness, the well received, reaching over 200 of our employees since its launch. the recruitment industry is critical. Equality Act 2010 has harmonised Whereas previous laws passed over a period of thirty years struggled to keep pace the discrimination with the evolution of political correctness, the Equality Act 2010 has harmonised the arena. discrimination arena. The old favourites of race, sex, disability and age have been retained in the new legislation but the scope of protection (and by definition, the In addition, we continued to deliver our Leadership Academy (as discussed ability to bring a claim) has been extended in some curious ways. For instance, direct and indirect discrimination have been joined by discrimination by association and perception. Being associated with on page 19) and Management Development Programme (MDP) to our someone who has a protected characteristic now means you are given equivalent protection. Likewise, if someone wrongly assumes you have a disability and discriminates as a result of that, this would be deemed in breach of the new legislation. global leaders and managers. The MDP includes modules on ‘Getting the Harassment has similarly been updated to include protection against harassment by third parties. If, for example, an AMS employee is harassed by an employee of one of our clients and this is brought to our attention but we choose to do nothing, there is a best out of your team’, providing practical advice on how to effectively possible claim against AMS despite the fact that we have not carried out the harassment. So back to the question I first posed. This would be direct discrimination manage remote and cross-border teams to maximise the potential benefits because of disability by association. My suggestion? Make sure you attend the Employment Law courses run by AMS’s Career Development Centre where the Equality Act is picked up in detail. for all involved. Visit the Knowledge Exchange for an up-to-date training calendar and to sign up for the next Employment Law courses. 13 | The Point April 2011 To use the Employers’ Forum on Disability (EFD) and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. During 2011, we renewed our EFD membership – the world’s leading employers’ organisation focused on disability as it affects business – as a Gold Member. This providing us access to tailored and specific advice on how to improve the effectiveness of our diversity actions (not just with regards to disability, but the broad spectrum of underrepresentation). Our membership is mutually-beneficial: it enables us to share best practice with other renowned organisations facing similar challenges, while we assist the EFD on developing disability standards for the recruitment and resourcing industry as a whole. This year, we worked closely with the organisation to review our internal policies and processes, taking their expert advice to ensure inclusivity in everything we do. In July 2011, the EFD undertook a full and independent audit of our resourcing processes, from initial candidate contact right through to onboarding of new joiners. The audit focused on the key touchpoints, all internal documents and templates, and how we use our applicant tracking system. A full report was presented to our Global Head of Resourcing and Global Head of HR with recommendations for adjustments to enable AMS’s resourcing to be as inclusive as possible. We have since acted on these recommendations, including adjustments to our external website when it relaunched in July 2011. Our new website now complies with the majority of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) requirements, ensuring AMS’s part in using the web to its full and long-term potential. We have also included a dedicated careers section for our Polish applicants, as this demographic makes up a large proportion of our incoming candidates. 46 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity To implement an employee representative group from “This quarter’s the Global Citizenship Project Team to advise on cultural suitability of communications CheckPoint webinar Communicating with large, geographically separated groups of people and the breakdown of from diverse cultural backgrounds can pose significant messaging issues. In 2011, one of our Global Citizenship project teams – Corporate Culture and the factors that affect Practices – advised on the cultural suitability of internal communications. They helped examine imagery, tone, structure and suitability of internal our business was messaging to ensure that it is clear, concise and comprehensible in all really well received our operating regions. Examples of their involvement include being guest editors of our employee magazine, The Point, and this Global Citizenship here in Melbourne, as Report; revamping our Global Citizenship intranet section; and conducting focus groups about the global experience of viewing our regular employee was the ‘we have to webinar, CheckPoint. keep an eye on every pound, dollar, zloty Talking Point and rupee’ – very nice From the touch of the hat to the Home CountgieKsong: global business” to Hon ally with AMS Moving Internation Martin Cerullo known , I opted for the less W areas, my wife and hen Rosaleen asked if Kong, in an old fishing tranquil side of Hong I’d be interested in It’s about an hour’s support town called Sai Kung. Hong Kong is moving to Asia to commute to work, which in , hour our growt h in the region even though it’s an ued perceived as long, ute! as well as our contin previous UK comm ions less a day than my rcing Communicat expansion of Resou point and I jumpe d at in Asia? From a family internationally, my family So what is life like kids Malin, and I thoug ht it settled in nicely. Our the chance. My wife, of view, we have all friends ing Abroad daughters l, they’ve made new My Ten Tips on Mov would be great to expose our three Sofia 18 months) to love their new schoo the world and they sing to us in (Elise 7, Astrid 4 and a professional from all over experience of our first Chinese Personal es. And from rin. And our is happy and different cultur to Manda particularly fantas tic! 1. Ensure your family amazing opportunity Asia was the ideal platform perspective, it’s an New Year in settled – it creates ible pace of growt h and for success at work! be part of the incred ons. ctive, it’s been a very busy to learn the local g-edge talent soluti From a work perspe 2. Make an effort demand for leadin current and go a long way I have met many language – a few words a start to the year. ced g, my wife and I spent region and I am convin time – it’s much Before officially movin new clients in the 3. Network all the e to make new possible locations, housing years will be critica l for easier than you imagin week checking out that the next two ared to the hustle and and consulting. and work contac ts and schooling. Comp growth of outsourcing friends only with expats island, flats in soarin g opportunity for AMS! 4. Don’t spend time bustle of Hong Kong There is so much greater community ls in built-up urban – reach out to the that skyscrapers and schoo once – some foods 5. Try everything e will turn at first seem strang ites out to be your favour Professional team members in 1. Stay in touch with – make the most of other geographies and technologies like Skype Instan t Messe nger and learn from colleagues 2. Listen phy – I have already in the geogra our team in learnt so much from , Head of HR China and John Harris been a continual in Asia Pacific, has source of support and energy for what 3. Show passion for what AMS is you are doing, and known for! edge and experience 4. Apply your knowl able in – you will prove invalu how transferring your knowrk – the rk, netwo Park 5. Network, netwo the more Right: Family visit to see pandas at Ocean more people you meet, in Sai Kung | Top in Hong Kong Top Left: Shopping from the AMS office the local market, | Bottom Right: View linked in you are to Bottom Left: Boats for hire in Sai Kung | 6 April 2011 The Point the more you grow 47 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity 2011 commitment progress 2011 commitments Status To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our Complete clients in the delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. To extend our level and coverage of manager and employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. Partially Complete To use the EFD and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations Complete about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. To implement an employee representative group from the Global Citizenship Project Team to Complete advise on cultural suitability of communications. 2012 commitment summary 2012 commitments To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our clients in the delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. To establish partnerships with expert Inclusion & Diversity organisations to deliver services to clients including experts in disability and gender. To extend our level and coverage of manager and employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. To use the EFD and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. 48 Global Citizenship Report Inclusion & Diversity Priority summary Priority summary Overall Global Citizenship commitment 2012 commitment summary To ensure our Global Citizenship achievements leave a lasting legacy with all the stakeholder engagement groups we work with. This includes the Paralympians we support in Team AMS; each athlete will receive practical and financial support that will enable them to perform to their full potential on the way to the 2012 Games, plus assistance that will help them prepare for their post-sporting careers. 50 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Corporate Social Responsibility commitments 2012 commitment summary To produce and globally distribute at least two editions of The Point to deliver on as many of the readership survey suggestions as possible, while ensuring the objectives of The Point are also met. • Decrease to 15% those who describe The Point as being poor in terms of its fun nature (26% in 2011) • Decrease to 25% those who say that its variety of topics is either poor or okay (45% in 2011) • Address feedback regarding the digital format reading experience To produce at least two CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team. • Increase the post-webinar relevance and discussions by giving topics and examples for employees to think about applying in their own roles and to discuss with immediate colleagues • Increase the interaction of CheckPoint by creating senior manager guidelines for encouraging watching CheckPoint in teams (86% of those who watch CheckPoint alone do not discuss it with anyone) • Improve the quality of sound/video of the CheckPoint To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team. • Include broader updates including business development from both our consulting and outsourcing teams and insight into geographical specific developments • M aintain current frequency of once a quarter, with two sessions each time, to accommodate the majority of employee time zones To host an impactful Senior Manager Summit(s), that reflects managers’ event expectations. • Increase by five points the results of the 2011 post-event survey in terms of the event being informative, inspiring, exciting and full of info on the business strategy and the full service offering • Lighten the presentation time, to allow for more networking amongst managers To maintain our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2010/11 Academy participants. • Host two Leadership Academy sessions in 2012 To produce the annual Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP. • Formally submit the report by its May deadline • P rovide consistent editorial and content guidelines to ensure the report is an employee-led initiative via the Global Citizenship project teams, and that it’s a comprehensive overview of progress in 2011 and objectives in 2012 51 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Corporate Social Responsibility commitments 2012 commitment summary To continue using our EMS and remain ISO14001 accredited throughout 2012. This includes increasing the scope of our ISO14001 to our Krakow office, continuing to engage our environmental project team and adopting best practice from our clients. To continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to the AMS Code for Responsible Procurement. To review and re-design CSR Survey to ensure fit for purpose for 2012 and aim to issue to the revised PSL, which form part of the AMS Partner Programme. To develop and communicate the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter (RAEC), a two-way document outlining the approach to working in partnership. It will include commitments from suppliers to source from the broadest reach of applicants. The AMS RAEC will be reviewed to ensure compliance to the our diversity and inclusion policies and commitments. To inspire our people through our Team AMS sponsorship programme. To continue to support Leonardo, our Poland Charity of Choice, with fundraising and education, including a minimum of 50 hours of language and knowledge sharing sessions. Raise a minimum of PLN9000 through employee-led events to support their organisational goals. To extend opportunities for our people to volunteer their time to work with additional not-for-profit organisations to compliment the work undertaken with our UK Charity of Choice Tomorrow’s People. To remain a strong partner of Tomorrow’s People and contribute to their overall goals by supporting them with various fundraising and knowledge share initiatives. Move focus to align with Tomorrow’s People’s Young Peoples Programmes in line with their strategic programmes. Continue to deliver within the adult ‘Getting back to Work’ programme and deliver 20 workshops in 2012. To identify at least one annual fundraising event in each key region during 2012 with a total global fundraising goal of £10,000. To continue to support StreetWise Partners and Boston Career Collaborative as the US Charity of Choice. Contribute at least 36 hours of volunteer work in 2012 in the Americas. To select and work with Charities of Choice in the Philippines, Australia and Singapore. 52 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Employee Wellbeing commitments 2012 commitment summary To utilise the EAP service provider to support AMS in improving employee wellbeing; specifically use them as subject matter experts in improving our overall sickness absence management. To distribute two PulsePoint surveys, analyse the results and continue our targeted action plans based on employee feedback. Define and achieve business unit, function and account specific employee engagement improvement targets. To retain our Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland for another year. To host at least one event per region to celebrate success and bring our employees together. To make structural changes to key client facing roles to enable employees to achieve effective stressfree productivity. Evidence will be improvements in work-life balance scores in our PulsePoint survey in 2013 and beyond. Inclusion & Diversity commitments 2012 commitment summary To continue to lead Inclusion & Diversity assignments, bringing expert resourcing knowledge to our clients in the delivery of their Inclusion & Diversity priorities. To establish partnerships with expert Inclusion & Diversity organisations to deliver services to clients including experts in disability and gender. To extend our level and coverage of manager and employee Inclusion & Diversity awareness training. To use the EFD and other partner organisations to actively review and make recommendations about how we can improve the inclusivity of our policies, communications, operations and systems. 53 Global Citizenship Report Priority Summary Future aspirations Going further together Future aspirations 2011 and 2012: more collaborative progress against our global priorities Our strategy of empowering our people in 2011 to take ownership for driving change produced a large number of locally inspired, designed and delivered Global Citizenship initiatives. We all know that autonomy is one of the greatest drivers of employee engagement and motivation; the results that have been delivered by this strategy are an inspiration and credit to our employees who volunteered their time to make it happen. PulsePoint, our employee engagement survey, evidenced results in 2011 of the changes we made, with improvements in all categories. In 2012, our Global Citizenship programme will be remembered for the support we provide to some of the world’s most inspiring athletes through Team AMS. It’s a tremendously exciting year for our Paralympians, but our commitment to these athletes goes beyond the Games. We want to leave a lasting legacy and to significantly raise awareness of inclusion, specifically disability, amongst both our people and our stakeholders, including suppliers and clients. My long-term vision for Global Citizenship at AMS remains the same. It is a vehicle for change, both within our business and the wider market. I want us to be recognised as best in class across all our Global Citizenship programmes internally and to be a key force in driving talent management changes externally If you’d like to discuss AMS’s Global Citizenship programme, please do get in touch. You can contact me on david.heath@alexmann.com or our Global Citizenship project teams at global.citizenship@alexmann.com David Heath Global Director of People Capital and Head of IT & Telco and Healthcare business units Alexander Mann Solutions 55 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations www.alexandermannsolutions.com
