Communication on progress 2012 Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter Statement of continued support In an increasingly global world and an equally international market, the need for guidelines and common values becomes ever more apparent. We seek to use our skills in areas that help keep the wheels of society running smoothly and create conditions that enable people to improve their lives. When working with projects and partners, we always do our best to apply solutions that are sustainable, economical, and just plain sensible. The 2011 acquisition of Public Architects A/S has significantly strengthened Gottlieb Paludan’s design and consulting expertise for the types of common facilities needed to support well-run communities and has strongly improved our ability to deliver environmentally and socially sustainable solutions in architecture. We have found that membership of the UN Global Compact initiative supports and expresses our aspirations in this regard, and we wish to contribute to the improvements that the initiative embraces. We therefore proudly give our continued support to advance the goals and principles behind the UN Global Compact. Copenhagen, 3 May 2012 Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter • Introduction • Focus • Key concerns • Projects • The four focus areas • Measuring outcomes Communication on progress 2012 Gottlieb Paludan Arkitekter a/s Kalvebod Brygge 30 1560 København V Denmark Tel +45 4171 8200 Fax +45 4171 8255 www.gottliebpaludan.com cvr. 1835 5949 bank 4180 4360 160548 Introduction Gottlieb Paludan is an architectural firm that is rooted in the Scandinavian style of architecture and the region’s particular social model, and our history streches back more than a century. We mostly work in Denmark and the rest of Scandinavia, focusing mainly on assignments and projects related to utilities and infrastructure –common functions that form a crucial part of the operational framework for every well-run modern society. With the acquisition of Public Architects, we have significantly strengthened our capacity to pursue both project work and R&D projects in these areas. Social responsibility is a natural, integrated part of our Public transportation, with focus on developing and improving activities, and also an aspect of the society from which we have public transportation. Redesigning Nørreport Station – the grown – and we want to leave the world a better place than it busiest transportation hub in Denmark. was before we began making our contributions. We consider In collaboration with COBE. it a basic professional premise that we create solutions that are sustainable for Planet Earth, for our clients, and for our business. A history that goes back 100 years also obliges us to think of the next 100 years, in terms of energy, climate challenges, and economics. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter Focus Gottlieb Paludan’s focus within the UNGC’s ten princples leans strongly towards environmental and social sustainability. Ankomstvej Reservoir Primære reaktorer Adm. The environmental and resource-related consequences Skel P Fiberlager Modtagehal of the firm’s activities are systematically monitored to 52 Lund 48.2 Vekslerbygning limit adverse affects, with special emphasis placed on our Sekundære reaktorer external services and construction projects. Further, we also Fortanke Eksisterende lund systematically seek to limit the environmental footprint from 48 53 Reservoir our own office operations. Efterlagertanke 7500 m3 Lund Lund Skel Gottlieb Paludan’s Environmental Plans for internal and Skel external impacts are used for managing our environmental N efforts, and to ensure efficiency. These plans are evaluated Eksisterende lund Lund once a year by senior management and appropriately Biogas – developing tools to integrate renewable-energy adjusted. production facilities into open landscapes. Skel 54 53 52 51 50 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 40 39 38 0 50 m 10 We primarily look for assignments in areas that support the development of, and are vital to, the smooth running of a cohesive society: In the areas of energy and supply, we seek new projects in the fields of renewable energy and ecofriendly food production, and through the recent acquisition of another Danish architectural firm, Public Architects, we have expanded our focus areas to also include infrastructure and public transportation. In short, our focus is primarily on the environmental, societal, and social aspects of sustainability, and we emphasise solutions and designs that provide long-term sustainability. This helps to ensure that projects have a long life cycle, which in turn is a sensible proposition for clients, users, and society as a whole. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter Key concerns We create change by thinking new thoughts, and by offering new ways of solving the challenges that societies face today. We know that our way of looking at things, combined with our professional expertise, can bring new ideas to the development of our societies and to the field of energy and infrastructure. We have the mental resources to think beyond our own interests, and we are always prepared to take part in the public debate about the right priorities in the development of our societies. Through our Vision 2012 document, we have comitted ourselves to expanding our participation in research and development projects in the field of renewable energy production – one of Gottlieb Green Power Island – renewable energy production and storage, research and development project. Paludan’s areas of special expertise. In 2011, this has resulted in a strong focus on R&D projects in biogas production. As for infrastructure, the firm focuses on projects supporting public transportation, and also on the promotion of bicycle culture and related projects. Accesibility is another key concern of ours, which has been receiving considerable attention in 2011–12. Through our work as a client consultant for the Disabled Peoples Organisations Denmark, and complemented by our acquisition of Public Architects, Gottlieb Paludan have further added to this area of expertise, and we are currently doing both project and consulting work in this field. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter Projects We have continued our work with, and our promotion of, two ongoing development projects with strong renewable energy profiles: The Green Power Island project, which has been carried out in collaboration with Risø DTU, the Danish national laboratory for renewable energy, and which has raised awareness on a global scale of the challenges of transforming our energy systems to move towards a non-carbon model. The Pig City project, which has focused on future animal and vegetable farming based on closed nutrition loops and synergies of crops – without generating damaging emissions. This project has also helped to increase the focus on the need to find environmentally Pig City – eco-friendly food production and farming, research friendly solutions for farming and food production in the future. and development. Biogas projects – In 2011, we have initiated a new biogas R&D project in collaboration with the Realdania Foundation and other advisors. This project is aimed at developing tools for the design and integration of biogas plants into the open, rural Danish landscapes; a technology that is predicted to boom in the coming years, and which will have a significant visual impact on the landscape. Work environment R&D – In the field of work environment, we have engaged ourselves in a R&D project, led by the Danish Technical University (DTU), focusing on the practical implementation of WE measures in tender material prepared by consultants. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter The four focus areas Human Rights Gottlieb Paludan A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour. We take care to uphold the basic principles of general human rights for everybody through all our work. Labour Gottlieb Paludan A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour, including the prevention of child labour, forced labor and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Transformation research – industrial PhD on the future Environment utilization of derelict suburban industrial areas. Anthropogenic climate changes and their impact on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, and our goal is to continue the promotion of greater environmental responsibility through our work. Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan’s main activities lie in Denmark and Scandinavia which are traditionally topping Transparency International’s list of least corrupt countries. We never encounter corruption in our daily work and will continue to oppose any signs of it. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter Measuring outcomes During the last reporting period, Gottlieb Paludan has made significant progress on the following issues: Expanding focus on environmentally friendly project areas The 2011 acquisition of Public Architects A/S has significantly strengthened Gottlieb Paludan’s expertise with regard to the facilities needed to support a well-run society, and our commitment and ability to focus on the environmental aspects of such projects. Strengthened areas include public transportation, bicycle transport, and accessibility. Environmental screening of new projects During the period since our last COP, we have managed to keep the ratio of environmental screenings of new projects close to 100 %. Accessibility Investments in environmentally sustainable development projects expert skills in accessibility for public spaces. These investments have continued, and Gottlieb Paludan have client consultants for Disabled Peoples Organisation Denmark, creating “the world’s most accessible office initiated a new biogas R&D project in collaboration with the building” for their new HQ. Realdania Foundation. Furthermore, we have continued the development of two significant projects with strong renewable energy profiles: Green Power Island and The Pig City project. Own environmental impact The acquisition of Public Architects has concentrated a workforce of approx. 60 in the center of Copenhagen. This has dramatically reduced the need for car transportation as access to public transport and bicycling is very easy. Further, the new operation benefits from economies of scale: The environmental impact of the operation of the office is notably reduced, as far more people now share office space, printing facilities, heating and electricity, office lunch and so on. Gottlieb Paludan + Public Arkitekter
