C o n t e n t s Scope & Profile Sustainability Reporting 2 A word from our Chairman 3 Materiality Reporting Key Issues 5 IndianOil the Energy of India 6 Economic Aspects Inclusive Growth & Profitability 12 Environmental Aspects Integrated approach for resource conservation 18 Social AspectsNurturing symbiotic relations with community 26 Labour Practices 30 Human Rights 34 Corporate Governance 38 Stakeholder Engagement 42 Product Responsibility 46 Charters & Memberships 49 Distinctions, Award & Recognitions 49 List of Abbreviations and Acronyms 50 GRI Index 51 Scope & Profile Sustainability Reporting We present, Inclusive Offerings, IndianOil’s Sustainability Report for the year 2010-11. The sixth edition of our Sustainability Report, it covers economic, environmental and social aspects of our business performance for the period 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011. This is prepared in accordance with Level A of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 2006 and Sustainability Reporting GRI-G3 Guidelines. IndianOil, the largest commercial organisation of India, carries out business through its Refineries, Pipelines, Marketing, R&D Division, Planning & Business Development besides the group. In this report, information on the Economic, Environmental and Social aspects of our business and other performance determinants like labour practices, human rights, corporate governance, product responsibilities etc. are delineated in respective sections. However, the performance reporting of our subsidiaries and Joint Venture companies have been excluded. As the Government of India holds a major share (78.92%) in IndianOil, the administrative control of our company vests with and, its various policy decisions are the foremost principles of our corporate governance in implementing and achieving social, economic and environmental performances of our business. Inclusive Offerings is a result of our in-house reporting system and therefore, the Management provides a mandatory assurance over the materiality of the information and data which is reproduced in this report from our database maintained at respective units. Report Application Levels G3 disclosure level C C+ B B+ A A+ Profile Report Report  Report Management Approach externally externally  externally Performance Indicators Assured Assured  Assured 2 A word from our To our Stakeholders, Chairman It is my pleasure to introduce Inclusive Offerings, IndianOil’s Sustainability Report 2010-11. This year’s report continues to demonstrate the substantial progress made in implementing IndianOil’s sustainability and growth strategy; in continuing our progress in environmental governance and performance as well as advancing our constructive engagement with the communities and customers that we serve. The world economic environment poses several challenges to providing energy security to the energy deficient developing countries like India that are working relentlessly to uplift the living standard of its people. Given this background and coupled with our corporate vision to be the Energy of India, it is incumbent upon us to continue to meet the fuel needs of the country. We have performed well on this expectation and are determined to serve the nation in meeting our responsibilities with added vigour. Our community of stakeholders includes not just those who buy our products, but all those individuals, groups and institutions for whom our performance is important, and whose opinions and activities are important to us in turn. Our ability to deliver growth comes from the strength and commitment of our stakeholders. It is this conviction of our stakeholders in our culture of commitment that provides us indomitable strength to achieve growth through sustainable development. We are committed to deliver futuristic energy solutions to the nation, and to realise these aspirations, we must choose to live with a sense of global responsibility, identifying ourselves together with our local communities. Sustainable measures taken today will become tomorrow’s treasures for the lives of the community in which we live, and that will only propel our organisation to superior profitability. Due to the intrinsic inflammable nature of petroleum products, the hydrocarbon industry has to continuously invest its efforts in developing and achieving a safe culture. This calls for the best in class technologies and best in class operating practices. Above all, the commitment of each IOCian to this culture of safe and secure operations is most important every time we enter our work centres. I tend to believe that this commitment of each IOCian, coupled with our technical expertise and robust safety culture will overcome all safety-related challenges. Parallel to this, in 2010, we have put in place a new group Renewable Energy & Sustainable Development (RE&SD) to fast track our ambitious plans to achieve environmental sustainability goals. The emphasis on renewable energy and sustainable development reflects the deep desire within the organisation to make real and measurable progress in improving the environment footprint for a better tomorrow. Green auto fuels, energy efficient technologies, shifting equilibrium of market dynamics towards rural communities, etc. besides tapping alternative energy sources are some of the steps that have already been in progress in the Corporation. Inclusive Offerings: Sustainability Report 2010-11 vividly illustrates significant milestones in our journey to secure inclusive growth. We welcome you to continue this dialogue with us by offering your comments, suggestions and questions. Please send your thoughts at sustainability@iocl.co.in (R. S. Butola) Chairman, IndianOil 3 Our Vision with Values 4 Materiality Reporting Key Issues Risks & Opportunities Our Initiatives Product pricing : Debilitating continuance of under recovery on sale of IndianOil, jointly with OMCs is constantly engaging the Government of and viz. diesel, known impacts profitability of the Company. India for timely compensation of under recoveries. Supply shocks Raw material availability from overseas and indigenous Channelize alternate overseas crude supply points through appropriate sources : India continues to import more than 75% of its crude business models. Acquire versatile crude processing capabilities. requirements. Disruption attributable to suppliers viability, Crude Oil Opportunities: quality, Geo-political incidents impacting crude oil availability.  To outreach global fuel centres and secure E&P assets, expeditiously.  To convert domestic E&P potential into tap off points. Supply Shocks Finished product availability at storage & retail points. Pre-monsoon and pre-winter stocking of petroleum products at Disruption of road, rail and pipeline transportation links due to natural designated storage points located in difficult hilly terrain areas ensures calamities, and emergencies adversely affects supply & distribution of product availability in the areas which experience isolation through finished products. seasonal disruptions in transportation links. We have a Transport Emergency Management Plan to effectively handle such supply crisis situations. Greening of product supply chains Environmental obligations From the base year 2009-10, the environmental mapping exercise i.e. Achieving and demonstrating sound environmental performance by carbon, waste and water footprinting of our refineries, storage points, controlling the impact of our activities, products and services on the other units has become an on-going process. The Renewable Energy & environment in the context of increasingly stringent legislation on carbon Sustainable Development group with its nodal points in each Division emission, water consumption, waste management and Renewable Energy is providing a pivotal role in addressing the issues arising from the Purchase Obligation(RPO) etc. environmental aspects of our business so as to achieve environmental objectives and sustainable development. Our refineries have initiated action to meet ISO:14064 standards. Integrated approach for resource conservation and Energy efficient Energy conservation initiatives continue to deliver remarkable activities & services : Sustained reduction in carbon emission through results. The energy Index in terms of MBN has been further energy efficiency will be a key element of our business. Our services reduced from 62 of last year to 59 during 2010-11 against the would have to be an efficient user of natural resources to remain Industry’s index reduction from 69 of last year to 66 during competitive. 2010-11. Water conservation and the concept of rain water harvesting is gaining considerable attention. In refineries about 81% of treated effluents were reused during 2010-11 against 77% during previous year. 124 rain water harvesting facilities installed at various units. Waste-reduction measures are in place. Disposal of wastes is carried out as per PCB guidelines. Oily wastes are bio-remediated or sold for reprocessing to agencies approved by the State Pollution Control Boards. Spent catalysts are responsibly disposed to authorized agencies. Technological innovation for alternate energy sources and sustainable We have ambitious plans for setting up projects for tapping solar, wind, business practices. Sustainable business practices will become one of and nuclear energy. Our R&D activities are focussed at developing the key performance indicators of our business. environment friendly products and services. IndianOil has initiated action for solarisation of ROs, on grid and off grid solar & wind power projects. Bio-fuels, bio-remediation of wastes are among the other major thrust areas which are delivering encouraging results. Volatile international crude price/ Lower return of capital employed Efforts are in place to further optimize the crude basket, minimize on investments/ escalated debt levels. inventories, pursue higher value products and cost reductions. Forex fluctuation: Unstable capital flow is an offshoot of the current The corporation has been using various cushioning strategies to limit the global economy and wide ranged forex fluctuations adversely impact all adversities of forex fluctuations. such transactions. 5 IndianOil the Energy of India IndianOil is India’s largest commercial Organisation. It is 75 percent of total oil consumption. It is estimated that highest ranked Indian company in the latest Fortune ‘Global coal import which was negligible in the past is also likely to 500’ listings, ranked at 98 position, this year. IndianOil’s th touch around 30% of the total coal requirement in the next vision is driven by a group of dynamic leaders who have few years. The competition for acquiring energy resources made it a name to reckon with. With over 34,000 strong is intensified globally. It is causing a serious concern as the work force, a Maharatna Company, IndianOil has been Indian economy will require to intermingle with an ever helping to meet India’s energy demands and reaching expanding global fuel market. We are determined to petroleum products to every part of India for over five achieve the growth path in an environmentally responsible decades. Since inception as Indian Oil Company Limited manner in line with national target to cut the emissions on 30 June 1959, we have grown exponentially and th intensity of GDP by 20-25% by 2020 compared to the upon merger of Indian Refineries Ltd, it was renamed 2005 level. Indian Oil Corporation Limited, on 1 September 1964. st Our operations spans from refining, transportation of Rising from the status of merely a petroleum Crude, fuels through cross country pipelines, marketing marketing company in the year 1959, today of petroleum products, natural gas and petrochemicals, business interests of IndianOil has outreached global exploration and production of crude and gas. These energy points towards fulfilment of our vision to be the operations are carried out through our strategically Energy of India. integrated Divisions–Refineries Division, Pipelines Division, The increasing energy requirements together with a Marketing Division, Planning & Business Development and slow increase in domestic crude production is leading to R&D Centre. In addition, we are deriving group synergy higher import bill as the country’s oil imports is more than through merger of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. 6 (CPCL), Bongaigaon Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (BRPL), rates. We are on the cusp of perhaps one of the biggest IBP Co. Limited, through our three overseas subsidiaries opportunities of our lifetime. – Lanka IOC Ltd. in Sri Lanka, IndianOil (Mauritius) Ltd. Our projected investments of over ` 47,000 crore in new in Mauritius and IOC Middle East FZE in the United Arab and additional refining capacity, enhanced pipeline network Emirates and eight joint ventures with Indian and overseas and marketing touch-points ensure that our nation will partners, we secure strategically advantageous position in always have a secure and reliable energy resource for our efforts to garner accelerated growth as reflected by our development. The Corporation’s 15 MMTPA Paradip physical performance. IndianOil and its subsidiary (CPCL) Refinery Project on the east coast is also a significant account for over 48% petroleum products market share, addition to the nation’s refining infrastructure and opens up 34.8% national refining capacity and 71% downstream significant export opportunities. In the recent years, while sector pipelines capacity in India. the rapid growth in the Indian economy has increased its The IndianOil Group of companies owns and operates 10 appetite for petrochemicals, the per capita consumption still of India’s 21 refineries with a combined refining capacity of continues to be way below the world average. The demand 65.7 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA, i.e. 1.30 for petrochemicals in the domestic segment in India is very million barrels per day approx.). IndianOil’s cross-country strong and slowly, we are seeing the established markets network of crude oil and product pipelines, spanning move to specialty polymers while much of India and China 10,899 km with a capacity of 75.26 MMTPA, is the largest are focusing on commodity polymers. in the country. With a throughput of 68.5 million tonnes, it meets the vital energy needs of the consumers in an Case Study : Innovative technical support is the key efficient, economical and environment-friendly manner. for success: IndianOil has a sprawling world-class R&D Centre. It has pioneered several lubricants formulation, It has a portfolio of powerful and most–preferred energy refinery processes, improvements in pipeline brands that includes Indane LPGas, SERVO lubricants, transportation and alternative fuels, and is also the XtraPremium petrol, XtraMile diesel, etc. Validating the nodal agency of the Indian hydrocarbon sector trust of 56.8 million households, Indane has earned the for ushering in Hydrogen fuel economy in the coveted status of ‘Superbrand’ along with SERVO, our country. The Centre holds 212 active patents, lubricant brand. with over 100 international patents. Some of the in-house technologies and catalysts developed IndianOil’s ISO-9002 certified Aviation Service commands by IndianOil include the INDMAX technology an enviable 63% market share in aviation fuel business, (for maximising LPGas yield), Oilivorous–S successfully servicing the demands of domestic and bio-remediation technology (extended to marine international flag carriers, private airlines and the Indian applications too), Diesel Hydro DeSulphurisation Defence Services. The Corporation also enjoys a 65% (DHDS) catalyst, a special catalyst for Bharat share of the bulk consumer, industrial, agricultural and Stage-IV compliant Diesel, IndVi catalyst for improved marine sectors. distillate yield and FCC throughput, and adsorbent As a leading energy corporate in a rapidly growing based deep desulphurisation process for gasoline emerging economy, challenges & opportunities are plentiful and diesel streams. for the Corporation. With domestic demand projected to During the year 2010-11, we have recorded a turnover grow at a higher rate over the long term, the Corporation of ` 3,28,744 crore and profit of ` 7445.48 crore. Our has laid out strategic plans to meet the future demand for refineries operated at 102% capacity with a throughput of petroleum products in India. The biggest opportunity is on 52.96 MMT and continued to improve their distillate yield the infrastructure front with an unprecedented array of performance. Our pipelines network has registered an projects lined up for implementation, like new highways, all-time high crude throughput of 42.47 MMT during the ports, airports and power projects. The automobile and year . The product pipeline throughput was at 25.37 MMT. manufacturing sectors are also notching up good growth We have notched up a higher share of about 49.5% in the 7 sale of petroleum products. Our Petrochemical group has and Hydrogen fuels are also under active consideration. achieved sales at 910 TMT during the year in comparison Our technology initiatives and business strategies provide to 650 TMT last year. In Petrochemicals, IndianOil offers a us a unique competitive advantage in handling the entire full slate of products including Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB), hydrocarbon value chain and a diversified portfolio of Purified Terephthallic Acid (PTA) and an extensive range products, brands and services. Today, the guiding principle of polymers. IndianOil holds a significant market share of in the race to develop and adopt the best technologies is LAB in India and exports to 19 countries. It is also one of reduction of carbon footprint, waste generation and water the largest suppliers of Mono-Ethylene Glycol (MEG) in consumption in various operations. the domestic market clocking a sales volume of 151 TMT Solar Energy during 2010-11. Execution of a state-of-the-art 120,000 tonnes per annum Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR) unit India is endowed with enormous solar energy potential is underway at Panipat. The SBR unit is expected to across its complete geographical span and to tap this further strengthen IndianOil’s presence in the speciality petrochemicals sector. Energising a greener tomorrow IndianOil’s commitment to achieve sustainable development and it’s vision to be the ‘Energy of India’ have motivated renewable energy potential, IndianOil is progressing steadfast. Our initiatives in garnering solar energy are as under : A 5 MW Solar-PV power plant in Rajasthan is expected to commence power generation by January 2012. This is being developed with technical assistance from BHEL. its initiatives into the renewable energy such as Bio-fuels, Wind and Solar. Moreover, with the return of high crude oil prices, the attractiveness of investment in these energy sources has increased considerably. Besides, a conducive policy environment, as being put in place under the Government’s National Action Plan on Climate Change is seen as a major catalyst in making renewable energy investment attractive and rewarding. From the near future onwards, renewable energy sources will provide the most versatile solution to the energy and environmental related IndianOil has large network of Retail Outlets (ROs) spread issues. IndianOil is working on various ambitious projects all over India. We propose to have off-grid solar power in alternative energy vistas such as biofuels, solar energy, systems and wind-solar hybrid systems at these ROs to wind energy and Nuclear energy, besides Biomass, Biogas meet their energy need. This will not only ensure the 8 un-interrupted power supply but also reduce the carbon footprint of those ROs. Our Solar Lanterns are gaining popularity in the rural market due its superior illumination quality. About 30,500 users of our Solar lanterns find the same as an appropriate appliance to their quest for a superior illumination and smoke-free environs. Further efforts for cost reduction of our solar lantern is already underway. Solar Lantern testing facility has been created in R&D Centre. A number of initiatives on Solar PV lighting, Solar-LED Street light at various Refineries, Installations, terminals and LPG Bottling Plants and administrative offices across the organization have been initiated to harness solar energy and reduce the carbon footprint, as well. Wind energy in 6081 hectares of Government wasteland in the Our first wind power unit (21 MW) is operating in Kutch, States of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Gujarat and since its commissioning in Jan 2009, it has Pradesh. To straddle the complete bio-fuel value chain, generated 8.5 crore units equivalent to a revenue of IndianOil has formed a joint venture with the Chhattisgarh ` 39.5 crore till 31.03.2011. It is also generating about Renewable Development Authority. IndianOil CREDA Biofuels Ltd. to carry out farming, cultivating, manufacturing, production and sale of biomass, bio-fuels and allied products and services in Chhattisgarh. In Uttar Pradesh, IndianOil is establishing a model value chain for the production of bio-diesel in partnership with Ruchi Soya. A MoU for collaborating on commercial production of Case Study : Jatropha plantation Sites – A headway in Carbon Sinking and CSR activities. IndianOil-CREDA Biofuels Ltd. (ICBL) at Chhattisgarh organized Health Care Camps for villagers at Bhamu and Newra, Bilaspur district, Chhattisgarh in association with Helpage India– a 34,000 CERs annually. Additional wind power capacity of leading NGO in the field of health care. Over 500 48.3 MW is proposed to be added during 2011-12. people in Newra and Bhamu village availed the Biofuels services. They were offered free medicines and a routine check-up for malaria which was endemic in On 12 September 2008, the Government of India the area. A series of climate awareness programmes announced its ‘National Biofuel Policy’. It aims to meet 20% of India’s diesel demand with fuel derived from has been conducted in association with The Institute plants. of Applied Systems and Rural Development (IASRD), Delhi, in Chhattisgarh, creating awareness on IndianOil has the largest captive energy crop climate change. assets as we have completed Jatropha plantation 9 bio-diesel from algae has also been signed with PA of feed stock, including waste material like ethanol LLC. Our Jatropha Plantation drive has generated from lingo cellulosic fermentation, algae based bio-fuels. about 3.33 lakh man days of rural employment Nuclear Energy having a CO2 sequestration potential of 22.7 tCO2 A JV company NPCIL-IndianOil Nuclear Energy Corp. per month. The company envisages Jatropha plantation Ltd. with Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited in 80,000 hectares in Chhattisgarh & Uttar Pradesh in has been formed to meet our ambitious plans for putting coming years. Nuclear Power Plants. JV is putting up Nuclear Power Plants at Rawatbhata, Rajasthan (2X700 mw) with Pressurised Second Generation Bio Fuels Heavy Water Based Reactor (PHWR) technology future We have planned setting up an advanced bio-energy participation in other planned project is being examined. research facility in collaboration with Department of Upon opening up of the sector, we have plans for Bio technology, Government of India. Its main focus area independently developing nuclear portfolio and make will be technology development and deployment of IndianOil a nuclear energy major. Accordingly, developing second generation bio fuels produced from a variety human capital is a thrust area. 10 11 Economic AspectsInclusive growth & profitability With an overall improvement in the global business in such a market, the corporation assesses ample growth environment in the last year, the world economy is opportunities for itself, which are further enhanced by the coming out of the recessionary mode. However, transition increasing thrust of the policy initiatives for energy sector from recovery to expansion seems to be a major policy development. The Corporation’s vision is to become the challenge, especially in the advanced economies. While ‘Energy of India’, and business strategies are focused on the developing economies played a dominant role in the strengthening core business. global growth recovery and continued to grow at high Rural Energy Deficit & Potential: rates, the flaring inflation rates in most of the emerging Within the domestic market, the Corporation looks at the economies, presents a potent risk to the sustenance of rural space as presenting unique growth opportunities. It is the growth momentum. our endeavor to dovetail our business initiatives with the The turnaround in global economic growth reflected goal of energy inclusion in the country. The corporation’s in a rebound in energy demand. The growth in energy rural marketing model is based on low cost, no frills retail consumption was broad-based across energy types. outlets, named Kisan Seva Kendras (KSKs) for providing fuel Emerging economies in particular contributed to the high and non fuel services to the rural market. The renewed demand growth. thrust of the Government towards the basic energy needs In 2010, world oil consumption was at around 88 million of the Below Poverty Line (BPL) families through focused barrels per day exceeding its pre-crisis peak. The supply schemes such as Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitaran Yojana side registered higher production but the market remained in which the Corporation is partnering, gives further tight as rise in production did not fully match the rise in impetus to the corporation’s efforts in this area. The sale consumption, resulting in drawing down of inventories. of solar lanterns through the corporation’s retail network and LPG distributionship supplements these efforts. With demand outrunning production, during the year, crude oil prices continued their ascent. Towards the International Downstream Marketing end of 2010-11, the upward trajectory steepened as the Opportunities: political turmoil in Middle East & North Africa (MENA) In the international petroleum product market, the Asiaregion accompanied by supply outages from Libya hit the Pacific Region has emerged as the leading growth center oil market. In less than two years, oil prices are back to the for petroleum demand and is expected to turn into the plus US$100/bbl domain and are reshaping energy policy largest importer of petroleum products in the near future. & business. With high oil prices, focus is once again turning In addition, the emerging markets are experiencing rapid to Bio-fuels, Shale gas, Oil sands, other unconventional Oil growth in petroleum product demand. The Corporation sources and renewables. aims to explore opportunities presented by these fast growing demand centers through appropriate business The Indian energy market is amongst the largest in the models. world. Further, the sector is expected to grow at high rates, way above the global average largely propelled Business Integration: by the fast growth of the Indian economy, rapid rate of Downward Integration in Petrochemicals: urbanization and the need to supply energy to millions The Corporation has made significant strides in downward of Indians trapped in energy poverty. As a key supplier integration into petrochemicals in the recent past. The 12 ground strength of India’s manufacturing base has created and existing limited gas supply infrastructure, present robust growth in petrochemicals demand. Supported a considerable investment opportunity in developing gas with our future investments plans, we have moved up transportation infrastructure and marketing of gas. In this the petrochemicals value chain, garnering opportunities context, participation in construction of pipeline networks presented by the growing petrochemicals demand in the both cross country & city gas distribution will be a focused country. In addition, IndianOil also aims to expand its area for the corporation. Prospects of LNG imports to the petrochemicals export market. country have turned positive in the last couple of years and to seize the opportunity presented, the corporation plans Upward Integration into Exploration & Production: to build LNG Import Terminals. With the objective of enhancing the energy Further, there is growing policy thrust on initiatives in the security of the country and backward integration domain of Sustainability. Through its Memorandum of of its business, the Corporation has been in Understanding (MoU) with the Public Sector Undertakings, pursuit of tapping E&P opportunities and through the Government of India has been bringing enhanced a consortium approach entrenching its upward integration focus to CSR activities and Sustainable Development. for over a decade now. Having built up a portfolio of This is a welcome step and the corporation has already blocks, within and outside the country, the Corporation incorporated targets pertaining to these areas in its MoU awaits a significant breakthrough. with the Government. Thrust on these areas will go a long Beyond Petroleum: Growing Gas Supply way in establishing a long-term competitive edge to the Opportunities: Improved gas supply in the country corporation. 13 Financial & Operational Performance 14 15 16 17 Environmental AspectsIntegrated approach for resource conservation Oil & Gas industry is under tremendous pressure to During the year 2010-11, we have processed 52.962 meet the ever rising challenges of energy deficit, population MMT of crude and continued to improve our growth and economic development as well as upgrade performance with a capacity utilization of 102%. processes and product specifications to make them Various energy optimisation and hydrocarbon loss environment friendly. In various parts of the world, the minimising schemes have been implemented at IndianOil conflict between economic development and environment Refineries, which have resulted in fuel savings to the conservation is increasing. IndianOil appropriately tune of around 93,600 MT/year valued at about addresses those issues by understanding the expectations at ` 240 crore. The Energy Index in terms of MBTU/BBL/ of the communities in which we operate in and act in an NRGF of our refineries in the year 2010-11 was further economically, socially and environmentally responsible reduced to 59 against the energy index of 62 in the year manner which is ascribed to our constant engagement 2009-10. with the stakeholders to mitigate the shared problems and challenges. The corporation appreciates the merits and the necessity of sustainable development and is committed to sustainable business practices. Within its core business, the Corporation would continue with its focused attention on efficiency improvement, energy conservation, in supplying environment friendly fuels. Further, the corporation views it as an opportunity to create foundations of a sustainable business by integrating society & environment into our business. The Corporation intends to make its KSKs and its initiatives under RGGLVY as the nodal points of delivery of its CSR activities in rural areas with respect to its health related initiatives and reaching LPG to BPL families. Energy Reduction key enabler to sustainable growth Crude oil is our major raw material and is obtained from overseas and indigenous sources. 18 Energy Sourcing and Consumption Own Power Generation Purchased Power Fuel Oil Fuel Gas Diesel (MWH) (MWH) (TMT) (TMT) (TMT) Division 2009-10 2010-11 2009-10 2010-11 2009-10 2010-11 2009-10 2010-11 2009-10 2010-11 REF 3259169 3231862 86722 46590 2075 1202 1725 1932 24 73 MKTG 3245 3383 59858 61055 Nil Nil Nil Nil 3.9 4.1 Power from Power from WTG (Wind)WTG (Wind)PPL 20436 23142 71563 71288 70 69 Nil Nil 33 29 Power from Power from RefineriesRefineries34592 38786 R&D 5953 5543 180 2491 0.26 0.017 Nil Nil 1.45 1.5 Power Consumption (MWH) Carbon Management Drives: Division 2009-10 2010-11 Increase/ Monitoring and control of emission of Green House Decrease in Gases, mainly Carbon Dioxide is being done. One Total Power Consumption Clean Development Mechanism Project at Guwahati Refineries 3345890.79 3278452.482 (2.02) Refinery pertaining to Flare Gas Recovery System was Marketing 63103.167 64438.496 2.12* registered during the year with United Nations Framework Convention of Climate Change (UNFCC). The Certified Pipelines 126589.835**** 133216.072**** 5.23** Emission Reduction (CER) for the project is 3690. A total R&D 7752.527 8033.531 3.62*** of five Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects Total 3543336.32 3484140.581 (1.67) of Refinery Units have been registered till date at UNFCC, * increased t’put with cumulative CER of 59, 964. Also, seven additional ** CBPL (Chennai Bangalore Pipeline commissioned and projects under CDM have also been taken up in Refinery increased t’put) Units. *** construction activities Carbon Foot printing ***** Wind Power consumption 20435.542 MWH Carbon Foot printing in one Refinery and 6 other & 23141.829 MWH in 2009-10 & 2010-11 respectively. installations of Pipelines, Marketing, R&D Centre and IiPM 19 has been done. All refineries are carrying out Verification  Inter Divisional Cricket tournament, Baroda: Certification, as per ISO-14064:1-2006. Jan-2011 Carbon Neutrality Potential sources of carbon footprints such as air travel undertaken by officials, electricity required for We have identified 3 major events and made them carbon accommodation of officials, electricity required for running neutral the event, ground transportation of officials, fuel used for  Corporate Management Committee / cooking food for the officials and waste generated during Communication Meet, New Delhi: Dec-2010 the events were identified. Trees to sequester at least two  Belgaum Dealers’ Conference, Goa: Jan-2011 times the emissions were also planted. 20 Effluent Management All the refineries were complying with the minimal national Barauni refineries other six refineries are complying with standards of CPCB for discharge of liquid effluent. Ministry the revised effluent standard. We have already initiated of Environment and Forests (MoE&F) issued a gazette action to make Guwahati and Barauni refinery also effluent notification in March 2008 where effluent and emission compliant with respect to all parameters. norms for refineries were revised. Excepting Guwahati and Compliance of revised Effluent Standards (Concentration based) for Refineries for the year 2010-11 is as below: (Figs. in mg/lit. except pH) Parameter Standard G B J H M D P BG pH 6.0 8.5 7.1 7.6 7.3 7.2 7.5 7.0 7.5 7.2 Oil & Grease 5.0 5.6 6.3 2.2 3.5 4.4 4.9 4.3 1.3 Phenols 0.35 0.36 0.03 0.08 0.28 0.05 0.28 0.10 0.03 Sulphides 0.5 0.02 0.31 0.14 0.05 0.14 0.11 0.30 0.08 BOD 15.0 12.7 16.6 7.0 9.2 8.3 10.0 9.3 3.3 TSS 20.0 12.4 22.3 11.8 11.6 12.0 14.7 13.8 4.5 COD 125.0 46.9 75.5 51.4 79.2 95.0 84.7 87.4 29.5 CN 0.20 0.02 BDL* BDL* BDL* BDL* 0.04 BDL* BDL* *BDL: Below Detectable Limits Compliance of Effluent Standards (Quantum based) for Refineries for the year 2010-11 is as below: (Figs. in Kg/1000 Ton Crude processed) Parameter Standard G B J H M D P BG Oil & Grease 2.0 3.5 1.6 0.07 0.6 1.0 0.4 0.2 0.05 Phenols 0.14 0.231 0.009 0.002 0.046 0.011 0.021 0.0042 0.001 Sulphides 0.2 0.01 0.08 0.004 0.01 0.03 0.01 0.013 0.002 BOD 6.0 8.0 4.3 0.2 1.5 1.9 0.7 0.39 0.12 TSS 8.0 7.9 5.8 0.4 1.9 2.7 1.1 0.58 0.17 COD 50.0 29.8 19.7 1.6 13.2 21.2 6.2 3.68 1.08 CN 0.08 0.01 BDL* BDL* BDL* BDL* 0.003 BDL* BDL* *BDL: Below Detectable Limits Refinery Effluent Balance M3/Hr (2010-11) Gross Effluent Net Reuse Reuse % Generated Discharge Guwahati (G) 230 79 151 65.65 Barauni (B) 488 182 306 62.70 Koyali (K) 1199 41 1158 96.58 Haldia (H) 606 128 478 78.88 Mathura (M) 630 211 419 66.51 Digboi (D) 51 6 45 88.24 Panipat (P) 967 172 795 82.21 Bongaigaon (BG) 267 8 259 97.00 TOTAL 4438 827 3611 81.37 In the refinery units, the specific water consumption (M /MT of crude processed) was 1.528 as compared to 1.601 during 3 the previous year. 21 Rain Water Harvesting and spent catalyst are the main hazardous solid wastes During the year, Rain water harvesting facilities were put up generated in the Refinery units. Oily Sludge is generated in 74 Marketing installations & is in progress at another 27 from Crude and Product Tanks at Pipelines and Marketing installations. The ground water level is measured through Installations. Our refineries follow a mix of strategies for piezometer installed at five locations of R&D Centre, on management of oily sludge, which include minimization a quarterly basis. 16 Rain water harvesting projects have of generation at source, advanced in-situ tank cleaning been completed in Refinery Units and implementation methods, bioremediation using advanced microbial at 23 locations is in progress. There are 23 locations in treatment and disposal in secured landfill sites. Pipelines installations where rain water harvesting is carried The Biological Sludge generated in the Activated Sludge out. Rain water harvesting facilities have been installed at R&D centre and IiPM. Treatment Plant of ETPs of Refinery Units is disposed off in green belts as manure. The FCC spent catalyst is sold Emission & Waste control – Key indicators to our to cement industry for use as a filler material and is also sustainable achievements used for road construction as a filler. The spent catalyst During the production process in the refineries there are of CRU and HGU is sent back to the supplier. During emissions of several pollutant gases from the stacks like the year 2010-11, around 3,890 MT of spent catalyst was sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. Utmost attention generated in Refineries, out of which 100 MT was reused is given to control / reduce emissions in our refineries. and 1,110 MT was safely disposed off through sale to The major sources of gaseous emissions are flue gases CPCB approved parties and balance quantity is secured for from boilers and heaters, FCC regenerators and Sulphur further disposal During the year 2010-11, around 11,500 Recovery Units. Hydrocarbon leaks and evaporation MT of oily sludge was generated in Refineries and Pipelines during storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products and crude oil are also potential sources of installations, out of which 3,990 MT was reused and 8,450 emissions to air. MT was safely disposed off. The oil sludge generated by our Terminals /Depots are treated as per PCB norms and SO2 emission from Refineries bio-remediated. Refinery Prescribed Actual Actual Oil Spill Response facilities Limited (KG/HR) (KG/HR) (KG/HR) (2009-10) (2010-11) Oil Spill Response facilities are provided at Port Guwahati (G) * 55-110 76 – 103 Locations and the Tier-I facilities are being maintained Barauni (B) 1080 727-835 550 – 820 by respective Port Trusts. The capital cost is being Gujarat (G) 1360 825-979 892 – 948 shared by the port users. The services of East Asia Haldia (H) 1340 719-897 646 – 824 Response Limited, Singapore are being used for Mathura (M) 450 267-358 323 – 375 Tier-II (1000 tonnes) and Tier-III (beyond 1000 tonnes) level Oil Spill Management. The Indian Coast Guard is the Digboi (D) 50-80 50 – 64 nodal agency and the operator liaises with Indian Coast Panipat (P) 1275 972-1169 885 1125 Guard for Oil Spill Management (Tier-II and Tier-III). Oil Bongaigaon (BG) 66-111 48 – 81 spill response mock drill conducted at WRPL, Vadinar with PNCP 138 1.4** 96 mutual aid partners in Apr’10, Nov’10 and Mar’11. * Limit not prescribed by Assam State Pollution Control Board for Guwahati, Digboi and Bongaigaon Refineries which Development of Green Belts and Eco Parks process very low sulphur Assam Crude. Tree plantation in and around our all establishments is an ** Using RLNG as fuel from Oct’10 ongoing activity. Development of green belts / ecological Our units and installations apply the principles of ‘prevent, parks has been a significant feature of IndianOil’s operations. reduce, reuse and recover’. The Oily sludge generated All refineries have developed green cover around their in Crude and Product tanks, chemical sludge, biosludge operations. Guidance from eminent Botanists has been 22 taken in scientifically planning and development of green among all units, we have conducted a series of training belts in and around our refineries. During 2010-11, around programmes on Standard Operating Procedures and 61,500 trees have been planted in our Refineries and several other workshops on safety . A workshop on “Fire around 37,100 trees have been planted at our Marketing Hazard Management of Storage Tanks and Associated & Pipeline Installations and R&D centre. Facilities” by faculty of international repute from M/s Resource Protection International, UK was conducted The sustenance of large species of trees and birds with at IIPM, Gurgaon which was attended by officers from the natural breeding activity in the eco-parks demonstrates oil industry and Oil Industry Safety Directorate. the prevalence of eco-friendly environment in and around our refineries. IndianOil believes that the man behind the machine is very important and considers their health as an asset Safety & Health to the Corporation. All the refineries of IndianOil have We believe the safety of our employees and assets is been certified by the DNV under OHSAS: 18001 a never ending process. Following the unfortunate fire {“Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series”}. incident at our Jaipur Oil Terminal on 29th October The healthcare personnel regularly interact with managers 2009, the safety preparedness of oil and gas installations and staff in the shop floor on health and safety. was revisited by expert committees. Implementation of committees recommendations are being monitored by a high level committee. 52% of the recommendations Case study: IIPM Gurgaon A showcase to have been implemented at our installations during the our green initiatives year. Consequent to the Jaipur fire, a major administrative IndianOil Institute of Petroleum Management (IiPM) change has been effected by putting in place a direct is a world class, eco-friendly rain harvested campus monitoring system viz. Head of Corporate Health Safety & with residential academic infrastructure. It is spread over 17 acres of lush green natural environment highly conducive for learning, networking and sharing experiences. The excellence of its facilities has attracted many B-Schools across the globe for conducting their management development programmes for Executives. Our green initiatives include:  All incandescent lamps, halogen lamps are replaced with Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFL), LED, etc and saving 71.8 units per hour.  Solar Heating System installed for hot water consumption in hostel rooms since 1998.  To recharge ground water, we are using rainwater harvesting system since 2003.  Green Cover plantation: Planted 100 Environment department now directly reports to Chairman saplings around the boundary wall to increase of the Company and the respective HODs of Health green cover, which not only minimize the noise Safety & Environment of Marketing Division and Pipelines & air pollution but also improve air quality and Division are functionally reporting to Head, Health Safety clean environment. & Environment, Corporate Office. To generate awareness 23 Water Conservation The treated effluent water is reused / recycled for various has helped in reducing discharge of treated effluent outside purposes in refineries like fire water & cooling tower make and also reduction in fresh water consumption. About 81% up, coke cutting in Delayed Cokers, as DM Water in boilers of the treated effluent was reused in all refineries during and process plants and also for captive irrigation in our the year against 77% in the previous year. green belts & Eco parks and make up to Eco-ponds. This Water Consumption and Conservation Increase/ Decrease 2009-10 2010-11 in Total Water Sourced Division Total Ground %G Total Ground %G Water Water Water/ Water Water Water/ Sourced Sourced Total Sourced Sourced Total % M3 M3 Water M3 M3 Wate REF 81124078 20968171 25.85 80927202 14001341 17.30 (0.24) MKTG 1195464 1052178 88.01 1205183 1054172 87.47 0.81 PPL 343268 305212 88.91 312644 277798 88285 (8.92) R&D 200700 200700 100 182000 182000 100.00 (9.32) Total 82863510 22526261 27.18 82627029 15237513 18.44 (0.29) 24 25 Social AspectsNurturing symbiotic relations with community Nurturing and nourishing symbiotic relations between innumerable social and community initiatives in India our business and the local community is one of the key and touched the lives of millions of people positively by determinants in attaining inclusive growth. We relentlessly supporting various environmental and healthcare projects endeavour to fulfill our commitment towards Caring for and social, cultural & educational programmes. Besides the Environment and Community. focusing primarily on the welfare of the economically and socially deprived sections of society, IndianOil also aims As a constructive partner in the communities in which developing techno-economically viable and environmentit operates, IndianOil has been taking concrete action friendly products & services for the benefit of millions of to realise its social responsibility objectives, thereby its consumers. building value for its stakeholders. IndianOil has supported Community Welfare & Development – A Multi-Disciplinary Approach IndianOil has a policy of setting aside upto 2% of its retained for developing tourist-friendly facilities in the monument profit of the previous year towards Corporate Social complex: Responsibility activities, which are taken up in a planned  Konark Sun Temple, Orissa (Eastern Zone) manner based on the local communities’ requirements.  Vaishali, Bihar (Eastern Zone) Broadly, IndianOil’s initiatives are covered under following  Kanheri Caves, Maharashtra schemes/activities. (Western Zone) IndianOil Foundation: The IndianOil Foundation (IOF),  Khajuraho, Madhya Pradesh (Central Zone) a non-profit Trust was created in the year 2000 to  Warangal Fort, Andhra Pradesh (Southern Zone) protect, preserve and promote the national heritage, in collaboration with The Archaeological Survey of India The projects for developing tourist-friendly facilities at and National Culture Fund of the Government of India. the above sites are at various stages of planning and In the first phase, the following sites have been identified execution. 26 LPG Schemes: IndianOil sets aside a fixed percentage of Net Profit of previous year towards the following schemes for the development of the economically challenged:  Provision of common LPG kitchen facilities in villages  Release of one-time grant to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in the rural areas for release of new LPG connections under the Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitarak Yojana (RGGLV Yojana) Under the Community Development Programme, we worker and driver would travel within the villages near have adopted a multi-disciplinary approach incorporating a Kisan Seva Kendra providing primary healthcare to the health, family welfare, education, drinking water, sanitation, local community. and empowerment of women and other marginalised groups in the vicinity of our major establishments. The National Causes and Natural Calamities: IndianOil responds activities undertaken under the above thrust areas are : proactively to provide aid and relief to the victims of natural calamities such as floods, tsunami, earthquake, cyclones, etc. Developing sustainable communities IndianOil also contributes towards nation-building by setting 376 villages all across the country were benefitted by up educational institutions of national importance like the installation of hand pumps, elevated water tanks, rain Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology, causes water harvesting projects and kits. such as National Children’s Fund, Jansankhya Sthirtha Kosh, etc. 563 villages availed the benefits of our various healthcare initiatives such as heath camps, pre & post Case study: Healthcare initiatives Potent natal care, medicines to Primary health centres, wheel enabler for inclusive growth chairs, etc. Our 200 bed hospital at Digboi, equipped with ultraFinancial assistance to schools for construction, repairs, modern medical facilities, is catering to the health care furniture, lab equipment, delivery vans for mid-day needs of the people of the area. Apart from our own meals. employees, over 1 lakh patients from the districts of Tinsukia and Digboi, adjoining parts of Arunachal Most of the diseases prevalent in rural India can be treated Pradesh and ever neighboured Myanmar, are availing through timely primary healthcare and basic awareness of the services of the hospital, each every year. The regarding prevention and treatment. In order to bridge physicians and paramedical staff regularly visit the this gap, IndianOil Board has approved The IndianOil nearby villages and provide services to the villagers. Rural Mobile Healthcare Scheme which would provide With our annual budgetary outlay of ` 3 crore for the primary healthcare to the villages near IndianOil’s Kisan non-employee patients, we consider such health care Seva Kendras. Under the scheme, mobile medical units initiatives as our enduring offerings to the society. with a dedicated team of doctor, pharmacist, community 27 28 29 Labour Practices In the deregulated era, the entry of private and global programme at the IndianOil Institute of Petroleum energy majors has changed the equilibrium between the Management (IiPM), our world class training institute demand for human capital and employees, business plans. located at Gurgaon. Our various induction training IndianOil, being one of the best employers, has always programmes are custom made to provide inputs focussed on innovative HR practices. Our recruitment for start-up and exposures on work culture, process, training & development programmes, employee organisational structure, corporate vision and engagement measures, succession planning, etc. are ethics, etc. focussed towards developing a vibrant pool of knowledge Training and Development assets. We believe in adapting to the changing industrial Our organisational vitality and competitiveness are achieved environment while keeping in mind the aspirations of our through various efforts in developing Human Capital. We workforce. continue to put in efforts to achieve our strategic agenda Recruitment, Induction and On-boarding of a globally admired company and for the same, we strive IndianOil offers a world of opportunities, across more to attract and retain talent through personal development than 600 locations in India including refineries, pipelines, and conducive work environment. Our world-class training terminals, LPG bottling plants, bulk storage terminals, infrastructure for training and learning is the backbone Aviation Fuel Stations, Retail/Consumer/Lubricants of our success. Besides 20 learning centres and those at sales, and at the R&D Centre. We recruit bright and each of our refineries, we have three premier centres for professionally qualified people for executive cadre through higher learningopen and campus recruitment.  IndianOil Institute of Petroleum Management, For open recruitments, advertisements are published in Gurgaon. leading national dailies. We also visit the IITs, NITs and  IndianOil Management Centre for Learning, Mumbai other reputed technical campuses of the country for  IndianOil Management Academy, Haldia recruiting final year engineering students. We also visit prominent business management institutes to recruit final Custom made training modules are designed for developing year MBA students. IndianOil inducts officers at the juniorfuture leaders from a talented and diverse workforce. Our most level of the management. e-learning initiative aims at providing access to knowledge bank to cover the entire workforce. To familiarise freshly recruited employees to know with IndianOil and its business lines, we expose them Collective Bargaining to a viewfinder course through an induction training A common and shared set of industrial relations values and strategies between management, collectives and employees has been evolved over time, resulting in harmonious industrial relations climate. There are 23 recognised unions in the Corporation representing workmen while the IndianOil Officers’ Association (IOOA) represents the executives. The pay revision and allowances of officers are implemented as per the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) guidelines received under Presidential Directives. The major demands of the recognised unions pertaining to revision of wages and allowances are negotiated with all the recognised unions at the divisional level and are settled through a long term settlement. 30 Workforce Diversity and Opportunities Our approach to workforce is based on the fundamentals of fostering diversity by offering equal opportunity to all employees without any discrimination. IndianOil does not engage into or support direct or indirect discrimination in recruitment, promotion, training and post retirement benefits based on caste, religion, disability, gender, age, race, colour, marital status, etc. All statutory provisions and policy guidelines are followed strictly, without any discrimination. Gender Mainstreaming IndianOil continues to be the largest employer of women Inclusiveness and Affirmative Action for Physically employees amongst the PSUs in India. As on 31st March Handicapped 2011, there were 2637 women, employees comprising We ensure that the policies and guidelines issued by the 7.73% of the total workforce. Out of this, 1209 (about Govt. of India are implemented with respect to physically 45.85%) of the women employees are in the executive challenged people also. Our initiatives in fulfilment of this cadre at various levels. 97 women employees were objective are as follows: recruited in the Corporation during the year 2010-11, which comprises 10.71% of recruitments in various cadres  Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions of the Corporation. Out of the 97 women employees  Relaxations / concessions in Recruitment / recruited during the year 2010-11, 91 (93.81%) are in the Promotions. executive cadre. IndianOil has conducive liberal policies  Various allowances such as conveyance allowance, to benefit its women employees : medical equipment  Special training, special equipment aid.  Greater ease in access.  Choice for place of posting and department, to the extent possible Manpower Positioning and Succession Planning Based on our business requirements and the need to Inclusiveness and Affirmative Action provide as adequate and skilled solution for the same, For uplifting marginalised section of our society, i.e. SC, we follow a systematic approach towards manpower ST and OBCs, we strictly adhere to the various guidelines and directives issued by the Govt. of India as applicable to following activities :  Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions  Relaxations / concessions in Recruitment / Promotions.  Pre-promotional inputs for Grade-VI to Grade-A promotions in Marketing Division.  SC/ST Cell, Compliant Register, Liaison Officer  Nomination for specific training courses. 31 positioning. Accordingly, a manpower estimate is prepared Benefit Schemes for Employees based on the projections for meeting the requirements of  Subsidised canteen facilities a cycle of two years.  Housing facility As part of our succession plan, we identify key positions  Festival advance and associated success factors of such key positions.  Leave Travel Concessions and Holiday Homes Based on the performance on various parameters, we  Long Service Awards identify the potential and start grooming the employees  Computer Advance for workmen as Future Leaders from an early stage of their career  Schools progression through multifarious assignments, postings  Rationalisation adjustment cum skill up-dation and supplementing their functional and developmental expenses skills through advance training courses.  Cable TV charges Social Security Benefits Scheme  Transport facility For providing Social Security, following benefits are  House Building Advance available to our employees:  Conveyance Advance  Contributory Provident Fund  Medical facilities  Gratuity  Liberal leave for female employees  Group Linked Insurance Scheme  Furniture Advance  Rehabilitation Scheme  Sports / Club facilities  Employees’ Pension Scheme-1995  Incentive scheme for higher education  Superannuation Benefit Fund Scheme  Conveyance running and maintenance expenses  Compensation on death or permanent total  Children Education Assistance disablement  Protective clothing 32 33 Human Rights Case Study: Cloudburst in Leh IndianOil Response Our belief that all human beings are born free and equal On 6th August 2010, a cloudburst in Leh triggered in dignity and rights is reflected in the way we conduct massive destruction, caused by over 250 cm rainfall our business that supports and respects the protection in an hour. Unprecedented floods and mudslides of human rights. We provide equality by prohibiting any distinction in the enjoyment of human rights on grounds such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Touching the daily lives of people, we believe that the right to social security as well as economic, social and cultural rights are indispensable to human dignity and free development of each individual’s personality. We continue to develop an awareness of human rights and work every individual in society to uphold these universal values on the basis that responsibility tolls to every individual in security. swept away houses and all else that came in their We ensure that our entire supply chain, i.e. vendors, subway and claimed hundreds of lives. Buildings were vendors, transporters, contractors, business associates, razed, communication lines snapped and highways dealers, distributors, etc. provide further strength to our leading to Srinagar and Manali washed away. Much efforts in upholding human rights and no discriminatory of the damage was caused because people built practice is followed in its any form. houses using mud bricks which keep the interior We support universal human rights for our employees warm even in sub-zero temperatures. The once and in communities in which we operate. Our Refineries, picturesque landscape had turned into a disaster Terminals, Bottling Plants Aviation Fuel Stations personel, zone, with tossed up vehicles lying scattered and etc. are manned by security, round the clock. Apart from mounds of silt and slush burying houses. street on physical fitness and periodic training on security measures as per threat perceptions, we provide training IndianOil responded to this natural calamity inputs behavioural aspects. and extended relief to the victims by providing 50 pre-fabricated houses at a cost of `187.50 lakh. UN Global Compact Principles IndianOil is one of the founder members of the Global Compact Society (India) and staunch supporter of the UN Global Compact principles. Gender Sensitivity Training IndianOil undertakes various activities including gender sensitivity training that result in greater awareness of a problem’s causes, its macro and micro linkages and the need for appropriate action on gender issues. A series of programmes such as workshops, talks by eminent women rights activists on gender sensitivity, prevention of sexual 34 harassment at workplace, etc. are organised in the Offices/ Child Labour Units of IndianOil for the benefit of women employees. The future of the nation is in the well-being of its children. Forum of Women in Public Sector So it becomes imperative for the health of a nation to protect its children from premature labour and ensure their With the intention of pursuing the objectives of the mental, physical, educational and spiritual development. Directive Principles of State Policy, a Forum of Women in Public Sector (WIPS) was formed on 12th February IndianOil, as responsible corporate citizen, is committed 1990, under the aegis of Standing Conference of Public to fight against the engagement of child labour. We ensure Enterprises (SCOPE). IndianOil, being the largest employer that no child labour is employed or permitted to work in of women employees amongst Public Sector Enterprises, any of our establishments. The minimum prescribed age pioneered in establishing WIPS in its present form and for seeking employment in IndianOil is 18 years and we the women employees of IndianOil led WIPS in the have very effective mechanisms to eliminate child labour in initial stages of its formation. During the last two decades the jobs done. As per a special clause in the general terms IndianOil has actively supported WIPS in organising/ and conditions of all our tenders, the bidders are required sponsoring various programmes for the welfare of the to submit a written declaration that they do not engage women employees. child labour. The clause further delineates that if any entity is found to have engaged child labour, the contract will In recognition of its efforts to support its be terminated forthwith. Our security staff and Access women workforce, IndianOil was conferred the Control System at all locations provides support in effective ‘Best Enterprise Award for Women’s Development’ for implementation of child labour elimination initiatives. the year 2010. 35 36 37 Corporate Governance I ndianOil is diligently focused on maintaining the and Non-Executive (Part-time) Directors. Non-Exechighest standards of Corporate Governance by ensuring utive (part-time) Independent Directors are persons transparency in all aspects of its operations. The ethical and with proven record in diverse areas such as Energy, efficient demeanour of the business affairs is the mainstay Law, Academics, Finance, Marketing, Administration, for value optimisation of our stakeholders. We continue etc. The strength of the Board of IndianOil was 16 to foster work environment that nurtures and nourishes Directors as on 1.03.11, comprising eight Executive integrity, transparency and accountability. IndianOil has also (Whole-time) Functional Directors and eight Partformulated a code of conduct for the Directors and senior time Non-Executive Directors, out of which six are management personnel of the Corporation. Independent Directors and two are Govt. Nominees The Board of Directors Directors. The Company has requested the Govt. of The Board of Directors of IndianOil consists of as India to induct the requisite number of Independent optimum combination of Executive (Whole-time) Directors as per the Listing Agreement. 38 Other Committees of the Board For implementing the Corporate Governance practices, IndianOil has a well-defined policy framework consisting, inter alia, of the following In this direction, we carry out several activities such as promoting vigilance awareness, information sharing on the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) rules/ guidelines, conducting surprise quality and quantity checks of products in transit as well as sales points across the country, conducting system studies to bring out irregularities/inconsistencies, bringing transparency and economy in awarding and execution of contracts. Documents relating to various contracts and procurements are scrutinised, inspections of retail outlets, LPG distributorships and Kerosene Dealerships are carried out, specific complaints are investigated by Vigilance the Vigilance Cell. Vigilance Department of the company We consistently fight against corruption in all its forms. As is headed by the Chief Vigilance officer (CVO) who per the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules and Certified acts as a link between the corporation and Govt. CBI, Standing Orders, accepting bribe is a major misconduct. CVC, etc. 39 Transparency International Competition Issues & Precautionary Approach The Corporation has entered into a Memorandum of Uninterrupted and adequate supply of petroleum Understanding with Transparency International India (TII), products and natural gas across the country is ensured for implementing an Integrity Pact Programme focussed by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board on enhancing transparency in its business transactions, through its various regulations. The Board also enforces contracts and procurement processes. IndianOil believes the provisions of retail service obligations for the retail in total transparency, integrity and accountability in its outlets and marketing service obligations for the players functioning. We value our business relationships with in the downstream oil and gas sector. Accordingly, our the numerous domestic & international contractors and all operations fall under the jurisdiction of the Regulatory vendors of goods & services and are committed to dealing Board/Ministry of Petroleum. with them in a fair and transparent manner by maintaining The significant precautionary approach/initiatives taken by the highest ethical standards in transactions with them. IndianOil are minimise debilitating continuance of underPublic Policy Participation recoveries on sale of products, Optimise crude basket for In association with various national and professional improvement of return from capital employed, thrust on bodies, we actively participate and firm up opinions on standard operating procedures to ensure safety of lives and industry related issues which have significant impact on property, innovative HR policies, aggressive participation in public policies. References from different ministries of the rural market, thrust on CSR for inclusive growth and thrust Government are attended to with in-depth analysis. to develop renewable energy assets. 40 41 Stakeholder Engagement IndianOil’s business operations are spread over the For direct and high-volume customers such as geographical span of the country and hence, we cater to the Railways, State Transport Undertakings, steel wide ranging and diverse stakeholder groups. Indianoil plants, fertilizer plants, textile mills and power plants, is committed to constantly strengthening the process of we organise seminars, workshops, co-ordination meetings engagement with stakeholders in its efforts to streamline and training to resolve the issues of mutual concern. the issues of mutual concern. IndianOil is the sole canalising agent for product supplies The major stakeholder groups for IndianOil are its to Nepal and Bhutan. We have a keen customer focus Shareholders, Customers, Employees, Government and a formidable network of customer touch-points Bodies/ Departments, Financial Institutions, Subsidiaries, 19,463 petrol and diesel stations, including 3517 Kisan Joint Ventures, Dealers / Distributors and academic Seva Kendras (KSKs) dotting the landscape across urban and rural India. With a countrywide network of 36,900 institutes. sales points, backed for supplies by 140 bulk storage The Shareholders / Investors Grievance Committee (SIGC) terminals and depots, 96 aviation fuel stations and 89 of Directors handles the complaints received from the LPGas bottling plants, IndianOil services every nook and shareholders. Besides publishing the quarterly, half-yearly corner of the country. Indane is present in 2764 markets and annual results of the Corporation in leading newspapers through a network of 5456 distributors. About 7780 bulk in India, the results are also available on the Corporation’s consumer pumps are also in operation for the convenience website http://www.iocl.com. Presentations made to of large consumers, ensuring products and inventory at the Institutional investors / analysts are also available on their doorstep. IndianOil’s website. Investor Service Cell operate from the Channel Partners are engaged through structured meetings, registered office at Mumbai and Corporate Office at New Dealer/Distributor Conventions, Gold Circle Dealer Delhi to address the grievances / queries of shareholders. Conventions, KSK Conventions, Indane Star Distributor To enhance greater ease in raising queries or submission Conventions at the State office level. Chairman’s Panel of grievances by the investors, we have a dedicated e-mail comprising high performing dealers and distributors at the ID: investors@indianoil.co.in national level is an important forum for interaction between our resellers and the top management. Customer engagement is an essential activity for product branding. We maintain continuous dialogue and open As part of our efforts to identify various engagement channel communication with our customers. drivers, we have carried out employee engagement survey 42 Advt. on IndianOil Day covering the entire workforce of about 34,000. Based Dissemination of important information on corporate on the outcome of the survey, we have taken various financial and operational performance, achievement of initiatives. Our locations conduct structured periodic significant milestones, future plans, new steps, challenges staff meetings and discuss various issues. Display of being faced and those ahead, expectations of collectives monthly Bulletin on location’s / employee achievements, in achieving the goals etc. is done through open house display of notices, Bulletins, posters and messages from sessions with Chairman and Directors. The progress of Chairman, Directors of the Company, birthday greetings meeting is webcast for wider dissemination among the to employees and information sharing through e-magazine employees. Xpress News and a well-structured internal communications portal (IndianOilXpress), celebration of national events, We constantly remain engaged with business partners farewell functions for superannuating employees, etc. are viz. various industry bodies, Govt. bodies, organisations, our important initiatives under employee engagement academic institutions, local communities, charitable trusts programmes. on issues of mutual interest. Business Partners Relationship Requirements Engagement Level Government & Policy issues, compliance, Corporate, Head Office, Regulatory authorities product pricing, MoU targets, Regional Office, State Office, Performance Review meetings Unit level Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures Synergy in operations Corporate level Vendor/Supplier Operational matters Head Office, Regional Office, State Office, Unit level Business Analysts Competitive reports, Industry trends Corporate & Head Office level Academic Institutions Operational Synergy Corporate & Head Office level Lenders including Institutional Investment, Business Plans, Corporate level Investors, Retail Investors, Sustainability Performance Banks & Financial Institutions Media Annual Reports, Business plan, events Corporate level 43 44 45 Product Responsibility W ith a steady aim of maintaining its position as a market leader and providing the best quality products and services, IndianOil is currently investing ` 47,000 crore in a host of projects for augmentation of refining and pipelines capacities, expansion of marketing infrastructure and product quality up-gradation. IndianOil, constantly strives to meet the aspiration of its customers for high quality products in terms of better ignition performance, improved mileage, eco-friendly storage characteristics, post ignition lower carbon emitter and, more importantly, low price band. The economic, social and environmental aspects of our entire range of products are fully evaluated in strict adherence to all applicable standards, statutory and regulatory norms. IndianOil constantly endeavours to minimizing the risks associated with all the four major stages of product handling i.e. manufacturing, storage, distribution and usages. BIS standards provide quality control specifications for all products. The Industry Quality Control Manual (IQCM), which is evolved jointly by PSU oil industry and approved by MOP&NG, Govt. of India, provides fundamental guidelines for quality control. Our industrial cryogenic containers-Cryocans which are used for storage and transportation of liquid gases and other applications meet relevant specification. The raw material used for site mixed bulk explosives are passed through stringent quality control. These bulk explosives are used for quarrying coal, zinc, copper mines. Research and Development For nearly four decades, our world class R&D Centre has ably supported the corporation’s technology initiatives and business strategies, giving it a unique competitive advantage in building the country’s largest refining capacity, pipeline network, marketing infrastructure and diversified portfolio of products, brands and service. It has pioneered various technology 46 for refining process, pipeline transportation, Lube formulations, product quality up-gradation, bio-fuels, nano technology etc. IndianOil is among the elite six technology providers world wide for marine oils, fulfilling 90% of the global OEM requirements. Work has been initiated towards formulating Eco-friendly industrial lubes, Euro-V and VI compliant engine oils. Our R&D centre has 54 pilot plants, 73 research & technology partners, 229 effective patents and a team of 244 scientists. assurance towards our tradition of being a well known company for customer care. We conduct all India ‘Customer Satisfaction Survey’ on an annual basis covering all major aspects of our products and services i.e. Quality, Value, Timeliness, Efficiency, Ease of Access, Environment, Response, Front line Service Behaviors, Commitment to In recognition of the invaluable contribution to the the Customer and Innovation etc. The outcome of survey hydrocarbon industry, IndianOil has been conferred the is analyzed and used for overall improvement in product “Outstanding Achievement in Research & Development” and service quality. Award for INDMAX Technology by the CHEMTECH Marketing communication Foundation, in the year 2010. In IndianOil, marketing communication is the most effective Customer Satisfaction Survey & Feedback tool for transforming customer service into customer Customer satisfaction is a vital element of our business relations. Accuracy and clarity are the essentials of our strategy and a key performance indicator of our business communications. IndianOil has a strong and dedicated success. Customer satisfaction is captured through various network of Corporate Communication group. Through surveys / personal interactions, the findings of which are our marketing communication initiatives, we focus on analyzed to ensure that our product and service meet products and services related service and safety orientation the quality standards. A system of receiving customer of the products, demand management, selection of dealers/ feedback/ complaint is in place which is used as an distributors, details of operations of Customer Service Cells important tool for continuous improvement. Delivering in different regions, branding of products and services, legal highest level of customer satisfaction is our documented issues for public domain. 47 48 Charters & Memberships Our association with various professional organisations, institutes has been enriching us. An illustrative list of such memberships is given below.  Council of Indian Employers (CIE), India  Petroleum Federation of India (PetroFed), India  World LPGas Association, Paris  National HRD Network (NHRDN)  Standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE), India  Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)  Indian Institute of Industrial Engineering  The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI)  ASSOCHAM & FICCI  Petrotech Society  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI)  Academic Institutes  All India Management Association (AIMA) Distinctions, Award & Recognitions  IndianOil broke into the Top 100 and was listed a the 98th position in the Fortune ‘Global 500’ listing of the world’s largest corporations for 2011.  IndianOil was ranked among the Top 50 companies to work for in India in a study conducted by the Economic Times and the Great places to Work Institute in the annual survey ‘India's Best Companies to Work For’. The Corporation was also voted one of the best employers in the Indian workplace in the tenth annual edition of the ‘Best Companies to Work For’ survey conducted by the Business Today magazine.  IndianOil was voted as one of the top five of ‘India's Most Valuable Brands 2010’ in a study conducted by Economic Times in association with Brand Finance.  IndianOil made it to list of top Global 500 Brands compiled by Brand Finance for the year 2011. Listed at the 232nd position worldwide, the Corporation’s brand value in the year 2011 was pegged at $4.3 billion as compared to $4.0 billion in the previous year.  IndianOil figured in the top ten in global recognition rankings, compiled by Penn Schoen Berland (PSB) in its ‘Most Recognised and Respected Indian Multinationals’ survey. IndianOil was ranked at the eighth position.  IndianOil showed exemplary performance in the annual corporate listings of leading business publications such as Business world (BW Real500), Business Today (BT500 PSU Ranking), Business India (Business India Super 100), Economic Times (ET500) and Business Standard (BS1000).  IndianOil got an overall rank of 78 in Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company rankings.  IndianOil featured in the list of the Forbes ‘Global 2000’ at the 243rd position, for the year 2011.  For the fifth consecutive year, IndianOil was conferred the coveted Reader's Digest 'Trusted Brand 2011' Gold Award under the Petrol Station category.  IndianOil bagged awards in six categories instituted by the Petroleum Federation of India (Petrofed) for the year 2010.  IndianOil won the Prestigious SCOPE Meritorious Award 2009-10 for Best Practices in Human Resource Management.  IndianOil was conferred the 'Outstanding Achievement in Research & Development' Award for INDMAX Technology by the CHEMTECH Foundation.  IndianOil won the 'Customer & Brand Loyalty Award' in the oil and gas sector for the fourth year in a row at the Loyalty Summit instituted by Kamikaze B2B Media.  IndianOil bagged the prestigious National Award for Innovative Training Practices 2009-10 instituted by Indian Society of Traning and Development (ISTD).  SERVO IndianOil’s brand of world-class lubricants was conferred the Master Brand Award by CMO Asia.  For the fourth time, IndianOil won the 'SAP ACE Award' for being India's Best Run Business in public Sector on SAP Software.  IndianOil's farmer friendly Agrospray oil won the prestigious CSIR award for Science & Technology innovations for Rural Development (CAIRD).  For the fourth consecutive year, IndianOil was honoured with the 'Retail Excellence' award for innovative and successful Kisan Seva Kendras under its rural retail initiative at the India Retail Forum.  IndianOil was chosen as the Best Service Brand in the India Pride awards.  IndianOil won the Oil & Gas manufacturing Supply Chain Excellence Award at the fourth Express, Logistics & Supply Chain Conclave.  IndianOil was awarded the prestigious National Safety Award, under various categories, by the Ministry of Labour, Government of India, for several installations.  IndianOil was conferred with the Asia's Best Employer Brand Award-2010' in recognition of its continuous endeavour to build a strong employer brand to attract and retain the best talent. 49 List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Term Description AFS Aviation Fuel Station ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry CIE Council of Indian Employers CII Confederation of Indian Industry CISF Central Industrial Security Force CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CVC Central Vigilance Commission DPE Department of Public Enterprises E&P Exploration and Production EBP Ethanol-blended Petrol ERM Enterprise Risk Management ETP Effluent Treatment Plants FCC Fluidised Catalytic Cracker GCC General Conditions of Contract GRI Global Reporting Initiatives GRM Gross Refining Margin IiPM IndianOil Institute of Petroleum Management, Gurgaon IMA IndianOil Management Academy, Haldia IMCL IndianOil Management Centre for Learning, Mumbai IndianOil Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. ITI Industrial Training Institute KSK Kisan Seva Kendra LAB Linear Alkyl Benzene LNG Liquefied Natural Gas LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LTC Leave Travel Concessions LTS Long Term Settlement MINAS Minimal National Standard set by Ministry of Environment & Forests and Central Pollution Control Board for use of water resources and quality of effluent discharge MoP&NG Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas MoU Memorandum of Understanding NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy NGO Non Governmental Organisations NHRD National Human Resource Development Network NREL National Renewable Energy Laboratory PetroFed Petroleum Federation of India PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid R&D Research and Development RO Retail Outlets S,H&E Safety, Health & Environment SC / ST / OBC Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe / Other Backward Classes SCOPE Standing Conference of Public Enterprises SCP Special Component Plan SIGC Shareholders’ / Investors Grievance Committee STEPS Sustainable Transportation Energy Pathways Program TBL Triple Bottom Lime TERI The Energy and Resources Institute TII Transparency International India TPM Total Productive Maintenance TSP Tribal Sub-Plan WIPS Forum of Women In Public Sector 50 GRI Index GRI Reference Report Reference Page Strategy & Analysis 1.1 CEO Statement A word from Chairman 3 1.2 Key Impacts Materiality Reporting Key issues 5 Organisation Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organization Scope & Profile 2 2.2 Major brands & products Our brands & services 57 2.3 Operational structure Corporate Governance 38 2.4 Location of headquarters Contact information 2.5 Countries of operation IndianOil The Energy of India 6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 38 2.7 Markets served IndianOil The Energy of India 6 2.8 Scale of organization IndianOil The Energy of India 6 2.9 Major changes to operation Corporate Governance 38 2.10 Awards received in Reporting Period Distinctions, Award & Recognitions 49 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Scope & Profile 2 Governance, 3.2 Date of previous report Scope & Profile 2 Commitments & 3.3 Reporting cycle Scope & Profile 2 Engagement 3.4 CR Contact person A Word from Chairman 3 3.5 Defining report content Scope & Profile 3.6 Boundaries of report Scope & Profile 2 3.7 Limitations on report scope Scope & Profile 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures Scope & Profile 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques Scope & Profile 2 3.10 Restatements of information Not applicable 3.11 Significant changes from previous report Not applicable 3.12 Tables for standard disclosures GRI content indent 51 3.13 Assurance Not carried out by external agencies GRI Reference 4.1 Governance structure Corporate governance 38 4.2 Chair/executive officer status Corporate governance 38 4.3 Number of independent/non-executive members Corporate governance 38 4.4 Mechanisms for providing recommendations Corporate governance 38 4.5 Link between compensation and performance Corporate governance 38 4.6 Determining board qualifications Corporate governance 38 4.7 Process to address conflict of interest Corporate governance 38 4.8 Internal mission/values statement Our Vision with Values 4 4.9 Broad identification of opportunities, Materiality Reporting Key issues 5 risks, performance 4.10 Evaluating board performance Corporate governance 38 4.11 Precautionary principle Competition Issues & Precautionary approach 40 4.12 External initiatives endorsed Competition Issues & Precautionary approach 40 4.13 Principal membership Charters & membership 49 4.14 List of stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 43 4.15 Basis for identification Stakeholder engagement 43 4.16 Approaches to engagement Stakeholder engagement 43 4.17 Key issues raised through engagement Materiality Reporting Key issues 5 Disclosure of Economic Economic Aspects-Inclusive growth & profitability 12 Management Environment Environmental Aspects-Integrated approach for Approach resource conservation 18 Labour Practices Labour Practices 30 Human Rights Human rights 34 Society Social Aspects-Nurturing Symbiotic relations with community 26 Product Responsibility Product Responsibility 46 Economic Performance EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Financial & Operational Performance 14 Indicators including revenue, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic Aspects-Inclusive growth & profitability 12 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change 51 GRI Reference Report Reference Page EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Contribution to benefits schemes 32 obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received Not applicable from government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Recruitment, Induction and On-boarding 30 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Recruitment, Induction and On-boarding 30 locally-based suppliers as significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Recruitment, Induction and On-boarding 30 management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Social Aspects-Nurturing Symbiotic relations 26 investments and services provided primarily for with community public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Social Aspects-Nurturing Symbiotic relations 26 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts with community Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Energy Reduction enables sustain growth 18 Performance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Emissions & Waste Control of effluent balance 23 Indicators input materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Energy Sourcing & Consumption (Table) 19 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Energy Sourcing & Consumption (Table) 19 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Power Consumption (Table) 19 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Energy Reduction-key enabler to Sustainable 18 energy based products and services, and growth reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Energy Reduction-key enabler to Sustainable 18 and reduction achieved growth EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Consumption and Conservation 24 EN9 Water sources significant affected by Water Consumption and Conservation 24 withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Water Conservation 24 recycled and reused EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Development of green belts and Eco parks 22 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Development of green belts and Eco parks 22 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Development of green belts and Eco parks 22 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Environmental Aspects-Integrated approach for 18 managing impacts on biodiversity resource conservation EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national – – conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission Carbon Management Drives/Emission & 19/ by weight waste control 22 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission Carbon Management Drives/Emission & 19/ by weight waste control 22 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emission Carbon Management Drives/Emission & 19/ and reductions achieved waste control 22 EN19 Emission of ozone-depleting substances by weight Emission & waste control 22 EN20 NO, SO, and significant air emission by type Emission & waste control SO2 emission from 22 and weight refineries EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water Consumption & Conservation 22 52 GRI Reference Report Reference Page EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Emission & waste control 22 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Oil Spill Response facilities 22 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Emission & waste control 22 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I,II,III & IV, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN 25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Effluent Management 21 value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Water Conservation/Effluent Management 24/ products and services, and extent of 21 impact mitigation. EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Product Responsibility 46 materials that are reclaimed by category EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Safety of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impact of transporting Product Responsibility 46 products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Product Responsibility 46 investments by type. Labour Practices and LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Stakeholder Engagement 42 Decent Work contract, and region. Performance Indicators LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Workforce diversity & opportunities 31 age group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Social Security Benefits scheme 32 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Collective Bargaining 30 bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Collective Bargaining 30 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Safety & health 23 formal joint management worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Safety & health 23 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Safety & health 23 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Safety & health 23 agreements with trade unions. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Training & Development 30 employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Training & Development 30 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Training & Development 30 performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Workforce Diversity & Opportunities 31 of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group members, and other indicators of diversity 53 GRI Reference Report Reference Page LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Recruitment, Induction & On-boarding 30 employee category. Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Human Rights 34 Performance investment agreements that include human rights Indicators clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Human Rights 34 that have undergone screening on human rights and action taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Human Rights 34 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Human Rights 34 actions taken HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Human Rights 34 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and action taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Child Labour 35 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Child Labour 35 incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Human Rights 34 organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Not applicable – rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society Performance SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs Social Aspects Nurturing symbiotic relations 26 indicators and practices that access and manage the with community impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2 Percentage and total of business units analyzed Vigilance 40 for risk related to corruption. SO3 Percentage and employee trained in organisation’s Vigilance 40 anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Action taken in response to incidents of corruption. Vigilance 40 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Public policy participation policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Public policy participation 40 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive Competition Issues 40 behaviour, ant-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Competition Issues 40 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Product Responsibility 46 Performance impacts of products and services are assessed Indicators for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product Responsibility 46 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 54 GRI Reference Report Reference Page PR3 Type of product and service information required Product Responsibility 46 by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product Responsibility 46 regulations voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Customer Satisfaction Survey & Feedback 47 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Marketing Communication 47 and voluntary codes related to marketing communication, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Marketing Communication 47 regulations voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Customer Satisfaction/Survey & Feedback 47 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Product Responsibility 46 non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 55 Sustainability Quotes “Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has.” – Margaret Mead “To waste, to destroy, our natural resources, to skin and exhaust the land instead of using it so as to increase its usefulness, will result in undermining in the days of our children the very prosperity which we ought by right to hand down to them amplified. . . “ –Theodore Roosevelt “You can never have an impact on society if you have not changed yourself.” – Nelson Mandela “I change myself, I change the world.” – Gloria Anzaldua “Finding the center of strength within ourselves is in the long run the best contribution we can make to our fellow men. ” – Rollo May “It’s not too late at all. You just don’t yet know what you are capable of.” – Mahatma Gandhi “Do you have the patience to wait till your mud settles and the water is clear? Can you remain unmoving till the right action arises by itself?” – Lao-Tzu “Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.” – Calvin Coolidge “Trust one who has tried it, you will find more in woods than in books; trees and stones will teach you what you can never learn from masters. ” – Saint Bernard de Clairvaux “One should pay attention to even the smallest crawling creature for these too may have a valuable lesson to teach us.” – Black Elk Green World Quotes “We all moan and groan about the loss of the quality of life through the destruction of our ecology, and yet every one of us, in our own little comfortable ways, contributes daily to that destruction. It’s time now to awaken in each one of us the respect and attention our beloved Mother deserves.” – Ed Asner, Actor What’s the use of a house if you haven’t got a tolerable planet to put it on?” – Henry David Thoreau “I go to nature every day for inspiration in the day’s work. I follow in building the principles which nature has used in its domain.” – Frank Lloyd Wright “One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.” – Shakespeare “When you plant a tree, never plant only one. Plant three — one for shade, one for fruit, one for beauty.” – African proverb “When one tugs at a single thing in nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world.” – John Muir “Sooner or later, we sit down to a banquet of consequences.” – Robert Louis Stevenson 56
