Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 Contents About the Report 1 Message from the CEO 2 CCI 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework 4 Achievements in 2011 5 CCI Journey of Sustainability 6 CCI at a Glance 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 11 Energy Management and Climate Protection 18 Water Management 28 Sustainable Packaging 34 Our Workplace 38 Product Responsibility 48 Community 58 Performance Indicators 66 Glossary 73 CCI Water, Energy Use and Carbon dioxide Emissions Reporting Guidance 79 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index 82 GRI Indicators Table 82 Independent Limited Assurance Letter 91 GRI Approval 92 Legal Disclaimer Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 About the Report CCI corporate social responsibility and Corruption and Green House Gas Protocol (GHG). sustainability performance has been reported since In addition to these implementations, performance 2008. This reporting implementation is prepared to data is analyzed by generating numbers per unit meet the information requirements of 18 different produced, and deducting this number from the stakeholder groups presented in our stakeholder production amount, so that readers are provided map. These requirements are determined by the with better analysis and accessibility. Our CCI Sustainability Study Group, while considering report refers to GRI G3 reporting principles and featured demands and needs of stakeholder covers A+ implementation level requirements. groups, such as covering expectations of certain Further, the report received independent limited groups in more detail. In this regard, the target assurance from an international independent audit audience of our report includes our employees, organisation (PwC) as described in the “Assurance distributors and sellers, consumers, unions, Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of non-governmental organizations, media and Historical Financial Information” (ISAE 3000). opinion leaders. Within the context of this implementation, the total energy amount, relevant total carbon emissions, The positive or negative performance results related energy consumption per product, obtained in all areas, determined in the context of total water consumption and relevant water CCI’s sustainability management, are announced consumption per liter of production at CCI Turkey transparently in this report. plants in 2011 was assessed. The range of this report includes implementations While preparing the report, we adhered to the and performance results obtained from January UNGC principles and GRI G3 standards. The 1st, 2011 December 31st, 2011. Thus we UNGC Communication on Progress Reporting have achieved our “annual reporting” target, Principles and the statement of approval of GRI determined in the last reporting period (January implementation level, are available at the end of 1st, 2009 December 31st, 2010). In addition to this the report and at our corporate internet address; progress, we reported performance results in 4 www.cci.com.tr. countries, namely Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, with the addition of some good Collecting stakeholder feedback is a very practices and efforts from our Pakistan operations important process that helps us to improve both this year. During the calculation and constitution our implementations and reporting processes. of performance data for the report, we utilized We closely examine every issue that comes methodologies and standards such as the Global to our attention and we use the feedback of Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations our stakeholders to continuously improve our Global Compact (UNGC), International Labor implementations. Accordingly, our stakeholders Organization (ILO), Universal Declaration of can send their opinions, suggestions and Human Rights, United Nations Convention against complaints to kurumsal.iliskiler@cci.com.tr. 2 Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, 1 L of product to 1.42 L/L in Turkey, to 1.74 L/L in Azerbaijan, to 1.70 L/L in Kazakhstan, and to 2.00 L/L in Despite difficult market conditions and political and Jordan. We will continue our efforts to preserve water economic instability prevailing throughout a large part resources during the next reporting period. of our operating geography, we are delighted to have recorded a positive growth in 2011. Due to our competitive Another priority for CCI’s sustainability strategy is energy business model and opportunities related to our operational management. Here we pushed forward to reduce our energy geography, which still maintains high development consumption and carbon footprint by reengineering our potential, we realized consolidated sales volume of 761.7 packaging and our manufacturing, distribution, and cooling million unit cases, representing volume growth of 14.5% operations. We continued our efforts to raise awareness and EBITDA expansion of 11.9%. Also, in 2011, international of sustainability amongst employees and collaboration operations grew by 25.7% and our Turkey operation by with international organizations. During the next reporting 10.6%, lending momentum to our acceleration. period, we aim to reduce our water and energy usage ratios, which exceeded or remained equal to the 2010 Recently, we have witnessed a period in which local and year ratios in some of our operations, as a consequence global stakeholder expectations have gradually affected of the trial productions and start-up of new product the ways companies do business. At CCI, we recognized lines during 2011. In addition, CCI aims to improve our this opportunity, understood the expectations of our environmental performance through operational excellence stakeholders, and have endeavored to implement our implementations and to ensure the deployment of good economic, social and environmental projects in compliance practices across our operations. with their requirements. With this report, we present to our stakeholders our goals, performance results, and projects In 2011, as part of our on climate protection strategy, CCI realized last year in line with our vision and sustainability participated in the Climate Platform Turkey Climate strategy. Change Leaders Group which supports a low carbon economy and carries out studies on climate change. Also As part of our transparency strategy, which is one of during the same period, after participating in the Carbon our fundamental business principles, we share the Disclosure Project (CDP) as the first company from Turkey’s financial, environmental and social consequences of our food and beverage sector and providing transparency operations with our stakeholders. We endeavor to increase in reporting, CCI emerged as one of the top five carbon our transparency level each year with annual reports, disclosure leaders in Turkey. In addition to this, CCI signed economic impact studies, carbon disclosure reports and the 2°C Challenge Communiqués, aiming at maximizing the corporate social responsibility reports. This year, with our efforts of governments and corporations towards sustaining corporate social responsibility report, we succeeded in progress in climate protection. obtaining A+ level GRI approval. We included four countries representing 85% of our total business volume; Turkey, With CCI’s sustainable packaging implementations, another Azerbaijan, Jordan and Kazakhstan in the scope of our priority of our sustainability strategy, we run an effective 2011 report. Additionally, some good practices and efforts material and waste management model while increasing of our Pakistan Operation, which was acquired in 2008, the usage of recycled materials. During this reporting were included. CCI has instigated many improvements in period, we increased material recycling rates by 0.58% environmental and social areas in a very short time across in Turkey, 2.89% in Jordan, and 0.97% in the Azerbaijan our operating region, yet we acknowledge that there are operation. many opportunities for improvement and we are determined to work towards those opportunities. CCI quality management systems and efficiency implementations, in addition to the economic and Water management is the most critical part of CCI’s environmental advantages, help us fulfill our promise sustainability strategy, and as we are one of the fastest to consumers by serving them products of the highest growing business partners in the world’s largest beverage quality produced at the highest safety standards. During system, we are ever-conscious that one of the main effects the reporting period, CCI Ankara plant’s high quality of a growing population and industrialization on human life performance in the implementation of the EFQM Excellence and nature is diminishing water resources. Considering Model was awarded with the ‘Grand Quality Award’ at the our implementations as a raft in the context of our KalDer 2011 National Quality Awards in the Operational environmental management model, operational excellence Unit Category. Additionally, seven CCI plants obtained the and innovation studies, we endeavor to minimize water ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System Certificate consumption per product. As a result of studies carried out (FSSC) and three plants obtained the ISO 50001 Energy during this reporting period, we reduced water usage per Management Systems Standard Certificate. It is our goal Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3 to have all of our operations awarded with food safety and energy management systems certificates in 2012 and 2013. As is customary each year, we donated a percentage of our pre-tax profits to charitable foundations for assistance with various social projects. With the cooperation of NGOs in our operating region, we launched a number of social projects focused on stimulating environmental awareness, preserving nature, and assuring sustainable development in our communities. From the very first day of the 2011 earthquake in Van, Turkey, we mobilized as a company, prepared an emergency action plan, and lent all of our support to help people in that region. I would like to sincerely thank each of our employees who have absorbed our corporate citizenship culture and played a pioneering role in this project as well as other social projects. The provision of healthy and safe workplaces for our employees, our most valuable asset, is one of our fundamental responsibilities. We determined occupational health, safety and fleet safety as priority areas for improvement during the last reporting period. With this in mind, we aim to strengthen our occupational health and safety organisations in CCI workplaces, notably our plants; and to accomplish our annual business goals in this field during the next reporting period. In 2012 and 2013, we aim to achieve the gradual completion and rollout of the up-andrunning ‘Workplace Rights Policy’ implementation program across all CCI countries; and the improvement of human rights awareness at all levels of our organization. CCI has instigated CCI’s fundamental goal is to maintain our successful many improvements in business performance on our 2020 journey, and while doing this, to be one of the leading companies in the environmental and social field of sustainability. I owe a huge debt of gratitude to our stakeholders for guiding and supporting us as we areas across our operating march toward 2020. We are looking forward to your valuable feedback regarding our fourth Corporate Social region in a very short time, Responsibility Report in order for us to improve our performance and practices. yet we acknowledge that Sincerely, there are many opportunities Damian P. Gammell for improvement and we are CEO determined to work towards those opportunities. 4 CCI 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework Vision CCI Target Fields Be the outstanding Beverage Company leading • People and Organizational Leadership the market, inspiring people, adding value through Build a highly capable organization and be the excellence employer of choice Mission • Commercial Leadership Profitably deliver superior value to consumers and Build a sustainable and profitable business through customers at the optimal cost to serve refreshing consumers, partnering with customers, • Operational Excellence delivering superior value to shareholders and being Create a culture of Operational Excellence to support trusted by communities continuous improvement of our business process and systems Values • Supply Chain • Passion To be the best in class consumer demand fulfillment We put our hearts and mind into what we do organization that exceeds customer expectations • Accountability highest in quality, lowest in cost, in a sustainable, We act with a high sense of responsibility and hold socially responsible manner ourselves accountable • Integrity • Sustainability We are open, honest, ethical and we trust and respect Ensure the long-term viability of our business by each other being proactive and innovative in protecting the • Teamwork environment and be recognized as one of the most We collaborate for our collective success responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders The Building Blocks of our Culture Embed sustainability in our culture to achieve our commitments • Trust in each other • Focus on the customer Environment: Minimize our carbon footprint and • Embrace your work water usage by reducing packaging, water and energy • Inspire innovation Marketplace: Consistently provide the highest quality • Collaborate for success and food safety compliant beverages • Be agile Workplace: Ensure a safe place to work, respecting • Be participative human rights and be fully compliant with workplace • Enjoy working rights Community: Make a difference in our local communities by encouraging employee volunteerism and by corporate involvement Develop all employees and business partners to become proud ambassadors of our products and company Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5 Achievements in 2011 • Water consumption ratio in the Turkey operations was 1.42 L/L. • We established a central Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) organization and conducted situation • As a result of Operational Excellence (OE)1 projects, analysis with regard to health & safety in all offices we recycled/reused 571,897 m3 of water in Turkey, and factories in Turkey. Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Jordan. • We provided 130,915 hours of training to a total of • We collected 1,500 m3 rain water in Izmir and 18,826 employees in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, 5,000 m3 in the Kazakhstan Plant with rain water Jordan and Pakistan. harvesting project. • Energy consumption rate in the Turkey Operation was 0.255 MJ/L. • CCI was chosen as one of the five Carbon Disclosure • We provided over 1,500 employees with “Everything Leaders in Turkey by the Carbon Disclosure Project. You Wanted to Know about Coca-Cola” training and informed these employees about our production • We achieved energy savings of 121,903,311 kWh processes and the ingredients of our products. due to investments in coolers that do not use HydroFluoro-Carbon (HFC) and 10,447,999 kWh as a • 7 factories in Turkey and our Jordan factory result of Operational Excellence (OE) performances achieved FSSC 22000 Food Safety Certificate. in the Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan operations in 2011. • We took action in the first 24 hours through Kızılay and supplied drinking water for victims of the • We increased the material recycle ratio by 2.89% in Van earthquake in Turkey. Then we continued our the Jordan operation, 0.39% in the Azerbaijan support with drinking water, clothes and cash with the operation and 0.58% in the Turkey operation. contribution from our employees and the Coca-Cola foundation. • The “10.5 g short neck 500 ml Pet Water Bottle” reduced our environmental impact by using 29.5% • We sponsored the Under-13 League & School less material and was one of the winners of the Boys Cup in accordance with our partnership with Worldstar Packaging Awards. the Azerbaijan Football Federation for 5 years. 1 Operational Excellence is a management model which consists of lean management, 6 sigma methodology and best practices of TCCC. 6 CCI Journey of Sustainability 1994: TCCC (The Coca-Cola Company) water usage savings commitment 1997: First ISO 9001 Quality Certificate and Certificate of Compliance TCCQS (Mersin Plant) 2002: First Environmental Policy 2002: First ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Document (Ankara Plant) 2003: Coca-Cola Eurasia Africa Group Presidency Quality Award (Ankara Plant) 2003: First OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certificate (Ankara Plant) • 2004: First HACCP TS 13001 Food Safety Quality Management System (Izmir Plant) 2006: ISO 22000 Food Safety Quality Management System (Ankara Plant) 2007: 6 Sigma Projects 2007: The Fifth place in Accountability Rating in Turkey 2008: Establishment of Corporate Governance Committee 2008: The first GRI approved CSR report in Turkey • 2009: First Place in Accountability Rating in Turkey • 2009: Corporate Governance Rating 8.3/10 2009: Establishment of Sustainability Council and Work group 2009: Sustainability Management Approach 2009: Signing United Nations Global Compact 2009: Signing Copenhagen Communiqué with regard to combating climate change 2009: First PAS 220: 2008 Food Safety pre-requisite program document (Çorlu Plant) 2010: Defining 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7 2010: TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group President's Environmental Award (Izmir Plant) 2010: TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group Environment Award for Best Country Bottling Operations (CCI) 2010: KalDer National Quality Achievement Award (Ankara Plant) 2010: Second CSR Report: Turkey’s first B-Level report in the scope of Turkey, Kazakhstan, and Jordan 2010: Signing the Cancun Communiqué against climate change 2010: Corporate Governance Rating 8.43/10 2011: KalDer National Quality Award (Ankara Plant) 2011: First FSSC 22000 Certificate (Izmir Plant) 2011: First ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certification (Çorlu Plant) 2011: The first third of the category of Most Innovative Company of the Year Stevie's Awards (CCI) 2011: “Worldstar 2011-2011 Award” and the “24th TSE Golden Package Award” 2011: “Occupational Health and safety Management Award” (CCI Jordan) 2011: Corporate Governance Rating 8.5/10 2011: 3. CSR Report: Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Azerbaijan are included in the scope of the report CDP Türkiye-100 Raporu 2011 2011: “Climate Platform” Membership 71 trilyon dolar değerindeki varlığı yöneten 551 kurumsal yatırımcı adına 2011: CCI, Climate Platform Charter Member of the Climate Change Leaders Group CDP Türkiye Ortağı Sponsor Rapor Sponsoru 2011: The first food company to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and one of the five leading companies 2011: Signing the 2° Communiqué against climate change 8 CCI at a Glance Per Capita Sparkling Percentage of Sparkling Beverage Population GNP per Beverage Market Population in Under 30 Capita ($) Consumption Share of CCI (millions)(2) (2011)(2) (2011)(3) (L) (2011)(4) (2011)(5) Turkey 74.7(1) 52% 10,576 45 70% Pakistan 177.8 65% 1,164 12 28% Kazakhstan 16.4 51% 10,951 32 37% Azerbaijan 9.4 50% 7,510 29 57% Turkmenistan 5.1 59% 4,362 38 Kyrgyzstan 5.4 61% 970 16 Tacikistan 7.0 68% 862 7 Jordan 6.4 67% 4,542 50 Syria 20.9 65% 3,050 17 Iraq 32.8 70% 3,306 23 Source: (1) TÜİK, (2) BM, (3) IMF, (4) CCI Estimate, (5) NIELSEN CCI Plant CCI’s Operating Geography Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9 Sales Volume Sales Volume Distribution of International Operations 14.5% Iraq 11% Syria 1% 10.6% 665.4 761.7 Azerbaijan 494.4 546.8 Turkmenistan 6% 15% 25.7% Jordan 6% 171.0 215.0 Kyrgyzstan 5% Kazakhstan Pakistan 25% 31% 2011 Sales Volume Increase 14.5% 10 Countries 20 Factories 9,000 Employees 360 Million Consumers 1,154 Million Production Capacity 720,000 Sales Points * CCI exports to the Tajikistan market. 10 Distribution of Products Operations TURKEY KAZAKHSTAN JORDAN AZERBAIJAN Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Coca-Cola Zero Coca-Cola Zero Coca-Cola Light Coca-Cola Light Coca-Cola Light Coca-Cola Light Fanta Fanta Fanta Fanta Sprite Sprite Sprite Sprite Cappy BonAqua SenSun Piko Arwa Fuse Tea Schweppes Fuse Tea Burn Cappy Schweppes Cappy Damla BonAqua Powerade Cappy Fuse Tea Burn Gladiator Doğadan Detailed information about our brands, operations and Turkey Market Shares (2011) the countries we operate is available at: http://www.cci.com.tr/tr/bizi-taniyin/kapsadigimiz2011 Ranking cografya Sparkling Beverages 70% 1 Water 9% 2 Fruit Juices & Nectars 25% 1 CCI is the 6th largest bottler in the Coca Cola System worldwide in terms of sales volume. CCI’s core Sparkling Beverages Market Sales business is to produce, sell and distribute sparkling and still beverages of The Coca Cola Company (TCCC). 2011 Ranking CCI employs close to 9,000 people and has operations Kazakhstan 37% 1 in ten countries. CCI’s shares are traded on the Azerbaijan 57% 1 Istanbul Stock Exchange under the ‘’CCOLA.IS’’ ticker. Pakistan 28% 2 Turkmenistan 1* You can visit: http://cci.com.tr/tr/yatirimci-iliskileri/ Kyrgyzstan 1* bir-bakista-cci to obtain detailed information about our affiliates and partnership structure. Source: Nielsen, * CCI Estimate Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach Our most important responsibility is to fulfill the The CCI Sustainability Working Group operates with expectations of our stakeholders and to continuously the participation of all CCI Function Heads and plays improve our social, environmental, and economical a critical role in making sure that sustainability performance while ensuring the sustainability and management is connected to field operations and operational success of our company. The Corporate the upper level management structure. The strategic Social Responsibility (CSR) approach is our main orientation and objectives that emerge from upper level management processes are conveyed to guiding principle in this matter. We evaluate all of our functional management by the Work Group in order operations and their impacts on the 10 countries, in to be transformed into field applications. The work which we operate, while considering social, economic, group provides feedback to upper level management ethical and environmental impacts. and develops performance communication practices such as a CSR report for internal and external CCI accepts 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, stakeholders. The fundamental role of the CCI which outlines business principles for companies Sustainability Work Group is to identify sustainability in social, economic and environmental areas. In priorities and key stakeholder groups. this context, we evaluate performance results and expectations of stakeholders, define our priorities and At the Sustainability Work Group Meeting in this determine improvement targets in conformity with our reporting period, participants from inside and outside the company gave presentations, evaluated CSR approach that aims at continuous improvement. where CCI stands today in terms of sustainability, and discussed work completed throughout the As in all operational processes throughout our industry. During the meeting, a self-assessment company, corporate social responsibility is managed was performed with regard to CCI sustainability together with our main working strategy. Thereby, it strategy and implementations. The most important is aimed to effectively deploy the CSR concept from sustainability goal our internal stakeholders were upper level management implementations to all field concerned about was that “the CCI sustainability management model is a leader in both the sector and operations. Our corporate sustainability organization the business world.” performs a very important function in implementation of our sustainability model formed in line with our At the workshop to state improvement needs CSR approach. Information about our corporate and their effects on CCI, short, medium and sustainability organization is available at long-term targets related to CCI sustainability www.cci.com.tr. priorities were designated and relevant action plans were developed. The main topics identified for improvement were occupational health The CCI Board of Directors, Corporate Governance and safety, road and driving safety, community Committee is responsible for the approval of our investments, risk management and internal audit, sustainability strategy and performance monitoring. preserving water resources, and sustainable This responsibility is undertaken by the CCI procurement and reducing carbon emissions due Sustainably Committee, headed by the CEO, and to fleet transportation and business travel. We comprised of senior management. The fundamental plan to initiate improvement studies pertaining to these topics during the 2012/2013 period and to role of the Sustainability Committee is to identify submit them for our stakeholders’ perusal through long-term sustainability targets and set sustainability published reports. criteria. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach As CCI identifies “People and Organizational Leadership, “Commercial Leadership, “Supply Chain,” “Operational Excellence” sustainability priorities and “Sustainability. CCI determined our sustainability approach so as to “ensure the long-term viability and long-term objectives of our business by being proactive and innovative in as part of the global environmental protection and to be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all Coca-Cola System, stakeholders. We remain in line with TCCC’s “Life CCI also takes into Plus” framework and have established our priority sustainability performance areas. account the sustainability priorities identified The fundamental objective of the “Life Plus” strategic framework is to provide all of the sustainability by TCCC. programs in the system with an integrated structure and visibility. This framework consists of TCCC’s The necessary coordination is ensured by meetings sustainability priorities, defined under the pillars that are attended by senior CCI and TCCC executives. of Marketplace, Workplace, Environment and In 2010, CCI formulated its 2020 Vision and the Community. In this report, we shared all components fundamental principles of this framework in parallel. of the CCI Life Plus Sustainability Framework under For all CCI’s operations and implementations, we the titles of energy management, water management, determined five main topics of our vision and aimed at sustainable packaging, workplace, product “being a leading and model company” for the business responsibility and community. world, stakeholders and the Coca-Cola System as Occupational Preferred Health and WorkEmployee Employee Safety place Engagement Rights and Internal Communication Energy Management Economic and Climate Development Protection Water Management Social Development Sustainable Packaging Production Processes Consumers Supplier Our Audits Value Chain Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13 ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE WORKPLACE PROTECTION We aim to provide a fair and safe working We aim to reduce the amount of energy we environment for employees while consume, to minimize our carbon footprint, implementing projects and programs to be a leading company in climate protection that support personal and professional while working with community, universities development. and local governments. WATER MANAGEMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY A key business strategy is based We aim to form our purchase, production on establishing a sustainable water and marketing practices with a sustainable management model and minimizing our corporate governance perception, creating water footprint, while also reducing the surplus value for our entire value chain. amount of water we consume per product in all operation fields. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING COMMUNITY We aim to minimize the environmental We aim to support sustainable development impact of packaging and increase recycled in communities where we operate and materials use. contribute to the welfare of the society. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement We conduct our stakeholder engagement efforts within the framework of international principles and constitutes one of the system applications. Therefore, we prefer to use main objectives of our the stakeholder engagement principles and tools recommended by the AA1000SES Standard in our sustainability concept. practices. CCI’s areas of high priority sustainability performance, forming the basis of stakeholder While targeting the engagement efforts, include reciprocal dialogues, development of long-term joint initiatives, and stakeholder panels. The following chapters of this report will explore the formulation relationships with strong of practices to meet stakeholder expectations in the foundations through positive broadest possible fashion and produce comprehensive solutions using a holistic perspective on their and solution-oriented problems. dialogues, we work to build The CCI Sustainability Working Group is up a democratic base with responsible for identifying key stakeholders and devising engagement plans. Related planning and which our stakeholders implementation processes are constantly updated. can participate in the Detailed information related to our corporate stakeholder map, participation, and dialogue management of business platforms with our stakeholders can be accessed via the annual report on our corporate website. implementations and influence the business CCI enriches our stakeholder engagement implementations via both voluntarily undertaken operations of the company. memberships and industrial association and union memberships. CCI is a part of voluntary undertakings such as the Turkish Climate Platform Turkish Climate Change Leaders Group, the United Nations Global Compact and the 2 Degree Communiqué. Additionally, CCI actively participates in a number of associations and unions such as ÇEVKO, TÜSİAD, YASED, TABA, KALDER, DEİK, SUDER, MEYED, TEİD, TÜYİD, TOBB, MEDER, TGDF and Marka Koruma Grubu (Brand Protection Group). Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15 Corporate Governance CCI sustainability management, formulated with CCI’s “Business Code of Ethics” (Code of Ethics) is the corporate social responsibility approach, is extremely important for the continuity of sustainability supported by the CCI corporate management culture. management implementations and the proper This culture is based on the principles of fairness, implementation of corporate governance principles transparency, accountability and responsibility. It aims across our operational geography. In the Code of to foster open communication with all stakeholders Ethics, our values, responsibilities and actions to be who are within its area of impact throughout its taken in the event of possible conflicts of interests and operational geography. responsibilities of our employees are meticulously defined. Detailed information regarding shareholder relations, information disclosure policy, duties and CCI organizes regular meetings together with all responsibilities of the Board of Directors and its sales offices, factories and central offices to inform committees and the issues of Risk Management employees about the Code of Ethics. These meetings and Internal Audit, is available in the Corporate are carried out by representatives from the Internal Governance Compliance Report published at our Audit and Legal Departments, supported by the corporate website (www.cci.com.tr). Human Resources Department. CCI plans to organize Code of Ethics informational meetings, including In 2011, as in every year, CCI demonstrated its local cases, to all international operations during commitment to the principles of corporate governance 2012 and in the following years. In addition to these with the evaluation of a third party institution. Our applications, CCI aims to publish a revised Code of Corporate Governance Rating rose from 8.43 to 8.5 out Ethics, to establish a complaint reporting system of 10. We also intend to maintain our steady upward about related subjects and to form a report line trend, which is evidence of the importance CCI places within the context of the “Code of Ethics Information on corporate governance principles and the success Program” in 2012. of our implementations based on the improvements it makes in this area in the coming years. In order to prevent corruption and apply ethics, all CCI employees are informed about the Code of Ethics, During the reporting period, according to the results must sign and attest that they have read and agreed of the 3rd “Turkish Investor Relations Awards” to the related rules. conducted by Acclaro and Thomson Reuters Extel Survey, which aims to rate excellence in governance The CCI “Code of Ethics” is available at http://cci.com. relations, the CFO of Coca-Cola İçecek was tr/tr/yatirimci-iliskileri/kurumsal-yonetim/is-etigiawarded “Turkey’s best CFO. Additionally, CCI was kodu/. nominated for 6 awards, including third place in the “Best Annual Report” category. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach The Internal Audit Department, which is also The Internal Audit Department, and compliance of the considered to be the insurance of corporate system with the company standards, is audited once governance, unless otherwise specified by the every five years by an independent organization. Audit Committee, covers all company activities and provides assurance to Senior Management about the In all projects supporting our company’s 2020 vision, appropriateness and effectiveness of internal audit the Internal Audit Department plans to provide advice systems formed to achieve the targets. The Internal and assurance in the fields of risk management, Audit Department provides advice regarding issues control and corporate management to the relevant concerning risk management, control and ethics to management levels. CCI also has future plans to the relevant management levels, when necessary. launch an effective, reliable and sustainable regional In this context, the Internal Audit Department is also Internal Audit Process. responsible for risk assessment, Code of Ethics Awareness Training, violation investigations and the special demands of management. Business Continuity We use the ”Incident Management and Crisis CCI won the “Internal Auditing Resolution (IMCR) Program” which is a part of TCCC’s Quality Assurance” award by TIDE, Global Asset Protection Strategy, to administer our within the context of the “Internal entire system from a single point and to create a Auditing Awareness Awards.” corporate long-term memory where our processes These awards were designed to are stored. Thus, we assure our business continuity against exceptional circumstances such as data loss help internal audit implementations or other issues that may occur. Set as a target in last meet international standards year’s report, we installed the program in 7 countries. and attain excellence Validation of the program was achieved in all 7 levels in Turkey. countries in 2011. Together with the implementation of the program in Turkmenistan, the number of countries covered by the program will be increased to 8 in 2012. Supply Chain and Financial ERP System (SAP), Commercial Practices System (BASIS), Mobile Systems, Reporting and Decision Supporting Systems, The CCI Internal Audit Department overviews as well as IMCR, are used in the Istanbul Data Center, internal control systems in all process audits. While managed by IBM. The Disaster Recovery Center was evaluating the risks that may result in bribery or established outside the city so that it would be able corruption and may affect the company's reputation, to take action in case of emergency and to ensure and all other operational and financial risks during business continuity. It was restructured in line with these processes, this department determines the international standards during the reporting period. controls intended to eliminate these risks, and audits Consequently, this center, which records data from the effectiveness and appropriateness of these international operations, is now capable of providing, controls. For this reason, processes for international within 24 hours, data service to a maximum of the operations are reviewed each year and domestic previous 72 hours of data. In addition, the Financial operations are completely reviewed every 3 years. All ERP system used in our Pakistan operations was international and domestic operations were audited established in the related region and is backed up by a according to the audit plan in 2011. Disaster Recovery Center in another city. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17 Our Environmental Approach Effectively managing the environmental impact of environmental policy and aim to be an exemplary our activities, and accordingly signing exemplary company in this regard. environmentally friendly implementations for our sector and the Coca-Cola System, are the most • We prioritize energy efficiency in every area of important principles that guide us on our journey our operations, from supply to production and from of sustainability. CCI’s three primary focus areas distribution to sale, measure our carbon footprint and with regard to the management of its environmental take the necessary measures to reduce it. impacts are, “Water Management,” “Sustainable Packaging” and “Energy Efficiency and Climate • We implement processes to reduce the consumption Protection. We aim to minimize water consumption of resources by increasing reuse and recycling. in our operations, control our carbon footprint with effective energy consumption and to preserve natural • We aim to dispose of the waste generated from our resources with our sustainable packaging processes operations preventing pollution. and high waste management performances. • We develop environmental awareness in our In all of our operations; workplace and we aim to create the same awareness in all stakeholders through joint projects and • We carefully monitor our environmental impact initiatives. and target a performance that exceeds legal requirements. We comply with legal environmental requirements, environmental and energy management systems • We conduct operations by respecting the and TCCC standards and we accept best industrial environment and considering the value of the practices where possible. We pay attention to fulfilling resources that future generations will need. the expectations of stakeholders while accepting high standards to protect the environment as a responsible • We believe that minimizing our impact on the world citizen. environment is a requirement to conduct business in the best way possible. As part of our 2020 vision, our performance goals regarding water, energy and solid waste recycling • We place the issue of water usage, which is rate, which form the basis of our environmental fundamental to our business, at the heart of our approach, are illustrated below: 2012 and 2020 Environmental Goals Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan 2012 2020 2012 2020 2012 2020 2012 2020 Solid Waste Recycling Ratio (%) 95 98 89 95 94 98 90 96 Water Consumption Ratio (L/L) 1.40 1.20 1.85 1.50 1.78 1.40 1.65 1.25 Energy Consumption Ratio (MJ/L) 0.24 0.23 0.39 0.35 0.34 0.30 0.32 0.24 18 “CCI’s climate change strategy is to fulfill our responsibilities working with international companies and society, in addition to our efforts Energy to reduce our operational greenhouse gas emissions. At CCI, we focus on meeting our Management growth targets without increasing our carbon footprint. While continuing innovative projects and clean technology investments initiated to and Climate reach our goal of reducing energy consumption as part of our energy management system, we try to expand our system establishment studies Protection and our efficient practices to other country operations.” Ali Hüroğlu CCI Supplier Chain Services Director Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19 Energy management and climate protection • We achieved 121,102 kWh energy consumption and 58,120.4 kg CO2 emissions reduction with green IT projects are the priorities of CCI’s sustainability including server consolidation, server virtualization, strategy. We continue working towards distribution optimization, imprint and display. • CCI participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in increasing energy efficiency and reducing 2011 as the first company in the Turkish food and beverage emission rates in order to minimize industry and became one of the five Carbon Disclosure our environmental impact. With the Leaders. • The Çorlu, Izmir, and Elazığ plants, respectively, became awareness of our responsibility to reduce the first CCI plants in Turkey to obtain the ISO 50001 Energy CO2 emissions generated as a result Management Certificate. CCI Çorlu plant was the first plant in the Istanbul region to obtain the ISO 50001 Energy of the consumption of non-renewable Management Certificate, and the second in Turkey. energy sources, we do not consider energy efficiency and climate protection Analysis of 2011 Performance Results performances as separate concepts and The reflections of Operational Excellence (OE) projects we aim for continuous improvement in this on 2011 performance indicators, relating to energy consumptions at production lines and equipment performed field. in Turkey and Kazakhstan in 2011, were reviewed. Accordingly, improvement projects reduced the energy consumption rate per liter of product by 4% in Turkey, and by 7% in Kazakhstan. The reasons for the increase in energy 2011 Targets consumptions per liter of product that were realized in 2011 despite the improvements were analyzed: • To establish the CCI Environmental Management Unit of Turkey. • Establishment of new production lines: There are • To achieve energy consumption per liter of product efficiency reductions during trial operations and startproduced in 2011 of 0.216 MJ/L in our Turkey operation, 0.47 up periods of new products. Establishment of tunnel MJ/L in the Jordan operation, 0.34 MJ/L in the Kazakhstan pasteurization and hot fill lines in Bursa; trial production operation and 0.23 MJ/L in the Azerbaijan operation. and hotfill lines in Kazakhstan and PET bottle lines in • To reduce CO2 emissions per liter of product produced to Ankara and Elazığ are regarded as some examples. 6.2% in our Turkey operation, 8% in the Jordan operation, • Increase in aseptic fruit juice productions. 7.3% in the Kazakhstan operation and 8.6% in the Azerbaijan • Increase in energy consumption due to crystal sugar usage. operation. • To reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions with 2012 Targets Green IT applications. • To participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project Turkey • We aim to start to monitor CO2 emissions caused by in 2011 and disclose our carbon emissions and climate business travel in 2013. protection policies. • We aim to achieve energy consumption per liter of product produced in 2012 as 0.24 MJ/L in our Turkey operation, 0.39 MJ/L in the Jordan operation, 0.32 MJ/L in the Kazakhstan What we Achieved operation and 0.34 MJ/L in the Azerbaijan operation. • We aim to launch the project “reducing the pressure in • We established the CCI Environmental Management Unit PET bottle blowing operations” first in Izmir and aim to of Turkey at the beginning of 2011. spread the practice throughout all CCI operations in Turkey • We achieved energy consumption per liter of product and in other countries. produced in 2011 of 0.255 MJ/L in our Turkey operations, • We aim to reduce our energy consumption by implementing 0.455 MJ/L in the Jordan operation, 0.333 MJ/L in the the “Lightweight” (packaging weight reduction) Project in Kazakhstan operation and 0.222 MJ/L in the Azerbaijan other country operations during 2012-2013. operation.3 • In 2012, we aim to assure that 100% of the CCI Turkey • CO2 emissions g per liter of product decreased by operation possesses the energy management system 22.66% in the Jordan operation, 13.08% in the Kazakhstan certificate when the Ankara, Mersin, Sapanca, Bursa, and operation, 7.66% in the Azerbaijan operation and increased Köyceğiz plants obtain the ISO 50001 Energy Management by 3.97% in our Turkey operation.4,5,6 System Certificate. 3 Energy Consumption Rate refers to the energy consumed during the core bottling operation and excludes consumption from preform injection and CO2 production. 4 CO emissions rate refers to all production processes. 2 5 CO emissions rates were calculated by using indirect energy CO emissions conversion factors defined annually by the International Energy 2 2 Agency. The results obtained influence the determination factors which are revised annually. For example, the conversion factor used for Azerbaijan increased 6.47% compared to last year’s factor. 6 2010 2011 CO conversion factors are available in the Performance Indicators Section, p 72. 2 20 Energy Management and Climate Protection Climate Protection and Emission CO2 Emissions (g/L) Management 161,57 161.57 Turkey Türkiye According to scientific and economic evidence, Jordan Ürdün risks caused by climate change causes major Kazakhstan Kazakistan socioeconomic, and environmental effects, while Azerbaijan Azerbaycan 78.67 78,67 threatening earth’s future global welfare. It’s only 56,03 56.03 possible to minimize these costs with a transition to a 49.46 49,46 46,56 46.56 49.44 low carbon economy. 28,36 28.36 49,44 30,10 30.10 CCI is aware of the risks created by climate change on 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the sustainability of energy, agricultural products and water resources. Detailed evaluations relevant to this CCI was named among the five Carbon topic are available in our report released within the Disclosure Leaders of Turkey context of the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project. (www.cdproject.net) In 2011, CCI became the first company from the food and beverage sector in Turkey to be included The climate protection approach is one of the in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CCI was priorities of our sustainability strategy. We have named among the five carbon disclosure leaders in determined that this approach both minimizes climate Turkey alongside the largest banks, communication change risks and leads to low carbon economy and energy companies, obtaining a total disclosure transition in our operational geography. score over 70. This score was awarded as a result of an evaluation in the first CDP Turkey-100 Report, published after a survey by Ernst & Young among the We always aim to be proactive and innovative in Istanbul Stock Exchange 100 companies in November the face of hazards created by climate change. The 2011. focuses of our strategy are; CDP Türkiye-100 Raporu 2011 • To increase the energy efficiency in our plants and 71 trilyon dolar değerindeki varlığı yöneten 551 kurumsal yatırımcı adına offices. • To reduce logistics based emissions with effective fleet and fuel management. CDP Türkiye Ortağı Sponsor Rapor Sponsoru • To reduce indirect emissions by focusing on our climate friendly refrigeration applications. • To increase awareness on climate protection by collaborating with stakeholders. As a proof of CCI’s sensibility on sustainability, CCI Turkey signed the 2ºC Communiqué accountability and transparency, we share our energy consumption rates, measured by using CCI strongly supports efforts to develop an effective, verifiable techniques, within the context of our energy robust, and egalitarian global activity plan with regard to climate change. CCI signed the 2°C Challenge management system and CO2 emissions rates Communiqué after the Copenhagen and Cancun measured using conversion factors released by the Declarations signed in 2009 and 2010 respectively. International Energy Agency, with our stakeholders. Developed by the private sector in 2011, the 2°C At CCI, while informing our stakeholders directly Challenge Communiqué is the fifth such declaration about these assets; we aim to be a model company on climate change, and highlights the progressive and participating in voluntary undertakings launched in decisive stance of the international business world on climate protection. this issue. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 21 Reducing material consumption and waste output, Energy Consumption Ratio* (MJ/L) and recycling and recycled material usage, are the main elements of CCI’s climate change combat 1.69 strategy. We conduct research and development studies to improve our CO2 emissions process Turkey performances, and strive to reduce our environmental Jordan footprint with hi-tech applications. We aim to maintain Kazakhstan CO2 emissions at the same level while raising our 0.455 Azerbaijan 0.33 0,33 0.333 volumes, and we have obtained exceptional results for 0.28 0.255 the entire Coca-Cola System with implementations in 0.222 0.27 this field in Turkey. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Management * Kazakhstan belongs to the years of 2009-2011 data. CCI carries out different projects while systematically As part of Operational Excellence (OE) evaluating and implementing energy effectiveness practices in all country operations, we opportunities in our operations. Our energy continue to obtain positive results in terms management policy is based on achieving the greatest of energy efficiency: amount of production with the least amount of energy. We aim to reduce the amount of energy we consume • In the Kazakhstan operation, with a project geared in production, distribution and cooling processes, towards usage of steam generated in electricity which constitute the bulk of our energy consumption, generation area in low season, we succeeded in by pursuing improvement measures, and at the same reducing energy consumption from 0.89 MJ/L to 0.86 time enhancing quality. MJ/L in the hot filling processes and from 0.22 MJ/L to 0.21 MJ/L in other processes. Energy consumption and related processes are managed together with the CCI Environment • In Azerbaijan, we secured a reduction in diesel Management System, as part of the CCI energy fuel consumption and improved the preform (PET management system, Operational Excellence (OE) bottle) production process, both of which produce CO2 model, and key performance indicators of corporate emissions, in order to obtain results in 2012. business plans. Related performance results • In Pakistan, within the context of Operational are monitored and evaluated regularly by senior Excellence projects, we achieved a total savings management. Energy coordinators were assigned to of 1,042,848 kWh of energy with projects such as administer the energy management system effectively blowing pressure optimization, raising the filling heat in all Turkey plants. The Izmir, Çorlu, and Elazığ of cooling weight in Sidel lines and elimination of hot plants passed the audits and obtained the ISO 50001 regenerated air from injection machines. Energy Management Systems certificate. In 2012, we aim to obtain this certificate for all of our Turkish • We reduced our fuel consumption by 20% with the plants. Jordan Electrical Forklift Project. CCI Energy Management Approach • Reducing the PET Bottle Blowing • Utilizing Reduction at Pressure Process Heat Recycling and Steam Source • Lightweight • OE Projects Least Environmental Effect 22 Energy Management and Climate Protection We Consume Less Energy as a Result of Our Project Implemented’ in the Coca-Cola System and Energy Efficiency Implementations started to be applied in all plants. With this project, we automatized the compressor selection and reduced the blowing pressure by optimizing heating In 2011, we saved a total of 10.5 million kWh of energy and cooling temperatures, activating the air recovery as a result of energy efficiency projects in all of our system and writing software for minimum functions operations in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan of air conveyors. In this way, CCI formed a system and Pakistan. that consumes less electricity without lowering our product quality. CCI achieved a total energy savings of 8,245,473 kWh and emissions reduction of 3,818 tons of CO2 as part of this project launched in the Çorlu, Energy Consumption Improvements between Ankara, Bursa, Mersin and Sapanca plants as well as 2005-2011 (MJ/L) Izmir between 2008 and 2011. The project also started to be implemented in the Elazığ and Köyceğiz plants. 2005 The savings by years are illustrated below: 1,690 2011 CO2 Emissions Savings (kWh) Savings (ton) 73.1% 6.93% 16.8% 2008 4,348,728 1,906 20.7% 2009 566,425 271 0,455 0,400 2010 2,805,451 1,389 0,274 0,255 0,333 0,280 0,222 2011 524,869 252 Total 8,245,473 3,818 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan The above values were calculated according to the previous years’ parameters. We started to implement the PET bottle blowing pressure optimization process We Enhanced Our PET Bottle Blowing in our other country operations. During 2011, as a Processes and Now We Consume Less result of the implementation of this project in Turkey, Energy Jordan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan operations, we We continued improvements with regard to “PET achieved a total savings of 1,974,270 kWh energy and bottle blowing process” in 2011, which was first a reduction of 960 tons of CO2 emissions as total. launched in the Izmir plant in 2009. The overall pressure was lowered from 35 bars to 17 bars in 2011 Pet Bottle Blowing Pressure Optimization this extent. As a result of the improvements made Project Savings in Operations between 2008 and 2011, the Izmir plant achieved energy savings of 5,514,857 kWh and prevented the Countries Savings (kWh) CO2 (ton) release of 2,416 tons of CO2 gases, based on 2007 Kazakhstan 670,000 322 values. The Izmir plant managed to blow 200 ml PET Jordan 235,872 137 bottles with a pressure of 10 bars in November 2011. Pakistan 543,529 249 In 2010, this project was recognized as the ‘Best Turkey 524,869 252 Total 1,974,270 960 As a result of the improvements employed during 2006-2011 in the Turkey operation, we improved energy consumption by 42.6% per 1 PET bottle blowing, reducing it from 0.037 kWh to 0.021 kWh. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23 In 2011, as a result of OE projects implemented in CCI Turkey plants we achieved approximately 6,951,147 kWh savings in energy consumption and 3,336 tons of reduction in CO2 gas emission. Energy Efficiency Projects in 2011 CCI Kazakhstan Plant Co-generation Unit CCI launched and implemented OE, and a number of innovative projects which competed in the CCI Inventor Competition in 2011. CCI achieved total energy savings of 6,951,147 kWh as a result of improvement processes such as using more efficient reflectors and refractors for bottle blowing machines, establishing an automation system to turn off oven lights during pauses, and using CO2 pyrolysis for cooling in the Ankara plant; improving electricity consumption in aseptic and bottle blowing processes in the Çorlu plant; lowering the temperatures of the packaging oven and glass line washing process, and insulated cap implementation on packaging machines in the Izmir plant; providing washing We prefer low carbon technologies to machine insulation, changing blower, conveyor and reduce our carbon footprint to support our vacuum pumps, savings of CO2 gassing evaporator, automation of line-3 conveyor fan, and deactivation climate change strategy. In this scope, of blowers in the Mersin plant; renovation of pipe our Kazakhstan Plant opened its first insulation, economizer, and revision of cooling systems in the Bursa plant; lowering PET bottle co-generation unit in 2005. Co-generation blowing pressure, adjusting packaging temperatures, plants generate power, using natural gas, transition to the 2 cooling system, and optimization of material warehouse layout to reduce material transfer recovering the generated heat energy in services in the Sapanca plant; and lowering the PET heating and cooling instead of wasting as bottle blowing pressure in the Elazığ plant. done in conventional power plants. In 2011 In 2011, within the context of OE, CCI energy we achieved 13% savings in natural gas efficiency studies were continued swiftly in all other country operations. We provided an energy consumption for CO2 production due to the savings of 1,042,848 kWh in our Pakistan operation import of flue gas from power plant which is by the elimination of hot regenerated air in injection processes, optimizing the air blower pressure, air equal to 321 tons. curtain, and operating coding machines (4 lines) efficiently. In our Kazakhstan plant 1,707,542 kWh of energy was saved by optimizing PET bottle blowing pressure, lowering the operation temperature by the optimization of PET bottle blowing pressure, of the blowing machine tunnel during the cold reusing the air used in the blowing process, seasons, efficient operation of optimized dryers on increasing the efficiency of energy consumption of the the aluminum can lines, efficient usage of steam in compressor by using a speed changer 216,590 kWh electricity production area during the cold seasons, was saved in Azerbaijan plant by the cooling energy and automatic shut-down of compressed air in can savings by increasing the filling temperature and dryer. 529,872 kWh was saved in our Jordan plant improvements in lighting systems at plant territory. 24 Energy Management and Climate Protection In 2011, with all OE projects mentioned above, we had CCI Invention / Innovation Competition an energy consumption improvement of around 10,5 million kWh in Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Jordan The CCI Innovation Competition is aimed to spread and Azerbaijan operations. This number corresponds a culture of innovation and sustainability among to a decrease of approximately 5000 tons of CO2 employees and to ensure that they are more efficient emissions. using less resources. The competition has instigated 517 projects since 2008, and 119 of these projects In 2012, we aim to further reduce energy consumption were received during 2011. to a minimum of 3 million kWh in Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Jordan and Azerbaijan operations • The Ankara Plant, with their innovation project with projects such as, efficient operations of the “Establishment of Number 5 Production Line,” solely wastewater treatment plant blowers, lowering the used the available systems in hand without buying any new equipment or machinery. The project won first operation temperatures of blowing machines at prize in the 2011 “Invention/Innovation Competition. hot filling lines, optimization of PET bottle blowing pressures, isolation of cooling lines, optimization • The Mersin Plant, with their innovation project of pumps, efficient usage of speed changers and “Runner (Automated Pallet Carrier),” aimed compressor units, efficient usage of pressure to transfer tetra packages to the warehouse convertors and cooling tower fans, optimization of automatically while reducing forklift traffic. The operation periods of well pumps, increasing the implementation led to lighter forklift traffic, a two number of environmental friendly coolers, reducing thirds reduction in LPG usage (from 15,900 kg/year to the energy consumption at preform production and air 5,300 kg/year), greatly reduced occupational accident conveyors, and daylight utilizations in factory buildings risk, and a fall in CO2 emissions of 59,000 kg/year. The and lighting improvements. project won the second prize in the 2011 “Invention/ Innovation Competition. Consumed kWh per 1 PET bottle blowing* • The Ankara plant’s innovation project “Preform Bag Box Minimization” brought about material savings 0.037 0.032 by reducing the weight of bags used in preform 0.027 0.025 boxes from 440 grams to 240 grams. With this 0.026 0.021 implementation, solid waste savings came in at 30,391 kg/year. This project won the third prize in the 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 “Invention/Innovation Competition. * Numbers refer to Turkey operation. • The Mersin Plant won the first prize with “Line-4 Palletizer Capacity Increase” project in the It was possible to blow 27.31 bottles with 1 kWh replication category of 2011 Invention/Innovation energy in 2006. A 42.6% improvement raised this Competition. number to 47.58 bottles in 2011. • The Çorlu plant implemented their innovation project “48 g-46 g Conversion in 2.5 L SW Bottles, and used 46 g preform instead of 48 g in the production of 2.5 L SW bottles in blowing machines. • The Sapanca Plant’s replication project, “Lowering PET Bottle Blowing Pressures,” aimed to reduce bottle blowing costs. The implementation of the project, saved 200,000 kWh energy which amounts to approximately 10 months worth of electricity consumption at Mahmudiye Köyü. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 25 Our main goal, in line with the energy consumption and CO2 emissions reduction strategies, is to minimize the number of daily movement of our vehicles. 2010 2011 Fleet Emissions Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Fleet Emissions* 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 CO2 (g/l) 11.71 15.3 58.48 21.09 3.2 7.05 10.24 13.37 NOx (g/l) 190.57 249.17 598.58 342.69 52.1 114.81 115.79 143.19 PM (g/l) 7.36 9.63 24.18 13.24 2.01 4.44 4.79 6.01 HC (g/l) 7.83 10.21 61.91 14.02 2.13 4.7 9.15 12.21 * Calculating emissions from the fleet in 2011 distributed the product (L) is based on the amount of fuel consumed per diesel equivalent. Managing the Impact of Transportation and In 2011, we reduced CO2 gas emissions by 6,457 Logistics tons as a result of opting to use vehicles with Euro 5 motors for the distribution of our products. Every morning, we transport thousands of CCI employees to production and management centers from their homes, transfer goods bought from suppliers to our plants, and products to points of our customers and distributors, and we travel as part of the nature of our business in the geography in which we operate. As an international company operating in a dynamic sector, managing transportation and logistics operations in the most accurate way affects both the effectiveness and profitability of our business We reduced our fuel consumption rate to 5.67 L/ and environmental performance. In this respect, KL in our Turkey operation, 6.81 L/KL in the Jordan with our implementations, we reduce resource operation, 5.21 L/KL in the Azerbaijan operation consumption and our carbon footprint by consuming and 2.61 L/KL in the Kazakhstan operation by less fuel. implementing above practices in 2011.* Our main objective in line with the energy * Fuel consumption rate = total fuel use (diesel equivalent liters) / total consumption and CO2 emissions reduction strategies volume of distributed product (kiloliters) is to minimize the number of daily movement of our vehicles. Therefore we optimize our routes In 2012, in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, we aim with computer technologies used in both personnel to complete the studies to start the ‘Distribution transportation and logistics operations, and we aim Optimization’ implementation, successfully applied to ensure the maximum amount of product deliveries in the Jordan operation during the last reporting with minimum truck movements. Besides these period and targeted to minimize energy consumption implementations, as a part of our environmental and emissions resulting from transportation management approach, we renew our vehicles for vehicles, while providing full performance in better fuel mileage and lower emissions, as well as distribution channels. striving for effective driving habits throughout CCI. 26 Energy Management and Climate Protection Cooling Practices We have coolers or vending machines with cooler units at thousands of our sales points. Coolers are very important for us in order to implement correct sales procedures at the correct sales points, and they are also the most significant components of our carbon footprint. Since 74.2% of the energy consumption that takes place throughout the CCI Turkey operation is due to coolers, all implementations in this field substantially affect our environmental performance. In line with our environmental management approach, we act responsibly in selecting eco-friendly coolers with advanced technology that reduce our environmental impact. During the reporting period, we began replacing the coolers that we use in our Turkey operation with coolers that are equipped with energy management Purchasing the coolers in a responsible devices (EMD), custom designed for the Coca-Cola System, and use R600, a known ecoway and preferring devices that have friendly refrigerant. In 2010, the ratio of coolers that the least environmental effects while do not contain HFCs (Hydro-Fluoro-Carbon) to all utilizing technology are solid examples of coolers was raised to 11%, and we succeeded in boosting this ratio to 24% in 2011. Additionally, we our environment management approach. increased the percentage of EMD equipped coolers In 2011, as a result of our investments in from 13% to 35%. Thus we became one of the climate friendly coolers at our Turkey, operations that achieved the fastest improvement in eco-friendly cooling practices performance among all Azerbaijan, Jordan and Kazakhstan TCCC bottlers. Annual energy consumption related to operations, we achieved 121,903,311 kWh cooling was reduced by 109,296,576 kWh at the end of the reporting period. This reduction is equivalent improvement in energy consumption to the total energy requirements of eight plants at the and 58,338 tons of improvement in CO2 size of CCI’s Izmir plant. Furthermore, the refrigerant emissions. gases used by CCI are known to pose no threat to the ozone layer. Cooler Energy Savings Cooler Emission (kWh)* Reductions (ton CO2)* 121,903,311 58,338 35,632,170 4,676,524 17,560 2,236 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * Figures cover the performances of Pakistan and 4 countries in the reporting scope. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27 During the reporting period, we consolidated our existing servers and centralized operations by replacing 24 rack servers with 10 blade type servers. Green IT Server Consolidation and Server Virtualization Green IT is the name we have given to all of our environmental impact reduction practices in With the implementation in the reporting period, we informatics. We aim to optimize resources by using consolidated our existing servers and centralized computers, servers and other associated subsystems operations by replacing 24 rack servers with 10 effectively and efficiently, and ensuring that electricblade-type servers. In this way, we reduced energy electronic wastes are recycled with no impact on consumption and at the same time we ensured ease the environment. Within the scope of our Green IT of administration and increased data security. We practices, we opt to purchase electronic devices and completed the consolidation project in June 2011 and systems that are more efficient in terms of energy, activated it in July 2011. while also choosing electronic media implementations and teleconference meetings to minimize business With this project, we achieved total energy savings of travel, optimizing product transportation and recycling 39,902 kWh by the end of the year. We aim to achieve electronic equipment that have reached the end of total energy savings of 119,706 kWh with this project, their economic life cycle, all in order to minimize our which secured energy reduction of 56% by the end of environmental footprint. 2012. We Consume less Energy at Work Another implementation during the reporting period was the server virtualization application. Within As a result of the Print and Display Project we the context of the project, a virtual infrastructure launched in June 2011, we made our printing consisting of 40 virtual servers was established equipment more centralized, manageable, and by using 4 physical servers. Under normal traceable. With the help of optimization processes, we circumstances, this infrastructure needs 40 physical reduced the number of printers from 420 to 290. With servers, but now it is distributed via 4 servers by this project, we achieved a total of 14,000 kWh energy virtualization. This project provides an approximate energy savings of 90%. As a result of the project savings during the reporting period. In addition, we launched in September 2011, we achieved energy succeeded in reducing paper consumption by 24%, savings of 67,200 kWh within 4 months. by adjusting printer default settings to double-sided printing and not allowing users to obtain printouts As a consequence of all the Green IT projects without identifying themselves. mentioned above, we achieved a reduction in annual energy consumption of 121,102 kWh, and CO2 emissions of 58,120.4 kg in 2011. CCI recycles the electrical and 420 14,000 KWh 24% 2010 electronic wastes (computers, monitors, printers, electrical cables, electronic equipment 290 2011 etc.) sending them to companies which received licence from the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. Total number of Paper consumption print The average annual household electricity consumption 28 “A key business strategy is based on reducing the amount of water we consume and minimizing our other environmental impacts while succeeding in sustainable production processes and water reclamation. With this respect, we aim to be 'the best' in water consumption and we always support Water operations related to preserving and developing water resources.” Management Burak Başarır CCI Turkey Region President Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 29 As a vital source of life for human beings and a What we Achieved fundamental ingredient of our products, water is a limited resource. Global warming, rapid population • In 2011, we reclaimed 273,784 m3 of water as a growth and consumption, and other dangers to dwindling result of numerous projects that were a part of OE water supplies intensify the pressure on this limited during the reporting period in our Ankara, Çorlu, resource. CCI’s operational geography is one of the Mersin, and Adana plants. regions in which this pressure is felt at its greatest. • We achieved a 70% savings in clean water by Therefore, water management is the most important operating high-pressured jets used for bottle cleaning aspect of the sustainability framework for CCI. With the in the Jordan plant. We reclaimed a total of 56,338 goal of producing more beverages by consuming less m3 of water by recycling the water used for direct water, we aim to maximize the efficient use of water washing of carbon tanks and rinsing water in the in our production facilities, to preserve water quality Ankara plant. in water basins, and to be an example in this area by performing waste water management to the highest • We achieved a savings of 35,000 m3 of water by possible level. recycling water through the reverse osmosis project in the Izmir plant. As part of the Coca-Cola System, CCI supports the ultimate goal of replenishing every drop of water • We reclaimed an annual total of 1,500 m3 of water used by the help of global water management studies in the Izmir plant and 5,000 m3 of water in the Kazakhstan plant with the Rain Water Harvesting focusing on the following points: Project. 1. Reducing water consumption / Reuse. • We achieved a water consumption rate of 1.42 2. Reclamation / Safe discharge. L/L in our Turkey operation, 2.00 L/L in the Jordan 3. Replenish. operation, 1.74 L/L in the Azerbaijan operation, and 4. Supporting studies devoted to preserving and 1.70 L/L in the Kazakhstan operation. improving water basins. 5. Supporting studies raising the awareness of society, 2012 Targets together with public institutions and non-governmental organizations. • We aim to reduce the water consumption rate to 1.40 L/L as a result of OE water minimization projects performed in all the plants in Turkey. • We aim to reduce water consumption rates in international operations to 1.85% in the Jordan operation, 1.78% in the Azerbaijan operation, and 1.65% L/L in the Kazakhstan operation during the next reporting period. • We aim to achieve a savings of 70,000 tons of water by reclaiming cleaning water in the Izmir plant. • We aim to save 9,000 m3 of water by using peroxide water discharged from tetra lines for cleaning in the Mersin plant. • We aim for a total reduction of 25,000 m3 water consumption in our Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Azerbaijan plants with the application of a dry belt slider, the use of sampling water analyzed in garden irrigation, with optimization projects of water used in reverse osmosis in Azerbaijan and of rinsing water in our Jordan plant. Yield 88% with water recovered from the reverse osmosis system. 30 Water Management Water Management at CCI • Rain water • Reuse after collection • Reduce treatment • Garden irrigation Reduction water use • Discharge • Water source Recycle Replenish supplement to a at Source • Re-use treated water to place with the environment polluted or no water source Least Environmental Effect Reducing Water Consumption Water consumption distributions and improvements in the water consumption ratios (L/L) according to our We believe that our ultimate responsibility is to operational sources covered by the report since 2006 maintain the efficiency of water consumption are as follows: and management processes in our operations. Therefore, we constantly endeavor to find different 2006-2011 Water Consumption Reduction (%) ways of reducing the amount of the water we use. 3.44 19.05% 17.14% Despite the increase in production quantities and 18.39% 41.86% the product portfolio range, CCI’s aim to reduce the 2.10 2.10 amount of water used per 1 liter of product is actively 1.74 2.00 1.70 1.74 2006 followed in all country operations every year. We are 1.42 2011 conducting OE studies with the aim of reducing water consumption rates in all country’s operations within the context of this report. Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Water Consumption Ratio (L/L) During 2011, we continued to improve water consumption processes in our operations. In 3.44 the Kazakhstan plant, with the help of dry oiling Turkey conveyors, we achieved 2,000 m3 water savings. 2.1 2.00 Jordan 1.74 Meanwhile, also in the Kazakhstan plant, we have Kazakhstan 1.70 achieved a savings of 3,500 m3 in rinsing water since Azerbaijan 1.74 1.42 May, 2011. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CCI Kazakhstan Plant Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31 Despite the increase in production quantities and product portfolio range, CCI's aim to reduce the amount of water used per 1 liter of product is actively followed in all country operations every year. We continue to reduce our water consumption in Total Water use by Sources (%)* the Çorlu plant by using air cleaning technology for bottles since 2006. At the same time, we also 11% 7% achieved an annual water savings of 12,000 m3 with the dry conveyor lubrication implementation, and 80,000 m3 by filling operation without rinsing in the Total Çorlu plant. In our Izmir plant, we achieved an annual 4,805,034 m3 water savings of 35,000 m3 with the “Active Carbon & Reverse Osmosis Exit Mixture” implementation. 82% Municipal Water Groundwater Spring Water * Totally 4,805,034 m3 water has been used in the Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Jordan operations. CCI’s Turkey Operation Izmir Plant is one of the best Wastewater Management and Reclamation operations, with the While we manage our operations using the concept of lowest water consumption the “zero wastewater generation” and “reclamation,” rates, and aims to we reduce our environmental impact by discharging wastewater after purification in our plants and/or in achieve a rate of 1.40 L/L local purification plants. We also closely monitor the by the end of 2012. quality of wastewater released from the production. At CCI, we comply with legal and TCCC wastewater Reducing this rate to limits determined for bottler operations, control our 1.40 (L/L) would equate to wastewater parameters with periodic analyses and furthermore, we evaluate our wastewater treatment 122,000 tons of annual performances. water savings. In the above figure, % of total water use at the operations within the scope of this report is There was no leakage resulting from our operations presented. during the reporting period. 32 Water Management Wastewater Treatment Channels* While striving to use the wastewater generated as a result of production processes in different fields via different implementations and projects, we also 57% constantly try to improve both water usage efficiency Total and wastewater reclamation rates. In this respect, 43% 1,289,863 m3 our production plants implement a number of water reclamation projects. In the Ankara plant, by reclaiming the wastewater generated as a result of washing carbon tanks and rinsing, we achieved a total Wastewater treated and discharged in CCI of 56,338 m3 wastewater reclamation. In the Çorlu wastewater treatment system (m3) plant, we reclaimed 25,000 m3 of wastewater with the help of forward/backwashing of sand and active Wastewater treated and discharged in local carbon filters in 2011. This amount equates to 3.3% wastewater treatment system (m3) of total water used during the process. Similarly, * Based on 2010 data. During the reporting period totally 1,289,863 m3 we achieved 20% reclamation by reusing returnable water was treated and discharged in TR, AZ, Kaz and Jordan operations. bottle and sanitation wastewater by reverse osmosis wastewater and by the rain water harvesting project in the Izmir plant, and an 11.82% reclamation by Wastewater Discharge between 2006 and backwash water of softening tanks, reclamation 2011 (L/L) of waste water used before line 3 jet coding, and cancellation of showers before and after line 1 filling 2.43 projects in the Mersin plant. We are planning to apply reclamation projects in the Bursa, Sapanca, Köyceğiz and Elazığ plants in 2012. 1.16 1.04 Turkey 0.87 0.92 Jordan In 2011, we developed and implemented various 0.58 Kazakhstan projects to lower the water consumptions in our 0.39 0.33 Azerbaijan country operations as part of OE. We recovered a 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 total of 427,086 m3 of water by recovering sand and active carbon straight/reverse washing water and other optimization projects realized at our Pakistan operation. A total of 12,835 m3 of water was recovered by projects such as sand and active carbon straight/ reverse washing and optimization of hot filling washing water at our Kazakhstan plant. With Rain Water Harvesting Projects, we collected 1,500 m3 rain water in the Izmir plant and 5,000 m3 rain water in the Kazakhstan plant. We aim to collect 500 m3 rain water with implementations in Çorlu Plant the Çorlu plant during 2012. CCI Mersin Plant sand and activated carbon filter system Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33 We act in concert with stakeholders and in line with their expectations throughout our geography in order to carry out projects that preserve and improve water resources, in terms of both quality and quantity. Preserving Water Resources Today, the situation of water resources is one of the biggest environmental problems in the world. As an international company, we accept that our steps regarding this issue are very important for the environment, and we care about being a model company for others in our geography with our positive actions. We act in concert with stakeholders and in line with their expectations throughout our geography in order to carry out projects that preserve and improve water resources, in terms of both quality and quantity. The evaluation of the impacts of our own operations on water resources and taking necessary In September 2010, actions in this field are the fundamental components approximately 1,500 m3 water of our practices. was collected with the rain We are aware of our impacts on water basins, which water harvesting system also affect natural life and bio-diversity around installed on 2,000 m2 of roof water resources. Therefore, with the ”Water Source Vulnerability Assessment Studies,” we perform risk space at the Izmir Plant. The analyses pertaining to water basins and determine collected water has been used risks of water basins and the contamination level. In consideration of these results, and as one of the for garden irrigation. main principles of the KORE system, which TCCC implements throughout the world, we initiated the “Source Water Protection Plan” to take precautions During the reporting period, while performing on the plant basis. In order to implement these plans, planned studies on water resources in our Bursa, teams from different departments of the company Elazığ, Sapanca, Köyceğiz, and Jordan plants, we come together to prepare and implement long term aim to complete studies pertaining at the Karachi, action plans. Faisalabad, Multan, and Gujranwala plants in 2012. The Coca-Cola System’s clear commitment to our We support environmental projects in order to stakeholders on water management is to supply increase awareness with respect to water basin and reclaim all of the water that we use in our preservation, especially among young people. Detailed products and during production without harming information about the work of the Coca-Cola Life the environment. Thus, we continuously expand Plus Foundation in this field can be found in the our regions of evaluation in line with this principle. ‘Community’ section of this report. 34 “One of the strategic goals of our business model is using less resource and generating less waste while producing more. Within this framework, CCI Sustainable plants lead by example with model implementations among the thousands of Coca-Cola plants through the world.” Ali Hüroğlu CCI Supply Chain Services Director Packaging Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 35 Packaging plays an important role in various What we Achieved processes from production to distribution and from recycling to waste disposal, and directly affects the • We managed to increase the packaging recycling sustainability of all these processes. Product quality rate by 0.58% in the Turkey operation, 2.89% in and safety are the most significant aspects of our the Jordan operation and 0.39% in the Azerbaijan operation, and we reduced 0.72% in the Kazakhstan business. However, reducing the environmental operation. We achieved a 94.45% recycling rate in impacts of our packages plays a critical role in Turkey, 88.9% in Jordan, 85.34% in Kazakhstan and our sustainable packaging strategy. Our approach 92.47% in the Azerbaijan operations. regarding sustainable packaging consists of three components: • We increased the recycling rate of packaging waste to 38% in our Turkey operations. • Continuously reducing the material amount and 2012 Targets energy used in package manufacturing and using recycled materials as much as food safety principles • We aim to increase the packaging waste recycling and technology allow. rate: 95% in the Turkey operation, • Reducing material use and increasing reuse and 89% in the Jordan operation, recycle rates. 90% in the Kazakhstan operation and 94% in the Azerbaijan operation. • Working together with stakeholders in order to • We aim to increase the recycling rate of packaging establish an environment friendly and economically waste to 40% in the Turkey operation. sustainable infrastructure for reclamation, reusing, and recycling of product packaging. • We aim to spread ‘’Lightweight’’ implementations throughout our all country operations. 2011 Targets • We aim to use • To increase the material recycling rate by 0.5% in 24.5 g material instead of 29.9 g in 1.5 L PET bottles, 10.5 g material instead of 14.9 g in 500 ml PET Turkey, 0.7% in Jordan, 4.7% in Kazakhstan, and 1% in bottles, Azerbaijan operations. 10.5 g material instead of 12.5 g in 330 ml PET bottles. • To increase the rate of packaging waste recycling to 38% in our Turkey operations. • We aim to reuse 87 tons of waste in our Bursa plant as part of the pallet reuse project in 2012. Waste Management in CCI • Re-design • Recycling by • Incineration • RB Deposit Reduction • Lightweight collection from Safe by energy Re-use • Re-usable Recycle at Source • Ultra Bottle the market Disposal recovery pallets • Preform • Storage recycling Least Environmental Effect 36 Sustainable Packaging Reducing Material Usage in Product previous periods. We achieved a savings of 1,413 tons Packaging of resin by implementing this project in the Turkey, Jordan, and Kazakhstan operations. Damla PET 500 ml Bottle 2.5 L PET Bottle We renewed the Damla Spring Water package in In 2.5 L PET Bottle production, circular pre-form 2011. The new packaging brings together a slew of was changed to conical pre-form. As a result of this advantages in terms of material and energy savings change, we both saved raw material and enhanced the with a 29.5% lighter structure, short neck production resistance of the package to stress breakages due to and high storage resistance. Our packaging helps us external factors. stock our products to the highest level possible, and high quality and reduced weight have not changed this With the former improvements, we lowered the weight feature. of the 2.5 L PET bottle from 60 g to 54.1 g. Thanks to the latest development, we have now reduced this As a result of the design change, the weight of weight to 52.8 g. Therefore, we expect an annual raw the 500 ml package was lowered from 14.9 g to material (resin) savings of 333 tons. Considering that 10.5 gr, the lightest weight used in the Coca-Cola 1,200 kWh energy is used in raw material production, System in Turkey and around the world. After the we will save a total of 399,600 kWh energy. In 2011, design change, we expect to achieve an annual raw the energy saved as a result of the injection and material (resin) savings of 1,658 tons. While keeping blowing processes was approximately 235,200 kWh in mind that 1,200 kWh energy is used per ton of and because of this savings approximately 113 tons of raw material production, we will achieve an annual CO2 emissions was prevented. savings of 1,989,600 kWh energy. This will result in the prevention of 960 tons of CO2 emissions, which equals In 2011, we continued to implement lightweight a savings of approximately 9,500 trees. projects in all CCI plants in Turkey. With this project, preform savings achieved in 2011 were around 1,205 CCI Turkey Won Two Awards tons. In our Çorlu and Ankara plants, the producers of preform for the entire operations, we saved 196 tons At the 24th Golden Package Awards judging the best with the preform reduced to 52.8 g, 644 tons with 10.5 packaging in Turkey, CCI was recognized for its g, 81 tons with 46 g, and 23 tons with 24.5 g, as well as packaging projects: “Conical Top 2.5 L PET Preform 261 tons of resin by recycling implementations. Bottle” and its “10.5 g Short-Necked 500 ml PET Water Bottle.” In addition to the above savings, as part of the project that will continue in our Turkey operation in 2012, it is expected that we will save a total of 2,977 tons of The ‘500 ml PET Water Bottle’ representing Turkey material by reducing the PET 2.5 L bottle from 52.8 g ranked among the winners in the Worldstar to 51.5 g. Packaging Awards. Glass Bottle Implementations In 2011, we continued the ‘Ultra Bottle’ project which was initiated in 2010 with the purpose of reducing the consumption of glass materials, and achieved a total savings of 1,359 tons of glass in our Turkey operations. We then implemented the project in Jordan and Pakistan and saved a total of 3,281 tons of glass and prevented approximately 5,250 tons of CO2 gas emissions. During the reporting period, in line with our strategy of reducing the amount of raw material used in In 2012, we will continue improvements by packaging, we continued our studies pertaining to implementing the above projects in all of our using Lightweight glass and PET bottles in the operations. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37 During the reporting period, the packaging waste recycling rate was increased to 38% in the Turkey operation. Glass Savings from the Ultra Bottle Project Waste Ratio Operations (g/L) in 2011* (ton) Turkey Jordan Pakistan 15.72 Product (ton) (ton) (ton) Coca-Cola RB 200 ml 948.3 Coca-Cola RB 250 ml 32.4 65.5 1,799.2 11.19 Turkey Fanta RB 200 ml 303.4 4.14 Jordan Fanta RB 250 ml 74.9 57.3 3.38 Kazakhstan Total 1,359 65.5 1,856.5 3.74 2.69 0.65 Azerbaijan 1.16 * These values are from countries that incorporate recycled bottle implementations. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 PET Bottle Raw Material Resin (ton) Recycled Material Ratio (%) 2011 Actual 2012 Target 94.95 94.67 Resin Resin 92.47 Turkey 90.99 PET BOTTLE Savings (ton) Savings (ton) 88.89 Jordan 48 g > 46 g 81 338 81.6 85.34 Kazakhstan 14.9 g > 10.5 g 644 1,658 75.55 Azerbaijcan 29.9 g > 24.5 g 23 271 54.1 g > 52.8 g 196 333 52.8 g > 51.5 g 87 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recycling 261 290 * Non-recyclable wastes are disposed of by authorized business partners Total 1,205 2,977 compatible with the laws and regulations of the relevant country. Recycling of Product Packages bottles with a refundable deposit are one of the main implementations to reduce our material consumption Packaging waste management is a key component to and consequently, the amount of waste. In 2011, our performance in general waste. Therefore, we help we achieved a reduction of 5,600 tons of resin authorized business partners to collect packaging waste as a result of the refundable deposit glass waste that belongs to our products consumed in bottle filling. Lightweight material designs provide markets with sustainable recycling mechanisms. For material savings during production, and also help this purpose, Çevko Foundation -we are among its to reduce the emissions of harmful gases during founding members and we collaborate at our Turkey product transportation. We succeeded in lowering operationensures reuse of packaging waste by the amount of fuel consumed during operations, and collecting and recycling. During the reporting period, accordingly the amount of CO2 emissions per product, the packaging waste recycling rate was 38% at our to a minimum of 0.08% kg CO2/L, as a result of Turkey operations. improvements made in package production lines. Operations to minimize the environmental effects In 2011, we reduced CO2 gas emissions by 6,457 tons of our packaging processes are not limited to just by opting to use vehicles with Euro 5 motors for the increasing material recycling ratios. For example, distribution of our products. 38 “We aim to be the best employer and as a good company, we aim to inspire and encourage our employees to achieve excellent results. Our success Our is dependent on our employees. We believe that the talent, knowledge, experience and passion of our employees makes us who we are.” Rengin Onay Director of Human Resources Workplace Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 39 More than 9,000 employees, hired in 10 countries, 2011 Targets are CCI’s most valuable resource. For sustainable success, CCI acts in full awareness of the importance • To make situation analysis in occupational health and of incorporating the best talents, keeping them in the safety, boost the standards, and further develop OHS fold, and improving them. Within this framework, our organization. priority is to provide a happy, safe, and motivating • To sign a new collective labor agreement at our workplace in which employees are able to improve. Mahmudiye plant in 2011. Our main goals in this area are: • To improve overtime practices. • To implement Incident Management and Crisis Resolution • To provide our employees with a non-discriminatory Validation in a total of 7 countries by the end of 2011. • To launch CokePort, our most important internal workplace, meeting the standards of national and communication tool, with its revised and improved content international workplace rights, and to protect their operations beginning in 2011. union rights. • To become a model company that runs the best What we Achieved implementations in occupational health and safety in all our workplaces, and in all areas that our • In 2011, with the formation of the Occupational Health and employees frequent. Safety Organization, a situation analysis was performed in • To provide a fair and happy workplace to our all plants and offices at CCI Turkey. employees so that they can improve themselves and • In 2011, a Collective Labour Agreement was signed in the become the most qualified workforce. Mahmudiye plant at the end of the reporting period. • During the reporting period, Sales Department processes, The constant change in business life reveals as part of the principle of “balancing work-life,” were the need for the continuous improvement of simplified. In this context, we secured more effective operational competences. CCI aims to establish and efficient use of work hours to minimize wasted a common corporate culture in all processes and time, removing the main sources of work disruption and implementations to harmonize this environment of implementing better work hours. change and improvement. CCI’s fundamental goal • Incident Management and Crisis Resolution were in our corporate implementations, while respecting implemented in our Turkey, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Iraq, human rights and consistently supporting the selfKrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, and Jordan operations by the end of improvement of our employees, is to “build a highly 2011. capable organization and be the employer of choice.” • In 2011, the Corporate Portal CokePort, for simultaneous CCI’s main assets in the development of this aim are use in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, and our employees and their support. Jordan, was completely changed and took on a new appearance and content. CokePort reached 5,577 users in all CCI countries of operation. CCI’s human resources practices aim for constant improvement and superior performance in all relative 2012 Targets processes that begin with the demand for labor determination. To achieve this goal and to bring the • By the end of 2012, we aim to perform “Incident most talented individuals to CCI, we made a number Management and Crisis Resolution Validation” in a total of 8 of adjustments to our recruitment system, such as countries while establishing the system in Turkmenistan. setting our potential employees position tests, and • We aim to strengthen the organizations related to including them in case analysis studies and evaluation occupational health and safety (OHS), making annual work centers in 2011. plans in the field of OHS, and improve the qualifications of OHS Specialists. • We aim to conduct the “Employee Satisfaction and Loyalty Survey” performed every 2 years. • We aim to ensure management performance, talent management, and development plans through an integrated system. • We aim to complete the “Workplace Rights Policy” gradually throughout all CCI country operations between 2012 and 2013. • We aim to bring all employees into the scope of the 360 degree performance evaluation implementation in 2012. 40 Our Workplace Employee Rights Human rights policies and implementations are In 2011 we initiated the Workplace Rights Policy another major part of the high performance shown Program to implement efforts to harmonize the in human resources processes. CCI assesses the entire CCI system. We aim to complete the related principles of the Universal Declaration of Human procedures and set up the related systems in Rights as well as the United Nations Global Compact our Turkey operation and all other CCI country signed as a basis for its human resources policy. Respect for human rights is critically important in operations by the end of 2013. In this context, all order to support our company’s commitment to country operations are audited every 3 years by an working in a sensitive way. independent auditing company in terms of compliance with “Supplier Guiding Principles” and “Workplace As a confirmation of this commitment, TCCC Rights Policy.” Within the program, the Azerbaijan adopted the Declaration of Human Rights (HRS) and plant was audited in 2011, and Pakistan, Jordan, and Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) in 2007. (7) At CCI, we have applied a human resources management model Kazakhstan operations and the Bursa plant will be consistent with “Workplace Rights Policy” since 2007, audited in 2012. in order to fully accomodate human and workplace rights, one of the key priorities of Vision 2020, our The importance placed on human rights in CCI is not corporate values, and sustainable strategy, and to limited solely to workplace applications. Processes make our workplace more ethical, trusted, respectful related to implementations of TCCC Supplier Guiding of human rights and harmonized. Principles are protected actively in the value chain. Workplace Rights Policy In addition to these stages, all employees are subject Respect for human rights, an important part of CCI’s to progressive disciplinary procedure. Change of duty, commitment, is guaranteed under the Workplace dismissal, and informing of employees are all done in Rights Commitment, which focuses on developing accordance with employment law, relevant legislation, workplaces that are transparent and inclusive and progressive disciplinary procedure. regarding human rights. We have divided our policy into 8 main areas: Employee Breakdown by Gender • Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining • Forced Labor Male Female Total[1] • Child Labor Turkey 2011 2,420 368 2,788 • Discrimination Jordan 2011 353 15 368 • Work Hours and Wages Kazakhstan 2011 502 97 599 • Safe and Healthy Working Place Azerbaijan 2011 236 33 269 • Workplace Security (1) Part time and temporary employees are excluded from the • Community and Stakeholders Engagement total number. Employee Breakdown by Contract Type (%) Permenant Temporary* Total Turkey 2010 99.5 0.5 2,659 2011 99.7 0.3 2,820 Jordan 2010 99.4 0.6 380 2011 100 0 368 Kazakhstan 2010 100 0 694 2011 100 0 599 Azerbaijan 2010 64.7 35.3 404 2011 100 0 269 * Data collected by the end of December 2011 Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41 In 2011, we initiated the Workplace Rights Policy Program to implement the efforts to harmonize the entire CCI system. We aim to complete the related procedures and set up the systems in all CCI operations by the end of 2013. Employee Breakdown by Status (%) White Collar Blue Collar Total Number Turkey 2010 68 32 2,659 2011 69.4 30.6 2,820 Jordan 2010 52 48 380 2011 53 47 368 Kazakhstan 2010 54 46 694 2011 61 39 599 Azerbaijan 2010 27 73 404 2011 43 57 269 Equal Opportunities for Everyone CCI initiated a new salary scale, effective as of 2011. Within the structure of this scale, employees’ CCI exercises no discrimination among employees performance scores, potential information, and current positions on the salary scale were taken into because of issues such as religion, language, account while detemining annual salary rises. In order race, color, sex, and physical disability in all to adjust salaries in parallel with market practices, human resources projects including recruitment, corrective increases were applied, and salaries were performance management, promotion, compensation, revised according to regional salary scales, TÜİK and talent management, career and personal development the results of sectoral salary surveys. Although there performed within the framework of our “Workplace are CCI employees receiving the legal minimum wage, Rights Policy.” the general salary policy is above the legal minimum wage. As for the Human Resources Policy at CCI, gender is definitely not a criterion for determining Since the number of female employees is lower than employee salaries. the number of male employees throughout CCI, we are attempting to gradually increase the recruitment In order to support our employees in protecting of women. We aim to double the number of female their incomes at a certain level during retirement, employment by 2020. In addition, together with we contribute to the individual annuity contributions TCCC, we aim to launch female entrepreneurship of our employees. Nevertheless, in addition to this implementation, CCI provides certain fringe benefits training and a grant program in order to raise female such as private health insurance, life insurance, employment and entrepreneurship in 2012. annual leave, compassionate leave, severance pay, company product applications and training support. Our business philosophy, and our Human Resources Furthermore, according to the employee's position Policy, is based on the principle of equality. Our and function there are also fringe benefits such as understanding of equality in the workplace brings meal cards, company car and fuel compensation, with it fair and transparent process practices. CCI mobile phone and company lines. employees are subject to a salary and promotion At CCI, employee expectations and needs are system according to their qualifications and measured on a regular basis and improvements are performance. planned and implemented each year to increase employee satisfaction. According to the Employee In 2011, food services, garage and fleet, safety, health, Satisfaction Survey performed in 2009/2010, priority service, cleaning and activities performed during areas were identified and some projects were realised the year were evaluated in the employee satisfaction in order to improve employee loyalty. In this context, survey. Each category received above-average a number of studies pertaining to improving working hours were carried out, aiming to maintain a “worksatisfaction scores. life balance” in 2011. 42 Our Workplace CCI encouraged employees not to exceed regular working hours in order to reduce overtime, and Occupational Health and attempted to create a corporate culture in this regard. While employees were being encouraged to punctually Safety use annual leave, goals related to making employees use the rest of their days off were determined in In accordance with our sustainability strategy, 2011. Compared to the previous reporting period, occupational health and safety systems were there was an 11% improvement in this area. established in all of our plants in order to protect the Implementation of the 360 degrees performance health of our employees and provide them with a safe evaluation was continued in 2011, and evaluation of all workplace. Throughout our operations, changing and white collar staff was completed. Additionally, some improving occupational health and safety priorities improvements were made such as headquarter office are followed within the guidelines of the Coca-Cola extension and adjustment of salary disparities in 2011. Occupational Health and Safety System (TCCOSH). In addition, implementations as part of OHSAS 18001 Union Rights in CCI Management System and occupational health and safety requirements are periodically reviewed and In our workplace, we constantly try to improve evaluated by the Health and Safety Committee. industrial relations. Our employees’ union rights Together with these implementations occupational are respected. Relations with authorized unions are health and safety issues are handled within the conducted within the boundaires of signed collective context of collective bargaining agreements signed labor agreements. Included in our 2011 report, no with unions. sectoral disputes, strikes and/or lockouts occurred in any of our operations. There is a total of 13 active occupational health and safety committees advising on related processes and 2011 Union Membership Rate & The helping to monitor occupational health and safety Number of Union Member Workers programs. 137 employees work in these committees, including 63 employee representatives. Number % Turkey 328 30 During the reporting period, a total of 7,376 hours of Jordan 0 0 training was conducted on occupational health and Kazakhstan 0 0 safety in Turkey operations. Azerbaijan 0 0 CCI aimed to achieve a new breakthrough in the In coordination, the Industrial Relations Review Board area of occupational health and safety (OHS) and plays an important role in pursuing union relations. started to implement its improvement plan in 2011. The basic structure of the board is made up of the The basic principle behind this plan is the neccesity employer, union representatives, and employee of effective management regarding occupational representatives. Meeting at least once a year, the health and safety in production, quality, finance, board evaluates working conditions and ensures the mutual exchange of information. sales, distribution, and logistics processes. CCI aims to be a leader in the occupational health and safety area in its fast moving consumer goods sector, and add value to employees, the sector, and society with all of these implementations. In this context, a centralized occupational health and safety organization was established and in the second half of the year, at all locations, occupational health and safety implementations have begun to be managed cooperatively and regularly. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 43 CCI aimed to achieve a new breakthrough in the area of occupational health and safety (OHS) and started to implement its improvement plan in 2011. In coordination, managers at all levels put together a proactive occupational safety management plan that will be implemented in phases. First, we aim to improve the actual physical process and its structure. Second, our goal is to reinforce this structure with OHS awareness raising studies. And finally, we aim to establish a culture of occupational safety that reaches the entire CCI system. The priorities in these generated processes are as follows: • Determination of CCI corporate occupational health and safety standards compatible with international standards, CCI Jordan Operation, Occupational Health and • Implementation and control of occupational safety Safety Excellence Award management beginning from the design stage to all project and process stages, CCI Jordan operation won the ‘Occupational Health and Safety • Establishment of an effective subcontractor Excellence Award’ granted by the management and auditing system, Ministry of Labor’s Social Security • Activation of reporting and information flow, Institution. More than one hundred companies from nine different • Integration of occupational health and safety with sectors competed, and the award change management and program evaluation process was carried out by the Ministery of • Assessment of risks at all levels of work while fully integrating behavioral occupational safety. Labor, Occupational Health and Safety Association, Social Security As a result of these studies, within 2-3 years, we aim Institution and the Science and to form a culture in which health and safety stand out, Technology University. CCI not only at the workplace but also at home, outside, Jordan operation became the and even at extra-curricular activities. Further, we first beverage company in Jordan hope to encourage employees to adopt occupational health and safety as a lifestyle. OHS audits were to win this award since the performed in every CCI plant and office in Turkey in competition began in 2007. 2011. 44 Our Workplace During the audits, while management offices, 6 months. Furthermore, in order to track potential storage, delivery areas and processes, building hearing problems due to high noise levels, we perform equipment and installations, facility management, hearing tests every year for our forklift drivers. technical maintenance operations and related Providing weekly laboratory visits, we perform records and documentation were examined, critical diagnostic checks on personnel with chronic processes and examples of occupational health illnesses and suggest suitable treatment choices. and safety management and operational control People with suspected illnesses are also tested. In implementations were determined. Additionally, all of addition, each year, we conduct several trainings our plants are audited annually by TSE OHSAS 18001 regarding ergonomics, hygiene, and personal and biennially by TCCC KORE EOSH. As a result, protection equipment, which we believe make a major CCI occupational health and safety processes are contributor to the health of employees and their work audited by both an independent accredited company safety. and TCCC. In 2011, all such audits were successfully completed. During the reporting period, as part of Employee Health and Working Environment improving physical working conditions, the CCI Istanbul Headquarters building Within CCI, the health of employees is extremely was extended, creating 2,083 m2 of new important. We try to provide employees with a safe and healthy working environment, while taking a office space. The existing building was proactive approach to potential health risks. With this reorganized, meals and cleaning service understanding, health studies are executed in line standards were improved, a recycling with annual plans. system was established in the office, activity areas were established, and fire detection, During the hiring process, our prospective employees emergency lighting, and announcement undergo a physical examination, Hepatitis-B systems were improved. screening, and preventive vaccinations. Hepatitis-B carriers are subject to yearly checks. Furthermore, every year, in order to guard against high rates of Table tennis facilities and basketball courts contagious flu infection, flu vaccines are routinely were set up, also corporate discounts were available. arranged in gyms. Furthermore, various Social Activity Club events were launched. In addition to eye examinations that are given In 2012, many activities are planned to yearly to inform and protect personnel who spend direct employees towards an active life in extended periods in traffic or work with display screen equipment, our warehouse, cleaning, technical the scope of the club’s roadmap. service, and kitchen personnel are provided with a hand hygiene analysis and lung x-rays once every Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 45 At CCI, in order to reach our strategic objectives regarding human resouces, we support the development of our employees and manage our processes within a system which ensures that people are set with the right task at the right time. The development of high potential employees is Preferred Workplace followed closely by senior management. To this end, the Talent Committee meets 4 times a year. In line with our principle of “building a highly capable organization and being the employer of CCI Talent Management choice,” we pay special attention to the personal and occupational developments of our employees, and At Coca-Cola İçecek, in accordance with our 2020 implement initiatives accordingly. In this manner, vision, we initiated a project to improve our talent while uncovering the potential of our existing management process. We determined 3 main goals of human resources, we create an attractive business this project: environment for new employees. Forming a “Leadership Competence Model” Performance and Talent Management Determining the distinguishing features of employees with high potential and redefining this At CCI, we support the development of our current process employees with the aim of realizing our human Establishing career maps resources strategies. We manage these system processes with the goal of ensuring that our As part of this project, in order to initially understand employees are given the right task at the right time. the current situation, feedback was gathered from All CCI employee horizontal and vertical career senior management, all general managers, and movements are assessed in the talent and career managers from all countries, through regional management system. We designed an improvement workshops. We organized workshops with employees plan in order to increase potential as well as the in Jordan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan. We expect existing performances of our employees, and we to share the results of these workshops with all make sure that routine evaluations of all employees countries in order to have them evaluated in future are performed by the Human Resources Department human resources processes. and managers in observance of this plan. During the reporting period, it was decided to Employees whose performances are evaluated simultaneously evaluate business and development annually as part of the CCI Performance Management targets. This decision was made in order to perform System, can benefit from the opportunity to evaluate development and training plans more effectively the results of the previous term’s targets in interviews within the CCI performance management system. with their managers. Following this process, areas According to this new system, employees will be in which employees are open to improvement responsible for 2 self-determined development goals. are determined, and programs are drawn up to Moreover, the 360 degrees evaluation system was accomplish these improvements. In the event of launched with the expectation of obtaining more possible changes in performance evaluations, interim accurate feedback while employees are setting evaluations are given and if necessary, revisions their targets and planning their development. In the are made. Also, regarding talent management meantime, we intend to administer development processes, each year, while reviewing performances planning, talent management, training planning, and and potentials of employees in critical positions, performance management processes through an succession plans for these positions are updated. integrated system in 2012. 46 Our Workplace At CCI, we aim to provide a workplace for a diverse Total Hours of Training in 2011 range of people in terms of gender, language, race, experience, culture, etc. in 2020. Towards this goal, The number Training Total we are implementing the “temporary secondment” of Employees Hours Per Training initiative, in order to support the development of Trained Employee Hours our employees and to facilitate their acquisition of Turkey 1,889 18.35 34,668 good practices and experience working in a different Jordan 292 16.05 4,685 country. Currently, there are three foreign employees Kazakhstan 3,050 2.61 7,961 in Turkey. Besides temporary secondment, specialized Azerbaijan 650 4.31 2,799 expats are assigned to management positions for a Total 5,881 41.32 50,113 period of 3-5 years and people from different cultures are able to work together, thus enhancing local information and skills. Special Training From CCI Education and Professional Development In order to continue making an investment in line with our human resources development, the CCI Assisting our employees’ personal and professional Training and Development Department in Turkey development is one of the fundamental building designs programs with unique content according to blocks of our corporate growth. While implementing the needs of employees, and carries out these training our principle of continuous improvement in all of throughout the year. our value chain, we carry out various trainings at various intervals for our human resources, our most “Manager on Board Program” The program began in important asset. We establish and appreciate the 2010, and was designed to support the management skills of every single employee, and perform initiatives competencies of newly promoted managers, expand their professional perspectives, and enhance their to encourage their professional development and knowledge and skills pertaining to business and improve their talents. In the various points of our employee management. The program includes operational geography, our managers define our in-class training, case studies, simulation and employee training needs in meetings held every 3 to e-training and is supported by follow-up activities and 6 months. We use management instruments such as workshops. 30 people participated in the program in the 360 degree evaluation to provide feedback to our 2011. employees. Our fundamental trainings are composed of internal and external training programs combined “Management Workshop” This is a program with e-learning opportunities. In addition to formal developed for employees who have been appointed trainings, we invite employees to gain additional to chief, manager, and engineer positions during the experience with job rotation programs and training, last one year. The program was designed to support and we create learning opportunities through project the management competences of people managing experience. their own teams or suppliers, enhance their business and people management knowledge and skills, and includes case and follow-up studies, simulation SALES ACADEMY programs, and sharing meetings. 120 people participated in this program in 2011. We conducted a total of four ‘Sales Academy’ 2011 AUTUMN / SONBAHAR Number / Sayı : 10 programs for employees of Coca-Cola İçecek in April, May, October, and December 2011, and 85 employees participated. The training program was implemented especially for new recruits at Sales Development Temmuz 2011 Leader and Account Executive levels, and was CCİ-Üniversite El Ele occasionally joined by employees from marketing Üniversite-sanayi işbirliği çerçevesinde 2010-2011 yl Ekim-Haziran aylar arasnda Bilkent Üniversitesi ile Ankara fabrikamz “karşk palet tasarm destek sistemi” projesini gerçekleştirdi. departments. The program lasted 5 entire days and Avrasya ve Afrika Grubu Şişeleyicileri 2010 EAG was presented by expert trainers in their subjects. Sürdürülebilirlik Ödülleri Töreninde Buluştu Geçtiğimiz yl En İyi Sişeleyici seçilen CCİ bu yl da büyük ödülün finalistiydi. İlki geçtigimiz yl düzenlenen Coca-Cola Avrasya ve Afrika CCI-MIX; palet tasarmna ve Grubu Başkanlk Sürdürülebilirlik Ödülleri nin ikincisi 21 This program included training in different branches, oluşturulmasna harcanan zaman azaltarak, Haziran günü Dubai'de düzenlenen törenle sahiplerini buldu. ürün hasarlar ortadan kaldrlmasn sağlad. Organizasyon; Coca-Cola’nn Avrasya ve Afrika Grubu’nda bulunan 90’dan fazla ülkedeki şişeleyici ortaklarn çevresel Karşk Palet Tasarm Projesi performans, kalite yönetimi ve toplumla ilişkiler kriterlerine göre değerlendiriyor. Ambar içinde harcanan zaman azaltp, hasarl ürün saysn en Proje süresince ASC Ambar Şefi Mehmet Yorgun’un aza indirgemeyi amaçlayan proje; 2 Haziran 2011 tarihinde endüstriyel danşman olarak destek erdiği ve CCI-MIX ad 2009 “En İyi Şişeleyici” büyük ödülünü geçtiğimiz sene Bilkent Üniversitesi Endüstri Mühendisliği 9. Proje Fuar ve verilen sistem, 1 Mays 2011 tarihinden itibaren ASC Ambar’nda İstanbul’da alan CCİ Türkiye bu yl yine ayn kategoride finalist Yarşmasnda birincilik ödülüne layk görüldü. Ayrca 31. Ulusal kullanlmaya başland. Sistem, palet tasarmna ve olurken, 2010 yl için ödülü Güney Afrika’dan Coca-Cola Yöneylem Araştrmas ve Endüstri Mühendisliği oluşturulmasna harcanan zaman azaltarak, ürün hasarlarn Canners kazand. CCİ, Krgzistan operasyonuyla da bu yl büyük ödülün finalistiydi. principally commercial mathematics, competition Kongresi (YAEM 2011), Öğrenci Proje Yarşmasnda yar finale ortadan kaldrlmasn sağlad. Sistemin İstanbul’dan başlanarak kalmay başard. Türkiye’deki tüm direkt dağtm depolar, fabrika ambarlar ve Dünya Çevre Günü’nde bayi depolarnda uygulanmas planlanyor. TSE Altn Ambalaj Yarşmas Sonuçland. Çevremize 400 Ağaç CCİ İki Ambalajyla Ödüle Layk Görüldü Elazğ Fabrikas, Dünya Çevre Günü etkinlikleri çerçevesinde düzenlediği Türkiye’nin en iyi ambalajlarnn seçildiği Altn Ambalaj Yarşmas’nn yirmi dördüncüsü law, RED (right execution daily), sales techniques and organizasyonla 400 adet ağaç dikimi sonuçland. CCİ iki ambalaj projesi ile ödül almaya ve uluslararas WorldStar Ambalaj gerçekleştirdi. Ödülleri’ne katlmaya hak kazand. CCI Turkey Corporate Communication Ülkemizin tek ambalaj merkezi olan TSE İzmir Ambalaj Bu yl “Konik Tabanl 2,5 lt Pet Preform” ve “10,5 gr Ksa Boyunlu Laboratuvar tarafndan, 1988 ylndan bu yana her yl düzenlenen 500 ml Pet Su Şisesi” projeleriyle katldğmz yarşmada her iki Altn Ambalaj Yarşmas’nn sonuçlar İzmir TSE Birimleri Eğitim proje de dereceye girmeye ve Dünya Ambalaj Örgütü'nün Salonu’nda düzenlenen basn toplants ile açkland. Yarşma düzenlediği uluslararas WorldStar (Dünya Yldz) yarşmasna sonucunda 24 firma, 46 ürünü ile ödül almaya hak kazand. katlma hakk kazand. Dünya Yldz Olmaya Aday Ambalajlarmz finance. Publications Ürünlerimizin ambalajlarn tüketicilerimize kattğ değer, maliyet ve etkinlik, depolama kolaylğ sağlamas ve çevre üzerindeki etkimizin azaltlmas, üretim süreçlerimizi kolaylaştrmas gibi prensipler doğrultusunda Yaln 6 Sigma metodolojisini kullanarak sürekli geliştiririz. TSE Altn Ambalaj Yarşmas’nda ödül almaya hak kazanan ve WorldStar Packaging Awards 2011’de yarşacak olan ambalajlarmz: Damla PET 500ml 2,5 Litre PET Ambalaj Dünya Çevre Günü kutlamalar kapsamnda Elazğ Fabrika olarak Gezin bölgesinde düzenlenen ağaç dikme etkinliğine fabrika çalşanlarnn yan sra Gezin Belediye Başkan ve personeli, Elazğ İl Çevre ve Orman Müdürlüğü personeli ve • Yeni ambalaj %29,5 orannda daha hafif yaps ve ksa kapağ ile • 2,5 litre PET ambalajmz, yuvarlak pre-formdan konik pre-forma bölgede yaşayan çocuklar da katld. malzeme ve enerji tasarrufu, istifleme direncinin artmas gibi geçirildi. Böylece hem hammadde tasarrufu sağland hem de birçok avantaja sahip. dş etkenlere bağl olarak görülebilen stres krklarna karş Elazğ Fabrikas’nn 2010 yl boyunca kullandğ LPG, benzin ve • Projenin tüm üretim tesislerinde uygulanmaya başlamasyla yllk dayankllğ artrlmş oldu. benzeri yaktlarn toplam CO2 emisyonu 153.182 kg olarak yaklaşk 5 milyon TL’lik hammadde tasarrufu, üretim süreçlerimiz• Bu iyileştirmenin sonucunda, 2010 ylnda yaklaşk 1,4 milyon TL hesapland. de 200.000 TL’lik enerji tasarrufu ve ulaştrma sürecinde de maliyet azaltlmas sağland. Bu tutarn 2011 ylnda 1,6 milyon TL yaklaşk 68.000 TL’lik enerji tasarrufu elde edilecektir. olmas beklenmektedir. Fabrikamz gerçekleştirdiği ağaç dikme etkinliği ile doğaya duyduğumuz saygy bir kez daha göstermiş oldu. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 47 Employee Engagement and 2011 Innovation Competition Winners Internal Communication During 2011, 28 projects competed within the Innovation Competition. In the replication category, our Mersin plant won first prize with the The continuity and wealth of the CCI system is “Performance Enhancement of Line-4 Packaging only possible with the feedback of our employees Machine” project. In the innovation category, the throughout all work processes. That’s why two-way communication applications are very important at CCI. Ankara plant won first prize with the “Production There are various implementations to collect the ideas Line Number 5” project, and the Mersin plant won of employees and inform them about developments. the second prize with the “Automated Pallet Carrier” project. The Ankara Plant also came in third with the We actively evaluate the innovative ideas of our “Preform Box Bag Minimization” project. employees regarding work processes and in order to improve our work processes. We support our Implementations in the reporting period related to employees to establish innovative, creative, and the “Community Champions Competition,” initiated to environmentally friendly work models. With this idea promote employee volunteerism and support projects in mind, in 2009 we launched the “Invention/Innovation aimed at making a contribution to society through the Competition” in the supply chain Turkey. The goal of personal efforts of our employees, are mentioned in our project was to spread a culture of innovation and sustainability among our employees, and to assist detail in the “Community” chapter. them with generating more efficient projects with fewer resources. Operational information flow and related processes are vital components of our internal communication The results of the 2010 “Invention/Innovation system. Efficient sharing of information and Competition” were announced at a ceremony held on improvements in processes offer our employees February 28th, 2011. 187 projects were developed by a workplace in which they can be more effective. our employees in 2010 and 32 of them went through The corporate portal “CokePort,” serving users to the finals. The winners of the competition were simultaneously in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, presented with awards by CCI senior management. Kazakhstan, and Jordan, took on completely new In 2011, we achieved energy and water savings of features and content in 2011. With the new design, 568,050 kWh and 10,000 tons respectively, with 119 projects. In 2012, we aim to deploy these CokePort became a common working platform implementations to cover all of the functions in the because it is safe, user friendly, and compatible with supply chain. work implementations. Total portal user numbers reached 5,577 in 2011. CCI was named among the top three companies in the 2011 STEVIE® With the new implementation, we created a virtual International Business Awards Europe workplace for our employees while easing their “Most Innovative Company” category work life and providing a common space for their with the Innovation Competition. 3,000 interactions with one another. Here, they can share companies and organizations from 40 both corporate and personal needs and exchange countries participated in the competition. opinions. We provided more efficient working The rankings were determined after two rounds of conditions for employees in our Turkey operations elimination by a jury of 200, known worldwide for with eFlows, mobile approval and reporting their professionalism. The STEVIE® International optimization. Business Awards, one of the most prestigious awards in the business world, reward the achievements and positive contributions of corporations and individuals We use various means of internal communication from all around the world. for the sharing of information and news about competitions and results, and projects initiated with the aim of both effectively providing company information for employees and spreading the culture of sustainability. In-house publications such as the quarterly `’The World of Coca-Cola İçecek’’, monthly ‘‘CCI News Line’’, ‘’CCI Newsletter’’ and ‘’2020’’ magazine issued specifically for our Turkey location every 2 months, are important components in strengthening our communication with employees. 48 “We aim to create a high value to our customers and consumers, with minimum consumption of resources, through excellent design and modest processes. We focus on boosting our total performance as a result of efficiency, innovation, and continuous improvement in order to reach Product excellence at every stage of our business.” Responsibility Hüseyin Akın CCI International Operations President Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 49 At CCI, we ensure sustainable procurement, What we Achieved production, distribution and marketing operations, and make efforts to meet the expectations of our • We improved our supplier auditing model by stakeholders in our field of business. We buy from suppliers with the best performances in social, including CCI Supplier Academy requirements into the environmental, and economic areas, produce the Supplier Guiding Principles. highest quality products in harmony with food safety principles, and with correct planning and effective • While continuing to train our distributors, we made distribution strategies, we take care to responsibly improvements in distributer processes by OE and introduce our products to the market. Distributer Diagnostics Studies. We strive to offer a broad product portfolio to meet the needs of every lifestyle, age, and purchasing • CCI Turkey operations completed all Operational power, while managing processes from raw material Excellence projects. Meanwhile Azerbaijan and procurement to final product with sustainable Kazakhstan operations completed the 2nd, and Jordan strategies. We form dialogue platforms to facilitate completed the 1st wave of OE projects. our suppliers, distributers, customers, and consumers, which are the important links in our • 7 of our plants obtained the FSSC Food Safety value chain, to participate in decision mechanisms. Managing System Certificate in 2011. We share our sustainability approach with our stakeholders by means of various communication channels, and direct our strategies according to their • With the “Everything You Wanted to Know about feedback. Coca-Cola” training we reached out to over 1,500 employees and informed them about the ingredients We break down product responsibility into of our products and our production processes. subcategories such as material supply, production processes, our value chain, and consumers. For more • We organized the Coke’n Design Competition detailed information about our product responsibility and commitments, please visit our website at http:// between February and July, 2011. www.cocacolaturkiye.com.tr/cocacola_taahhutleri. aspx 2012 Targets • We aim to audit all of our 37 direct suppliers within 2011 Targets the context of Supplier Guiding principles; we aim to increase the success rate from 75% to 90% after • To implement the CCI Supplier Academy (CSA) model in 2011 and facilitate CSA certification for all these audits. suppliers long-term. • We aim to establish the sales point information line. • To develop our distributor system and increase distributors' competencies. • We aim to launch the “Everything You Wanted to Know about Coca-Cola” program in all country • To implement the 5th and 6th Waves of Operational operations during the 2012-2013 period by organizing Excellence projects in Turkey, and the 2nd Wave in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Jordan. training for all CCI country representatives in 2012. • To initiate the “Everything You Wanted to Know • We aim to enhance our service quality to distributors about Coca-Cola” training program to train all CCI by changing the functions of our traditional channel Turkey employees with regard to the content of our distribution and preseller who work under the sales products, and conduct more than 50 training courses function. reaching around 1,000 employees in 2011. • To organize the Coke’n Design Competition and help • We aim for the Kazakhstan, Çorlu and Azerbaijan young people gain marketing experience in creating operations to obtain the FSSC 22000 Food Safety design. System Certificate by the end of 2012. 50 Product Responsibility Production Processes Maintaining the safety and quality of our products In 2011, the “Distributor Diagnostics” workshop is one of the main responsibilities of CCI. While was held for all functions in Turkey. The Distributor managing supply, production, bottling, distribution, Diagnostic workshop which provides a forum for and other processes, we apply the universal values attendees from our distributor and CCI functions and system of TCCC and we take the most suitable to come together and listen to distributors and actions, while also taking into account the regional determine areas for improvement, is managed characteristics of our operational geography. through the Operational Excellence (OE) model. In this respect, in 2010, we started to use the During the reporting period, teams examined their “Coca-Cola Operating Requirements System” function processes in detail for 2 weeks and found (KORE), a management system designed by the 1,363 opportunities for improvement. Among these Coca-Cola Company, in our processes. opportunities, 159 projects were chosen with high potential for economic benefit and environmental In parallel with KORE, CCI acts and audits production impact reduction. Subsequently, the priority projects processes according to the requirements of were taken in hand and improved by our teams in the Management Systems with ISO 22000 to secure food 5th wave of OE studies that began in March 2011. 51 of safety, ISO 9001 to respect quality requirements, ISO the 59 projects reviewed were successfully completed, 14001 to minimize environmental impact, and ISO and 174 employees worked on the projects. 18001 to ensure occupational health and safety in production facilities. We integrated the Operational Distribution of OE Projects in Operations Excellence (OE) model, launched in 2007, with quality management systems, followed up, and began to Number of Number of apply it in all of our operations. Trainees Projects Kazakhstan 1st Wave 13 19 CCI aims to meet the demands of our customers and 2nd Wave 9 16 consumers with minimal loss and maximum efficiency 3rd Wave 3 11 by implementing this model, which we started Azerbaijan 1st Wave 5 12 initially in production processes, and then applied 2nd Wave 9 17 across the board, from procurement to marketing Jordan 1st Wave 4 13 and from distribution to supporting functions. The Pakistan 1st Wave 30 37 various quality, environment, occupational health and Turkey 5th Wave 174 59 safety, food safety and energy management system Total 247 184 certificates that our operating countries, as part of this report, possess are as follows: Management Systems in Our Plants ISO 50001 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 18001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 (Energy Country Plant (Quality) (Environment) (Safety) (Food Safety) (Food Safety) Management) Kazakhstan Brunday √ √ √ Azerbaijan Bakü √ √ √ √ Jordan Amman √ √ √ √ √ Ankara √ √ √ √ √ Bursa √ √ √ √ √ Çorlu √ √ √ √ (PAS 220) √ Turkey Izmir √ √ √ √ √ √ Mersin √ √ √ √ √ Sapanca √ √ √ √ √ Köyceğiz √ √ √ √ √ Elazığ √ √ √ √ √ √ Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 51 Maintaining the safety and quality of our products is one of the main responsibilities of CCI. During the reporting period, our Jordan operations qualified for the FSSC 22000 (Food Safety Management System Certificate), which is the only universal food standard acknowledged in Jordan. We were the first company to achieve certification in Jordan. During the reporting period, 7 of our Turkey plants also achieved this certificate. Plant Visits Plant visits, which occur throughout the year, provide the core basis for the dialogue platforms we established with our stakeholders. We organize these visits for different stakeholder groups in accordance with demands of schools, institutions, Plant Audits various organizations, and other stakeholders. During the plant visit, stakeholders are informed about the In order to meet the product quality our stakeholders expect from us, and company, products, and production processes by one all the expectations in our operational trainer and one plant executive. Within this scope, we geography, we perform internal audits, provided 3,542 hours of training to 939 participants. and with the help of independent audit companies we avail of the opportunity to In order to visit our plants, you can either call our observe our processes. In addition to the toll-free number at 0800 261 19 20, or contact audits performed by CCI coordinators and the Coca-Cola information center by e-mail: the internal audit teams, we follow our cocacoladanismamerkezi@eur.ko.com. Additionally, processes and determine the functions you can visit http://coca-colafabrikasi.com/ to take to be improved with the help of related a virtual plant tour, and observe all Coca-Cola country ministries and other executive production processes, from the arrival of raw material public organizations in quality, product at the plant to the store shelves. quality, environment, occupational health, safety and energy management areas, and independent certification and audit No fines were charged on the Company for breach companies which provide private auditing of any rules or regulations related to the supply and services. usage of products and services belonging to CCI during the reporting period. Raw Material and Supply Chain We expect that our suppliers meet the standards in these three areas and help them to improve with At CCI, we perform our purchases in a wide supply audits and the training we provide. We believe in chain and include the performances of our suppliers the importance of working with local suppliers in every region of our operational geography. Thus, we in social, environmental, and widespread economic make direct and indirect contributions to social and areas as part of our performance. We establish longeconomic improvements of the societies in which term relationships with suppliers chosen according we carry out operations. In this respect, we bought to their harmony with the CCI Supplier Guiding 99% of all of our purchases in the reporting period Principles, TCCC Standards, standards and legal from local suppliers in Turkey, 80% in Jordan, 50% in requirements in our operational geography. Kazakhstan, and 34% in Azerbaijan. 52 Product Responsibility Supplier Audits As one of the main links in the supplier chain, our Throughout our operational geography, our suppliers suppliers have wide economic, environmental and are inspected for possible human rights violations, social effects. We try to help our suppliers control with audits performed as part of SGP. During these effects. Our supplier audits can be separated the reporting period, there was no violation or into three groups; internal audits, TCCC audits, and enforcement regarding this issue. third party audits. We audit their conformity with Coca-Cola values and support their improvements in During the selection of raw material suppliers this area. and business partner processes, we apply criteria specified by TCCC standards. Therefore the ratio Audits performed by CCI’s own control mechanisms of purchases compatible with responsible product combine together under Ethical Audit, Technical Audit, standards to general purchases is 100%. and Supervision topics. The Ethical Audit, which can be described as a social compliance audit, screens Training Conducted by Suppliers out the compatibility of working conditions at the workplace with CCI Suppliers Guiding Principles (SGP) We believe that dialogue platforms established with and local labor law. The Technical Audit, which can be stakeholders and training programs should not be defined as a quality system audit, keeps track of all one-sided. In this regard, 2 different trainings for our processes performed, from raw material procurement employees who make procurement decisions were to end product output of our suppliers, and the quality organized by suppliers during the reporting period. 20 systems that they use to manage these processes. participants attended training about textile and press Supervision, which can be referred to as product production processes. For the next reporting period, audit, performs on-site product inspections, including we aim to expand the number and the context of safety and performance tests. We organize suitable trainings performed by our suppliers, and to improve improvement plans, conduct trainings, and support the feedback mechanism. our suppliers to ensure that performances under these 3 audit topics are continuously controlled. Our standards, titled Supplier Guiding During the reporting period, 31 of 32 direct material Principles, represent our principles and suppliers were audited in the Turkey operations, and we achieved a 75% success rate. CCI Turkey achieved expectations pertaining to issues such as one of the best performances in the supplier audit the values of our company, employee and field within the TCCC system. Our aim is to reach 90% human rights, occupational health and for the next reporting period. Likewise, we audited 19 safety, environmental effects, and ethical of our indirect material suppliers. codes. These expectations also form part Similarly, 2 suppliers in Jordan, 3 in Kazakhstan of our agreements with our suppliers. and 5 in Azerbaijan, completed the Supplier Guiding Detailed information about our principles is Principles audit during this reporting period. available at http://www.coca-colaturkiye. com.tr/docs/brosurler/tti/tedarikciler. html. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 53 During the reporting period, 15,679 man-hours of training were provided for 4,183 participants in order to help our distributers, as one of our main business partners. Our Value Chain We try to manage our operations in the most responsible way, and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders in our value chain, as in our supply and production processes. Distributors 328 CCI distributors in Turkey and 780 throughout CCI’s operational geography, account for approximately three quarters of sales volume. As one of our main business partners, we help distributors Green Purchasing improve by providing training on topics every year such Implementations as product portfolio, stock management, business development, customer satisfaction, teamwork, During the reporting period, we organized personnel management and sales techniques. During ‘Recycling Meetings’ with 15 suppliers the reporting period, we provided 15,679 man-hours in accordance with our environmental of training to 4,183 participants. Through an annual distributor satisfaction survey, we obtain feedback and awareness and our goal to spread this evaluate their experiences. Our customer satisfaction awareness in our value chain, and ratio was recorded at 76% in 2011, while it was 77.5% determined areas for collaboration. For in the previous reporting period. The 1.5% decrease example, we initiated studies to increase resulted from the integration of a new system named the content of recycled materials in plastic Voyage. cases. Within the implementation we aimed, beginning from the next reporting period, Basic methods used to continuously improve the business of CCI’s distributors, are the audits to record all information about recycled performed by distributor consultants, distributor materials used by suppliers in all raw and performance assessment forms evaluated packaging materials. As a result of the monthly, ‘spot checks’ performed by sales process studies performed with our frill supplier, we improvement managers, and the audits performed ensured that the more environment friendly by the independent audit organizations. During the material, PE, would be used in vinyl poster reporting period, all of our distributors in Turkey production, instead of PVC. In addition, we were audited by CCI’s distributor consultants, 20 of them were audited by sales process improvement decided to produce all business cards from managers, and 2 of them by an independent auditing recycled paper. organization. 54 Product Responsibility We are planning to establish a sales point information center at the service of our customers Consumers and distributors in 2012. With this center, CCI’s The sustainability of our business depends on distributors and customers can complain about service problems they encounter with one telephone understanding our consumers and satisfying their number, and also convey their suggestions and expectations. We aim to always serve our products demands to the relevant departments. As a result to consumers in the most healthy and hygienic of this implementation, we aim to better measure conditions, with preferred packaging alternatives, and the performances of our processes, and to enhance sales points at appropriate prices. customer satisfaction with faster solutions. Accessibility of Our Products Coca-Cola İçecek Road Show CCI reaches nearly 360 million consumers via Customer and Distributor Training is a development approximately 720,000 points of sale in 10 countries. tool that has been applied since the day CCI was In keeping with consumers’ desires, we make our established. The Coca-Cola İçecek Road Show hit the products available at sales points easily accessible road again, departing from Istanbul on July 12, 2010, to consumers at any time, and we restructure both with improved content that reached 12,583 customers sales processes and product portfolios to match in 61 cities and 798 towns by the end of 2011. This the changing market conditions and consumer project’s objective is to support customers to have expectations. more profitable and sustainable work processes, and we aim to continue our trainings and sales point We present a broad product portfolio created support in the upcoming years. according to the expectations of consumers from all During the reporting period, apart from the life styles, age groups and activities, with different Coca-Cola İçecek Road Show project, we provided display alternatives selected according to time and 9,752 manxhours of training to 2,435 customers. place. With RED (Right Execution Daily), the sales We aimed for our customers to transfer better work and marketing tool described as “correct execution processes through training performed under such every sales point everyday, we monitor a large field topics as effective store management, teamwork, of applications from the arrangement of coolers and service excellence, and social styles. During the next stands to the positioning of posters at sales points, reporting period we aim to increase the number of and share the most successful implementations with customers attending these trainings. our employees and customers in different regions through internal communication channels. Customer Satisfaction Survey CCI conducts a yearly “Customer Satisfaction Pakistan Customer Appreciation Week Survey” regarding our services to assess the level of satisfaction measured by an independent company of We ran a ‘Customer Appreciation Week’ in business partners, to whom CCI serves in-house and Karachi, Pakistan and we visited more than off-premise consumption channels. According to the 2,500 of our customers. CCI was represented by results of the survey, conducted with 1,798 customers, top management throughout the week and, as CCI has once again succeeded in maintaining its clear well as conveying our appreciation, we aimed to leadership position among rival companies in terms strengthen the team spirit between CCI and our of customer satisfaction, when we compare ourselves customers. with the entire fast-moving consumer goods sector. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 55 Informing Consumers on frequently asked questions related to calories, vitamin index, caffeine, aspartame, food additives and As a company performing annual production obesity with a booklet called ‘Straight Facts About Our and sale of 17 billion glasses of beverages, with Beverages’ and we continue our product information dozens of brands in 10 countries, it is crucial for processes with other publications, seminars and us to present clear, understandable, and scientific activities. With all of these implementations, we aim information about our products to nearly 360 million to impart to our stakeholders that, with appropriate consumers throughout our operational geography. consumption and physical exercise, all our products While respecting global standards, we inform can be healthy components of an active lifestyle. our consumers in compliance with the labeling regulations set by the countries in which we operate, There are no court rulings against us related to any and we inform our stakeholders with the help of the failure to comply with regulations on health and safety labels on our products. impacts of products and services in their life-cycle stages. We indicate energy values and nutrients on the labels of all of products to help consumers make informed There are no court rulings against us related to any choices. We place a “contains caffeine” warning on failure to comply with regulations on product and all products that contain caffeine, and we inform service information and labeling. about the use of sweeteners and phenylalanine in diet products. Although it is mandatory to declare nutrition Detailed information about our product portfolio is and energy values as part of labeling only for the available at our corporate internet address products that require nutrition and health labeling, www.cci.com.tr we present all this information to consumers. Other information such as name of the producer, expiration Responsible Advertising and Marketing date, toll-free number of the CCI information center, and our on-line plant tour and recycling logo, are CCI, together with The Coca-Cola Company, presented on the label, as well as the mandatory implements responsible advertising and promotion warnings according to labeling regulations. practices, in compliance with marketing laws and regulations, throughout its operational In addition, we inform stakeholders about details geography. To this end, we take advantage of various of our products on our corporate website, and communication channels, not just one-way. That is to with brochures and the booklets distributed at say, our communication is not just based on product congresses, seminars and industrial meetings. presentations, but also on channels by which our (http://www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/mesrubatlarstakeholders directly participate, with suggestions, hakkinda-merak-ettikleriniz.pdf) In addition to requests, and complaints, in advertising and labeling implementations, we inform stakeholders presentation management. Coca-Cola İçecek Product Calorie Profile 56 Product Responsibility At CCI, we believe that parents should make decisions about the eating habits of their children. We therefore do not engage in advertising or marketing activities targeting children under 12 years old. In parallel with to our commitment to the responsible marketing practices set by TCCC’s Global School Everything You Wanted to Beverage Guidelines, we do not actively conduct sales Know About Coca-Cola operations for sparkling beverages in elementary schools beginning from the 2010 2011 academic With the “Everything You Wanted to Know About Cocayear, and we inform our business partners of this Cola ” program, initiated in 2011 and expected to be policy. In this regard, we also comply with the legal completed by the end of 2012, we aim to share our standards on the sales of food and beverages in Company’s Policy regarding the fundamental issues of school cafeterias issued by the Ministry of Health after health, product safety and quality with our employees, CCI’s voluntary practice. No lawsuits have been filed and to help them develop the basic relevant against CCI for failure to comply with laws related to communication skills. We reached out to more than marketing communications, advertising, promotions 1,500 employees with 63 trainings conducted in or sponsorships during the reporting period. various cities. We integrated this training into our No lawsuits have been filed against CCI for failure orientation program aimed to benefit new members to comply with laws related to unfair competition, of the CCI family and, as well as being equipped with monopolist practices, and similar implementations product safety, health and quality issues, they will during the reporting period. also play an important role in informing employees, customers and consumers. In 2012, we aim to spread our corporate culture by providing ”Train the Trainer” Coke’N Design programs for representatives from other countries, to be passed on to new employees in their countries. At CCI, every day we add new designs to millions of different kinds of display stands throughout the We listen to suggestions, requests, complaints world. At the first Coke’N Design competition in and questions of all our stakeholders, primarily 2011, with competing stand designs by young people, consumers in Turkey, through the Coca-Cola we aimed to provide experience to youth, one of our Information Center, open 24/7, and we act as quickly most important groups of stakeholders, in creating as possible to resolve stakeholder problems. The designs, and thereby benefit from their vision. CCI Information Center can be reached at 0800 261 19 20. With growth in the problem-solving performance of provided internship opportunities to winning students this implementation each year, we answered 87,143 in the Indoor, Outdoor, Environment Friendly Designs, calls during the reporting period. Of these calls, and Vision 2020 categories from the Middle East 60,147 complaints/ requests were recorded. With Technical University, the Istanbul Technical University, the improvements since June 2011, the field team’s the Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University and the Izmir troubleshooting time fell to 80%. University of Economics. The contest aimed to channel potential creative designers into the market, No major penalties were charged against CCI for and launched in February 2011, concluding with the failure to comply with laws or regulations regarding announcement of the winners in July 2011. the supply or use of products and services during the reporting period. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 57 Help Desk Troubleshooting Periods 2011 Active Life Stations 12.0 10.6 “The Active Life Stations” project, started with the 10.0 9.0 8.5 Average troublecollaboration of The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, 8.0 9.4 shooting time (hour) 8.3 the Active Life Association, Istanbul Metropolitan 7.6 5.7 6.0 Municipality and Sports Inc., aims to create public 3.8 4.0 2.5 awareness about the importance of physical activity. 2.4 1.6 2.0 1.7 The project includes measuring body mass index 0.0 and physical activity levels January February March April May June July August September October November December of voluntary participants, physical activity suggestions by Efficient Management of Consumer specialists, and physical activity Complaints sessions conducted by trainers in parks and high schools in Effective management of consumer feedback is not Istanbul. just a mechanism which increases the satisfaction level of our shareholders; it is also an important constituent of continuous improvement. Consumers who contact us via post, e-mail or our call centers Food Conference in Kazakhstan receive detailed explanations with an assessment of their feedback in the quickest manner possible In December 2011, we organized a Food Conference and, when necessary, we ask CCI employees to visit in Almaty within the scope of Active Healthy Life, the complainants and provide information on the which is one of the main components of our Life situation. Plus approach. We consulted with more than 150 Active Healthy Lifestyle participants, including professionals from the science world, media members and business partners, about Within the context of the global principles of the balanced and sensitive nutrition, sufficient water Coca-Cola Company, we aim to help our stakeholders consumption, and food safety. On-line conferences, stay healthy by adopting active healthy lifestyles training, and press releases took place within the with our wide consumer product portfolio, healthy nutrition training, scope of the event. and physical activity programs implemented by the Life Plus Foundation. “Let’s Play Project” During the 2011-2012 academic year, the ‘Let’s Play’ project was conducted in Turkey as a joint effort by the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Active Life Association and the Turkish Ministry of Education. This project aims to help elementary school students improve their creativity, become physically more active, and communicate with each other while providing areas for physical activities at schools. The pilot implementation established playgrounds in 20 schools in Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir, and we aim to reach 125 schools in 26 cities by the end of 2012. 58 ‘We care about the needs of communities and support solutions that are responsive to these needs. Being helpful to the local communities in which we operate, by encouraging employee volunteerism and providing corporate involvement, is a part of our corporate culture.’ Community Atilla D. Yerlikaya CCI Corporate Affairs Director Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 59 CCI conducts business with a population of more than What we Achieved 360 million in 10 countries, and acts as a company that is respectful to community and compatible with • We transferred 3% of pre-tax profit, TL 1,600,000 global standards in purchasing, production, and to the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation and Anadolu distribution processes. With all the measurements Education and Social Aid Foundation. and audits performed, we measure the sustainability • We budgeted $ 100,000 to the Employee Donations level of our relations with the community and Contribution Fund. We launched the ‘1 TL Us, 2 make our implementations more respectful to the environment and to the community. TL CCI’ campaign, aimed at increasing employee donations to natural disaster relief implementations • We directly contribute to economic growth by following the earthquake in the Van region. With implementing our local supply and local employment a similar campaign, we aim to expand employee policies, and we also generate a broad indirect donations as part of an aid campaign to combat economic impact throughout our whole operational starvation in Africa. geography. • Our ‘Resettling the Indus’ initiative instigated the • We establish dialogue platforms with the building of schools, homes and a sewage system, with communities we are a part of, according to our a donation of $ 28,000. transparency and stakeholder dialogue principles. • We assist in the welfare of the societies we are part 2012 Targets of, while developing programs, which contribute to society at local and national levels. • We aim to sign a strategic partnership protocol with • We support our interior stakeholders in community contribution programs by encouraging employee Turkish Kızılay according to our solution studies on volunteerism. natural disasters. • We aim to increase participation rates in the 2012 Within the scope of these principles, we analyzed Community Champions Award Program and support the featured social responsibility projects conducted awarded employees in improving their projects. during the reporting period, and the summary of • We aim to continue the ‘Azerbaijan Grassroots economic and social effects we created in the most Project,’ initiated to support an active healthy lifestyle general sense, under the headings of economic and popularize sport among young people, until 2015. development and social development. 2011 Targets CCI’s economic policy aims to create a positive effect while spreading a responsible • To further build on cooperation with local and sustainable business model to our whole administrations. • To transfer 3% of pre-tax profit to foundations. value chain, and accepts that the sustainable • To increase the participation to the Employee economic performance of the communities Donations Contribution Fund and to budget $ 100,000 we are a part of is vitally important to our for this project. sustainability. With respect to this, we analyze • To design and implement sustainable projects for the impacts of both our business and our rehabilitation and socio-economic development in the corporate responsibility implementations, areas affected by the flooding in Pakistan. • To ensure broader participation in the Community and aim to meet the expectations of our Champion Awards Program. stakeholders. 60 Community Economic Development CCI Economic Impact Research In the second phase of our action plan, we launched the ‘1 TL Us, 2 TL CCI’ cash aid campaign among CCI In 2010, CCI aimed to measure the positive impacts employees. According to this, CCI promised to donate of the Coca-Cola System on Turkey’s economy, in the 2 TL against each 1 TL donation by employees. As a context of the global economic crisis, with a workshop result of the campaign, our donations amounted to a conducted by a working group consisting of faculty total of TL 53,916. The Coca-Cola Foundation donated members from Boğaziçi and Middle East Technical $ 1 million to Kızılay and with this donation we aimed Universities and CCI executives in 2010. As part of for the reconstruction of elementary school buildings the workshop, manufacturing and all other services in Erciş and the resolution of the emergent housing provided to CCI, TCCC, and the Coca-Cola System needs of earthquake victims. Accordingly $ 850,000 of were evaluated as a whole and the direct, indirect, and the donation was dedicated to school reconstruction, induced effects of the system on Turkey’s economy and the remainder designated for disaster relief. was calculated. According to this, the multiplier effect of CCI on employment was calculated as 10. When we Aid Campaign for Africa by CCI Employees think that the number of employees that CCI directly hired was 2,820 in 2011, then it is possible to say that One of the legs of our ‘1 TL Us, 2 TL CCI’ campaign our indirect effect on employment was 28,200 people. performed within the context of employee funds, was the aid campaign for starving people in Ethiopia, We Donate a Portion of our Pre-Tax Profit Somalia, Kenya, and Djibouti in Africa. The Coca-Cola to Charity System promised to donate $ 1.6 million to the region, which is home to millions of people facing starvation CCI donates a portion of its pre-tax profit in Turkey to in the most severe drought of the last 60 years, charitable organizations, which creates social benefits as well as military conflict. By way of an internal every year, as specified in its Articles of Association. campaign conducted at CCI, we encourage our Accordingly, we donated 3% of our pre-tax profit, employees to make donations, and also promised to amounting to TL 1,600,000, to the Anadolu Education donate 2 TL against every 1 TL donated by employees. and Social Aid Foundations. At the end of the campaign, we reached a combined total value of TL 37,434 in donations. Social Development CCI Community Champions Awards We care about the needs of local communities CCI initiated the Community Champions Awards everywhere we operate and our goal is to be a model Program over the entire operating group in 2010, in finding common solutions for common problems. in order to reward employees who undertake and During this process we initiate implementations to support initiatives that contribute to society and the promote the active participation of our employees and environment, and who encourage other employees stakeholders. Some of the projects we performed in and shareholders to this end. Many employees 2011 are as follows: from Kazakhstan, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan and Jordan participate in the competition with projects Disaster Relief and activities aimed at social issues, using their own resources. Then these projects were evaluated and Just after the earthquake measuring 7.2 on the Richter the most successful 8 projects of the year 2011 were scale in Van on October 23, 2011 we discussed details chosen to compete in the final. and mobilized as fast as possible. Within the first 24 hours, three trailer trucks with a total capacity of 75,000 tons of water had departed from Sapanca, and we delivered 2,500 boxes of Damla water to the authorities. Just after that, we delivered 32 parcels of clothes and blankets, collected by our employees in Dudullu, to the Chamber of Mechanical Engineers. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 61 Our goal for the Contribution to Society Awards in 2012 is to increase the participation rate and support the winners in developing their projects. CCI Turkey employee Aslıhan Başarık won the first Employees Who Contributed to Society place in the contest with her ‘Life Plus Library’ project where the 3 most successful projects won As runner up in the 2010 CCI Community Champions awards. Aslıhan helped to establish 3 Life Plus Awards, with a project he launched after the 2009 Libraries, 2 in Mardin flash flood disaster in İkitelli designed to help children of low-income families who could not attend school, and 1 in Diyarbakır, by organizing university students to give weekend with the resources she lectures, Hüseyin Servi shared with us about the combined together with activities of 2011, his future plans and his opinions her colleagues. Besides about the program. this, she organized a toy distribution day on New “I donated the money prize to the City, Culture, and Year’s Eve for children Art Foundation. With this donation, tables and other fixtures and fittings were procured, helping the in Van afflicted by the progression of the project. Our foundation primarily earthquake. encourages poor children to take advantage of municipality culture and art events. We plan to Second place went to Azerbaijan employee Nicat organize university students to give lectures to Khaliyev, who initiated his ‘Hold-My-Hand’ project to elementary and high school students on weekends offer vocational training to young people aged 18 and after the universities open, and to provide educational support to children around the region. My personal over in orphanages, in order to help them find jobs in opinion is that even the name of the program various companies and organizations. recalls for people the importance of working for the community. I believe that the greater importance Third place went to Muhammad Azfar Ansari from placed on the implementation of this program next the Pakistan operations with his ‘Motivation’ project, year will lead people to more positive thoughts and which contributed to reconstruction processes after work.” the flood disaster and led to the reconstruction of a Hüseyin Servi mosque and the Imam family residence in a small Senior Accounting Staff CCI Turkey Sales and Distribution village in Pakistan. In addition to this, he established Inc. a security gate for his home street in a neighborhood of Lahore, helping to provide security for the neighborhood. Our aim for the Contribution to Society Awards in 2012 is to increase the participation rate and support the winners in developing their projects. 62 Community Life Plus Foundation and Life Plus Youth Sweetgums Revival Muğla / Köyceğiz Program The project aims to ensure the ecological integrity of the Köyceğiz Sweetgum Forest by creating forest The Life Plus Youth Program, carried out in corridors between dispersed forest segments and collaboration with Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, to strengthen local community’s will to protect the the United Nations Development Program, and forest by introducing more eco-friendly alternatives of the Origin of Living Foundation (YADA), provided livelihood like eco-tourism. support to 6 projects in 6 cities in the 6th year. Projects were carried out by young people between Environment Friendly Earthworms Izmir / Menemen the ages of 18 and 30, determined and implemented The project aims to introduce the technique of vermin under fundamental topics such as the promotion compost to the farmers in the district of Menemen of renewable energy sources, protection of water with demonstrative practices in pilot lands, thereby resources, waste management and sustainable decreasing the chemical pollution in the Gediz River. use of forest resources. Opening the exhibition and presenting their projects at the Coca-Cola Istanbul Bird Songs in Halep Pine Forests Adana / Yumurtalık offices, young people contribute to solving problems with the first and only program that supports their The project aims to protect the Halep Pine Forest by own projects in Turkey. introducing biological measures such as increasing reproductive success of songbirds that are natural consumers of the Halep pine trees to combat For a Cleaner Hazar Elazığ / Hazar verminous pine processionary caterpillars. The project aims to reduce the damages of camping Let the Tortum Cascade; Let Nature be Restored tourism on the ecological areas on the shore of Erzurum / Tortum, Uzundere the Hazar Lake by ensuring an ecologically sound camping tourism in the region. The project aims to promote the region's ecological sustainability by initiating ecological tourism activities, by mobilizing local administrations, public and Breath to Country, Wealth to Farmers Kırklareli / non-governmental organizations and raising public Demirköy awareness of the issue on a local and international level. The project aims to increase forest villagers’ capacity to collect, transport, preserve and market natural Supported Social Projects mushrooms, thus creating an alternative source of livelihood and ensuring that the forest is protected in Cooperation with Universities a sustainable way. Through our innovation processes we believe in the importance and benefits of academic cooperation, and we provide corporate support for youth to directly participate in CCI’s activities. In this context, between October 2010 and June 2011 in cooperation with the Bilkent University, our CCI Ankara Plant implemented the ‘mixed pallet design support system.’ Reducing the time spent on design and creation of the system, called CCI-MIX, aims to eliminate product damage. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 63 Through our innovation processes we believe in the importance and benefits of academic cooperation, and we provide corporate support for youth to directly participate in CCI's activities. We plan to implement the system, piloted in ASC Azerbaijan depots, in all direct distribution depots, plant warehouses, and dealer depots in the future. Through our innovation processes we believe in the importance and benefits of academic cooperation, and we provide corporate support for youth to directly participate in CCI’s activities. Azerbaijan Grassroots Project In accordance with the partnership we signed with the Football Federation of Azerbaijan, we undertook the sponsorship of the under-13 league and School Boys Jordan and Azerbaijan Beach Cup for 5 years. With the aim of supporting active Cleaning healthy lifestyles, and creating sporting opportunities to explore the abilities of children, we initiated the Jordan CCI staff carried out beach project in 4 large cities, and we expect half of the cleaning operations with the schools throughout the country will participate at the participation of members of the first stage, and then 75% by 2015. board of directors in Ölüdeniz. 90 volunteers took part in the event, performed by the initiative of our employees. As in the implementation conducted in Azerbaijan, our employees and up to 200 volunteers cleaned 35 hectares of land on the Shikhlar coast. We aimed to promote employee voluntariness and public Strong Generations awareness on environmental issues. Within the context of the Summer Youth Volunteer Program, CCI Jordan employees carried out Jordan the “Strong Generations” project. Organized in collaboration with the Jordan River Foundation and the Children’s Center, our employees participated in renovations as volunteers to Mansoor Kreishan High School, and spent much time and energy creating an ideal educational atmosphere. 64 Community Izmir Plant Environment Day Meeting Resettling of the Indus Pakistan Within the context of establishing effective An initiative was set up in response to the 2010 floods communication channels with our stakeholders, and in Pakistan, by a group of architects and designers, transparency principles, we organized a meeting with a vision of empowering communities through with the local media of the Aegean Region in 2011, a self-sustaining process without disturbing the similar to the one conducted with non-governmental indigenous cultures and lifestyles. A generous donation supported the rebuilding of a few shops organizations, opinion leaders and bureaucrats of the in the area of Muzaffargargh, lower Punjab in 2012. Health, Agriculture, and Environment Ministries at the In addition, Pakistan CCI has collaborated with Izmir plant in 2010. While sharing CCI’s sustainably Resettling the Indus in efforts to build settlements strategy and Environmental performance with on a large scale consideration comprising of houses, participants, we also informed them about our water a school and more. A grant of $ 28,000 has been and energy savings projects. provided to RT Indus which will be utilized to build 25 houses and a sewerage treatment system Elazığ Plant Supports Environment and in the first phase. Education Elazığ Plant employees planted 400 trees as part of Empowerment of Women World Environment Day activities. Elazığ Province with the Kashf Foundation Environment and Forestry Directorate and the Pakistan Directorate of National Education jointly organized the ‘Applied Environmental Education Project,’ and The Kashf Foundation has been working in our employees took active roles in its implementation. Pakistan for poverty alleviation with the vision of providing financial services to poor households, Within the context of the project, students in 40 pilot especially women, since 1996. The Kashf Foundation elementary schools were trained in environmental has developed a unique lending model which targets pollution prevention, environmental protection, women from low income communities along with development of positive consumption habits and providing them ongoing support through financial improvement of environmental awareness, collection education and other training opportunities. Through of reusable solid waste separately at the source, and the grant acquired from the CCI Pakistan, the recycling. Kashf Foundation has helped more than 35 female entrepreneurs expand their businesses and increase their incomes. Coupled with the financial literacy trainings that the Kashf Foundation’s Business Development Officers have undertaken with these clients, the clients have been able to improve their businesses, be better equipped to make financial decisions through more effective working capital management, and be in a better position to increase savings. This will allow their businesses to become sustainable and scalable, leading to economic empowerment and socio-political mainstreaming. CCI Pakistan aims to empower 100 more women by expanding to all the plants regions across Pakistan. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 65 Living Rivers, Living Aegean Project aims to protect the water resources in Büyük Menderes River. Living Rivers, Living Aegean Project Büyük Menderes is one of the 25 river basins of Turkey. 74% of its water resources are used for agricultural practices and the remaining 26% for industrial, domestic and tourism purposes. Water contamination resulting from agricultural, industrial and domestic wastes is threatening the 2.5 million residents of the basin and the ecological value of the area. Living Rivers Living Aegean project was initiated to sustain the water resources of Büyük Menderes in terms of quality and quantity to meet the needs of residents and the ecosystem, as well as to help in the effort to decrease the negative effects placed on ‘Every Drop Matters’ in water reserves. The project is brought to life through Azerbaijan Project the active collaborations of the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, WWF-Turkey, the YADA Foundation the During the reporting period, the Aegean Association, EKODOSD Association and all project we implemented in the the parties that use and manage water resources village of Seyidi in Azerbaijan, aims in the basin. The project focuses on the adoption for people to have access to clean of the Integrated Basin Management approach by stakeholders and aims to make this approach as drinking water and to make them the main principle of water policies. Objectives of aware of efficient water usage. the projects can be summarized as: production of During the first stage of the project, an Atlas of the B. Menderes basin which will display we realized that 90% of 650 houses basins geographical, social and socio-economic only had access to low-quality structure; the foundation of Living Menderes Initiative underground water, and that the that will be established to ensure the sustainability water need was a major obstacle to of the Integrated Basin Management approach which will represent all stakeholders in decision making the development of the village, which processes; and conducting Small Grants Program has significant tourism potential due that will encourage non-governmental organizations to its historical and natural fabric. to develop projects generating solutions to the Later, safe and the clean water problems of the basin. requirement of the villagers were ensured by drilling artesian wells at strategic points, building a water tower and 4 fountains. 66 Performance Indicators Performance Indicators ECONOMIC AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sales Volume (million unit cases) 533.4 586.5 665.4 761.7 Net Sales (million TL) 2,258.10 2,407.50 2,753.20 3,408.60 EBIT (million TL) 259.6 236.5 271.8 328.3 EBIT Margin 11.5 9.8 9.9 9.6 EBITDA (million TL) 375.3 368.7 435 486.9 EBITDA Margin 16.6 15.3 15.8 14.3 Net Income (million TL) 81.4 169.6 197.7 140.3 Net Income Margin (%) 3.6 7 7.2 4.1 Earnings per Share (TL) 0.0032 0.0067 0.0078 0.0055 Total Equity (million TL) 1,108.20 1,269.90 1,435.00 1,670.10 Total Assets (million TL) 2,447.30 2,863.60 3,014.00 3,787.60 Net Debt (million TL) 774.6 704.1 646.8 1,108.00 Corporate Governance Rating 8.3 8.43 8.5 Foreign Currency Senior Unsecured BB, Stable BBB (-), Stable BBB (-), Positive BBB (-),Stable Rating and IDR Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook Local Currency Senior Unsecured BBB, Negative BBB, Stable BBB, Stable BBB, Stable Rating and IDR Outlook Outlook Outlook Outlook SOCIAL INDICATORS 2008 2009 2010 2011 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Turkey 2.42 0.9 1.01 1.42 Jordan 39 24 11 4.8 Kazakhstan 2 0 0.3 0 Azerbaijan 2 0 0 0 Lost Time Incident Severity Rate (LTISR) Turkey 15.49 6.61 9.62 17.64 Jordan 25.68 31.82 18.37 74.24 Kazakhstan 58.58 0 0 Azerbaijan 4.97 2.13 0 Fatalities Total* Turkey 0 1 1 3 Jordan 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 1 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 Total Hours Worked Turkey 3,228,118 8,181,012 10,324,726 9,405,144 Jordan 1,479,616 1,238,040 971,008 915,899 Kazakhstan 951,810 596,192 1,363,127 1,231,340 Azerbaijan 562,880 543,360 843,520 929,920 2011 Occupational Safety and Health Data Occupational Incidents Involving Occupational Lost Total Death Incidents Time LTI Total Hours LTI Lost (SubInvolving Incident Severity Incident Absence Worked Rate Days employers) Death (CCI) Rate Rate Rate Rate Turkey 9,405,144 67 823 3 0 1.42 17.64 7.64 117.23 Kazakhstan 1,231,340 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1,900 Azerbaijan 929,920 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 683 Jordan 915,899 22 340 0 0 4.8 74.24 1.83 340 * Contractor accidents are included. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 67 Calculations: LTI Rate Work incident or occupational illness with 1 or more day loss including incidents involving death Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) (Number of lost time incidents / occupational illnesses) x 200,000 / (Total Worked Hours During Reporting Period) LTI Severity Rate (Number of days lost due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / (Total Worked Hours During Reporting Period) Total Incident Rate (Number of medical interventions made due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / (Total Worked Hours During Reporting Period) Lost Workday The day that the employee is on (sick) leave due to illness, occupational illness, sickness or other reasons Absence Rate (Number of days of absence) x 200,000 / (Total Worked Hours During Reporting Period) Medical Intervention Incident Work incidents or occupational illnesses which require medical intervention beyond first aid Lost Days 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 250 264 391 823 Jordan 190 197 67 340 Kazakhstan 136 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 14 0 9 0 Total Incident Rate (TIR) Turkey 2.98 1.14 2 7.64 Jordan 6.76 1.94 0 1.83 Kazakhstan 0.96 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0.71 0 1.19 0 Absent Days Turkey 404.54 64.81 125.79 117.23 Jordan 0 0 350.56 340 Kazakhstan 64.82 0 0 1.900 Azerbaijan 4.97 0 201.54 683 Total Training Hours Turkey 76,851 39,237 97,896 Jordan 15,665 9,468 4,685 Kazakhstan 2,674 8,816 7,959 Azerbaijan 581 722 2,799 Number of Union Member Employees Turkey 508 482 525 328 Jordan NA NA Kazakhstan 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 Ratio of the Union Member Employees to All Employees (%) Turkey 47.61 41.33 40.57 30 Jordan NA NA Kazakhstan 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 Number of Training Hours Total Number of Training in 2011 Trained Employees per Employee Training Hours Turkey 1,889 18,353 34,668 Jordan 292 16,045 4,685 Kazakhstan 3,050 2,610 7,959 Azerbaijan 650 4,306 2,799 Total 50,111 68 Performance Indicators Employee Indicators Turnover Rates by Gender and Total Number of Employees 2009 2010 2011 Turkey Male 10% (2,309) 11% (2,319) 11.6% (2,420) Female 12% (324) 15% (340) 14.4% (368) Jordan Male 34% (464) 33% (364) 32% (353) Female 16% (31) 25% (16) 6.7% (15) Kazakhstan Male 21% (681) 21% (585) 17% (502) Female 19% (122) 16% (109) 10% (97) Azerbaijan Male 16% (365) 6% (366) 8% (236) Female 23% (30) 3% (38) 12% (33) Employee Turnover Rates by Age (%) 61 and 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 Above Total Number Turkey 2010 56 35 8 1 0 296 2011 57.8 36.7 4.9 0.6 0 327 Jordan 2010 65 27 8 0 0 125 2011 62.6 27 10.4 0 0 115 Kazakhstan 2010 61 30 6 3 0 149 2011 54 33 7 4 1 94 Azerbaijan 2010 54 29 17 0 0 24 2011 65 31 4 0 0 23 Employee Turnover Rates by Region 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 10% (278) 11.4% (285) 11.7% (301) Jordan 33% (165) 32.7% (125) 30% (115) Kazakhstan 22.7% (183) 21.4% (149) 14.7% (94) Azerbaijan 16.7% (66) 5.9% (24) 7.1% (19) Employee Breakdown by Education Status (%) 2010 2011 Turkey University and Above 45.5 48.7 Other 54.5 51.3 Jordan University and Above 22.6 25 Other 77.4 75 Kazakhstan University and Above 48.6 75.8 Other 51.4 24.2 Azerbaijan University and Above 50.4 51.3 Other 49.6 48.7 Employee Profile Indicators Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Employee Breakdown by Status (%) Blue Collar 32 69.4 48.2 47 45.7 59 59.3 57 White Collar 68 30.6 51.8 53 54.3 61 40.7 43 Employee Breakdown by Gender (%) Female 12.8 13.1 4.2 4 16 16.1 11.8 12 Male 87.2 86.9 95.8 96 84 83.9 88.2 88 Employee Breakdown by Contract Type (%) Permanent 99.5 99.7 99.4 99 100 100 67.5 100 Temporary 0.5 0.3 0.6 1 0 0 32.5 0 Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 69 Employee Breakdown by Age (%) 61 and Total 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 Above Number Turkey 2010 39.6 43.4 15.7 1.2 0.1 2,659 2011 39.7 42.9 16.3 1.1 0.1 2,820 Jordan 2010 35 45 18 2 0 380 2011 37 41 20 2 0 368 Kazakhstan 2010 44 36 14 6 0 694 2011 44 33 14 8 0 599 Azerbaijan 2010 46 31 17 6 0 404 2011 42 31 18 9 0 269 Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) Total 0-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 25+ Number Turkey 2010 58.9 14.8 18.1 6.6 1.5 0.1 2,659 2011 59 17.1 16.5 6.2 1.1 0.1 2,820 Jordan 2010 54 18 23 5 0 0 380 2011 56 14 22 8 0 0 368 Kazakhstan 2010 73 17 9 1 0 0 694 2011 68 21 8 3 0 0 599 Azerbaijan 2010 71 11 17 1 0 0 404 2011 68 13 18 1 0 0 269 2011 Local Employment Rate in International Operations by Level (%) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Executives 90 33 29 60 White-collar including executives 100 99 99 96 Blue Collar 100 100 100 100 Overtime Hours in Full Time Equivalent per Total Headcount (%) 2010 2011 Turkey 2.6 1.38 Jordan 4.6 1.53 Kazakhstan 4.1 3 Azerbaijan 3.1 4.6 The Ratio of Female Executive Personnel to Male Executive Personnel (%) 2010 2011 Turkey 27 30 Jordan 0 2 Kazakhstan 20 21 Azerbaijan 18 13 2011 Distribution of Executive Employees by Age Group (%) 30 Under 30 50 50 Above Total Turkey * * 11 100 Jordan N/A N/A N/A 100 Kazakhstan 0 84 16 100 Azerbaijan 10 82 8 100 * Independent members of the Executive Board were not included in these statistics. 70 Performance Indicators 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 2011 Material Used (tons) Azerbaijan Jordan Kazakhstan Turkey Concentrate 1,485 204 2,892 35,389 Sugar 13,848 6,414 27,493 184,855 CO2 3,129 782 2,483 23,473 Metal Cap 61 683 Plastic Cap 599 100 1,035 4,291 Bottle, PET 5,803 1,200 10,816 49,088 Glass 284 19,814 Tetrapak 792,484 4,196 Paper 500 190 830 7,714 Wooden Pallet 100 1,334 181 5,047 Aluminum Box 820 375 8,363 Shrink and Transport Package of Products 419 200 760 6,250 2011 Amount of Waste by Disposal Method Total Recycled Total Waste IncineTotal and Recovered Hazardous Ratio Storage** Composting ration** Waste (tons) Waste (tons) Waste (tons) (g/l) (tons) (tons) (ton) Turkey 9,162 8,700 3.4 91 389 0 47 Jordan 771 685 11.2 1 86 0 0 Kazakhstan 627 335 2.6 0 31 0 0 Azerbaijan 205 189 1.2 1 0 0 0 Water Consumption (m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ankara 584,978 565,119 469,378 508,865 505,700 Çorlu 895,729 739,249 657,401 675,480 752,059 Mahmudiye 78,943 301,460 288,171 285,313 325,179 Mersin 608,172 545,796 496,171 560,964 528,157 Izmir 509,275 521,647 484,356 481,424 520,208 Bursa 568,837 704,806 795,202 729,862 777,493 Köyceğiz 16,654 61,477 131,451 Elazığ 208,558 255,064 310,290 Turkey 3,245,934 3,378,077 3,415,891 3,558,449 3,850,537 *** Jordan 257,077 231,106 155,040 140,904 137,847 Kazakhstan 211,975 384,835 344,497 422,064 510,591 Azerbaijan 346,623 344,830 302,263 305,164 306,059 Total 4,061,609 4,338,848 4,217,691 4,426,581 4,805,034 Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 1.55 1.46 1.50 1.42 1.42 *** Jordan 2.38 1.89 1.82 1.97 2.00 Kazakhstan 1.71 2.34 1.86 1.75 1.70 Azerbaijan 1.66 1.97 2.03 1.73 1.74 Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 0.258 0.233 0.234 0.223 0.255 *** Jordan 0.620 0.570 0.517 0.505 0.455 Kazakhstan 1.030 0.520 0.330 0.309 0.333 Azerbaijan 0.280 0.280 0.270 0.228 0.222 CO2 Emission Ratio (g/L) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 25.55 27.53 28.97 28.95 30.10 *** Jordan 80.29 57.24 64.06 72.44 56.03 Kazakhstan 116.29 89.85 68.15 56.90 49.46 Azerbaijan 51.81 62.13 60.51 53.54 49.44 ** Storage: Includes domestic and hazardous waste. Incineration: hazardous waste burnt in certified plants. *** These numbers have received limited assurance from an independent assurance firm ( PwC”). Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 71 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Amount of Direct Energy Consumed by Primary Energy Sources (Million MJ) Heavy Fuel Oil 25.31 36.41 8.63 6.40 8.29 Light Fuel Oil 156.28 142.02 58.48 69.84 14.79 Propane 80.98 69.22 71.4 73.21 79.61 Natural Gas 246.47 286.79 210.62 186.31 232.73 Vapor 49.48 Total 509.04 534.44 349.13 335.76 384.90 Turkey Heavy Fuel Oil 17.23 0.28 0 0 0 Light Fuel Oil 5.55 20.75 4.24 5.36 5.57 Propane 76.37 58.60 53.87 57.55 62.91 Natural Gas 161.80 167.48 153.38 141.05 232.73 Total 260.95 247.11 211.49 203.96 301.21 *** Jordan Heavy Fuel Oil 0 0 0 0 0 Light Fuel Oil 34.87 30.42 16.87 23.56 7.81 Propane 0 0.01 10.24 7.56 4.74 Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 Total 34.87 30.43 27.11 31.12 12.55 Kazakhstan Heavy Fuel Oil 0 25.32 0 0 0 Light Fuel Oil 73.82 48.84 1.84 1.71 0 Propane 4.61 7.72 5.64 6.48 10.07 Natural Gas 84.67 119.31 57.24 45.26 0 Vapor 49.48 Total 163.1 201.19 64.72 53.45 59.55 Azerbaijan Heavy Fuel Oil 8.08 10.81 8.63 6.40 8.29 Light Fuel Oil 42.04 42.01 35.53 39.21 1.41 Propane 0 2.89 1.65 1.62 1.89 Natural Gas 0 0 0 0 0 Total 50.12 55.71 45.81 47.23 11.59 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indirect Energy Consumption (Purchased Power) (Million MJ) 442.89 552.22 512.18 471.22 477.71 Turkey 324.51 413.81 403.28 353.97 390.93 *** Jordan 31.75 28.30 22.40 18.79 18.77 Kazakhstan 34.77 57.39 38.70 46.44 40.61 Azerbaijan 51.86 52.72 47.80 52.02 27.40 Direct Emissions (Tons equivalent CO2) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 14,363 13,418 11,242 10,918 16,764 *** Jordan 2,455 2,142 1,796 2,108 832 Kazakhstan 9,745 11,781 3,355 2,790 6,478 Azerbaijan 3,553 3,924 3,234 3,327 3,020 Total 30,116 31,265 19,627 19,143 27,094 Indirect Emissions (Tons equivalent CO2) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 39,017 50,372 53,570 61,557 64,923 *** Jordan 6,201 4,824 3,656 3,074 3,027 Kazakhstan 10,980 8,290 5,149 8,114 8,384 Azerbaijan 7,273 6,934 5,791 6,136 5,671 Total 63,471 70,420 68,166 78,881 82,005 *** These numbers have received limited assurance from an independent assurance firm ( PwC”). 72 Performance Indicators 3rd Party Fleet Emissions (Fuel Used) (Tons equivalent CO2) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 33,109 41,522 34,528 38,205 32,319 Jordan N/A N/A 382 1,959 1,875 Kazakhstan 1,938 1,954 1,241 1,486 1,095 Azerbaijan 799 445 1,074 1,092 1,400 Total 35,846 43,921 37,225 42,742 36,689 Cooler Emissions (electricity used) (Tons equivalent CO2) 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 263,997 288,559 304,379 Jordan 21,446 22,572 22,820 Kazakhstan 29,928 29,611 35,069 Azerbaijan 7,163 9,121 8,950 Total 322,534 349,863 371,218 Electricity Cooler Emissions (electricity used) (kWh) 2009 2010 2011 Turkey 552,052,501 582,619,602 634,217,549 Jordan 36,500,000 38,325,000 39,306,850 Kazakhstan 62,478,875 67,470,250 73,051,992 Azerbaycan 16,425,000 21,900,000 20,184,500 Total 667,456,376 710,314,852 766,760,891 CO2 Conversion Factors (kg CO2 emissions produced by 1 kWh electricity consumption) 2010 2011 Change % Azerbaijan 0.416464 0.4434248 6.47384309 Kazakhstan 0.438879 0.4800584 9.38275982 Turkey 0.495279 0.4799290 -3.0992632 Jordan 0.588976 0.580548 -1.4309247 Ozone-depleting Substance Emissions by Weight ODS CFC ODS HCFC ODS Halon Emissions kg Emissions kg Emissions kg Azerbaijan 2010 325 266 N/A 2011 256 266 N/A Jordan 2010 N/A 182 N/A 2011 N/A 144 N/A Kazakhstan 2010 181 0 0 2011 136 0 0 Turkey 2010 41 190 0 2011 0 0 0 Environmental Investments in CCI Factories Implemented within the Last 3 Years ($) Water Minimization Water Energy Project (TCCC & UNDP) Packaging Izmir 315,000 55,000 30,000 Mersin 82,000 437,000 Çorlu 35,000 90,000 1,017,000 Ankara 120,000 105,000 350,000 Elazığ Bursa 115,000 275,000 2,020,000 **** Sapanca 107,400 Köyceğiz 17,000 SOD Project (Bursa, Sapanca, Köycegiz) 3,200,000 New type block blowing and filling machine (no-wash) Köyceğiz 3,293,500 Total 4,067,900 979,000 350,000 6,267,000 **** Only PET and tetra200. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 73 Glossary AA Audit Standard (AA1000AA): The only standard in the world that inspects the sustainability disclosures of corporations with respect to their priorities, integrities and principles. (http://www.accountability21.net/ publications) AA1000 Standards: A series that was developed in 1999, by AccountAbility, a global, not-for-profit self-managed partnership, which provides a framework to help organizations build their accountability and social responsibility through quality social and ethical accounting, auditing and reporting. (http://www.accountability21.net) AA1000SES (AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard): Stakeholder engagement standard, developed by AccountAbility, the AA1000SES Provides a principles-based, open source framework, for designing, implementing, evaluating and assuring the quality of stakeholder engagement. Accountability Rating: Established by the CSR Consulting Network and AccountAbility, this is a measurement tool to calculate how responsibly companies maintain their activities, and their economic, social, and environmental impacts. Anadolu Vakfı (Anatolian Foundation): An organization that invests in areas related to community health and education. The foundation was established 25 years ago in Turkey and has completed more than 40 projects to date which include hospitals, health centers, schools, student dormitories and sports complexes. ASC: Ankara Sales Center. BASIS (Beverage Advanced Standard Information System): The Beverage Advanced Standard Information System is a sales accounting software used by a great number of Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the World. Bottler: A business like Coca-Cola İçecek that buys concentrates, beverage bases, or syrups made available by The Coca-Cola Company, which manufactures, packages, merchandises and distributes the final branded beverages to customers and vending partners, who then sell those products to consumers. Brand Protection Group: An organization, formed by a large number of national and international companies that operate in Turkey, to fight against forgery. Business Unit: Units responsible of the management of Coca-Cola operations in more than one country i.e. Eurasia and Africa Business Unit. Cancun Communiqué on Climate Change: Combating climate change, the communiqué was signed in December 2010. Based on the continuity of progress achieved by the Copenhagen Communiqué in a global context, it aims to maximize the efforts of participating governments and companies. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): The Carbon Disclosure Project is initiated to collect and share information which supports the combat against climate change of companies, investors and governments in 2000. The project is the first and only institution reporting globally how companies manage risks pertaining to climate change. CCI Campus: CCI’s training and development structure. 74 Glossary CCI Corporate: Coca-Cola İçecek’s division responsible for the whole corporate performance including international and Turkey operations. CCI Turkey: Coca-Cola İçecek’s division responsible for operations in Turkey. CCI: Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. CFC: Chlorofluorocarbon. One of the green house gases which has global warming effect. Climate Platform Turkey Climate Change Leaders Group: Founded by collaboration of TÜSİAD and REC Turkey, and with the participation of leading companies from different sectors, the organization works on combating climate change while supporting a low carbon economy. CO2: Carbon dioxide. One of the green house gases which has global warming effect. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers (CCAB): CCI’s affiliate in Kazakhstan. CokePort: Coca-Cola İçecek’s intranet portal. Concentrate: A product manufactured by The Coca-Cola Company or other beverage company, sold to bottlers to prepare finished beverages through the addition of sweeteners and/or water. Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate Change: Prepared by the business world under the leadership of the United Nations and signed in December 2009, the Copenhagen Communiqué determines grounds for compromise, and the steps to be taken in combating climate change by the world’s leading economic and political players. Corporate Social Responsibility: Corporations and institutions voluntarily making the social, environmental and economic concerns of the society part of their activities and their relations with their stakeholders, thereby acting towards all of their stakeholders and the entire society in an ethical and responsible manner, and by making and implementing decisions accordingly. Customer: An individual store, retail outlet, restaurant, or a chain of stores or businesses that sells or serves our products directly to consumers. ÇEVKO: Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust. DEİK: Foreign Economic Relations Board. EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization): The income obtained by adding depreciation expenses to the company’s net business income while providing a more objective evaluation bypassing tax and investment expenses when measuring the profitability of the company. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 75 EFQM Excellence Model: Management system, founded by European Foundation of Quality Management (EFQM), to achieve sustainable excellence. ERP: Corporate Resource Planning. Fitch Ratings: One of the world’s three leading credit rating foundations. FSSC 22000: Food Safety Systems Certification Scheme. G3 Guidelines: The latest reporting guidelines published by GRI in 2006. (http://www.globalreporting.org) GDP: Gross Domestic Product. Global RED Best Case Award: The award determining the best sales practices granted to bottlers worldwide by TCCC. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): It is the world's most widely used reporting frame that was founded in 1997 and that became a partner of UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme) in 1999. Multinational companies, SMEs, public corporations, municipalities, NGOs and Universities around the world report their social, environmental and economic performances in accordance with GRI guidelines. The contents of the GRI reporting guidelines which is an open source is prepared on an online platform in which universities, companies, NGOs and anyone interested can participate. (http://www.globalreporting.org) HACCP TS 13001: Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points TS 13001 Halon: Chemical compound used to fight fire. HC: Hydrocarbon. HCFC: Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. HFC: Hydrofluorocarbon. HFCS (High Fructose Corn Syrup): Corn syrup with high levels of fructose. Processed from corn as a subsititute sweetener to crystal sugar. IMCR (Incident Management and Crisis Resolution): A sustainable program applied in the whole Coca-Cola System, designed to prevent the incidents and crisis. International Labour Organisation; ILO: Headquartered in Geneva, ILO is a global organization founded to develop labor laws, relevant implementations and standards in member countries. ISO: International Standardization Organisation. 76 Glossary ISO 9001: Quality Management System Standard released by ISO. ISO 14001: Environment Management Standard released by ISO. KalDer: Turkish Quality Association. Lean 6 Sigma: Lean production integrated with 6 Sigma. LPG: Liquified petroleum gas. MEDER: Beverage Industry Association. MEYED: Fruit Juice Industry Association. NOx: Nitrogen oxide. OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & Safety Management System Standard. On-Premise: Outlets where consumers buy soft drinks for immediate consumption at or near the point-of-sale. PAS 220 (Publicly Available Specification 220): An open public specification standard prepared for detailing the precise implementation of the requirements of the ISO 22000 standard, pertaining to pre-requisite programs. PET (polyethylene terephthalate): The material from which CCI's plastic bottles are manufactured. PM: Particulate matter. Preform: Intermediate product used in the production of PET bottles. Preseller (sales representative): Employee at the sales department who take the orders. Ready to drink beverage: Beverage in a prepared form, ready for consumption. Alcohol free sparkling beverages, juices, nectar and sweetened waters, ice teas, sports and energy drinks, bottled waters, HOD waters and ayrans are included in this group. Shrink: Raw material used in product packaging. SKU: Stock keeping unit, product or product group that has different brand code/codes but counted as one sales unit. Sparkling Beverage: Non-alcoholic beverage containing flavorings and sweeteners. Excludes, among other beverages, waters and flavored waters, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, and teas and coffees. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 77 Stakeholder engagement: Mechanisms that enable stakeholder expectations and suggestions to be represented in the management structure of the company. Stakeholder: Persons or groups who directly or indirectly affect or are affected by the activities of corporations and institutions. Still Beverage: Non-alcoholic non-sparkling beverage including, but not limited to, waters and flavored waters, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, and teas and coffees. SUDER: Packed Water Manufacturers Association. Sustainability: The ability to render development sustainable by meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to respond to their own needs. (United Nations Commission on Environment and Development 1987) Sustainable Development: Sustainable development is the actualization of economic growth and welfare increasing efforts while protecting the environment and the quality of life of all human beings living on earth. (United Nations Commission on Environment and Development 1987) TABA: Turkish American Business Association. TCCEOSH: The Coca-Cola Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health System. TCCF: The Coca-Cola Company Foundation. TCCMS: The Coca-Cola Company Management System. TCCQS: The Coca-Cola Quality System. TEİD: Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society. TGDF: Federation of Food and Drink Industry Associations of Turkey. The 2oC Challenge Communiqué: While expressing the advantages of sustainable progress and green economy perception, the Communiqué aims to share with the business world the necessity of promptly limiting global warming to 2oC, and underlines the importance of international colloboration and effective market mechanisms. The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC): Founded in 1886, The CocaCola Company is the world’s leading manufacturer, marketer and distributor of non-alcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups that are used to produce more than 230 beverage brands. The Coca-Cola Company’s corporate headquarters are in Atlanta with local operations in nearly 200 countries around the world. The Coca-Cola System (TCCS): TCCC and more than 300 bottling partners around the world formed a special name for the system. 78 Glossary The Coca-Cola Turkey System: The system including TCCC Turkey and CCI Turkey operations. The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan (CCBCJ): CCI’'D5s affiliate in Jordan. The Stevie Awards: World’s Leading Business Awards announced annually in various categories. TOBB: The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey. TSE: Turkish Standards Institution. TS EN 50001: Energy Management System Standard released by TSE. Turkmenistan Coca-Cola Bottlers (TCCB): CCI’s affiliate in Turkmenistan. TÜSİAD: Turkish Industry and Business Association. TÜYİD: Investor Relations Association. UN Convention Against Corruption: The first international convention against corruption, UNCAC is a communiqué that obliges member countries to apply certain measures pertaining to the related laws, institutions, and implementations. UNGC United Nations Global Compact: The United Nations Global Compact which aims to support socioeconomic development of the private sector by adopting the 10 universal principles in the contract. Unit Case: Unit of measurement that is the equivalent to 5,678 liters, in other in other words, 24 servings or 192 American standard ounces. Unit Case Volume: Number of unit cases that the company sells to its customers. It is considered an excellent indicator of the underlying strength of soft drink sales in a particular market. (1 Unit Case = 5,6789 liters) Volume: The number of physical cases of products directly or indirectly sold to our customers. Voyage: A solution package consisting of office and mobile applications, with which our distributors track their sales and distribution operations. At the same time, the mobile application side is used by CCI direct distribution sales teams for collecting orders and other field sales activities. YASED: International Investors Association. 2020 Vision: The structure for the Coca-Cola System’s sustainability targets and approach. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 79 CCI Water, Energy Use and Carbon dioxide Emissions Reporting Guidance This Water, Energy Use and Carbon dioxide Emissions Reporting Guidance (“WECRG”) document supports the preparation and reporting of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and water consumption data by the CCI Turkey (the “Company”). It is the responsibility of Company management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare its energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions reporting and water consumption in line with, in all material respects, the WECRG. All data up to and including FY11 (financial year ending 31 December 2011) only comprises the relevant operations in Turkey, excluding all international operations. The data for the year, therefore, do not represent the entire CCI Operations. General Reporting Principles In preparing this guidance document, consideration has been given to following principles: • Information Preparation to highlight to users of the information the primary principles of relevance and reliability of information; and • Information Reporting the primary principles are comparability / consistency with other data including prior year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. Key Definitions For the purpose of this report, the company defines: Energy and Carbon dioxide Emissions • ‘Energy’ to mean electricity, natural gas, diesel / gasoline, fuel oil and LPG. For the purpose of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or renewable sources of energy (such as wind or solar energy), which collectively represent an insignificant share of total energy consumption and carbon emissions. • ‘Energy consumption’ means the energy used during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December), being the energy purchased during the period. Energy consumption data includes energy used in the operation of on-site industrial facility and manufacturing processes, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation, air circulation, air conditioning (HVAC system). Manufacturing processes refer to the energy consumed in the core bottling operation. • ‘Carbon dioxide emissions’ means the carbon dioxide gas emitted as a result of the energy consumption during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Carbon dioxide emissions refer to all production processes such as bottling and preform injection processes. Among the Turkey operations, only the Ankara, Çorlu and Sapanca operations include preform injection processes in addition to the bottling operations. The plants includes production buildings, water treatment units, wastewater treatment units, warehouses, laboratories, administration buildings and technical service operations. Where the plant has on-site generated energy, the related energy consumption is defined as the energy of the generation fuel (e.g. for on-site diesel fired electricity generator, the energy consumption will be the diesel used rather than the electricity output of the generator). Energy Use Ratio (Mega Joule of energy consumed per liter of product produced): Sum of all individual energy sources (MJ) / Production volume (liters). 80 CCI Water, Energy Use and Carbon dioxide Emissions Reporting Guidance Water • ‘Water’ refers to the total water used by the facility, from all sources, including well, spring water and collected rain water. Collected rain water is not included in the water consumption. • ‘Water consumption’ refers to the water used during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Water consumption data includes the water used for production, water-treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (contact and non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other trucks, kitchen or canteen, toilets, sinks and fire control. Water Use Ratio (Liters of water per liter of product produced): Total Water Use (Liters) / Production Volume (Liters) Scope of Reporting For FY11 and comparative periods presented, energy consumption, carbon dioxide emission and water consumption data relate to the energy consumed in Turkey by the Company’s: • Industrial sites in Turkey, comprised of bottling facilities together with the secondary operations such as preform manufacturing, bottle blowing and lift truck operation; • Technical service operations, • Administrative buildings located at the industrial sites and • Own transportation of materials and products within the industrial plant sites. (eg forklift operations) The following energy consumption fields are omitted from the scope of reporting: • Energy used outside of the factory gate. For example, the transport from suppliers, to customers, in between Company locations, or business travel (even if they involve vehicles belonging to the site), and employee commuting; • Energy used by third parties in the manufacture / production of purchased raw materials, products and other supplies; • Energy used in the use / consumption and disposal of manufactured products; • Energy in respect of outsourced and contracted operations / manufacturing (i.e. activities contractually performed by third parties); • Energy used in the cooling of products (off-site) • Energy used in the headquarter office and • Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions arising from other greenhouse gases on the basis that these are not material. Energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and water consumption from the acquisitions and the disposals are included and terminated respectively from the date of contractual completion of the transfer of asset ownership / leasehold. This is consistent with the CCI Operations’ financial reporting. Data Preparation Energy consumption Energy consumption data are reported for electricity, and primary fuel sources, which are comprised of natural gas, diesel, LPG, and fuel oil. Electricity and natural gas, data are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, and fuel oil consumption data are obtained from the supplier invoices. Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 81 The CCI Operations has used the following published conversion factors: • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. Then for calculation of energy use ratio kWh is converted to MJ with the conversion factor 3,6. • For natural gas, the unit of supply is invoiced in m3. Then for the calculation of energy use ratio, cubic meters is converted to MJ with the conversion factor 37,3. • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel, LPG and fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from liters or kilograms to Mega Joule) are obtained from the calculation tool provided by TCCC (The Coca-Cola Company) Default Factors. Carbon dioxide emissions Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated by the Company using published conversion factors. Conversion factors enable the determination of the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere per unit of energy consumption. Different types of energy sources have different conversion factors reflecting their carbon dioxide intensity. In future periods, conversion factors may be updated to reflect the changes / improvements in published data. Following conversion factors are used: • For fuels (such as natural gas, diesel and LPG), conversion factors are obtained from the calculation tool provided by TCCC (The Coca-Cola Company) Default Factors and Calculation Tool which is based on GHG Protocol Standards. TCCC Default Factors: 1 MJ natural gas: 0,05049 kg CO2 1 MJ LPG: 0,0594 kg CO2 1 MJ diesel, light fuel oil: 0,0704 kg CO2 • For electricity, conversion factors are obtained from The International Energy Agency (IEA, 2009) and shared by TCCC to be used in all Coca-Cola System. IEA (2009) conversion factor for Turkey: 1 kWh electricity: 0,4799290 kg CO2 Water Consumption Water consumption data are obtained from internal meters where ground water is utilised. Moreover, water consumption data are obtained from the supplier meters and reconciled with the internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices where the water is supplied by the network. Restatements The measuring and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions data inevitably involves a degree of estimation to some extent. In exceptional circumstances, restatements of prior year's reported emissions may be required. Restatements are considered where the data differs by the rate of more than 5% at Company level. 82 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Index Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; p. 40-42 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses p. 40-42 Labour Standarts Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p. 42 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p. 39-47 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and p. 39-47 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 40-42 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; p. 17-37 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and p. 5, 17-37, 62-65 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. p. 17-37 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CCİ Code of Ethics: http://www.cci.com.tr/userfiles/en/COCA-COLA-CODE-OF-ETHICS.pdf Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 83 GRI Indicators Table GRI INDICATORS REFERENCE PAGE NOTES RESPONSE Profile Indicators 1.1 Message from the CEO 2-3 Full 1.2 Message from the CEO 2-3 Corporate Governance 15-16 Achievements in 2011 5 Corporate Social Full Responsibility Approach 11-13 Climate Protection and Emission Management 20 2.1 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 2.2 CCI at a Glance 10 Full 2.3 CCI at a Glance 8-9 Full 2011 Annual Report 44-49 2.4 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 2.5 CCI at a Glance 8-9 Full 2.6 2011 Annual Report 48-49 Full 2.7 CCI at a Glance 8-9 Full 2.8 CCI at a Glance 8-10 Performance Indicators 66 Full 2011 Annual Report 52-53 2.9 GRI Indicators Table Detailed information about significant changes in reporting period can be obtained from Announcements section located at http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations /announcements/ Full 2.10 CCI Journey of Sustainability 7 Corporate Governance 15-16 Reducing Material Usage in Product Packaging 36 Full Occupational Health and Safety 43 Employee Engagement and Internal Communication 47 3.1 About the Report 1 Full 3.2 About the Report 1 Full 3.3 About the Report 1 Full 3.4 Contact Inside Back Cover Full 3.5 About the Report 1 Corporate Social Full Responsibility Approach 11-12 3.6 About the Report 1 Full 3.7 About the Report 1 Full 3.8 About the Report 1 Full 3.9 About the Report 1 Full 3.10 About the Report 1 Full 84 GRI Indicators Table 3.11 About the Report 1 Full 3.12 GRI Indicators Table 83-90 Full UNGC Table 82 Full 3.13 Assurance Statement 91 Full 4.1 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 11 Full 2011 Annual Report 44-45, 71 Full 4.2 2011 Annual Report 44-45 Full 4.3 2011 Annual Report 68 Full 4.4 Stakeholders Engagement 14 Equal Opportunities for Everyone 41 Full Employee Engagement and Internal Communication 47 2011 Annual Report 64-65 4.5 2011 Annual Report 71 Full 4.6 Code of Ethics 12 Full 2011 Annual Report 71 4.7 2011 Annual Report 44-45, 68 Full 4.8 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 11-13 Full 4.9 Message from the CEO 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 11-13 Full Climate Protection and Emission Management 20 4.10 2011 Annual Report 70 Full 4.11 Corporate Governance 16-17 Full 2011 Annual Report 69 4.12 CCI Journey of Sustainability 6-7 Signed in 2009, CCIin all counrty operationsprovide compliance to United Nations Global Compact Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 4.13 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Full 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Full 2011 Annual Report 64-65 4.15 Corporate Social Responsibility Approach 11 Full Stakeholder Engagement 14 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement 14 We employ multiple types of stakeholder engagement practices, frequency of which varies by type. Engagement practices like survey, researches and other implications, which are realized as a part of a certain system or process, are employed at least annually. Public disclosure engagements are realized in quarterly or in annual basis, however we also employ adhoc communication tools in case of a significant situation. Other engagement practices are realized on adhoc basis when a certain need is occured. 2011 Annual Report 64-65 Full Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 85 4.17 Product Responsibility 56-57 Full 2011 Annual Report 64-65 Management Approach DMA SC Our Environmental Approach p. 17; Water Management p.29; Preserving Water Resources p.33; Equal Opportunities for Everyone p. 41; Product Processess p.50; Raw Material and Supply Chain p.51; Supplier Audits p.52 Full DMA EC Message from the CEO p. 2; CCI at a Glance p.9-10; Climate Protection and Emission Management p.20; Equal Opportunities for Everyone p. 41; Raw Material and Supply Chain p. 51; Performance Indicators p. 66; Performance Indicators p. 70-71; Economic Development p. 60; Social Development p. 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65; 2011 Annual Report p. 80-84, 110, 112-114; Full DMA EN Recycling of Product Packages p. 37; 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators p.70; Energy Management p. 22; Energy Efficiency Projects in 2011 p. 23-24; Cooling Practices p. 26; 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators p.71; Reducing Water Consumption p. 30-31; Wastewater Management and Reclamation p. 31-32; Preserving Water Resources p. 33; Climate Protection and Emission Management p. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27; Energy Management p. 21-22; Water Management p. 30; Sustainable Packaging p.36-37; Managing the Impact of Transportation and Logistics p. 25; 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators p. 72; GRI Indicators Table EN28 Full DMA LA Employee Rights p. 40-41; Union Rights in CCI p. 42; Employee Indicators p. 68; GRI Indicators Table LA4-LA5; Occupational Health and Safety p. 42-43; Employee Health and Working Environment p. 44; Active Healthy Lifestyle p. 57; Social Indicators p. 66-67; GRI Indicators Table LA9; Performance and Talent Management p. 45; Education and Professional Development p.46; GRI Indicators Table LA12; Equal Oppurtunities for Everyone p. 41; Employee Indicators p. 70 Full 86 GRI Indicators Table DMA HR Corporate Governance p.15; Employee Rights p.40; Supplier Audits p. 52; Training Conducted by Suppliers p.52; GRI Indicators Table HR4-HR5-HR6HR7-HR8-HR9 Full DMA SO Corporate Governance p.15; Employee Rights p.40; Supplier Audits p. 52; Training Conducted by Suppliers p.52; Product Responsibility p.54; GRI Indicators Table SO1SO7SO8 Full DMA PR Sustainable Packaging p. 35-37; Product Responsibility p. 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57; Informing Consumers p.55; Customer Satisfaction Survey p.54; Efficient Management of Consumer Complaints p. 57; Responsible Advertising and Marketing p. 56; GRI Indicators Table PR8 Full DMA AW Not Applicable Not Performance Indicators FP1 GRI Indicators Table Product ingredients and packaging procurements in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan and Kazakhstan are substantiated from TCCC authorized suppliers. Full FP2 GRI Indicators Table Procurement criteria set by TCCC are international standards complied by all bottlers in Coca-Cola System. Full EC1 Performance Indicators 66 Full 2011 Annual Report 80-84 EC2 Message from the CEO 2 Climate Protection and Full Emission Management 20 EC3 Equal Opportunities for Everyone 41 Full 2011 Annual Report 112-114 EC4 2011 Annual Report 110 Full EC5 Equal Opportunities for Everyone 41 Full EC6 Raw Material and Supply Chain 51 Full EC7 Equal Opportunities for Everyone 41 Full Performance Indicators 70-71 EC8 Social Development 60-65 Full EC9 Economic Development 60 Full EN1 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 70 Full EN2 Recycling of Product Packages 37 Full EN3 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 71 Full EN4 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 71 Full Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 87 EN5 Energy Management 22 Energy Efficiency Full Projects in 2011 23-24 Cooling Practices 26 EN6 Energy Management 22 Full Cooling Practices 26 EN7 Energy Management 71 Energy Efficiency Full Projects in 2011 23-24 EN8 Reducing Water Consumption 30-31 Full EN9 Preserving Water Resources 33 CCI operations do not have any facility in RAMSAR areas. Full EN10 Wastewater Management and Reclamation 31-32 Volume of Water Reused is not avaliable. Related data will be reported as of 2013 Partial EN11 GRI Indicators Table CCI has no production plants in the protected areas. Full EN12 GRI Indicators Table Altough CCI has no production plants in the protected areas information about natural resources use and biodiversity protection can be found on related parts. Full Preserving Water Resources 33 Community 65 EN13 GRI Indicators Table CCI has no production plants in the protected areas. Full EN14 Message from the CEO 2 Full Preserving Water Resources 33 EN15 Not applicable Not EN16 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 71-72 Full EN17 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 72 Full EN18 Climate Protection and Emission Management 20-27 Full EN19 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 72 Full EN20 Climate Protection and Emission Management 20 Full Fleet Emissions 25 EN21 Wastewater Management and Reclamation 31-32 Full EN22 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 70 Full EN23 Wastewater Management and Reclamation 31 Full EN24 Not applicable Not EN25 GRI Indicators Table Since waste water is discharged only after the treatment process and reached to the quality level required by legal regulations, biodiversity value of receiving environment is not harmed. Full 88 GRI Indicators Table EN26 Energy Management 21-22 Energy Efficiency Projects in 2011 23-24 Full Cooling Practices 26 Water Management 30 Sustainable Packaging 36-37 EN27 Recycling of Product Packages 37 Full EN28 GRI Indicators Table Within the reporting period, no significant fines were charged for non-compliance regarding environmental issues. Full EN29 Managing the Impact of Transportation and Logistics 25 Recycling of Product Packages 37 Full 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 72 EN30 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators 72 Full LA1 Employee Rights 40-41 All employees covered in the employee breakdown graphics are fulltime employees Full LA2 Employee Indicators 68 Full LA3 Equal Oppurtunities for Everyone 41 Full LA4 Union Rights in CCI 42 Full LA5 GRI Indicators Table We follow the legal time periods and procedures for dismissal notification. Full FP3 Union Rights in CCI 42 Full LA6 Occupational Health and Safety 42 Full LA7 Social Indicators 66-67 Full LA8 Occupational Health and Safety 42-43 Employee Health and Full Working Environment 44 Active Healthy Lifestyle 57 LA9 GRI Indicators Table Consensus is reached regarding health check-ups, sick leaves, work-related accidents and birth / maternity leaves, sick pays, first-aid, protective equipment, work wear and occupational health and safety via collective labor agreements concluded with the union. Full LA10 Education and We keep average hours of training data for Professional Development 46 all employees. We plan to breakdown the data by employee category as of 2014. Partial LA11 Performance and Talent Management 45 CCI Talent Management 45 Full Education and Professional Development 46 LA12 Performance and Talent Management 45 All white-collar employees receive performance reviews Full Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 89 LA13 Employee Indicators 70 Full LA14 Equal Oppurtunities for Everyone 41 Full HR1 Supplier Audits 52 Training Conducted by Suppliers 52 Full HR2 Supplier Audits 52 Training Conducted Full by Suppliers 52 HR3 Corporate Governance 15 Employee Rights 40 Full HR4 GRI Indicators Table There were no incidents of discrimination within the reporting period. Full HR5 GRI Indicators Table No occasion took place during the reporting period that posed a significant threat to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Full HR6 Employee Rights 40 In line with our committment to UNGC, our operations do not have risk for incidents of child labor Full HR7 GRI Indicators Table No occasion took place during the reporting period that posed a significant threat to the freedom of forced or compulsory labor. Full HR8 GRI Indicators Table At CCI, Private Security Services are outsourced.All security personel have been trained on CCI's policy, procedures and legally required topics including human rights. Full HR9 GRI Indicators Table No such occasion took place during the reporting period Full SO1 GRI Indicators Table We conduct environmental and financial impact analysis with regard to the area that we will operate before we start operation. We restore all natural qualifications and consider related stakeholder expectations. Full FP4 Active Healthy Lifestyle 57 Full Azerbaijan Grassroots Project 63 SO2 Corporate Governance 15 Employee Rights 40 Full Supplier Audits 52 Training Conducted by Suppliers 52 SO3 Corporate Governance 15 Employee Rights 40 Full Supplier Audits 52 Training Conducted by Suppliers 52 SO4 Corporate Governance 15 Employee Rights 40 Full Supplier Audits 52 Training Conducted by Suppliers 52 SO5 Code of Ethics 22 Full SO6 Code of Ethics 22 Full 90 GRI Indicators Table SO7 GRI Indicators Table Within the reporting period, no violation of conduct was determined against CCİ with regards to uncompetitive behavior, monopolistic or similar practices. No penal sanctions were applied in this regard. Full SO8 GRI Indicators Table No significant fines charged during reporting period for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Full PR1 Product Responsibility 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 Full Sustainable Packaging 35-37 PR2 Informing Consumers 55 Full FP5 Production Process 50 Full FP6 GRI Indicators Table Coca-Cola Light (1.35%), Coca-Cola Zero (1.3%), SenSun (1.23%), SenSun Portakal (0.05%), Damla (17.21%), Damla Minera (0.56%), Damla Minera Sade ( 0.30%) Full FP7 GRI Indicators Table Products in related catergory are Cappy Karışık Meyve Nektarı, CappyTurunçgiller, Powerade IceBlast, Powerade Sun Rush and Powerade Citrus Charge. Partial PR3 Informing Consumers 55 Full FP8 Informing Consumers 55 Full PR4 Informing Consumers 55 Full PR5 Customer Satisfaction Survey 54 Full Efficient Management of Consumer Complaints 57 PR6 Responsible Advertising and Marketing 56 Full Efficient Management of Consumer Complaints 57 PR7 Responsible Advertising and Marketing 56 Full PR8 GRI Indicators Table Within the reporting period, no complaints were received to CCİ regarding the violation of customers' personal privacy or the loss of customer data. Full PR9 Product Responsibility 56 Full FP9 Not applicable Not FP10 Not applicable Not FP11 Not applicable Not FP12 Not applicable Not FP13 Not applicable Not Coca-Cola İçecek Corporate Social Responsibility Report 91 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. We have been engaged by the directors of Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. (“CCI”) to perform an independent limited assurance engagement in respect of CCI’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 (the “CSR Report”), for the year ended 31 December 2011. What we did and our conclusions We planned and performed our work, Furthermore, the nature and methods used to This report, including our conclusion, has been summarised below, to obtain the evidence we determine such information, as well as the prepared solely for the directors of CCI as a considered necessary to reach our limited measurement criteria and the precision thereof, body in accordance with the agreement assurance conclusions on the Selected may change over time. It is therefore important between us, to assist the directors in reporting Information. The scope of our work was to read and understand the Reporting Guidance CCI’s sustainability performance and activities. restricted to the Selected Information for the (within the CSR Report) that CCI has used to We permit this report to be disclosed in the CSR year ended 31 December 2011 and does not evaluate and measure the Selected Information. Report for the year ended 31 December 2011, to extend to information in respect of earlier enable the directors to show they have periods or to any other information in the CSR Work done addressed their governance responsibilities by Report. We performed the following activities: obtaining an independent assurance report in • Made enquiries of relevant CCI connection with the Selected Information. To What we are assuring (“Selected management; the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Information”) • Evaluated the design and implementation of accept or assume responsibility to anyone other The Selected Information marked with the key processes and controls over the Selected than the directors as a body and CCI for our (“***”) as set out in the CSR Report on pages 70 Information. This did not extend to testing work or this report except where terms are and 71, that consists of: that the controls operated as intended for the expressly agreed between us in writing. • The data consisting of direct greenhouse gas period under review; emissions, total megajoules of energy used, • Assessed the source data used to prepare the Başaran Nas Bağımsız Denetim ve energy use ratio (megajoules of energy used Selected Information for 2011, including reSerbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. per liter of product), total liters of water used performing a sample of calculations; a member of and water use ratio (liters of water used per • Carried out analytical procedures over the PricewaterhouseCoopers liter of product) for the year ended 31 Selected Information; December 2011 and comprising the relevant • Limited substantive testing on a selective on-site operations in Turkey (together “the basis of the Selected Information, and Selected Information”) which has been • Assessing the disclosure and presentation of prepared based on the Reporting Guidance the Selected Information. document set out in the CSR Report. Ediz Günsel, SMMM CCI’s responsibilities Partner How the information is assessed The directors of CCI are responsible for: (“Reporting Guidance”) • Designing, implementing and maintaining Istanbul, 24 September 2012 CCI’s Reporting Guidance document (within the internal controls over information relevant CSR Report) sets out how the Selected to the preparation of Selected Information Information is measured, recorded and reported. that is free from material misstatement, i We comply with International Standard on Assurance whether due to fraud or error; Engagements 3000 – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Professional standards applied i and • Establishing objective assessment and Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ Level of assuranceii Reporting Guidance for preparing the issued by the IAASB, and the applicable independence and Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Selected Information; competency requirements as articulated by the International • Measuring CCI’s performance based on the Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ Professional Accountants. To comply with those standards, (“ISAE 3000”) and IFAC Code of Ethics. Reporting Guidance document; and our work was carried out by an independent and multi• The content of the CSR Report. disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists. Limited assurance. ii Assurance, defined by the International Auditing and Our responsibilities Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), gives the user We are responsible for: confidence about the subject matter assessed against the Understanding reporting and reporting guidance. Reasonable assurance gives more measurement methodologiesiii • Planning and performing the engagement to confidence than limited assurance, as a limited assurance There is not yet an established practice for obtain limited assurance about whether the engagement is substantially less in scope in relation to both evaluating and measuring the Selected Selected Information is free from material the assessment of risks of material misstatement and the Information. Non-financial performance misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. information is subject to more inherent • Forming an independent conclusion, based iii In particular, the conversion of different energy measures on the procedures we have performed and to megawatt-hour (mwh) and energy used to carbon limitations than financial information, given the emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors characteristics of the subject matter and the the evidence we have obtained; and generated internally and/or derived by independent third methods used for determining such information. • Reporting our conclusions to the directors of parties as explained in the Reporting Guidance. Our The absence of a significant body of established CCI. assurance work has not included examination of the practice on which to draw allows for the derivation of those factors and other third party information. selection of different but acceptable Our conclusions measurement techniques which can result in As a result of our procedures nothing has come materially different measurements and can to our attention that indicates the Selected impact comparability. The precision of different Information for the year ended measurement techniques may also vary. 31 December 2011 is not prepared in all material respects in accordance with the Reporting Guidance. 92 LEGAL DISCLAIMER The Sustainability Report (the Report) has been prepared by Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. (CCI) within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Contact Coca-Cola İçecek Atilla D. Yerlikaya Corporate Affairs Director Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. Merkez Ofis Istanbul Esenkent Mah. Deniz Feneri Sok. No: 4, 34776, Ümraniye Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4000 Fax: +90 216 466 7686 www.cci.com.tr Reporting Consultant This report is printed on recycled paper. www.dmturkey.com Merkez Ofis İstanbul Esenkent Mah. Deniz Feneri Sok. No:4, 34776, Dudullu / Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 365 84 67-68 www.cci.com.tr
