Environment Disclosure on Management Approach Society Disclosure Grow & Grow 2012 The Korea Teachers Pension Sustainability Report on Management Approach Economy Disclosure on Management Approach The Korea Teachers Pension History Contents 2010 COP 2011 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report Part 1. KTP’s Sustainable Management CEO Message 06 Intro KTP 08 Transforming Organization, KTP 09 Sustainable Management Structure 09 Responsible Governance 10 KTP TOP+2021 11 Part 2. Five Major Issues Communication with stakeholders 14 Materiality Test 15 Issue 1. Strengthening Customer Management 16 Issue 2. Specializing Fund Management Capacity 17 Issue 3. Recommending Use of Eco-Friendly Products 18 Issue 4. Prevention of Lax Management 19 Issue 5. Enhancing Employees’ Expertise 20 Part 3. Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Social DMA 22 Talent Management 23 Ethical & Transparent Management 27 Customer Management 29 Management of Co-Prosperity 31 Economic DMA 34 Financial Structure 35 Risk Management 36 Transparent Investment 37 Environmental DMA 38 Energy Management 39 Environment Management 41 Part 4. Appendix Third-Party Assurance Report 44 GRI G3.1 Index 46 2011 .12 Award·Agreement Records 48 Membership 49 Statement GRI Application Level Check 50 2012 Sustainability Report Outline of Report Reporting Period January 2011 ~ June 2012 Writing Principle GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Version Reporting Criteria Using fiscal year units, suggesting at least three years time series, Korean won (\) as standard currency First half of 2011 is rewritten because of overlapping reporting period. and 2012 performance is written based on the first half settlement Reporting Coverage Economic·Social·Environmental Performance of the head office and all branch offices of Korea Teachers Pension In environmental indicators reporting, the branch that owns the reported building is the standard, and figures of the Seoul office include the figures of the head office located in the Seoul office building. Publishing Cycle Sustainability reports will be published every year 2011 Sustainability Report was published in October 2011 COP (Communication On Progress) was published in September Enhancement of Reporting Subject of survey on stakeholders for materiality Test was expanded Report Verification Internal verification, third-party expert verification Additional Information 27 Yeouinaru-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul (Head Office), Korea Teachers Pension, Performance Management Department Person in Charge. Yeongjo Lee, Head of Department / Jeongeun Lee, Deputy Homepage. www.ktpf.or.kr E-mail. sustain@ktpf.or.kr Tel. 02-769-4136 Fax. 02-784-8799 KTP’s Sustainable Management CEO Message 06 Intro KTP 08 Transforming Organization, KTP 09 Sustainable Management Structure 09 Responsible Governance 10 KTP TOP+2012 11 06 Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management 07 CEO Message Enhancing Professionalism·Efficiency of Pension Operation Recently, a forecast that Korea is going through the most rapid aging of population in the world was released. The forecast suggests that only a few years are left for Korea to become an aged society from an aging society now, with a vicious cycle of low fertility rate and aging population problems. Under these social circumstances, preparation for life after retirement is emerging as one of the most important issues and KTP is doing our best for stable operation of pension fund and enhancement of financial status. As part of these efforts, the Private School Pension Act was comprehensively revised in 2010 and the problem of a pension structure of low burden and high return was alleviated. In addition, we newly established Pension Research Department to conduct in-depth research of factors that deteriorate pension finance and come up with measures for stabilization of finance. We also employed a expert to improve actuarial preciseness and raised professionalism and efficiency of pension management through improvement of financial estimation system and promotion of establishment of pension replenishment system. Establishing Investment System that Sensitively Responds to Changes In 2011, the global market was hit hard by the spread of the European fiscal crisis and weak economies in the U.S. and Europe have caused sudden decline of stock markets. In particular, currently, with advent of low interest rate •low growth age, “stable investment” is working as an important key word and investment in bond has expanded. As such, KTP established response measures in a way of holding high-rate credit-related bonds and was able to achieve outstanding result by the interest return. However, investment in stocks did not produce good result, even below the market return, showing that KTP has many works to do and a long way to go. KTP decided to focus on mid-and-long-term strategic asset distribution in a way of ALM, to sensitively respond to changes in the market environment and achieve sustainably stable investment return. We have made efforts to establish a more solid and upgraded system through consulting with experts and will complete and introduce the next-generation asset management system in the second half of 2012. With this new system, ALM-type strategic asset distribution will be conducted more precisely and it will lead to advancement of our asset management process. KTP makes sustain stable finance state, annually net profit of \100bn over and liability ratio of 0.5% below until 2016, by this system. I believe that sustainable management is most Putting More Active Sustainable Management into Practice important in economic·social·environmental KTP is actively moving to achieve not only profitability but also better public feature. In economic terms, we are fields. We will of course effectively fulfill expanding our investment with interest in green investment, such as socially responsible investment, venture investment into new growth engines, and resource investment in new and renewable energy. We have also joined our duties including fund expansion and the UN PRI and been participating in signature gathering for CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), to fulfill our role as a globally responsible investor. stabilization of pension finance and will do We have been establishing infrastructure for shared growth with our stakeholders and expanding transactions with our best to become the model for corporate small-and-medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). In addition, we are strengthening sharing with local communities with specified system of social contribution and trying to provide practical help to the public, by supporting students and citizens with enhancement of our green farmers in Naju, a transfer region. Plus, KTP has been making efforts to realize a fair society by guaranteeing equal opportunity based on transparent management activities and to fulfill our social responsibility under the slogan of investment·shared growth·sharing activitie. More Cleanly, More Equally, and More Fairly . In the months and years to come, KTP will establish a long-term and strategic response system for the growth of our organization, according to its prudent and long-term comprehensive development plan. We will also do our best to become a good example of global corporate citizen. Byun, Chang-yull Chairman of The Korea Teachers Pension 08 Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management 09 Intro KTP Transforming Organization, KTP KTP (The Korea Teachers KTP restructured its organization in January 2012 to establish a competitive organizational system, for Pension/ Quasi-Governmental fulfillment of our management goals. The Business Development Department, newly established to open a Agency) was established in brighter future for KTP’s business, will diversify our business through identification of new growth engines, 1974 and is a pension institution based on the comprehensive mid-and-long-term development plan. In addition, the Pension System that provides stable life after Part which had belonged to the Pension Planning Department was promoted into the Pension Research retirement and a variety of Department, to come up with ways for stabilization of pension finance based on in-depth research. Plus, Gyeongin·Gangwon and Daegu Regional Offices were newly established to help local customers to access 12,745bn welfare services to personnel of asset \ private schools. our services conveniently. The organizational restructuring will be a driving force for KTP to grow into a topnotch pension service institution, which is our goal, and we will continue our efforts to become a corporation While making efforts to make that creates more matured values for our customers and society. the pension system sustainable employees 185peoples by expanding pension finance experts manpower for stabilization of the pension Chairman Seoul, Gyeongin·Gangwon, Jungbu, 6Offices finance, we are enhancing asset management principles for expansion of our \13 trillion Management & Control Division Planning & Coordination Council Business General Administration Dpt. Risk HR Dpt. HQ Relocation TF Performance Management Dpt. Daegu, Development Dpt. Management Dpt. of asset and strengthening our Busan, Honam responsibility as an institutional Customer Pension Pension ITO Pension Division investor that takes part in Support Dpt. Planning Dpt. Service Dpt. Dpt. global investment activities. Pension Seoul Gyeongin· Jungbu Daegu Busan Honam office Research Dpt. Gangwon Asset Management Investment Strategy Bond Management Stock Management Consignment Division Team Team Team Management Team Alternative Investment Pension Management Business Team Auditors Audit Council Pension management business is for stable life after retirement for personnel and it consists of pension holders, collection of installments, and a variety of examination such as employment, retirement, adding and retroactivity. It also deals with decision and payment of pension benefits and other pension-related tasks. The cost of paying benefits are shared by teachers and school institutions at a certain share set by the government for fund-raising and operation of KTP. Sustainable Management Structure Unit: billion won KTP established TOP+2021 to reset our management goals and strategic direction and to establish a sustainable management environment. We will make efforts for efficient pension management and expansion 6,115 42,598 275,417 2,140.3 of pension fund, under the mission of sustainable pension system and stabilization of pension finance. The 10 major strategic tasks are connected to the three major strategic directions for fulfillment of the mission and School Beneficiaries Personnel Collected Amount Institutions of Installments we will make a sustainable KTP through active performance of the tasks. We contribute to expansion of welfare foundation for private School Mission Personnel and development of Korea’s education, based on a sustainable Asset Management Business pension system and stabilization of pension finance. Bonds and stocks take up more than 60% of KTP’s asset management portfolio and 12% which include real 3 Major Strategic Enhancement of Stable Expansion of Internalization of Active estate∙SOC∙Commodity ∙ PEF are managed as replacement assets for long-term profits. In addition, more than Directions Efficiency of Pension Pension Fund Organizational Innovation Management System 20% of our portfolio is allocated to loan businesses for guarantee of stable life and welfare benefits for private school personnel. ·Establishment ·Advancement of asset · Enhancement of organizational Unit: billion won of infrastructure for management principles identity improvement of pension ·Establishment of ALM ·E  stablishment of strategy10 Major Strategic system -centered asset allocation centered organization/HR Tasks ·Establishment of ways for policy system system 9,497.9 2,942.9 177.7 126.5 reasonable communication ·Enhancement of effectiveness ·Advancement of organization Securities Loan Assets Liquid Assets Noncurrent · Improvement of basis for of asset management management system customer value creation · Identification of new growth Assets engines 10 Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management 11 Responsible Governance KTP TOP+2021 KTP’s Board of Directors consists of the chairman, two executive directors, and six non-executive directors In 2011, KTP put many thoughts in our 10 years into the future for sustainable growth. As a result, TOP+2021, and it is leading the organization based on responsible decision-making. The board is made of those who a comprehensive mid-and-long-term development plan which includes KTP’s long-term direction until 2021, have no stake in KTP, to prevent internal conflict and it is complying with internal remuneration rules. For was established. KTP will renew its organizational strategies from a long-term perspective for operation of check and balance on the management, non-executive directors are designated by the minister of the the pension system and will implement continuous strategic management based on pre-emptive crises Ministry of Education, Science, and Technology and the director of a supervisory institution in charge of KTP is management system. designated as a member of non-executive directors, to establish check and support system, for strengthened independency and expertise. Board of directors are selected based on strict requirements under Article 11, Clause 2 of the Act on Operation of Public Institution and are from various human resources pools, including We contribute to the expansion of welfare basis for private school private school experts, management exerts, legal profession, and public officials. They participate in a variety Mission personnel and Development of Korea’s education, based on a of committees and meetings to raise the expertise and transparency. In addition, our e-Board system is sustainable pension system and stabilization of pension finance. continuously improved to swiftly reflect the board’s decisions in management and to make the directors more actively express their opinions. A top-notch pension service institution that maximizes customers’ Vision happiness Chairman Chang-yull Byun KTP Chairman Recommended by executive Recommendation Head of KTP Management committee → Appointed by minister of Sung Ki Baek & Control Division Chairman Education, Science and Technology Executive Customer-oriented Change-driven Directors Head of KTP Pension Il-sook Ro Division Chairman of Samsan Executive recommendation committee → Core Values Nam-hun Yoon School Foundation Screened and designated by public institution Auditors operation committee → Appointed by minister Communication-activated Transparently-managed Chung-seo Gu Lawyer at Songbaek of strategy and finance minister Professor at Hanyang Jong-yeon Choi University Professor at Kookmin Open recruitment or multiple recommendation Non-Executive Eun-hong Kim Directors University Executive → Appointed by the chairman 3 Directors Enhancement of Internalization of Principal of Sangmyung Stable Expansion of Yong-suk Bae High School Major Strategic efficiency of pension pension fund active organizational management system innovation Director of School Support Directions Division, Ministry of Open recruitment or multiple recommendation Young-yoon Kim Eucation, Science and Non→ Agreed by the chairman → Appointed by Technology Dpt Executive minister of education, Science and Technology Directors ※Detailed career of the board members can be checked at Status of Executives in the CEO category at www.ktpf.or.kr [As of Sep 2012. Zoom In Vision KTP made a more detailed vision with establishment of a new comprehensive mid-and-longterm development plan and set a future-oriented direction for all members of our organization. Enhancement of Board’s Role Based on the new development plan, we will upgrade existing pension service and provide customized service to our customers. To this end, we will analyze life cycle of our customers A poll was taken to check result of board operation in 2011 and areas that necessitate improvements. The and develop high-quality total service that fits customer needs, to maximize the scope of satisfaction level for the composition of the board has risen for three years in a row and respondents said customers’ happiness. that monthly regular meeting and regular consultations are needed. Based on the result of the poll, methods to strengthen the role of the board were mapped out and the number of board meetings has increased In addition, to grow into the most trusted and exemplary Global Standard Pension , KTP will with timely introduction of agenda, such as rule revision agenda. KTP has also identified a variety of agenda comply with global standards of business management, to make KTP into a real top-notch including update of rules in line with the rules and laws arrangement standards of Ministry of Government institution. In particular, we will prioritize enhancement of service quality based on analysis of Legislation. KTP has a communication process where employees regularly submit official documents to ways to provide differentiated customer satisfaction and maintain the service quality that only suggest new agenda and directors directly visit divisions and departments to discuss recent agenda. In the KTP can offer to customers. future, the whole area of sustainable management will be overseen by the board through regular reporting of Based on this detailed vision, KTP will unite all our resources by suggesting a clear direction for agenda related to ethical and environmental management and examination system by polls. the next 10 years for KTP and will make efforts to grow into a corporation that creates bigger values for our customers and society. Satisfaction Level for Operation of Board Unit: % Members of Board Internal Staff 91.8 74.7 91.3 51 Introduced Agenda 10 Number of Meetings 71.8 90.2 70.7 37 Resolved Items 442 Number of Statements 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 12 Part 1 ___ KTP’s Sustainable Management KTP TOP+2021 Change Interview Management regularly Education Workshop 8th Discussion 4 times 6 times Practice of Sustainable Management by communicating with customers During the hot 2011 summer, all members of KTP started to ponder upon our future 10 years. A group Under the vision of top-notch pension service institution that maximizes of interviewers composed of experts interviewed every staff member in different posts to enhance understanding of our organizational culture and duties. customers’ happiness , KTP will practice customer-oriented, change-driven, communication-activated, and transparently-managed and will realize creative KTP also established Future Development Planning Corps internally and divided the group into Challenge Group and Idea Bank Group. The members of the groups hold a variety of discussions, presentations, and sustainable management based on continuous research and efforts for a briefings to help our staff members share their ideas and to come up with sustainable measures for future sustainable world, by enhanced communication with our stakeholders. growth of KTP. In particular, to listen to the voice of young new recruits, KTP held Young Group Vision workshop for employees who have been working for less than five years. We discussed young and special business direction that reflects young generation’s life style and KTP’s future vision. The workshop was very helpful for more creative strategy development. In addition, a company-wide consensus on a new value system was created through eight change management education sessions and a strategy consensus workshop for one night and two days. Those sessions made a great opportunity for KTP to renew our commitment for sustainable growth for the next ten years. Five Major Issues Communication with stakeholders 14 Materiality Test 15 Strengthening Customer Management 16 Specializing Fund Management Capacity 17 Recommending Use of Eco-Friendly Products 18 Prevention of Lax Management 19 Enhancing Employees’ Expertise 20 14 Part 2 ___Five Major Issues Part 2 ___Five Major Issues 15 Communication with Stakeholders Materiality Test KTP is making efforts to establish an efficient communication system based on clear definition of internal With rising interest in sustainability report, KTP conducted a materiality test on 10,253 people in 2012. It was and external stakeholders. We diversified our collection channels to provide communication customized to comprehensively categorized into internal·external stakeholders and conducted on KTP’s employees who customer needs, based on determination of types of different stakeholders. are internal stakeholders, and on school personnel·beneficiaries·partner companies·government·local communities who are external stakeholders. This year, the scope of survey on local communities and In particular, to enhance the customer experience management system, we strengthened communication partner companies was expanded to include even companies related to purchase and contract, among all with the frontline of customer relations based on programs such as training for school staff members who are partner companies which are located in four regional offices of KTP. In addition, this report includes in-depth in charge of pension tasks, provision of pension master courses, mobile consultation service including Amor coverage of the top five issues selected through the materiality test, to help internal and external stakeholders Service, and happy call service. understand them more easily. This report will be distributed to stakeholders participating in materiality test, In addition, to improve customer convenience, we reestablished our web-site from the perspective of users fund management company and local communities working together practically. and expanded communication channels based on IT, with development and opening of our club on Daum·QR code·mobile application. Issue Pool Issue Checking Issue Review Issue Confirm As such, KTP is doing our best to establish a interactive communication culture by listening to our stakeholders’ opinions and understanding their needs, based on the expansion of communication channels. ·Check on management · polling for materiality test ·Analysis and identification · Affirmation of major principles and strategies of major issues reporting items · Identification of major · Media research internal and external ·Examination of issues of issues internal management Definition of KTP’s Stakeholder · Benchmarking of other institutions Stakeholder Definition Collection Channel Communication Cycle Agent creating core values and sharing and spreading them to Needs survey Frequently Employees stakeholders Polling Frequently School Agent with high expectations and needs for whole area of KTP’s Frequently VOC system Institutions· management, including pension finance, sustainable management, and (Automatic System) ·coming up with a variety of social personnel welfare Monitoring poll weekly, Half yearly contribution activities ·establishing communication system External Interest National Frequently Monitoring task for different stakeholders Assembly· Agent influencing establishment and realization of sustainable pension (Sharing System) Government policies and strategic management of KTP ·strengthening investment and Agencies Network Irregularly support in local communities Polling Irregularly ·expanding investment in Partner for creation of profits through pension fund management and green growth fields ·expanding development of Relevant Agencies strategic management, based on participation and cooperation Consultative bodies Irregularly customer-oriented welfare service ·expanding scope of foreign Web-site Frequently investment and investment market · establish ing and advancing Agent of Social interest and attention for stability of pension fund and comprehensive customer General Public ethical and transparent management Survey for nation Yearly ·nurturing and investing in climate management system change response industries ·diversifying investment [society] ·establishing low carbongreen methods through strategic strengthening customer growth energy efficiency asset distribution management ·nurturing and securing ·advancing risk management [economy] KTP’s Communication Channel environment experts system pecializing fund management · responding to climate change capacity ·strengthening participation [environment] IT PR Face-to-Face Consultative · finishing sustainable in environmental protection recommending use of Service Media Communication Bodies management organization activities eco-friendly products · establishing basis for · making efforts to minimize [ustainable management] · Customer Satisfaction · KTP Magazine · Amor Service · Pension Authorities sustainable growth through generation of electronic waste enhancing ethical & Guard Internet Cafe Consultative Body implementation of new business transparent management · News Letter ·Training for School [talent management] · QR Code personnel ·Public Pension · advancing implementation system ·creating family-friendly strengthening expertise of · PR Leaflet Authorities for social contribution corporate culture existing human resources · SNS System ·One-Day Counseling Consultative Body ·making pension research · KTP Image Ad Experience · finishing sustainable management · Mobile Application organization areas clear and meaningful · Special Report · Fund Management · Task Presentation committee · establishing basis for sustainable growth · VOCSystem ·establishing active · News · Workshop, through implementation of new business ·W  orkshop for Heads of organizational culture · Web-site Consultation ·advancing implementation system for social Public Institutions contribution · strengthening personal career · Youth Board, development system · Management Strategy ·enhancing labor-management Labor-Management Meeting relation of shared prosperity Consultation ·Future Development ·establishing performance-based personal Planning Corps rewarding system · establishing strategy-oriented organizational and personnel system Internal Interest 16 Part 2 ___Five Major Issues Part 2 ___Five Major Issues 17 Hot Issue Society Hot Issue Economy Strengthening Customer Management Specializing Fund Management Capacity Size of Fund Management Personnel Unit: Persons ■General Position ■Specialized Position Establishment Real-time \127,45 bn 11 of Monitoring 2011 total asset Comprehensive Assessment 6 6 VOC of Satisfaction 5 2 Accumulation System \11,988.5 bn and Management Level of Customer 2 2010 total asset Information 1 Head of Dpt Grade 1~3 Grade 4 Grade 5 KTP established an information system that can comprehensively manage VOC (Voice of Customer), in 2011. KTP introduced a credit completion system to nurture fund management experts and is training employees In the past, we did not have a system that can collect VOC from web-site and contact centers simultaneously with mandatory courses and partially mandatory and general selective courses. In addition, we commissioned and integrate the information for operation. In particular, since VOC was managed by manual work, VOC was total 27 education session including bond management expert, financial risk management expert, and M&A not managed systematically and customers could not monitor how their opinions were being dealt with. expert courses to outside institutions. Plus, we held total 107 hours of seminar in 2011, including invitation of outside experts for monitoring of changing stock market and economic circumstances. With the establishment of the comprehensive VOC system, now we can monitor customer demands in real time and we have also established a feedback system which assesses satisfaction level of treatment of In particular, we implemented short-term overseas financial training for our staff in the first half of 2012. It customer opinions. After the establishment of the system, the number of VOC collection dramatically rose is an opportunity for our employees to directly gain expertise of world-class financial institutions. Selected by 192,987 in 2011 from 2010 and by providing VOC service related to accumulated individual customers’ trainees are sent to global asset management institutions in Hong Kong and China, the Asian financial hub, demands, we will offer tailor-made services. We will go beyond fragmented VOC improvement activities to for three years to share understanding of local markets and investment strategies, for broadened perspective continuously upgrade VOC management in connection with our mid-and-long-term roadmap. We will also on the global market and achievement of advanced investment methods. Applicants are collected among make customer needs to be directly reflected in management improvement activities, based on systematic employees below the level 3, who have worked for at least three years, and two qualified employees are and scientific analysis. selected. We will regularly select the trainees and implement the exchange activities continuously. KTP will continuously do our best to enhance our employees’ expertise through a variety of education and training programs and will nurture global investment experts who can create high return not only in the domestic market but also in the global market. Operation of Comprehensive Credit Completion of Fund VOC System Management Staff Interview Interview Unit: cases Unit: hours 2011 2010 Provision of customer-customized services Partially mandatory The fast trends through seminars general selective Ji-yeon Lee, Customer Support Department mandatory for different posts Seong-hun Ryu, Alternative Investment Team 209,054 When I took this job two years ago, major VOC was about unfriendliness or not For alternative investment, it is very important to swiftly understand 10 10 answering the phone . Some said that we could not solve those problems because current trends and make decisions on how they will be reflected on the 16,980 they were too deeply rooted. However, that kind of VOC is not received now, 8 8 8 market. That is why we are frequently holding a seminar with outside fund through our continuous improvement activities. I feel 6 6 6 6 6 management institutions. The biggest strength of the seminar is that we can very rewarded when I look at satisfied customers after 5 select an institution depending on topics in advance or the topics can differ 1,141 we find problems and resolve them. In the past, we rather 5 5 5 5 5 according to the market situation with great flexibility. 512 103 843 focused on collection of VOC but we are now strengthening 3 I want to witness potential opportunities for global alternative investment 0 0 our feedback, including provision of customer-customized through overseas financial training programs some day in the future. Inquiry Complain Praise Suggestion services using a comprehensive VOC system. Grade 1 Grade 2 Grade 3 Grade 4 Grade 5 Grade 6 ※Because categories of complaint and praise did not exist in 2010, those were included in inquiry or suggestion. 18 Part 2 ___Five Major Issues Part 2 ___Five Major Issues 19 Hot Issue Environment Hot Issue Sustainable Management Recommending Use of Eco-Friendly Products Prevention of Lax Management Purchasing 9 detailed eco-friendly Prevention implementation products of lax management tasks inspecting Using green identifying check list 7 major risk cards factors Take out green! KTP obligates purchase of eco-friendly products for low carbon green growth. Plus, for office supply and KTP actively participated in fight against lax management in 2011, to establish more transparent and fair materials needed at different departments, we prioritize purchase of eco-friendly products. In detail, we corporate culture. For prevention of lax management, we identified seven risk factors and selected nine are expanding and operating purchase of eco-friendly products company-wide, including purchase of detailed implementation tasks. According to the result, we drew out 140 check lists and are continuously furniture·electronics and stationary·sanitary supplies. Because we check green-certified product items and examining management status of frontline departments once per quarter and four times a year. In addition, companies before purchase, at a green product information web-site (www.greenproduct.go.kr), we could through regular and periodical audits and audit for lax management, we are examining risks factors of lax spend \176.221mn on eco-friendly products, which take up 96.4% of all registered green products in 2011. management for different departments and conducting audits all the time through our e-audit system. According to 2011 inspection on lax management, risk factors were found out in four business units so we In particular, since 2010, we have been replacing fluorescent bulbs with LED lamps to make our offices ecocompleted all the improvement tasks. The purpose of the lax management examination system is not just friendly. We are directly benefitting from the highly efficient lighting by saving energy and reducing stress inspection but also self-inspection and self-compliance, with preventive audit activities. In addition, we have a to the eyes of our employees. In addition, we are participating in use of green cards in 2011, for promotion compliance basis for frontline departments and select best examples of self-inspection every year and reflect of purchase of green products. Green Card is a system newly introduced by the Environment Ministry to them to our internal evaluation system. support green lifestyle and consumption and to respond to climate change. The system utilizes credit card point system and offers points when a user practices green lifestyle such as saving energy or purchasing Allocation and execution of budget, contract, organization·personnel, fund management, green products. In the first half of 2012, employees applied for green cards and they are now using the cards. 7 Risk Factors energy use efficiency, transparency and ethics We will continue to recommend the use of green cards in the future with consistent PR. KTP takes the environment into account in every process of operation from purchase to consumption and we will actively ① enhancing appropriateness of allocation of ⑥ strengthening energy saving activities expenses practice environmental management activities for healthy green growth. ② enhancing soundness of execution of expenses ⑦ enhancing discipline and transparency 9 Detailed ③ enhancing transparency and appropriatenes of ⑧ enhancing timing and preciseness of Implementation purchase and contract tasks management information notice Tasks ④ enhancing appropriateness of personnel ⑨e  nhancing activities to raise customer management satisfaction ⑤ enhancing soundness of fund management and appropriateness of risk management Record of Purchase of Eco-Friendly Products Unit: million won Satisfaction Survey of Anti-Corruption Transparency Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission Education Policy Evaluation Interview Unit: points Unit: hours/peoples Lead employees to participate in low carbon green growth 2010 ■ 2011 Hours of education Employees Jeesun Ok, General Administration Dpt 310.328 8.94 8.93 Eco-friendly management is very important but employees’ awareness is 8.87 3,742 Rise by excellent 8.83 8.85 283.607 still low. When we notify about it, most of them do not know what it is… 2 levels we will make mugs printed with individual employees’ photos and distribute 8.65 2,094 lacking 176.221 them during September and October By making employees use mugs instead of paper cups, we will be able to lead employees to participate in low carbon green growth. I think it is a great idea for the environment as well as great present for employees. 190 187 2009 2010 2011 comprehensive External Internal 2010 2011 2010 2011 transparency level transparency level transparency level 20 Part 2 ___Five Major Issues Hot Issue Talent Management Enhancing Employees’ Expertise accordance of organizational and individual vision securing securing talents core capacity for response for career to changes in development management KTP IDP KTP IDP personal environment Organizational Goal Five-Goal Goal allocating fulfilling human individual desire resources to for growth appropriate posts KTP’s Performance for Sustainable Management KTP is practicing targets for different sectors including society, Since 2010, KTP employees have led self-development and the HR department has suggested career economy and environment for fulfillment of sustainable management. guide, based on IDP (Individual Development Plan). The program is divided into four Paths, strategy & planning·pension business·financial accounting·fund management and subject of this program is We will continue our efforts for further development and growth, confined to employees who have been working for less than 10 years except for the employees who already by enhancing sustainable management performance of different departments, developed their career path. Currently, 26 junior post employees below level 5 and 12 senior post employees based on passion and challenging spirit. in level 4 are participating in the program and with design of career paths customized for individual needs, the number of participants is rising. Stabilization of KTP IDP was selected as one of the core talent nurturing agenda in 2011 and we expanded and improved support for our employees to get job-related certificates and foreign language skills for consultation. When a employee gets a certificate, we support application fee and support all the education fee within \1mn a year. In addition, we are supporting \100,000 every month for enhancement of language skills and we mandate submission of report card when an employee is supported more than \400,000 a year, to check the result of language skills improvement. IDP is being operated in connection with annual educational programs so, it is able to advance employees’ expertise based on education and most of all, employees themselves can select and manage their future career. Therefore, we will continuously strengthen the IDP system. IDP-related certificate obtainment Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Interview Unit: peoples 2010 Upgrade the IDP system Social DMA Talent Management 23 ■ 2011 13 Dong-hyeon Shim, HR Department Ethical & Transparent Management 27 We will gradually connect IDP to our talent draft system. The purpose Customer Management 29 of this system is to help employees pursue career in their fields and Management of Co-Prosperity 31 to provide an opportunity to work at departments they want, for fulfillment of their desire to grow. Economic DMA Financial Structure 35 In 2012, we will upgrade the IDP system to support obtainment of Risk Management 36 3 licenses and to expand related education programs and paid leaves 2 2 2 Transparent Investment 37 1 for preparation for exams for licenses. Environmental DMA Energy Management 39 Finance Accounting Etc Environment Management 41 Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 23 1 Talent Management 38 17 20’s 50’s Disclosure on Management regular workers 187 30’s 33 Approach non-regular workers 15 40’s 95 ratio of women 24.6 Social Talent Management male141 ratio of the disabled 3.2 Ethical & Transparent Management Customer Management 46 DMA female Management of Co-Prosperity 2012 Goal 2011 Key Performances Composition of Various Talents through Open Recruitment KTP hires diverse talents through open recruitment. In 2011, a recruitment for high school graduates was newly opened under the goal of realization of a fair society. We recruited two high school graduates through this recruitment program and we hired seven new employees including women, subject of national reward, and local talents. In 2011, the ratio of local resident employment was 29% and they are given extra points in recruitment and when we need more manpower, we intermittently hire employees. Among 187 employees of KTP, 46persons (24.6%) are women and 6persons (3.2%) are disabled people. We are also complying with ILO rules for elimination of child and forced labor. Because we are based on this employment policy, we Introducing Certified as familyhave witnessed no single case of discrimination of religion, political orientation, and social background at our no-smoking fund friendly institution workplaces and we have high level of employee satisfaction, recording no employee quitting the job. KTP welfare KTP WLB Unit: peoples 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 New Retired employee 1 10 7 employee 17 11 1 * Retired employee mean early retirement and regular retirement. Not turnover. Company Welfare for Employees KTP has a company welfare system in place to help employees to work comfortably in a st* Retired employee mean early retirement and regular retirement. Not turnover. able organizational environment. We also help our 91.7 points 88.8 points employees prevent diseases, with check on their health, providing annual health checkups. Employees of local Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction offices and those who are on vacation are offered the service and retirees are provided the service as well at their own expenses at the cost of KTP employees, with cooperation with checkup institutions. In addition, through a no-smoking fund which will be introduced in the second half of this year, we will support employees to gain their lungs healthier, by quitting smoking. KTP employees are subject of special pension among public pension to which Private School Personnel Pension Act is applied. The burden is paid by individuals, state, and the corporation at certain proportions and employees who worked for more than 20 years become subject of pension benefit and are guaranteed pension benefits after retirement. Other than that, a variety of company welfare system such as welfare sites and mutual aid societies that can be used with welfare points are in operation. Best Excellent anti-corruption policy anti-corruption policy Number of Staff at Offices Payment of Company evaluation evaluation Welfare Points Unit: million won Core Values ■Talent Management: S  upporting smooth implementation of 13 Seoul Office 7 Jungbu Office 6 Busan Office 250 149 core tasks based on sustained efficiency of 141 organizational & human resources 8 6 8 ■Customer Management: G  uaranteeing stable life and life after Gyeongin Daegu Honam retirement for private school personnel ·Gangwon Office Office Office 2009 2010 2011 ■Management of Co-Prosperity: R  ealizing sustainable management by fulfilling customized social responsibility 24 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 25 Certified as an Institution with Excellent Family-Friendly Environment Development Promoting KTP is making effort to make enjoyable workplace and happy families for our employees, with the GWP Customer Capacity and professional oriented person of companywide performanceoriented lecture system (Great Work Place) program which was introduced in 2010. Categories of the GWP include “Family-Friendly, of trust inside the performance capacity system organization Revitalization of Communication, and Fun Management” and in particular, we designated every Wednesday as “Happy Home Day” without any overtime work, to let employees go home earlier. In addition, employees Vision for Talent HRD Strategy 2011 Core Tasks can work only half a day on their birthdays to have precious time with their families. Plus, we are operating ‘Fun Change Organizational Supporting Management Program”, which selects outstanding employees and make them visit global companies to learn Performance Sharing and culture of leading Stabilizing performancedriven person person of spreading core positive KTP IDP enhancing creative management methods. In 2011, 18 employees selected for the program visited global companies in of expertise values mindset creativity and trust education Hong Kong, Macau, and Shenzhen. For the active operation of the GWP, KTP was certified as an institution with excellent family-friendly culture in 2011 by the Ministry of Women and Family Affairs, proving the excellence of KTP’s WLB (Work Life Balance). Promotion of Inside Professional Lecturer System GWP Satisfaction Level Survey Unit: % Family-Friendliness Index 112.3points(achieving fine grade) Unit: points To nurture core human resources customized for different duties, KTP selected promotion of inside 87.3 150 146 professional lecturer system as one of our core tasks in 2011. Because of characteristics of duties of a public institution, outside education is confined so, we let our employees learn know-how to fulfill the needs for 79.2 98.6 69.9 90 education on our own. We selected trainees through intra-company recruitment and made them complete certain education programs. Finally, we have ten intra-company lecturers in ten different fields. From September 30 to October 7 2011, professional lectures in the fields of pension system, evaluation & collection, 25 compensation, corporate accounting and we also published separate lecture handbooks and video-recorded the lectures to help employees of local offices take the courses.Through facilitation of the system, we have satisfaction level contribution to need for creation of familysupport for support for child support for flexible saved \21.163mn and it also contributed to enhancement of expertise for different duties through sharing for the system organizational culture additional system friendly culture workers rearing and caring families working skills. In 2012, we expanded fields of intra-company performance education and we will continuously enhance the quality of the education and lecture through a variety of measures including raising lecture fees. surveying satisfaction level of education hours education cost and Strengthening Maternity Protection Policy intra-company lecturers per employee Unit: Hours number per employee Unit: million won/cases KTP is strengthening policies to support childcare, to protect maternity and make a workplace without 254 1.709 concerns about childcare. In 2011, we expanded financial and non-financial support for childcare and we are 1.654 encouraging employees to have children. For the recent three years (2009~2011), six female employees 78.1% satisfaction level 210 5.7 took maternity leaves for from six months to 23 months. Since we eliminated any disadvantage regarding 173 maternity leave by making those employees return to department they worked before the leave, we could 3.3 achieve 100% of return rate after maternity leave. We will hire replacement workers through a replacement contribution system in 2012 to fill the posts of three employees who are expecting child birth. 82% to improvement of organizational 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 culture Childbirth money gift, medical expenses for childbirth, childcare expenses for pre-school children, ※The numbers for this year was recalculated because of change in education hour classification standards Support for maternity leave benefits of \500,000 ~ \1mn, support for obtainment of certificates Childcare guaranteeing one hour of breast-feeding a day, pregnancy checkup, parental leave, support for childcare-related educational costs Creating Sound Corporate Culture through Human Rights Protection KTP held three sexual harassment·prostitution prevention education sessions to create a sound corporate culture and protect individual human rights of employees. We are educating employees about laws and rules Zero-Accident Number of Victims of Accidents Unit: peoples against sexual harassment and prostitution, rules and laws on punishment, standards and procedures to deal The accident rate among KTP employees has been declining with those cases, and measures to prevent such incidents. We are providing the education through invitation for the past three years. We are avoiding overwork or forced of professional lecturers and cyber education programs and we are utilizing education materials developed by labor and leading the creation of enjoyable workplace, to the Ministry of Women and Family Affairs. make happy workplace lead to happy family. In addition, 4 In addition, KTP conducts a yearly difficulty consultation education, which is commissioned to Korea Institute KTP guarantees the right to work in a safe environment 2 for Gender Equality Promotion and Education. KTP’s difficulty consultants include the head of HR department and minimizes the harm from accidents, by compensating 1 in charge of the task and the president of female employees’ association, Cheongah-hoe. Employees can use for accident taking place during work, through disaster consultation service whenever they face a difficulty while performing duties. Difficulties and suggestions of compensation system. branch office employees are conveyed by the heads of regional offices at monthly meetings held by the head office. Plus, we are preparing for EAT program to be introduced in the second half of this year, to make our 2009 2010 2011 employees get consultation services for comprehensive topics, with outside consultation experts. We are monitoring human rights protection at all the six branches and evaluating the effect to best protect human rights of our employees and there have been no official complaint about violation of human rights. 26 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 27 Ethical & Transparent Management Performance and Remuneration For strengthened connection between performance and remuneration, KTP is applying 18 strategic tasks and 54 implementation tasks to the head office and branch KPIs. In addition, we are creating companyEthical Transparent Communicative Balanced wide performance for fulfillment of core tasks through cascading of evaluation indexes of the head office, department, and individual employees. In particular, we established an individual performance evaluation management management management management system for all employees, which is based on MBO and connected with organizational evaluation. We also conducted individual evaluation according to individual task targets for 43 executives with level 1 and level 2 posts. Plus, employees specializing in fund management are given 50% of their yearly wage as performance·establishing implementation ·expressing commitment for ·expressing commitment · efficient internal inspection based bonus, for creation of a merit-creating culture. Precise performance assessment is directly connected basis management for management · s trengthening internal · strengthening ethical norms ·cases of leading by examples · cases of leading by examples controlling function to remuneration and the wages are raised differentially in accumulative five levels, according to payband ·systematic management · raising job transparency · raising job transparency · raising job independence for different posts and performance. Employees with level 1 and level 2 posts are given 20% of their yearly announcement · examination and monitoring · examination and monitoring · r aising objectiveness by · swift information release utilizing outside experts wage as merit-based bonus and 10% as post-based bonus. We reduced seniority-based wage system with reduction of basic yearly wage and benefits and strengthened merit-based wage system. Performance Evaluation Basic Wage for Female and Male Employees Unit: KRW in thousand/% Establishing Request Registration System ■ male wage for new recruits KTP established a system where requests can be registered, by creating a request registration banner female ratio against legal minimum wage Head Depart Individual average on our e-audit system. When our employees receive requests regarding concessions or personnel affairs office ment Evaluation evaluation evaluation 56,058 from outside or inside, they register those requests on the system to notify the unfair requests and reject 53,515 54,241 52,117 them. The registered requests are immediately sent to mobile phone SMS of the audit and the head of the 50,908 audit office to minimize the time when corruption could take place. In addition, according to the guidelines 32,331 Individual Performance Evaluation 51,277 39,639 29,354 on operation of whistle-blowing system and protection of the whistle blowers, those who register unfair 38,849 27,188 36,977 199 requests on the system are kept anonymous and given prizes as well. KTP can prevent corruption with the 192 196 establishment of request registration system and now we have an instrument to protect our employees from Employees Employees Fund with without assignment assignment managers unfair requests and harms from implementation of those requests. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Transparency Evaluation for Executives With rising possibility of corruption of high-ranking officials, KTP conducted a transparency evaluation on executives, to examine our transparency level and to lead by examples. Since existing institutional Labor-Management Relation of Co-Prosperity with Shared Consideration transparency evaluations are conducted mostly on ordinary employees, we needed a separate evaluation KTP’s labor union is composed of employees with technical posts and special service posts below the level system for high-ranking officials. So, we created the new evaluation system specifically for executives and three and 100% of 93 male members and 44 female members participate in the union and they are guaranteed evaluated their job transparency, role as good examples, and compliance with laws and rules. In particular, we freedom of association and collective bargaining. One full-time union head who belongs to public transportation applied to the executive evaluation model of the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission to the internal association under the Korea Confederation of Trade Unions is working currently and when a major issue arises, evaluation model, to enhance the reliability and professionalism of the evaluation. In addition, we calculated the head notifies it to union members at least one month in advance to contract workers. KTP have singed the result with reflection of internal and external polls and measuring indicators including tax delinquency, effective collective agreements from December 2011 to December 2013 and is making efforts to establish violation of traffic rules, and disciplines. According to the evaluation, the transparency of KTP’s executives in a constructive labor-management relation of co-prosperity, based on agreement to safety and health agenda 2011 was 97.37, 0.03 points lower than the previous year. The result of the evaluation is utilized as the basic for employees, including employment stabilization, wage, working hours and holidays, gender equality, and data for personnel and performance evaluation and the result was submitted to the Anti-Corruption and Civil maternity protection. In addition, KTP held 13 “Can Meetings”, four youth board meetings, and two days and Rights Commission. one nights workshop in 2011, to ponder upon and resolve current issues through a variety of communication channels. We try to reflect suggestions for improvement of welfare for union members to management Request Registration System Transparency Evaluation on Executives Unit: points through discussions and we are always making efforts for health and safety of union memebrs. employee who checks request sending a warning letter registration 97.40 97.37 Survey on Satisfaction Level for against request Labor-Management Relation Unit: points Official in 94.00 awareness satisfaction request civil follow-up 4.32Points 3.72Points 95.4 employee registration charge of of the labor and level for petitioner code of action 93 management corporate on-line conduct culture 65.3 colleague, public head of strategic institution 2009 2010 2011 level of officials of other notification to laborinstitutions, etc. 3.55Points 3.14Points activation of institution communication management in question partnership 2009 2010 2011 28 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 29 Customer Management Transparency Supporters Activities Opening Web-Site for Integrated Welfare Service KTP has established and operated transparency supporters group since 2010, to take the lead in spread of KTP opened a specialized web-site in 2012, based on establishment of an integrated partnership welfare transparency culture, based on establishment of transparent organizational environment by employees. The service. In the past, a category of partnership welfare service was included in the KTP web-site, being only transparency supporters group hold regular meeting and always open to suggestions and consultations briefly introduced, but at the newly opened web-site, all partnership welfare services can be seen at one sight in regard to monitoring activities against corruption. At the meeting, the group discusses implementation and users can reserve services on-line, resolving hassle of asking questions over the phone. In particular, we and operation of anti-corruption and transparency promotion activities including transparency evaluation, upgraded the system by making the locations of partnership services by region and areas with addition of a transparency mileage system, transparency ombudsman system, and selection of transparent department map service. Plus, the participation plaza category was newly opened to make users share a variety of event and employees. and comments of the use of services. In 2011, the Transparency Supporters Group selected total two employees who scored the highest in the In addition, partnership application and mobile service (mfriend.ktpf.or.kr) was opened for smart phone users transparency mileage and who returned gift certificates he/she received as Transparent Employees of the to check partnership information and reservation status anywhere, anytime, for improved convenience. KTP is Year and gave them \300,000 respectively as reward. In addition, the HR department, which obtained the continuously identifying customer needs through pooling and reflecting the results to our service development highest transparency mileage, was selected as the Transparent Department of the Year and given \500,000 and we will expand the services according to users’ needs. as reward. KTP will carry out a variety of activities in the future to establish a transparency-promoting culture and awareness. Providing Transparency Incentive through Transparency Mileage Partnership Welfare Hub System KTP is operating transparency mileage system to promote employees’ interest and the foundation for reservation/ notification service Email them to participate in transparency activities, based on performance reward system for anti-corruption inquiry web-site of management SMS Partner partnership program for and transparency activities. The system bestows certain mileage for individual transparency activities user welfare partner companies and calculates the accumulated points into individual employees’ transparency scores. According to the notification Email services companies introduction, answers accumulated mileage scores, we regularly reward those who have high scores, to provide practical incentive SMS for employees to participate in transparency activities. The scores are deducted in the case of violation of code of conducts·violation of service duties·violation of transparency rules during audits·customer complaints on the web-site. The transparency mileage points of 2011 served as indicators for selection of the Transparent Employee and Transparent Department of the Year and according to the scores, employees are given advantage in personnel affairs and foreign training opportunities. Operation of 'Amor' Service Revision of Management Standards for Clean Cards KTP has been operation Amor service since March 2011, to raise awareness of the our policy, rules, and KTP revised management standards for clean cards in 2011, to strengthen the transparency of clean cards institutions and provide customer-oriented services based on enhancement of job support service to staff and to improve management standards of the clean card system, which was introduced in 2006. We members in charge of pension tasks at private schools and mutual exchanges through establishment of expanded the service areas where the use of the cards is limited to include adult entertainment·sanitation networks. In line with the meaning of Amor , a promise to love customers like family members or a lover, the ·leisure. In addition, we strengthened the criteria of documentary evidence to prove the relevance of the use service includes visit to schools more than once a month, regular greeting with staff members in charge of of green card with employees’ duties and limit the use of the cards in remote areas from designated districts pension duties, and sending birthday cards. We visited 645 institutions in 2011 and called customers 1,273 and during late at night from 24 to 06 o’clock. For inevitable use of the card, we make the users submit sales times, and send 1,461 cards. We will be friends of our customers based on the continuous bond with our checks and evidential documents to prove the legitimacy of the use of the cards. customers. Satisfaction Level of Public Satisfaction Level of Customer Satisfaction Leve Institution Customers Units: points Customers on the Phone Units: points at Service Frontiers Units: points 80.6 88.8 87.6 80.5 88.1 85.2 79.6 78.6 83.7 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 30 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 31 Management of Co-Prosperity Expansion of Frontline Service for Customers Efforts to Create Private Sector Jobs Strengthening customer experience Spreading understanding of pension management system system Mission Creating private sector jobs that fit characteristics of KTP’s duties training of workshop for mobile Shared growth with SMEs and creation of jobs 523peoples 420peoples 645services employees in teacher wage charge of consultation pension management service ·Expanding the number of outsourced personnel for non-core tasks system tasks Implementation ·Setting selection criteria for venture companies with excellent indirect investment capacity Tasks ·Supporting SMEs through KTP’s investment business for companies with training in pension 439peoples preparation for retirement 101peoples master course 1,097calls Happy call outstanding fund management performance ·Creating private sector jobs continuously through expansion of investment Life-long Education Program for Retirees KTP is making efforts to create private sector jobs through outsourcing and investment, to participate in job For teachers and employees who are expecting retirement, KTP is holding retirement preparation seminars to sharing and efficiency of personnel management. In 2011, we commissioned facility management, guarding, help our employees to prepare to life after retirement, by nurturing social adaptation capacity after retirement and sanitation management of four regional branch offices to outside companies and created 208 jobs. In and through education on life management such as health and leisure and selection of retirement benefits. The addition, we created 38 jobs by outsourcing consultants at our contact center and information tasks. We could seminar is held twice a year in the first half and second half for four days and three nights, with the curriculum not only raise the quality of performance but also save costs by hiring experts in different fields. that includes pension system, everyday life laws and rules, and asset management. In the first and second In addition, we pursued share growth with SMEs by nurturing promising SMEs through investment in half of 2011, 439 teachers participated in the seminar to get education for life after retirement. In addition, venture companies, green industry, and new growth engine industries. Plus, we contributed to the growth of branch offices are providing health education programs for health management of pension beneficiaries and companies by creating total 11,442 jobs in 2011, with our fund investment flowing into 98 companies through their spouses after retirement. In 2011, average 94 pension beneficiaries and their spouses participated in the new growth fund investment. programs to listen to lectures by professional healthcare providers and we tried to offer practical help with discount for general health checkup. For continuous health checkup service, we signed a business agreement Job creation through Job creation through expansion Support for social enterprises and with Wonkwang University Hospital and we will further sign agreements with other hospitals to expand welfare outsourcing of investment companies run by women services. Opening of Pension System Master Course 45workers regular 10,475workers regular 239case Number of purchase KTP newly opened a pension system master course, to strengthen support for pension officials at school institutions and to help smooth fulfillment of pension tasks through raised awareness of related laws, rules, and system. The education program is composed of lectures on core areas in different sectors and practices, 201workers Non-regular 967workers Non-regular \464mn Amount of purchase and the number of trainees for one course is limited to around 30, to maximize educational effect. In 2011, the programs were implemented first in Seoul, Gyeonggi Province, Gangwon Province, and Jeju at the request of customers and total 90 people completed the master course by participating in three programs that consist the course. From this year, every branch will hold the training program as well. Supporting Social Enterprises and Companies Run by Women KTP is expanding socially responsible investment as part of our support for social enterprises, for realization of Operation of Mobile Consultation Service a fair society. We prioritized purchase f rom social enterprises that need social protection and support and we KTP is providing customer-oriented and customized service in the field needed by customers. Currently, onare continuously enhancing support for female entrepreneurs to support them to grow their business. We are site workers in charge of pension tasks at school institutions are faced with difficulties in pension system educating employees to raise their awareness of social enterprise and we introduce related web-site (www. and pension tasks and KTP employees in charge of support for school institutions visit schools to directly socialenterprise.or.kr) to check products and list of social enterprises. KTP will continue to support social solve the problems. In 2011, branch offices across the nation visited school institutions 645 times and we enterprises and companies run by women to grow into top-ranking companies by providing equal opportunity achieved 141% of operation rate compared to our target. Through this face-to-face service, KTP is spreading to them with increasing purchase from those companies. understanding of pension tasks and expanding mutual trust based on active communication with school institutions. We will continue our efforts to offer active and practical help to our customers through continuous operation of the service. 32 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 33 Socially Responsible Investment Investment in venture areas As a public pension institution, KTP is practicing socially responsible investment by sorting out socially Number of voluntary workers Hours of voluntary work Number of voluntary work responsible companies and investing in them. With the practice, we are enhancing the public features and at designated facilities Unit: peoples at designated facilities Unit: Hours at designated facilities profitability of our pension fund, by leading companies to practice socially responsible management and sharing the result of socially responsible investment. We hold open recruitment for fund managing companies 127 508 that practice socially responsible investment and we are identifying and investing in core stocks based on 95 380 19 2010 categorization into socially sustainable companies ·environmentally sustainable companies·financially sustainable companies·companies with excellent governance. Seven companies applied for the open recruitment and two of them were selected total \40bn, \20bn for each, was invested in those companies in the first half of 2012. 27 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Portfolio according to Core-Satellite investment strategy KTP is fulfilling its role as a member of society through social contribution activities for pubic interest in which socially·environmentally·finacially sustainable all employees participate. In particular, to build ties between our employees and disabled people, we do companies, companies with excellent governance voluntary work regularly at designated facilities including Xion Center for the Disabled, Haeun Protection and Core Working Center for the Disabled, and Evergreen Welfare Center. In addition, we are operating a soup kitchen SRI groups ESG & financial elements around 70~80% of trusted assets for low-income and severely disabled people at a Sharing Center for the Disabled located in Yeongdeunpo-gu. Satellite depreciated blue-chip fundamentals & valuation around 20~30% of trusted assets We were awarded by the Yeongdeunpo-gu Districct Council for selection as an institution of merit for social welfare, with our participation in sharing events for the disabled. Supporting lunchbox of love Establishment of schools in Africa Supporting child caner and leukemia patients Investment in New Growth Engine and Venture Fields KTP is investing in future growth engines such as green technology, new and renewable energy, and cuttingedge knowledge industry, and also helping the government’s job creation initiative and enhancement of \19.2mn 2011 \3mn 2011 \2.8mn 2011 venture companies’ competitiveness by investing in companies with outstanding technologies. We make an investment in consideration of continuity of investment but execute a small amount of investment taking into account excessive liquidity in PE market. We select fund managing companies through a restricted RFP process. In 2011, we chose fund managing institutions among those selected by Korea Finance Education Sharing Activities Corporation(KoFC) and National Pension Service(NPS), and five out of 14 selected companies signed \54bn We are doing our best to establish an environment where children in and out of the country have an equal opportunity investment contract with KTP. for education. KTP employees have voluntarily made donations for lunch fees for children from low-income facilities and donated total \54.11mn for five years until 2011. In addition, we and our union have \13mn for two years for Final students in rural areas. Plus, we are supporting education projects for African children in connection with NGO and Investment selection Holding Receiving On-theOral deliberation by asset NPOs. We are also participating in a variety of campaigns including collection of coins, donation of sneakers, and “Give briefings suggestions survey examination management committee committee Me a Pen” project. We are also making efforts to contribute to national education projects in line with KTP’s mission and have a deep interest in the development of overseas education projects for active contribution to development of education. Socially responsible Investment in new Investment in investment Unit: billion won growth engine Unit: billion won venture areas Unit: billion won Promotion of Personal Information Protection We are implementing effective operation methods by establishing detailed rules for prevention of leakage of 60 30 personal information collected from our customers and for thorough protection of the information. In 2012, we 24 24 revised KTP information security guidelines and changed the method of designation of information security 30 workers and issuance of pin numbers. In addition, we are implementing actions against exposure or leakage 10 of personal information at our web-site, actions on personal information processing system such as PCs for work, and a window for reading of personal information and reporting of violation of personal information 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 protection. During the reporting period, there has been no single case of complaint about lost personal information. Plus, we established personal information protection measures for our employees and holds related meetings more than twice a year. In 2011, we implemented video learning program utilizing cyber Investment in New and Renewable Energy learning system and inside education by an official from the Ministry of Public Administration and Safety. We KTP is taking the lead in minimizing air pollution and developing future alternative energy, through investing will continue our efforts to raise awareness of the need for personal information and to prevent information in new and renewable energy related to solar power generation. We set \30bn of investment from 2007 to security breaches by arousing attention on information leakage. 2022 in a product that recovers the investment by selling electricity generated after construction of a solar power plant to power sellers at an official price according to Electricity Business Act . We already invested \9.2bn in this product in 2011. This investment project can promote the government’s new and renewable energy initiative and secure green energy resources. Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 35 2 Financial Structure Financial Status Fund Management Status 2011 / billion won \12,745bn asset \11,910.9bn asset Disclosure on Management 9,497.9 marketable 177.7 securities liquid asset Approach Net profit 126.5 \834.1bn \813.9bn noncurrent 2,942.9 debt Economic during the Financial Structure year asse Risk Management loan assets DMA Transparent Investment KTP has been expanding and managing more than \10tn of fund since 2009 and recording average 9% of fund management profitability and more than \800bn of net profit during the year for the recent three years. In addition, since rent deposit and trust money kept by the government for national college tuition loan 2012 Goal 2011 Key Performances are set as debt, KTP has virtually no debt with a stable financial structure.In detail, our fund management is categorized as cash equivalent which is short-term asset, and bond·stock·alternative investment which are mid-term assets. In particular, we are concentrating more than 70% of our investment in marketable securities, to sensitively respond to changes in the market environment. In 2011, stock markets remarkably declined because of the spread of the European fiscal crisis and downgrading of sovereign credit ratings of major countries and the rate of return was weak compared to that of the previous year. Under these circumstances, KTP is making efforts to advance our asset management system·asset management process·risk management, to minimize market risk factors and establish sound profitability foundation based on an advanced system. \1,319.9 bn \813.9 bn net profit during net profit during Return of Asset Management Creation of Income and distribution Uunit: % the year the year 14.71 net income independent dividend Etc. 11.71 income \664.4bn \591.2bn \1.356bn \71.8bn Business Labor Operating 0.88 expenses cost cost cost Etc. \1,437 bn \54 bn 2009 2010 2011 asset new growth·venture investment \664.4bn \330.7bn \1.339bn \5.751bn \326.5bn ※ ·time weighted return as standard, financial statement for the past five years can be checked at Major Business & Management Performance in the management announcement category at www.ktpf.or.kr ·Operating cost is included \16mn of Social Contribution Fund Establishment of Next-Generation Asset Management System KTP started establishing a next-generation fund management system in 2011, to lead the progress of our asset management process. In June 2011, a TF team was formed and we are currently working on this plan in cooperation with outside asset management system consultants. Major parts o the plan include ALM \81.4 bn \30 bn system, management support system, performance evaluation system, market risk management system, debt socially responsible investment and establishment of a data mart. The next-generation asset management system will utilize ALM-based asset distribution method so, KTP’s independent and strategic asset distribution will be possible. In addition, we will determine reasonable investment proportion on asset management by style, based on strengthened Strategy Map distribution function based on budget at risk. We will establish a system that can draw out tactic asset ■ Mission: Materializing stabilization of pension fund distribution plans which maximized expected excess profits by utilizing the optimization method under a given ■ 8 Strategic Tasks risk budget. :Aggressive fund management through Expanding stable foundation for fund diversified investment · Operating reasonable pension system · Fund management policy for enhancement · Efficient management of assets of profitability of the fund · Advancement of fund management process · Setting business development roadmap 36 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 37 Risk Management Transparent Investment Compliance with UN PRI Principles Limit Setting and Management KTP complies with global responsible investment principles and making efforts to stick to those principles. By asset groups · Limit of asset distribution proportion according to IPS, considering allowable error in Global institutional investors agreed on responsible investment in 2005 under the lead of the UN Secretary investment proportio General and later, UN PRI was established. Since the accession to the organization in 2010, KTP has ·Prevention of concentration on high-risk products within 10% of asset groups in the considered responsible investment factors of mainstream investment activities for investment decisionNew type of securities bond sector making and participated in the global spread of CSR. We share advanced investment methods through a · Maximum risk management and establishment of risk management foundation global network with member institutions and leading enhancement of return through long-term investment Value at Risk(VaR) according to the BIS standards which takes ESG into account. In 2011, KTP participated in meeting with UN PRI Director Rob Lake and Korea · Stabilization of portfolio by achieving appropriate excess profit and prevention of Network Meeting and discussed ESG compliance with member institution investors in and out of the country. Budget at Risk excessive risk-taking KTP will take lead in participation in socially responsible investment and continue transparent investment activities. Integrated Risk Management System Improvement of Institutions for Fair Financial Trade KTP is managing market·credit·liquidity·management risks under the integrated risk management system We are managing fund transparently based on continuous improvement of institutions for fair financial trade. and is assessing and evaluating the risks with Market VaR·Credit VaR·Cashflow at Risk·Compliance Transaction of stocks and derivatives by our fund managers is limited and we strengthened obligations to systems. In addition, we have allowable risk range according to the fund management plan in place and limit stock trading based on the information acquired during performance of duties. We improved the related set allowable risk limit in line with the plan and distribute the limits to different asset groups. We categorize institutions more transparently and objectively based on expansion of obligations not only for fund managers market and credit risk according to the characteristics of assets and assess integrated risk limit reflecting the but also for all our employees. In addition, we added one new expert to the alternative investment deliberation correlation between market and credit VaR. If the amount VaR and % VaR per risk factor both exceed the limit committee with six members and expanded bond-trading institutions from 20 to 30, to provide investment or if they exceed the limit for 10 days in a row, the head of risk management department requests the head opportunities to new institutions and to practice fair trade. of the corresponding investment team for solution and report this to the chairman and the risk management committee. Regular or unusual events are reported to the risk management committee under our monitoring Management of Transparency Performance of Outside Investment Institutions system. We carry out appropriate incentive or sanctions on outside investment agents based on clear inspection of Risk Management their performance. We are monitoring fund transaction details and compliance with management principles everyday, inspecting achievement rate against BM return of fund more than once a week, and holding ·Managing investment risks of alternative investment products and new types of regular evaluation meetings once a month. Through the evaluation, we reward investment company and fund New investments securities managers with outstanding performance by management sectors once a year. ·Managing risks derived from safety inspection on invested assets and changes in In addition, when investors inflict loss by failing to create standard return, we impose a certain period of contract terms Assets in possession · Managing risks deriving from transaction of standardized products transaction suspension and when a fund managing company on transaction suspension repurchases fund · Managing Contingency Plan at a return subject to transaction suspension, the suspension period restarts from the end of the former transaction suspension, to limit further transaction. Contingency Plan below the standard return by 3% or more transaction suspension for 3 months We have Contingency Plan for domestic and foreign stocks, bonds, direct and indirect investment assets and alternative investment assets to respond to crisis in stages. Crisis means a situation with possibility of seriously below the standard return by 5% or more transaction suspension for 6 months negative impact on the profit of our fund management and according to our assessment, crisis could arise from risk in the financial market where investment in financial products are exposed risks, risks in the real estate and below the standard return by 7% or more transaction suspension for 9 months commodity markets, and risks in the real economy. Against this backdrop, we set levels of crisis situation as attention·semi-crisis·crisis and make decisions based on market, credit, and precautionary indicators. In the case of actual crisis, we immediately notify the fact to the corresponding investment team and form crisis management task force according to crisis response manual. The result of crisis management activities must be reported to the chairman, head of management headquarters, and the risk management committee until the decision of the end of the crisis. We are aware and prepared to possible crisis situations through our Contingency Plan to manage risks systematically. Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 39 3 Energy Management Greenhouse Gas · Energy Target Management System KTP is responding to the greenhouse gas·energy target management system for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the main culprit of climate change, to the zero level and for low carbon green growth. We have set the target of 20% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions every year by 2015 and since 2008, we have been continuously making efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Disclosure For management of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, we are regularly checking the amount on Management of energy consumption with the branch offices with buildings as standards. We also submitted the 2012 Approach implementation plan and 2011 result report to the greenhouse gas information center, [http://gov.gir.go.kr]. The base material used for calculation of the amount of energy use is submitted to Minister of Environment to secure objective reliability of the calculation. We will continue our efforts for response to climate change, Environmental Energy Management Environment Management based on participation in the target management system in the public sector. DMA Direct greenhouse gas emission Uniy: tCo2eq Indirect greenhouse gas emission Unit: tCo2eq 2,418 2012 Goal 2011 Key Performances 2,293 5,990 5,950 2,114 5,756 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Participation in 887.31 tCo eq 2 CDP project Reduction Releasing carbon Greenhouse Gas information Practicing Energy Saving KTP is practicing energy saving activities in a variety of fields, as a basic part of its energy management. Considering the recent surge in the demand for electricity because of rapid environmental changes caused by climate change, we are maintaining indoor temperatures at 18℃ or below during the winter and 28℃ or above during the summer. In particular, we are limiting the use of personal electronic heaters or fans and practicing flexible dress code. During the summer season, we pursue Cool Biz and the practice of green lifestyle and employees can wear cotton pants and no ties. In addition, we set energy saving targets for different branch offices every year and in 2011, the Seoul office 100 % 96.4 % replaced general lighting devices with LED lamps to save energy. The Honam office replaced absorption Purchase of eco-friendly Purchase of eco-friendly products products chiller-heater gas burners (No.1) with low nitrogen oxide burners (smart boiler) and is now implementing detailed implementation plans. Through these activities, we are thoroughly complying with the target management system and doing our best to rationalize our energy use and save energy. Amount of gas use Unit: TJ Amount of power use Unit: TJ Amount of gasoline use Unit: TJ 115.63 114.86 0.86 0.71 100 % \34 bn 46.39 0.68 participation rate Investment in green growth 44.14 in greenday 40.67 111.12 Strategy Map 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ■ Mission: Establishment of sustainable management environment for future generations ■ Environmental mangement tasks ·Zero electronic waste ·Green day ·Environmental cleanup campaign ·Donation to Beautiful Store 40 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Part 3 _Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements 41 Appropriate Use, Appropriate Disposal KTP protects the environment through appropriate use of resources and legal disposal of them. We are Environment Management reducing burden of the environment, we established a smart work system where, for example, meeting materials are stored on tablet PCs instead of printed, to reduce the amount of paper used for publishing and printing. In addition, we have a firm standard of disposal of waste and commission all waste including the septic tank, construction waste, and waste water to a turnkey ordering body or contractors for proper disposal of the waste. Donation In 2011, 2ton of waste asbestos generated during refurbishment of restrooms and replacement of ceiling and 355㎥ of waste generated during septic tank cleaning were consigned to contractors for proper disposal. We to are checking the proper disposal of waste by receiving documentary evidence from the contractors and during Green Electronic Beautiful Waste the reporting period, there was no single case of fine imposed because of violation of environmental rules and laws. In particular, KTP helps our employees to work in a safe and comfortable environment, through regulation Day Store 1 Observation Environmental Trail for of the use of asbestos and smoking in buildings. Campaign 1 Company Amount of Paper Use (head office/ Seoul branch office, amount of paper use) Unit: ton Unit:pieces 10.855 10.175 2,262,500 1,961,250 KTP is practicing Environment Management as a part of establishment of a sustainable management environment, for sustainable management promotion system and our next generations. In detail, we have five categories for this, including Green Day, environmental campaign, achievement of zero electronic waste, donations to Beautiful Store , and 1 observation trail for 1 company campaign. We are trying to protect and 3.755 revive the environment based on the combination of small activities in our everyday lives and we are also 785,000 expanding the scope of our practice toward a variety of green investment and conventions. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 In addition, KTP is supporting the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009, as a member. We are complying with the environmental indicators of the GRI G3.1 at every department and reporting the result of compliance on our sustainability reports. We understand the importance of the Use of Water and Wastewater Management environment in the interconnected global society and do our best to comply with global standards. All the water used at KTP’s head office and regional offices come from city water and we are disposing using public transportation for commute, reducing use of elevators, reducing use of paper wastewater through sewage treatment facilities. We operate no separate water recycling facilities and we Green Day cups, turning off unneeded light bulbs, using cups when brushing teeth, using personal release no toxic substances that can harm the environment. handkerchiefs, buying eco-friendly products, practicing eco driving, etc. The Jungbu office has two centers, Oryu Center and Dunsan Center. Since the amount of City water for the Environment waging environment campaign at Yeouido Park and Saetgang Park in May and October, central regional office is the sum of the amounts of the two centers, the amount of the Jungbu office is higher Campaign and at Mt. Bukhan National Part in November than that of other offices. In addition, since employees of the head office and Seoul office use the same Electronic signing agreement with the national committee of the Green Consumer Network Korea, building, the amount of City water use at the Seoul office is larger than that of other offices. KTP carried out Waste donating 176 unused cell phones green day event and regular PR activities to promote saving of water. We will make and distribute mugs that are printed with individual employees’ photos, to recommend our employees to use proper amount of water Beautiful Store installing donation box in buildings, donating 518 unused items to Beautiful Store when they drink water or brush their teeth. 1 Trail for 1 carrying out regular environment clean-up activities based on environmental cleaning Company exchange agreement between the Honam office and Byeongsan Peninsula National Park Amount of Tap Water Use Unit: ㎥ Amount of city water use by branches in 2011 78,575 78,466 20,493㎥ Head office/ Seoul office 8,894㎥ Honam office Purchase of EcoDonation to Participation Rate in Friendly Products Unit: million won Beautiful Store Unit: pieces Green Day, Car-less Day 182.893 175.221 421 70,816 24,381㎥ Jungbu office 17,048㎥ Busan office 96.4% 96.29% 2011 2009 2010 2011 54 43 99.10% 2012 1H Eco-Friendly Purchase of clothes books general goods Registered Products Eco-Friendly Products 42 Part 3 _ Social·Economic·Environmental Achievements Environmental Campaign KTP hold social contribution weeks in the first and second half of every year and during the week, we wage environmental campaigns. We recruit participants from each department and carry out one-hour-long campaign at Yeouido Park and Sategang Ecological Park near our head office. In particular, because a variety of plants are living at the Yeouido Saetgang Ecological Park, campaign for protection of the environment is very important. We are protecting those plants through our regular environmental protection campaign. Other than the campaign, we carry out commute through public transportation, reduction of the use of elevators, reduction of the use of paper cups, and Green Day event during the social contribution weeks and also holds Zero Electronic Waste campaign where our employees donated unused cell phones. We are leading environmental protection through a variety of campaigns and we will continue our practice and campaign for environmental protection. Participation in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) KTP participated in Carbon Disclosure Program in 2011 and has been providing information of investment risk and opportunity related to climate change. The Carbon Disclosure Project refers to request and collection of data of carbon emission of major listed companies and information of their management strategies. Based on the data and information, the project carries out analysis and research at the global level. KTP is providing a variety of climate change-related information including corporate governance, corporate risk and opportunity, corporate strategy and greenhouse gas emission accounting, use of energy and fuel, emissions trading, and communication on climate change. As a public pension institution, we are doing our best to fulfill our social responsibility by actively participating in green growth policies and we will continue our efforts to raise the awareness of green growth based on the network with partner institutions. Energy Minus, Love Plus The Honam Office of KTP is participating in Energy Minus, Love Plus campaign carried out by the Korea Energy Management Corporation. In 2011, 22,000 buildings took part in the campaign and saved 92million kWh of power and donated the power to the vulnerable. In December 2011, we donated 2,000 pieces of briquettes to low-income people, in cooperation with the KEPCO, Briquette Bank, the institution, and relevant agencies. The Honam Office will participate in this campaign in 2012 and is planning for energy saving through regular monitoring, inside education for relevant staff members, and facility refurbishment works, to save more energy. Appendix Third-Party Assurance Report 44 GRI G3.1 Index 46 2011.12 Award·Agreement Records 48 Membership 49 Statement GRI Application Level Check 50 44 Part 4 _ Appendix Part 4 _ Appendix 45 Third-Party Assurance Report Messrs. Stakeholders of the Korea Teachers Pension and classification of issues, to prevent errors such as overlapping or omission of meaning or mismatch of the level of the content, caused by different Korea Productivity Center (KPC) was required to conduct a third-party verification of KTP’s 2012 Sustainability Report (the Report) and is submitting our classification standards, during the establishment of the issue pool. Plus, we would like to recommend KTP to actively respond to relevant issues based on opinion as the following. establishment of stakeholder management system, for continuous management of more detailed and various issues related to sustainable management and partner companies. Responsibility and Independence 3. Responsiveness: Organization’s Response to Issues The KTP is fully responsible for the information and opinion written in this report. The verifier is responsible for the verification opinion for the Report and as Responsiveness refers to a principle that an organization must respond to issues that can affect performance of its stakeholders. Through this verification, an independent verification agency, KPC has never been engaged in writing the Report and has no stake in KTP, which can undermine its independence. it is confirmed that KTP is actively responding to core issues drawn out through communication with stakeholders and we also confirmed the result of Verification Standards the response. The level of information disclosure of the 2011 report was improved to A+, from B+ in 2010. As such, KTP’s efforts to respond to issues and indicators is proven to be excellent, including a more transparent disclosure of information and active disclosure of drawbacks in the GRI indicator This verification was conducted in accordance with Type 1 verification and Moderate verification level, with AA1000AS (2008) as standard and according Check. In 2011, KTP established KTP TOP+ 2021 , a comprehensive development plan for future sustainable growth and is now implementing a mid-andto the AA1000APS (2008), the appropriateness in terms of principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness were checked. In addition, whether the long-term strategy under the four core values, customer-oriented, change-leading, communication-expanding, and transparently-managed. However, the content of the Report complies with GRI G3. 1 Guideline was checked. management strategy does not include a comprehensive strategy for environmental and societal issues. Thus, we would like to recommend KTP to carry Limitations out systematic sustainable management, by establishing sustainable management strategies based on analysis of risk and opportunity factors according to According to the standards above, the performance of KTP in 2011 was verified and the verification of reliability of some data including those related to its management strategy, and by continuously monitoring performance indicators and goals. financial performance, environmental data (greenhouse gas, etc.), and web-site was not included in this verification. In addition, since the on-site inspection was limitedly conducted at the Seoul head office, the result of verification may be partially different when additional verification processes are carried out Recommendations on the Gyeongin·Gangwon, Jungbu and Daegu Offices later. The verifier highly evaluates KTP’s various efforts for and performance of improvement of sustainability and recommends KTP the following for enhancement of the publication of the next report and the quality of sustainable management. Methodology of Verification 1. We would like to recommend KTP to establish clear standards for selection and classification issues and to report more details of the standards and process This verification was conducted according to the methods stated below. of materiality evaluation, to more appropriately draw out relevant sustainable management issues. 1. Compliance of principles for the content and quality of the Report was checked with GRI G3. 1 Guideline. 2. We would like to recommend KTP to release information of the level of its sustainable management and areas to be improved, through participation (meeting, interview, etc.) of a variety of outside stakeholders such as government agencies, NGO, and experts. 2. Fulfillment of GRI Application Level A requirements was checked by inspecting the report rate and description method for each indicator of the GRI G3. 1 Guideline. For some indicators which are not included and omitted, the reason was marked in the GRI indicator. 3. We recommend KTP to come up with sustainable management strategies for more systematic implementation of sustainable management and to 3. Appropriateness of the selection of major issues and described content was examined through media research and benchmarking analysis. operate a systematic organization that can continuously manage the result and target of different implementation tasks. 4. Appropriateness of the content written in the Report and expressional errors were checked through comparative analysis with other references. 4. We recommend KTP to regularly evaluate and manage performance by establishing a monitoring system where the performance of sustainable management is reported to the board of directors, executive, and the chairman. 5.The ground for data and information in the Report was verified through examination of internal documents and interviews by sectors, during the on-site inspection on the Seoul Office. Result of Verification The verifier affirmed that the Report sincerely and fairly reflects the activities and performance of KTP’s sustainable management. In addition, through this verification, it was confirmed that KTP is fulfilling the requirements for the GRI Application Level A, which was promised by KTP. 1. Inclusivity: Participation of Stakeholders September 2012 Hong Jin Inclusivity means that an organization should include stakeholders in the process of developing and achieving responsible and strategic response measures Chairman & CEO for sustainability. This verification confirmed that KTP has definition of major stakeholders for compliance with the inclusivity principle and discuss with of the Korea Productivity Center them a variety of sustainability issues, through on and off-line communication channels such as IT service, news letter, and briefing. In particular, the poll on stakeholders was expanded to include communities and partner companies, to listen to their opinions and this can be understood as KTP’s commitment to Dong-su Kim Director of the Center listen to sustainability-related opinions of more diverse stakeholders. However, if the subject of the poll is further expanded and more issues are selected and managed for the poll, KTP will be able to reflect opinions of stakeholders more widely. We would like to recommend KTP to establish and operate a systematic communication channels for stakeholder, to more actively and comprehensively listen to and reflect the opinions of stakeholders on KTP’s Jeong-seok Seo Team Chief internal and external sustainable management. 2. Materiality: Selection and Reporting of Major Issues Ju-mi Park The principle of materiality refers to a principle that an organization must select issues that are relevant and important for major stakeholder in and out of Professional Commissioner the organization. Through this verification, it was confirmed that KTP has selected major issues based on the result of materiality evaluation according to its internal principles. In the process, an issue pool was established based on media research, benchmarking of other institutions, and internal documents and materials, core issues were selected through materiality evaluation, and those issues were confirmed as the content for the final reporting after internal examination. Major issues that draw the highest attention in and out of KTP were selected as “Five Hot Issues” and highlighted in the front of the Report and other major issues are reported as well proportionately. However, we would like to recommend KTP to establish clear standards of selection The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is a verification institutions officially certified by Accountability , an institution which established the AA1000, which is a global standard of stakeholder participation and verification. Thus, the center has the authority to conduct verification independently. In addition, the verification delegation consists of experts who have experiences in consulting and verification of sustainable management and who completed professional education. 46 Part 4 _ Appendix Part 4 _ Appendix 47 GRI G3.1 Index ●reported ◐partially reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable ●reported ◐partially reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable Indicator No. Content Page Reporting Level Note Indicator No. Content Page Reporting Level Note Strategy and Analysis EC 6. Local procurement policy, practice, and ration at major business sites ● Same 1.1 Declaration of relevance of sustainability by the top decision-maker 6 ● Process of prioritized recruit for local people and ratio of local high-ranking managers at major EC 7. 23 ● Same business sites 1.2 Major influence, risk & opportunity factor 7 ● EC 8. Investment in infrastructure, service support and effect for public interest 31 ● Corporate Profile EC 9. Understanding and explanation of indirect economic ramification 31 ● 2.1 Name of organization 8 ● Environmental Indicator 2.2 Representative brand, product, service 8 ● N/A because of EN 1. Amount of material use per weight or volume 40 ● business feature 2.3 Organization structure including major business unit, operating company, subsidiary, joint-stock company 9 ● Data collection EN 2. Ratio of use of recycled ingredient ○ 2.4 Location of the head office and headquarters 4 ● unfinished 2.5 Country where branch office is operating ● No overseas branch EN 3. Amount of direct energy use by primary energy source 39 ● 2.6 Ownership structure and legal structure 8 ● EN 4. Amount of indirect energy use by primary energy source 39 ● EN 5. Amount of energy saved through saving and improvement of efficiency 39, 41 ● 2.7 Target market 8 ● EN 6. Product based on renewable energy, efforts to provide service, and amount of saved energy 18, 39, 41 ◐ 2.8 Size of organization 8, 23, 35 ● EN 7. Project to save indirect energy and the result 39 ◐ 2.9 Major change in the size, structure, or governance of the organization 9 ● No major change EN 8. Amount of water collected from each water source 40 ● Local city water 2.10 Award given during the reporting period 48 ● EN 9. Water source influenced by water collection 40 ● Local city water Features of Report Data collection EN 10. Total amount and ratio of recycled water 40 ● unfinished 3.1 Period covered by the report 4 ● N/A because of EN 11. Location and size of land owned, lent, and managed in environment protection area ◎ business feature 3.2 The date of publication of the latest report 4 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 ● EN 12. Impact of business on biodiversity in environment protection area ◎ EN 13. Protected or restored habitat 42 ◐ 3.4 Contact point for the report and relevant content 4 ● N/A because of 3.5 Process of definition of the content for report 15 ● EN 14. Strategy, current measure, and future plan for biodiversity ◎ business feature 3.6 Boundary of report 4 ● N/A because of EN 15. Number and risk level of endangered species in business areas ◎ business feature 3.7 Limitations in the scope and boundary of the report 4 ● EN 16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission 39 ● 3.8 Reporting on object such as rental facilities and outsourced duty 31 ● EN 17. Amount of other indirect greenhouse gas emission 41, 42 ◐ 3.9 Method and calculation standards of data 4 ● EN 18. Project for reduction of emission and result 39 ● 3.10 Effect of and reason for re-description of information included in the last report 4 ● N/A because of EN 19. Amount of release of ozone-destroying substances ◎ business feature 3.11 Major change in the scope, boundary, or assessment method of the report 4 ● No major change N/A because of 3.12 Chart that shows the location of standard information announcements 46~48 ● EN 20. Amount of major air pollutants including Nx and Sox ◎ business feature 3.13 Verification 44~45 ● EN 21. Total amount of wastewater release and water quality by final distributing reservoir 40 ● Governance and Stakeholder Participation EN 22. Amount of waste release by form and disposal method 40 ◐ 4.1 Organizational governance 10 N/A because of ● EN 23. Number and amount of release of critical toxic substance ◎ business feature 4.2 Whether the chairman is also an executive 10 ● Transportation, taking in and out, treatment amount of waste stipulated in the Annex of Basel N/A because of EN 24. ◎ business feature 4.3 Number of board members who are not independent or executive 10 ● Accord N/A because of 4.4 Mechanism of advise or suggestion by shareholders and employees to the board 10 ● EN 25. Waters, scale, and value of biodiversity affected by release of wastewater ◎ business feature 4.5 Relation between remuneration for executives and organization’s performance 10 ◐ EN 26. Activities and performance for reduction of environmental effect of products and service 41 ● 4.6 Process for prevention of interest conflict in the board 10 ● N/A because of EN 27. Ratio of recycled ingredient for sold products and related packaging material ◎ business feature 4.7 Process of determining qualification and expertise standards for boards members 10 ● Amount fine and number of non-financial disciplinary measures imposed because of violation of Code of conduct and principle related to economic, environmental, and social performance and EN 28. ● N/A 4.8 22, 34, 38 ● environmental rules activities EN 29. Critical Environmental impact by transportation of products, base materials, and employees 41 ◐ Procedures for understanding and management of economic, environmental, and social EN 30. Total amount of expense and investment in environmental protection 18, 41 ● 4.9 10 ◐ Planned (2013) performance by the board Labor Indicator 4.10 Process of evaluating the board’s economic, environmental, and social performance 10 ◐ Planned (2013) LA 1. Employment type, contract, and personnel status by region 23 ● 4.11 Selection and method of the principle and approach based on preemptive prevention 36 ● LA 2 Number and ratio of employees quitting 23 ● 4.12 Joining outside initiatives including economic, environmental, and social charter or principle 37, 42, 49 ● Same for all job LA 3. Benefits provided only to regular employees 23, 25 ● categories 4.13 Membership status of industrial association and national or international policy agencies 49 ● LA 4. Ratio of employees subject to collective bargaining 26 ● 4.14 List of participating stakeholder groups 14 ● LA 5. Minimum notification period for major change in business 26 ● 4.15 Identification and selection standards for stakeholders to participate 14 ● LA 6. Ratio of employees represented by labor-management joint health and safety commission 24 ● 4.16 Current status of type and method of participation of stakeholders 14 ● LA 7. Number of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absence, or job-related accidents 25 ● 4.17 Way of responding to core issues and interest suggested by stakeholders 15 ● Education, consulting, prevention and risk management programs on serious diseases, for LA 8. 23 ● employees, families, and local residents Economic Indicator LA 9. Health and safety issues subject to official agreement with the union 26 ● EC 1. Creation and distribution of direct economic value 35 ● LA 10. Hours of education a year per employee, by the type of employee 24 ● EC 2. Financial impact of climate change and risk and opportunity for business activities 35 ● LA 11. Jon training and life=long education program for retired employees 30 ● EC 3. Coverage of pension 23, 30 ● LA 12. Ratio of employees subject to long-term performance evaluation and career development deliberation 26 ● EC 4. Government subsidy bestowed ● N/A LA 13. Ratio of female and male board members 10, 23 ● EC 5. Ratio of wage for new recruits against local legal minimum wage at major business sites 26 ● LA 14. Ratio of basic wage for female and male employees by type of employee 26 ● LA 15. Returning rate after maternity leave and retention rate 25 ● 48 Part 4 _ Appendix Part 4 _ Appendix 49 Membership ●reported ◐partially reported ○not reported ◎ not applicable UN Global Compact Indicator No. Content Page Reporting Level Note KTP joined the UN Global Compact in 2009 and has been fulfilling its role as a corporate citizen. Former Secretary General of the UN Kofi Social Indicator Annan recommended business leaders at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland on January 31, 1999, to join the new UN SO 1. Characteristic and effect of program that evaluates and manages the impact on local communities 23 ● SO 2. Number and ratio of business units that bear risk of corruption according to analysis 19 ● Global Compact introduced based on the cooperation between UN agencies and businesses for social ethics and improvement of the SO 3. Ratio of employees that received education on anti-corruption policy and procedure 19 ● global environment. SO 4. Response action against corruption cases 19, 27 ● KTP is complying with 10 major principles of the UNGC including human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption and distributed SO 5. Stance on public policy, participation in establishment of public policy and lobbying activities ● No lobbying SO 6. Total amount of cash and in-kind donation to institutions related to a political party or politician ● None GRI G3.1 indicators to different departments to fulfill the 10 major principles and checking the result. KTP is also sharing its sustainability SO 7. Number and result of legal actions against unfair competition or monopoly ● None performance with other companies around the world, by reporting its economic, social, and environmental performance and will grow into Amount of fine and number of non-financial disciplines imposed because of violation of laws and SO 8. rules ● None a global corporate citizen by continuously combining its management environment and corporate strategies with the UNGC 10 principles. N/A because of SO 9. Business sites that create critical harmful influence on local communities ◎ business feature N/A because of SO 10. Prevention and alleviation measures for business sites that pose critical harmful influence on local communities ◎ business feature Principle 1: Companies must support and respect human rights declared internationally. Human righs Principle 2: Companies must make active efforts not to be involved in human rights violation. Human Right Indicator Number and ratio of investment agreements that fulfill human rights protection provisions and that HR 1. 32, 49 ● pass human rights deliberation HR 2. Ratio of human rights deliberation at major partner companies and contractors ○ Planned (2013 ) HR 3. Hours of employee education on human rights policy and procedure related to duties 24 ● Principle 3: Companies must support actual recognition of rights to association and collective bargaining, HR 4. Total number of discrimination and response actions 23 ● None Principle 4: Must exclude all forms of forced labor, HR 5. Measures to protect right to association and collective bargaining 26 ● Labor Principle 5: Must eliminate child labor efficiently, HR 6. Measures for elimination of child labor 23 ● Principle 6: And must eliminate discrimination from recruitment and duties. HR 7. Measures to eliminate forced labor 23 ● Practiced by HR 8. Ratio of security personnel who completed human rights policy and procedure education ◐ outsourcing company N/A because of HR 9. Number of violation of human rights o the natives and response measures ◎ business feature Principle 7: Companies must support prevention-oriented approach in environmental issues, HR 10. Ratio and number of business sites that conduct human rights supervision and impact evaluation 24 ● Environment Principle 8: Must implement measures to promote environmental responsibility, Number of human rights related complaints that are filed/responded/resolved through an official Principle 9: and promote development and spread of eco-friendly technology. HR 11. 24 ● complaint filing mechanism Product Responsibility Indicator N/A because of PR 1. Level and ratio of health and safety impact evaluation conducted on products and services ◎ business feature Anti-corruption Principle 10: Companies must be against all forms of corruption including unfair acquisition and bribery. PR 2. Regulation on health and safety impact of products and services and number of violation ● None PR 3. Type of information of products and services needed for procedure 29, 30 ● PR 4. Regulation on information and labeling of products and services and number of violation ● None PR 5. Customer satisfaction activities including result of CS polls 29 ● PR 6. Laws and rules related to marketing communication, voluntary or standard regulation program ◐ None UN PRI Laws and rules related to marketing communication, number of voluntary or standard violation of PR 7. ● None KTP joined the UN PRI (Principle for Responsible Investment) in 2010. The UN PRI was launched by the UN Secretary General in April 2006 the rules and laws Number of complaints filed in relation with violation of customer information protection and data and provided an opportunity for world-wide spread of awareness that financial institutions must take lead in fulfilling social responsibility. PR 8. 33 ● None loss PR 9. Amount of fine imposed because of violation of laws and rules on supply of service ● None It also created a consensus of global institutional investors for the principle of responsible investment. KTP joined the UN PRI and is also actively engages in the global CSR and SRI movement as a public pension institutions. KTP also Awards and Agreements in 2011·12 shares advanced responsible investment techniques through a network with UN PRI member institutions. In particular, since KTP is a public pension fund, we can enhance long-term investment return through investment in companies with excellent environmental, social Institution Content responsibility, and corporate governance structures. We will contribute to the development of fair society based on these efforts. Korea Association for ICT Promotion Very Excellent according to ARS service implementation inspection Korea Management Association Getting certification for management system of the contact center for the first time as a pension fund Participation in CDP Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission Excellent according to anti-corruption policy evaluation Ministry of Women and Family Affairs Certified as an excellent family-friendly institution CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) is a global project that requires and collects data of carbon emission and information of corporate Yeongdeungpo-gu(district) Awarded as a contributor to social welfare management strategies of major listed companies and carries out research and analysis based on the data and information, on the Naju City Appreciation plaque by Naju City for contribution to local communities commission of global financial investment institutions. KTP participated in the project in 2011 and will provide information of investment Asia Investor Awarded as Institutional Investor of the year at 2012 Korea Awards risks and opportunities for companies in relation to climate change and will reflect them to its investment portfolio. Asia Investor Yun-gyu Lee, the head of fund management group, selected as the CIO of the year by “Korea Awards” Asia Asset Management Yun-gyu Lee, the head of fund management group, selected as the CIO of the year by “2011 Best of Best Awards” NICE Information Service Co., Ltd. Signing MOU for support of overseas investment Korea Securities Depository, Korea Workers’ Signing MOU for audit for advancement of internal audit Compensation & Welfare Service Korea Children’s Leukemia and Cancer Association Signing MOU for support for children with leukemia or cancer Wonkwang Hospital Signing MOU for partnership service for customers 50 Part 4 _ Appendix Statement GRI Application Level Check We ask for our stakeholders’ suggestions sustain@ktpf.or.kr This report can be downloaded from our web-site www.ktpf.or.kr, and The poll related to this report is ongoing at http://www.ktpf.or.kr:8088/hp/n_ktp/ktp_05_10_02.jsp This report was printed on eco-friendly paper with soy ink. Its cover and inner pages were printed on FSC(Forest Stewardship Council)-certified paper. The FCS mark is given only to those products made out of wood grown in a forest developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner. In addition, soy ink is more environmentally-friendly and not volatile compared to oil-based ink, which means it contributes to reducing air pollution. 27 Yeouinaru-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. 82-2-769-4000 http://www.ktpf.or.kr
