GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK TURKEY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2011--2012 2011 IMPROVEMENT DECLARATION Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 2 INDEX  Introduction  Global Compact  Undertaking  A Message From Board Chairman  Our Mission  Our Vision  Our Values  Detail İnformation About Trend Audit  Job Description Of Our Company  Introduction To Report Coverage  Human Rights/Resources  Labor Force / Working Standarts  Environment  Fighting Against Corruption  Corporate Social Responsibility Projects  Our Contact Informations  Objectives For 2013 And After İt  Conclusion Section Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 GLOBAL COMPACT 3 Human Rights Principle 1: Business world must support human rights and have respect for these rights. Principle 2: Business world must not be associate in crime of human rights’ violations. Working Conditions Principle 3: Business world must support fredom of unionization and collective negotiation. Principle 4: All kinds of forcibly and mandatory employing must be terminated. Principle 5: All kinds of child labour must be terminated. Principle 6: Discrimination must be terminated during recruitment and working processes. Environment Principle 7: Business world should support cautionary approaches against environment problems. Principle 8: Business world should give support for all kinds of activities and formations which will increase the responsibility oriented environment. Principle 9: It must be encouraged developing technologies which are environment friendly and to get them popularize. Fighting against corruption Principle 10: Business world must fought with all kinds of corruption, including bribe and exaction. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 4 Trend Audit has been targeting to sustain the responsibility on topic with its workforce and partners since the date itt signs “Global Compact” in 2011 until today. As Trend Audit, we believe that human rights are universal and all the human beings have equal rights, We know that how the nature has a great important, in shaping our future, We see our workers as a part of our company, not as anyone, We know that how the corruption has been stealing both our these days and our tomorrows and we give support for Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 THE MESSAGE OF BOARD CHAIRMAN 5 Dear Shareholders; We convey the happiness of sharing first progress report with you, which we have prepaired it in the direction of our studies which we sustain within the scope of United Nations Global Compact, as Trend Independent Audit and Certified Councillorship. Our report includes the studies that we have made by concentrating on four main articles (human rights, workforce, environment and struggling with corruption ) of agreement, since from the date we had signed it until our days. We are consicous of importance and consideration that we have showed to nature and human, how a great meaning it will convey. Therefore, we invite everybody to be sensitive in this topic. Best Regards, M. Sıtkı Güngör Board Chairman Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 OUR MISSION 6 To change the conditions for all economic units or at least, to acclimatization to changed conditions, are of vital importance. Companies have been feeling necessity everyday further to reach the correct information, to foresee and to have been prepaired for the requirements of the future, already now. The reason for being of Trend Independent Audit Organization, is to meet the requirements of primary importance (based on economy) which is mentioned for business community. The conscious of providing competitive edge for our customers has taken place in working principles of all our organization. We are aware of that our willpower for offering professional service in the highest quality that will create added value, have entailed to work with the assertive firms who know that further and better services they received are their own natural right, who give importance to received quality, and to work with, dedicated to success, dinamic customer portfolio, and we give importance to this critera in customer selection. The customers who we worked with them, are those who are assertive, and do not content with what they have, the best or superior firms in their fieşlds or who are the best or will become the best candidate institutions. We beleive that the demand that will put forward an extended comprehension and new ideas, and have the skill to convey its knowledge and experinces in a whole and in a form to create added value, as much as it has knowledge and experience, will increase each day. We feel ready ourself for these formations in all respects. Our all teams will make all kinds of the necessary effort in order to gain your trust , and they will offer service to you in the highest level. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 7 OUR VISION Trend Independent Audit vision is to be “a trustable business consultant” , by creating trust and value, to contribute the success of whether its customers or its own employee. Our this vision, puts into practice by supporting our staff in the selection of the workforce that our staffs’ skills and abilities will suitable for the job, and the preparing for job, stages. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 OUR VALUES 8 Hardworking Honest Respectful Constructive Innıvator Stable Trustable Cooperative Wellbehaved and Ethic Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 9 COMPANY PROFILE Our constituted company as Güngör Certified Councillorship Limited Company, has been restructured to give service to the mid-scaled companies in the world markets, currently, with French Ficadex Company and in Turkey as Trend Independent Audit and YMM Incorporated Company. Our company gives service in the areas of financial advisory, independent audit (international account standards), interior auditing, education, management consultancy and human resources. Currently, it continues to its activity with 10 partner, 20 employee and 1 contact office in Istanbul. Our foreign partner Groupe Ficadex operates in 9 countries across the globe. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 Our Company’s Working Areas 10 Our company’s task, is to give reports regularly to administration by investigating the documents and records of the institutions punctiliously, within the scope of Public Practice Accounting, Independent Accountant, Public Accountant, Certified Councillorship Law, numbered 3568. Our objective in the light of these reports, is to provide to take precautions by repoting the errors to the administration which can be able to pose taxational risk, and to bring it into healthy situation in terms of taxational, by safeguarding the firm against any investigation. Full Approval Services Auditing statutory books and documents, financial statements, within the frame of tax legislation judgments, Correcting the confirmed errors during auditing, overcoming the deficiencies, Doing the regularity control for corporate tax returns, Organizing full approval report, Organizing Value Added Tax, and Special Consumption Tax reports, Organizing reports of Turkish Scientific and Technical Researches Institution, and Research-Development, Within the frame of preventing double taxation agrements, profit and loss of the outland construction and repair jobs and the other jobs, netting between different markets and barter operations, The reports of Sea, Air transportation jobs. In Turkey, our company Had taken independent exterior audit mandate at Capital Market from Capital Market Board, Insurance and Reinsurance companies, from Undersecretariat of Treasury. Furthermore, our company has also audit mandate in the factoring business firms. In Internatioal area, our company Together with our French partner Ficadex company, also gives service in France, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria,Lebanon, Albania, and Africa countries. Some Of The Sectors From Which We Give Audit Service The customers who are given service by us, have taken place in the sectors such as construction, Manufacture, Textile, Medicine, Agriculture, Tourism, Food and Consumption Products, Finance, Retail, Airlines, Machine, Energy, Electronic, Petroleum, Investment and Banking, Telecomunication, Insurance, Municipal and State institutions, nonprofit organizations, etc. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 11 Providing the suitability of your company’s accounting records to tax procedural law and to generally accepted accounting principles, Organizing tax statements, Controlling accounting records of your existed accounting department, Auditing corruption, Auditing Social Insurance Institution and, Social Security Organization For Artisans and the Self-employed Organizing Social Insurance Institution’s No Lien Affidavit reports, The other consultancy services of Social Insurance Institution and, Social Security Organization For Artisans and the Self-employed. Establishing Internal Auditing Department The existence of an internal auditing mechanism that will take place inside the company, will provide added value to business by providing accuracy, control and discipline in the interior operations, and will get increasing its competitive power and its goodwill in the market. The Objectives of Internal Auditing Department To bring company’s risks under control, To provide active and productive operations, To preserve operating assets, To provide economic and productive usage of resources, To provide the solution of the errors by determining them while they were small, before they have come in a case of a big problem, To protect the business from a virginally error or from a planned corruption which will endamage it, To provide credibility in the financial reports, To provide suitability to existing laws, To constitute suitable structuring in order to reach the company’s target. Our Internal Auditing Services Prepairing active internal auditing procedures, Examining existing internal auditing systems and procedures, determining shortcomings and overhauling them, To submit reportings to administration that includes fixations and suggestions by making actual controls related to application of internal auditing procedures. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 12 Management consultancy Our management consultancy departments that take place in our group lend assistance to our customers with its services that bring solutions to the problems you have met in your business life, that make easier to comply with changes during your growth process, and that lead up to maximize profit potential of your organization. The Management Consultancy Unit which is formed by combining our departments which give service in different branches, provides to you to take high quality service economically. Expertness Our company has given expertness on the topics of taxation and accounting Revision 1.Controlling the obligatory books that must be kept legally, within the frame of Tax Procedural Law and Turkish Commercial Code, and, Accounting Notices, from the standpoint of bookkeeping and approval, 2. For the Value-added Tax, Witholding, Stamp Tax declarations and, Social Insurance Institution proclamations of the Company, controlling * Accuracy of the assessments, * Consistency with the accounting records, * Arithmetic and relative (proportional) accuracy, * Whether tax and premiums were paid consummately and in due time or not. 3.By testing personnel payrolls; from the point of accounting, controlling * Arithmetically from gross pay to net pay, * Co-payments suitability to the ratios that have been determined in regulations. * Accuracy of fee accruals 4.Controlling of sales invoices that are organized by the company; * Formal conformity, * Arithmetic correctness, * Accuracy of accounting record Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 13 Tax controls have been done regeularly and reports have been prepaired in order for instructing the company management for the accounting errors that will be able to result with tax penalty. In addition to this, you can follow daily regulation from the link www.trenddenetim.com and you can submit your problems to our email at the contact box. In general, our objective, by giving an external support, is to undertake accounting and Finance functions of your company, partly or totaly, and thus, to provide that you have to focus on topics other than your main job area and your activities. Accounting Services Establishing accounting and cost systems and constitute organizations of related departments, Making year end work of formal books, Organizing and declaring of Value added Tax, Witholding, Stamp Tax, Three months-yearly Tax declaration, etc. Bordereau Services Services of preparing payrol, Preparing bordereau envelops and payment instructions, Organizing Social Security authority informations and witholding tax returms and declaring them, Providing fee payments to be carried out properly by the bank, and following them up. Consultancy Services Giving financial advisory services to companies, Giving financial advisory service to SMEs, in the frame of KOSGEB ( small and medium industry development organization) regulation from the point of financial and fiscal legislation, Making conformity auditing of the legal records of the companies within the scope of tax legislation, Designing and implementing cost accounting systems, Examining year end balance sheets financially and determining their presentation shape (monthly, quarterly reporting), obtaining domestic and abroad credit, The operations of establishment of a legal corporation having foreign capital, dichotomy, consolidation, liquidation, cession, European Community, Consultancy on the topics of cambium, free zone applications. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 14 SCOPE OF THE REPORT In our “Global compact” report; have been given place to our applications and development that we have showed, our ideas, our precautions, our sensibility about principles and basic articles that are included in the agreement from which had been signed in 2011 until our days. This report is the first improvement report which is published in the year 2011 when the “Global compact” are signed by Trend Independent Auditing and Certified Councillorship Company. You may be able to send us all your questions, ideas and suggestions related to our report, by the e-mail address info@trenddenetim.com Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 15 HUMAN RIGHTS Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a declaration that is formed by 30 articles ,which had been accepted in the session that is made in Paris by United Nations General Assembly, on the date 10 December 1948, after it had been prepaired in June 1948, by United Nations Human Rights Commision, and had been made a number of changes on it. With this declaration, not only fundamental civil rights which are recognized by democratic constitutions, but economic, social and cultural rights have become apperant with the general descriptions. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 16 Our company, be about the workers at first, which studies to create an entirety in the frame of Universal Human Rights with its social stakeholders and its customers; acts with full commitment to ethical values and human rights while organizing and implementing recruitment and working processes. Under no consideration, it does not make distinctions of ethnic origin, religion, language, race, political view, age and gender. Our company which adopts as a principle to maintain its activities respectfully to the universal human rights, gives a great importance to carry out its responsibilities at the highest level toward its work force. Our company which puts law and rules into practice on the topics of hiring process, working conditions, job security and health; acts in the frame of opportunity principles which are equals to everyone. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 17 LABOR FORCE/ WORKING STANDARTS  Bachelors have formed a great majority of our company. We encourage the other our workers to improve their educations as much as possible. Educational Status Gender University Female Others Male  In Trend Auditing, although the distribution of woman and man does not equal, it is balancedly.Creating opportunity for women in the work life is among our privileged objectives. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 18 The Age Range 18-25 26-35 36-55 55In our company, on no account, there does not exist any employee under the age 18. As Trend Auditing, we are against child labour till the bitter end. By giving priority to our new graduators in the job interview, to get them adopt to work life, has come at the top of our intercorporate values. It should not be forgotten definitely, our young abilities will be our future some day. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 19 Our Working Order  In the Trend Auditing, our hour of work starts at 09.00, ends at 18:00. Our work continues between the specified hours each day of weekday. On the weekend, on Saturday, it has been staying for work, directly proportional to our job load and joint resolutions. In addition to this, it has been done intercorporate pleasure survey regularly, two times in a year. In our pleasure survey, which is made on May 2012, has traced as 45%. As Trend Auditing, we are glad with this result.  In our firm, it has been aimed to reintegrate new graduators into the society, by giving them priority on the recruitments. Absolutely, it is not discriminated on the recruitments.  The working duration in a week is 40 hours. The processes related to overworking is executed in the frame of collective agreement and labor law fundamentals. Apart from that, we take care to celebrate private days of our employees in order to make their belonging emotions strong and to get them to be be able to a breath even if just a bit, within our dense job tempo. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 20 It has been assembled meetings within the determined ranges with the intent to listen directly to suggestions and ideas of employees of Trend Auditing, with all kinds of improvement and developing activities that are associated with corporation’s proceeding. The most recent one of these meetings to our days, is our intercorporate communication meetings which was designed with the participation of our General Director and with all our employees who work with in its scope, on the General Director’s flat, in the period of May 2012. Within the scope of this meeting, the needed working plans have been created in the direction of ideas and suggestions which have come from our employees, suggestions and complaints have been considered, and the needed improvements have been done and will be done in order to take these into effect. The Improvements Which Have Been Made We have terminated our works on Saturdays in the direction of our employees’ common ideas, until the end of September. We gave a start to allow further education works in our company with the intent to correct their deficiencies on the needed topics. In the forthcoming years, we have been targeting to come up 50% by integrating our applications within the scope of Global compact, among survey questions and new objectives which will be determined every year, our continued improving works, the pleasure of intercorporate workers. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 21 The seminar having the topic “Turkish Commercial Code, Bag Law, and the bringings with it, , which is organized by IVIAD on the date 12 April 2011 , had been actualized in the IVIAD Conference Hall, co-ordinated by Trend Independent Auditing YMM inc. our Board Chairman Mehmet Sıtkı GÜNGÖR and by Yüksel ÖZUYSAL who is from our partners. In addition to this seminar, the seminar, named “New Turkish Commercial Code”, dated 23 March 2012, had been actualized in the IVIAD Conference Hall by Yüksel Özuysal who is from the partners of Trend Independent Auditing Certified Councillorship inc. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 22 ENVIRONMENT o Trend Auditing had been put signature to important changes and innovations, inside itself, in order to protect the environment, from the year it had established to our days. o Our company has been improving methods in order for more productive energy usage, in order to decrease energy consumption. That is why, during lunch breaks and at the end of business day, the lights have been turned of automatically with the intent to decrease electricity consumption on the both flats of Trend Auditing. In this way, the unnecessary electricity consumption has been inhibited in the out of working hours. We do not require for illumination during summer season, because of our company’s external facade is coated with high glasses. Furthermore, we use photoelectricity lighting system in our intercorporate flats. In the direction of these methods, it has been lived considerably reducement in our electricity consumption. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 23 Waste papers have been collected regularly by mounting them in paper garbages in order to get them entered in recycling in the area of paper saving. From this waste boxes, there exist 4 ones totaly, in both of our company’s flats. Thanks to these boxes, approximately, over 1 tone papers have been gone into recycling and, approximately 15 trees have continued to provide oxygen to our world. Besides papers, our all waste except metal have been mounting inside a seperate box, and they have been collected regularly by our municipal employees.The topics of the reports which are internal and external of the company, presentations, enlightenment, etc.,have been made by e-mails greatly, with the intent to prevent paper consumption. Thanks to these methods, it has been lived an important decrease in our stationery expenses. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 24 We can be able to use the back of the papers which their front sides were used, when we use our printer to take a printout. Our most important profit at the result of these precautions, is our trees that we have not decreased from our world. We choose our vehicles which have been donated with new technology as far as possible, with regards to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to minimum. We change our vehicles which have passed a certain time range, with the ones which are sensitive to the environment. We make a chart of the places where we will travel in inner city and the country. We actualize our travels accordingly, by considering the relationship distances which are close to each other. 30.000,00 20.000,00 2010 2011 10.000,00 2012 0,00 Liquid Fuel Stationery Travel Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 25 4.000,00 3.000,00 2010 2.000,00 2011 1.000,00 2012 0,00 Electricity Water Natural Gas The reduction in the electricity, water and natural gas expenditures from the year 2010 to our days, is directly proportional with the precautions that we have taken. The increment in our natural gas expenditure in the year 2012 has originated from the winter conditions which we have overwintered. Additionally to these taken precautions, we have also raisen awareness of our employees on the topic of getting them to become sensitive to environment in their private lives. * Until May of 2012 data. * Values are TL. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 26 FIGHTING AGAINST CORRUPTION  Struggling with acquitting the crime revenues in our country, had gained a legal identity via the law , numbered 4208, which had enacted in the year 1996, and via the law, numbered 5549, about acquitting crime revenues, within the scope of preventing terror financing, collecting data, taking suspicious operation declaratives , analying and evaluating them, had included among the tasks of Financial Crimes Investigation Board’s Presidency (MASAK) who render a service depending upon Finance Minister.  Because of our sector, which we are in it, involves auditing area; showing the required sensibility on the corruption and bribery topics, not to engaging in undocumented commercial activity, and making essential studies in order for our customers, as well, to get them to show the necessary sensibility on this topic, and putting our these studies forward lucidly, are the privileged task of Trend Auditing. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL 27 RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS We send shoe, clothing, school equipments, with the intent to help and support of schools/students and, other voluntary associations who are in need of help. We provide scholarship for one of our students by undertaking his/her school expenses. In addition to this, helping to every voluntary association, who is in need of help, is among objectives.  Center Ataturk Primary School (Erzurum)  28 February Primary School (Trabzon) İsmail Yıldırım Primary School (Of)  Alkaya Primary School (Van)  Bodrum Association of Disabled People (Bodrum)  Mevlana Girl Technical and Vocational High School, Orhan Veli Primary School, Emrullah Turanlı Nursery School , Göçbeyli Primary School, Mustafa Zeki Demir Primary School, Martyr Teacher Mehmet Fidan Primary School, Kazım Karabekir Primary School, Ercan Görür Primary School, Alemdar Pasha Primary School, Buhara Primary School, Fuat Köprülü Primary School, Elka Primary School, Yunus Emre Deaf School (İstanbul)  Martyr Mustafa Primary School (Eskişehir / Dinek)  Turkey Foundation for Children in need of Protection (Çanakkale / Bolluca)  125th Year (Iğdır)  Kırıkhan Özyörük Primary School (Hatay)  Tekkeköy Kindergarten (Samsun) Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 28 OBJECTIVES FOR 2013 AND ITS AFTER First of all, we want to indicate that, upon we have dealt in detail in our report, the things that we have made, are the commitment of things that we will make. From this point of view, later on, by intensifying our sensibility further over the necessary topics and, we will study to make our angle bigger , by having it reached to more people, in behalf of raising awareness every topic of high concern. We will never give a place to discrimination in next years, in the human resources area. In the area of workforce and working standards, we will listen mostly both to co-workers and to our customers that we provide them service, we will improve ourself further in order to solve the problem when it has originated. We will improve to enhance result percentages of our surveys that we have made twice in a year within the company. We will face to leave further resources to our future by trying to minimize our consumptions as far as possible that are made in environment area. Our attitude that we have shown in fighting against corruption, will continue in perpetuity. Reaching people and voluntary union who are in need of help in the coming years, on the corporate social responsibility projects, will never come out of our privileged objectives. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 29 IN CONCLUSION ; We believe to add invaluable information from the standpoint of our company, by taking part in United Nations Global Compact. Even to reach the awareness of the things that we have made and, to acquaint scores of people in this direction, are proud in qualification on behalf of our company. Showing contribution willingly by our employees to these principles without any enforce, and moving in the direction of these principles in their own private lives, can be shown among the things that our company have made for now. The precautions that are taken by us, affects our company in positive measure, materially and spiritually. Reserving our natural resources and using them in a way to leave them a legacy for our future, areprimarily task of all the people in the world. But, this task, pimarily, have created reactions by means of institutions; which have a social status on the world, and have raised awarness on individuals. As for that the next part have fallen to ourselves. The more we can be able to share, the more we have contributions to make to our world. The reporting that have made in this respect, have the characteristics of a tool, in both declaring the things that we have made and we will make, and, reaching to other people Consequently; this agreement, on behalf of our company, and on behalf of the other people, has provided us to get clear on topics having importance in the world, and clear the way for us to show further sensibility on these topics. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012 30 OUR CONTACT INFORMATION ADDRESS : Kayışdağı Street Number: 45 Atayol Plaza Storey: 34 Küçükbakkalköy Ataşehir ISTANBUL / TURKEY E-MAIL : info@trenddenetim.com PHONE : 0 216 573 92 92 FAX : 0 216 576 41 10 www.trenddenetim.com You may send your feedbacks related to our report to our e-mail address. Progress Report On Global Compact 2011 2011-2012
