2012 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress In 2011, Arrow Electronics, Inc. was honored to join the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. With its emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the United Nations Global Compact is embedded within our company values. OUR VALUES ETHICAL OPEN AND COURAGEOUS HIGH-PERFORMANCE, ACCOUNTABLE TEAMS WORKING EFFECTIVELY WITH NO BOUNDARIES INNOVATE AND EXECUTE PASSION FOR SERVICE EXCELLENCE The success of Arrow has been built on the application of our core values on a daily basis. Ethics are embedded in our conduct of the company’s business, honesty and courage in our business dealings with customers and suppliers around the world, personal accountability for our own actions, and a relentless pursuit of service excellence. This “Communication on Progress” provides an overview of Arrow’s activities in support of United Nations Global Compact Objectives. 2 Statement of Support 3 About Arrow 4 Principle: Human Rights 6 Principle: Labor 10 Principle: Environment 14 Principle: Anti-corruption United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 1 CEO Statement of Support Arrow Electronics, Inc. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Arrow’s intent is to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. The Global Compact and its principles are part of Arrow’s global strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) report that describes our company’s efforts to promote the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and, therefore, are submitting our first-year COP. Michael Long Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 2 ABOUT Arrow Company Profile Arrow Total Sales Arrow is a global provider of products, services, and solutions to industrial and commercial users dollars in millions $21,390 of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions, with 2011 sales of $21.4 billion. 18,745 Arrow serves as a supply channel partner for over 120,000 original equipment manufacturers, 14,684 contract manufacturers, and commercial customers through a global network of more than 390 locations in 53 countries. A Fortune 150 company with 15,700 employees worldwide, Arrow brings the technology solutions of its suppliers to a breadth of markets, including industrial equipment, information systems, automotive and transportation, aerospace and defense, medical and life sciences, telecommunications, and consumer electronics, and helps customers introduce innovative products, reduce their time to market, and enhance their overall competitiveness. 2009 2010 2011 Arrow Worldwide 2011 Sales by Geographic Region Argentina Estonia Italy Norway Spain Australia Finland Japan Philippines Sweden 18% Austria France Korea Poland Switzerland Asia/Pacific Belgium Germany Latvia Portugal Taiwan 50% Brazil Greece Lithuania Romania Thailand Americas Canada Hong Kong Luxembourg The Russian Federation Turkey China Hungary Malaysia Serbia Ukraine 32% EMEA* Croatia Iceland Mexico Singapore United States Czech Republic India Morocco Slovakia Vietnam *Europe, the Middle East and Africa Denmark Indonesia The Netherlands Slovenia England Israel New Zealand South Africa 2011 Sales by Business Segment About This Report 31% This report serves as Arrow Electronics, Inc.’s first Communication on Progress to the United Global Enterprise Computing Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The company joined the UNGC in 2011, and this report reflects Solutions our performance and progress towards meeting the Global Compact’s principles during calendar year 2011. This document also outlines our goals for continued improvement and plans to further build our corporate responsibility initiatives. Going forward, subsequent reports will annually 69% Global track our progress against those objectives. For further information about Arrow Electronics, Inc., Components please visit: www.arrow.com. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 3 PRINCIPLE Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 4 Human Rights Assessment Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow) human rights practices are embedded within the company’s various policies, including the Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”). Arrow respects all international human rights standards throughout our global operations. All staff are required to review and certify their understanding and compliance on an annual basis. The Code covers all regions and business units. It is also posted on the company’s external company website, http://investor.arrow.com. Any concerns about human rights or other issues can imposed by laws of their home country, potential be brought to the company’s attention via the Arrow violations of the Code, Arrow policy, or applicable law; AlertLine, a confidential, toll-free telephone hotline, or anything that may affect the vital interest of Arrow staffed by an independent third party that is available or the moral or physical integrity of its employees. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Interpreters are available for language assistance. Some countries’ Arrow’s Code includes an open door policy and laws restrict the type and manner in which information prohibits retaliation for anyone who chooses to report may be reported through the AlertLine. If these laws a concern. No employee will be disciplined, terminated, apply to a location, an AlertLine representative will or be retaliated against for asking questions or voicing direct the caller to someone who can assist with the concerns about the company’s legal and ethical question or concern in a manner that complies with obligations when acting in good faith. laws of that location. Country-specific guidance is 24/7 also available through the Compliance Services intranet site on the company’s global intranet site. Contact information for the AlertLine is also available on our public website. COUNTRY-SPECIFIC GUIDANCE AVAILABLE THROUGH Callers may use the AlertLine as a way to report AlertLine suspected accounting, financial, or audit matters; bribery; and, subject to any restriction that may be Compliance Services Goals Arrow will conduct an internal review of practices and procedures to fully embed Arrow’s commitment against all forms of human rights abuses including all forms of compulsory and child labor. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 5 PRINCIPLE Labor PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 6 Labor Assessment Arrow Electronics is against all forms of compulsory labor. All employees are able to terminate their employment. Additionally, Arrow does not support child labor in any matter or form. Arrow Electronics also recognizes the rights of employees to seek union representation or to represent themselves. Arrow has forged productive relationships with unions and work councils throughout the world, and values their partnership. Below is excerpted from the company’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and demonstrates Arrow’s commitment to human rights and the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation: Equal Employment Opportunity jokes; and verbal abuse. None of these behaviors are Arrow is committed to equal opportunity for all qualified acceptable in the workplace, whether sexual in nature employees and job applicants. All employment decisions or based on an employee’s other characteristics, (such as hiring, discipline, terminations, promotions, and such as gender, race, color, national origin, religion, or job assignments) are to be based on the company’s sexual orientation. needs and an employee’s performance and potential. If an employee believes they are being These decisions must be made without regard to a harassed or thinks that another employee person’s gender, race, color, national origin, age, religion, is being harassed, we encourage reporting sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected it so that rapid and constructive action by applicable law. Discrimination of any kind based on can be taken. these personal characteristics will not be tolerated. Early reporting and intervention has proven to be the Professionalism and Harassment most effective method of resolving actual or perceived Every Arrow employee should treat each person with incidents of harassment or discrimination. Arrow needs whom he or she comes into contact on Arrow business the assistance of its employees to solve the problem with dignity and respect at all times. All employees before it becomes severe or pervasive. throughout the Arrow world are entitled to work and to attend work-related events in a professional Open Door Policy atmosphere, free from all forms of harassment, including Arrow has an Open Door Policy. If any employee wishes sexual harassment. to discuss any matter directly with someone at a level higher than their manager, they are encouraged to do No one, at any level of the organization, may in any way so, without fear of reprisal. They may contact any senior threaten or imply that submission to, or rejection of, manager, including the chairman of the board, the chief sexual advances will in any way influence decisions executive officer, the general counsel, any president, about employment, compensation, promotion, assignthe vice president of global human resources, and any ments, or any other condition of employment at Arrow. other manager with whom it may be appropriate for Conduct that may create an offensive work environment the matter to be discussed. No manager may restrict or “sexually charged” atmosphere is prohibited. Such or discourage exercise of this policy. an environment can be created in many different ways, including unwelcome remarks, gestures, or physical In addition to the Open Door Policy, employees also have contact; the display or circulation of sexually explicit or the option to discuss this matter with the chief compliance abusive pictures or other materials; sexual or derogatory officer or by e-mail at compliance@arrow.com. Employees United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 7 Labor Assessment may also contact the senior vice president of human In order to effectively foster an environment where resources or use the Arrow AlertLine, a confidential, everyone feels included and enabled to reach their toll-free telephone hotline, staffed by an independent full potential, we all work together to ensure that: third party that is available 24 hours a day, seven days • Our workplace mirrors the marketplace at a week. all levels of the organization. • Our managers are equipped to Arrow prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports effectively manage differences. discrimination or harassment or who participates in an • Our work environment supports investigation of such reports. Retaliation for reporting a culture of diversity and inclusion. harassment or discrimination, or for participating in an • Arrow has over 3,700 online courses investigation of a claim of harassment or discrimination, available for all employees. is unlawful and a serious violation of this policy, and violators will be subject to disciplinary action. Arrow has over Arrow strongly encourages its employees to report any harassment to appropriate company officials. Employees who believe they have experienced conduct that may be contrary to Arrow policy or who have concerns 3,700 online courses available about such matters may report their concerns to their FOR ALL EMPLOYEES immediate manager/supervisor or any member of the Human Resources department before the conduct Training and Development becomes severe or pervasive. Arrow University is the company’s global learning management system which provides all employees Global Diversity and Inclusion Statement with a wide variety of on-demand, self-paced training As a global company, Arrow’s employees, customers, and is available in multiple languages. All employees and suppliers come from diverse backgrounds and are required to participate in an online training course cultures. At Arrow, we believe a culture of diversity entitled “Mutual Respect,” as well as Arrow’s Worldwide and inclusion positively affects the workplace and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training. The drives superior business performance, which allows Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics us to compete successfully in a global marketplace. course is a required annual certification. In addition Diversity provides a broad spectrum of views and to the required all-employee trainings on the Code, experiences for employees to draw on and promotes anti-bribery, mutual respect (harassment prevention), creativity and innovation. and information protection and privacy, there are an evolving list of classes on Arrow University. Currently, Arrow fosters a diverse and inclusive environment that that list has over 3,700 online courses available for all encourages an open exchange of ideas, where all employees and at least 20 instructor-led trainings with employees are included, valued, and respected. multiple time offerings. We believe embracing and learning from individual differences gives our company a sustained, competitive advantage that makes us better able to serve all customers, suppliers, and employees. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 8 Labor Assessment ARROW Global Career and Talent Management System CLEAR (SuccessFactors) is Arrow’s global career and talent management system which empowers employees supports employees’ to manage many career-related activities in one place. Within CLEAR, employees can create their employee volunteer efforts via the profile, maintain their professional development plan, company’s volunteer track progress against their performance goals, complete the steps required for the annual employee GRANT PROGRAM. performance review process, and search/apply for internal job opportunities around the world. CLEAR Community Service As active and engaged citizens, Arrow employees is available to all Arrow employees and offers translaacross the globe are making a difference in their tions in 15 different languages. communities — both through volunteer service and through their charitable donations. That spirit of caring Global Performance Management can be found in their charitable giving to organizations Arrow’s annual Employee Performance Review (EPR) that address needs in their community and around follows a globally consistent, integrated, end-to-end the world. For example, Arrow supports employees’ performance management process and timeline. The volunteer efforts via the company’s volunteer grant process is a “blended” performance management program, and the company has matched employees’ approach that factors in both performance goals and donations, dollar for dollar, for recent relief efforts competencies. The majority of employees worldwide related to the earthquakes in Haiti and Japan, the participate in the blended performance management Colorado wildfires and Hurricane Sandy. approach; there are certain roles like logistics or administrative roles that participate in assessment against competencies only. Within the process, the employee is given the opportunity to provide performance comments, and managers rate employees’ performance. The EPR process culminates in a year-end formal performance evaluation discussion. Goals Arrow will continue to harmonize its employment policies and programs to ensure consistent administration across all regions while also recognizing regional differences in employment regulations. Additionally, we will enhance the use of human resources information systems as a reliable, single system of employee record providing consistent and accurate reporting of employee information globally. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 9 PRINCIPLE Environment PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 10 Environment Assessment Arrow is a global provider of products, services, and solutions to industrial and commercial users of electronic components and enterprise computing solutions. We seek to ensure that our products comply with all applicable laws, regulations and approval standards to protect the environment and human life or health. We strive to handle products in our distribution network and provide value-added services in an environmentally friendly way. This means the use of environmentally friendly technologies, avoidance of emissions and waste, and the use of energy-saving solutions. Environmental Responsibility encourages reduction of waste and ensures proper Our framework for defining our environmental objectives recycling of non-reusable materials. Arrow’s EAD and targets and measuring performance encompasses Business utilizes an Environmental Quality Management four priorities: System (EQMS) to maintain the industry’s highest • Deliver environmentally responsible products standards for operational excellence and continuous and services through our Value Add Programs improvement. The EQMS is utilized to: and global components organizations on • Maximize the re-use of electronic assets behalf of our supplier partners. through refurbishing, rebuilding, repairing • Demonstrate environmental responsibility by and harvesting functional parts. adopting an environmental position that • Strive for zero waste to landfill. ensures compliance with future regulations • Conduct chain of custody processes that and policies. minimize the risk that neither Arrow nor its • Reduce waste and prevent pollution by operating recycling partners export nonfunctional Arrow global facilities in compliance with electronic systems or parts to non-Arrowrelevant environmental requirements, and approved facilities. work to conserve resources and minimize • Prohibit prison or child labor to be utilized harmful environmental impacts. for any handling or processing of materials. • Continually improve and evaluate our environmental performance and foster Arrow’s EAD Business performs internal and external a culture of environmental responsibility audits to validate compliance with these principles and employee engagement. and requires all of its recycling partners to complete an extensive audit to verify compliance with our Arrow’s environmental responsibility initiatives environmental standards. encompass a wide range of operational activities, including procurement practices, limits on hazardous Over 140,000 substances, eco-efficient packaging, systems to reduce energy consumption and harvest natural lighting, water conservation and recycling. Our Electronic Asset Disposition (EAD) Business places POUNDS OF OFFICE-GRADE PAPER a strong emphasis on adhering to the highest standards Recycled in the last 12 months. of responsible recycling. This commitment is grounded in a business and compliance model that promotes re-use, United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 11 Environment Assessment 20 In 2011, we partnered with a vendor providing confidential shredding services to ensure disposal of our paper waste in an environmentally friendly way. These efforts have reduced landfills by 189 cubic yards, saved 29 thousand WAREHOUSE LOCATIONS gallons of oil, and resulted in 1,072 trees being saved. ISO 14001 Compliant Quality Control Compliance We measure and track compliance with numerous Eight of our locations are certified as Recycling Industry quality and regulatory standards at our 36 warehouse Operating Standard (RIOS ®) compliant. RIOS provides and processing locations. a framework for a comprehensive, integrated management system that includes key operational and continual Twenty of our locations are certified as ISO 14001 improvement elements for quality, environmental, and compliant. The ISO 14000 environmental managehealth and safety (QEH&S) performance for the recycling ment standards exist to help organizations: industry. Our goal is to certify one more location during • Minimize how their operations (processes, the coming year. etc.) negatively affect the environment (i.e., cause adverse changes to air, water, or land). Hazardous Substances • Comply with applicable laws, regulations, and Arrow is also committed to eliminating hazardous other environmentally oriented requirements. substances and recognizes the importance of such • Continually improve in the above. information to our customers, particularly in light of the Our goal is to certify five more locations in the China Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) coming year. labeling laws, EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction (REACH) regulation, and both the current Nine of our locations are certified as OHSAS 18001 and proposed EU RoHS directive. In order to address compliant. OHSAS 18000 is an international occupathese issues, Arrow has approached its suppliers to tional health and safety management system request that they provide us with a method of identifying specification. Our goal is to certify two more locations the RoHS status of products, China RoHS labeling in the coming year. information, REACH, and other relevant hazardous substance information. Eight of our locations are certified as R2 compliant for responsible recycling. The R2 standard is a voluntary, We have developed a range of solutions that are market-based mechanism for ensuring best practices, intended to support compliancy efforts. In all cases, which would also provide essential information/assurance our suppliers are the original source of this information, to prospective customers. The standard builds on an and Arrow is making it available to customers via ISO-style, Plan-Do-Check-Act management system these methods: as a platform, and integrates environmental, health and • RoHS compliance status and detailed safety management, media sanitization, export and technical information on a part-by-part disposal restrictions, chain-of-custody accountability, basis available through manufacturer and transportation controls. Our goal is to certify two datasheets on www.arrownac.com. more locations in the coming year. • EU and/or China RoHS status on a reasonable number of part numbers available through Arrow’s local sales offices (dependent upon receipt of this information from the component supplier). United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 12 Environment Assessment Supply Chain Protection Carbon Footprint With regard to addressing counterfeit parts within Arrow utilizes “telepresence” technology in four strategic the supply chain, Arrow maintains processes and locations in order to reduce business travel, which, in procedures to mitigate the risk of receiving, storing, turn, reduces the company’s carbon footprint. or shipping counterfeit devices. This is accomplished through the management of purchasing, identification, All primary distribution centers have in-house verification, and return procedures. Additionally, recycling programs in place to minimize landfill Arrow actively participates with industry groups to impact. Consideration of recycled content is given develop and implement best practices and industry when purchasing commodities to be used within these standards aimed at protecting the supply chain. facilities. Additionally, new equipment purchased is assessed for energy efficiency. Goals In 2013, Arrow plans to strengthen its recycling initiatives currently under way at facilities across the globe. Additionally, as we undertake the relocation of a major European facility in 2013, we plan to place a strong emphasis on leveraging this relocation as an opportunity to reduce the company’s energy consumption and carbon footprint. Arrow also plans to examine opportunities to expand our usage of high-efficiency LED lighting in its facilities as we seek to further reduce energy consumption. In 2013, we also expect to add new certifications of our facilities. We plan to achieve: • Five more ISO 14000 certifications • Two more OHSAS 18000 certifications • Two more R2-compliant locations, and • One more RIOS®-compliant location. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 13 PRINCIPLE Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 14 Anti-Corruption Assessment Arrow’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) applies to all employees of Arrow and its subsidiaries, including officers and directors. Every Arrow employee is bound not to violate its terms. No section of the Code will apply where or to the extent that it would violate any applicable law. Arrow is committed to the principles and guidelines Arrow’s internal audit team performs anti-bribery contained in the Code. This is an important part of audits throughout the year. everyone’s job and essential to achieving our goals as a company. Every employee is expected to know and Arrow has developed its Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery follow the Code. They are encouraged to ask questions, Statement and Compliance Guide (the “Guide”). The and Arrow’s Law Department and Worldwide Compliance purpose of the Guide is to educate employees and Services are at their disposal. representatives on Arrow’s anti-corruption and antibribery guidelines, policies, processes, and expectations. The Code covers such areas as: The Guide also serves as a preventive tool to assist • Dealing with consultants and agents employees and representatives in recognizing, detecting, • Gifts and entertainment and avoiding potential violations of the various anti• Anti-bribery bribery laws by providing examples of actual cases and • Confidentiality hypothetical questions. The Guide is updated regularly • Financial integrity by Arrow’s Worldwide Compliance Services team and • Insider trading is posted on the company’s intranet site. • Antitrust and competition • Confidential reporting The Guide also serves as a baseline which is used when developing and updating policies of divisions, Arrow’s Board of Directors reviews the Code each affiliates, and subsidiaries of Arrow. These policies are year to ensure it is timely and up to date. It is Arrow’s subject to central review for consistency with Arrow’s policy to require all employees to review the Code overall policy on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. annually, certify that they have read and understood the Code, and agree to comply with it. The certification It is our goal to complete a minimum of two business process is completed via a web-based training and policy reviews during 2013 at business locations still certification program. Once successfully logged in to to be determined. These reviews will be conducted the course, employees will find links to the Code as well by Arrow’s Worldwide Compliance Services team as contact information, should they have questions. partnering with finance, human resources, and other leaders from the respective businesses. Arrow requires that all employees complete a web-based training program on the subject of anti-bribery. This online training is provided in the employee’s local language, is available around the clock, and provides participants with a comprehensive understanding of what is, and is not, permissible as they undertake their responsibilities each day as Arrow employees. In addition to the online curriculum, live, instructor-led training is also provided by Arrow’s Worldwide Compliance Services team and the company’s Law Department. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 15 Anti-Corruption Assessment Insider Trading Arrow’s policy goes beyond the minimum requirements Employees who have access to confidential information of those laws and prohibits: about Arrow, our customers, competitors, or suppliers • Setting or even discussing prices, terms are not permitted to use or share that information for of sale, or other competitive information trading in stocks or for any other purpose except the with competitors, or attending meetings proper conduct of Arrow business. All information about with competitors at which such topics Arrow, any of our customers, competitors, or suppliers are discussed. that has not been made available to the general public • Dividing customers, markets, or territories should be considered confidential or “non-public” with competitors. information. To use “non-public” information for personal • Attempting to dictate or control a financial benefit or to “tip” others so they can make customer’s resale prices, or allowing better investment decisions is unethical and illegal. a supplier to dictate our resale prices. • Engaging in any other conduct that If any questions exist about whether an employee may violates any applicable antitrust or buy or sell stock in Arrow or any of the companies competition law. with which we do business, they are instructed to contact Worldwide Compliance Services or the Employees making decisions for Arrow in the Law Department. marketplace such as where or how much to buy or sell, with whom to deal, what price to pay or charge, Antitrust and Competition and what advertising, promotion, and credit terms All employees must abide by their national laws and to offer, must do so independently, without any Arrow’s policy governing competition and antitrust. agreement or understanding with competitors, and Employees who deal directly with competitors, without imposing requirements which unduly restrict suppliers, customers, or trade associations need the freedom of our suppliers and customers to make to understand how those laws and our policy apply their own independent decisions. to their work. Questions on this subject may be addressed to Worldwide Compliance Services or For 2013, Arrow plans to introduce a web-based the Law Department. The antitrust laws are designed training program dedicated to the subject of antitrust. to promote competition by prohibiting agreements The training will be available in employees’ local or understandings between companies that limit languages and will be required for employees involved competition, and prohibiting conduct by individual in marketplace decisions such as setting prices for goods companies that may unfairly create or promote a and services. Our goal for 2013 is to have employees monopoly or harm other entities. continue to spend a significant amount of training time on this subject. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 16 Anti-Corruption Assessment Corruption and Bribery Reporting of Financial and The laws of many of the countries in which Arrow Non-Financial Information companies operate prohibit bribery. For example, the We have an obligation to make and keep books, records, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect our United Kingdom (UK) Anti-Bribery Act prohibit bribes transactions and to strive to prepare financial reports and to governments and other officials (such as political financial statements that are not false or misleading, candidates, political parties and their officials, and that present full, fair, accurate, timely, and underemployees of government-owned business, United standable disclosure. Employees responsible for any Nations officials, etc.). The UK Anti-Bribery Act also aspect of our internal accounting controls and financial prohibits bribes to commercial parties. Both the FCPA and tax-reporting systems must be vigilant in recording and the UK Anti-Bribery Act apply to activities that entries accurately and honestly and in a manner take place anywhere in the world. A violation can be consistent with all applicable legal requirements. a serious criminal offense for all involved. A violation can result in fines and penalties for companies, and Protection and Proper Use of Arrow Assets fines, penalties, and imprisonment for individuals. Part of every employee’s job is protecting and making Accordingly, employees must ensure that payments efficient use of all of Arrow’s property, including made by, or on behalf of, Arrow are made only for information, computing and communication equipment legitimate business purposes. Under no circumstance and systems, materials, supplies, software, hardware, is it acceptable for an employee to offer or give anyand facilities, among other items. Among the most thing of value directly or indirectly to any commercial valuable of these items is the company’s “intellectual counterparties (including their employees or officers), property,” including our trade secrets, our trademarks government officials, government contractors or and copyrights, business and marketing plans, engineersubcontractors, political candidates, or political parties, ing and manufacturing ideas, designs, databases, in a home country or anywhere else, in order to obtain records, salary information, and any unpublished or maintain business, or to gain any advantage of any financial data and reports. All of Arrow’s assets are to kind. Under the anti-bribery laws, Arrow, its employees, be used for Arrow business only. Every Arrow employee and its agents also are prohibited from doing indirectly with access to Arrow’s information or property has an what we are prohibited from doing directly—we cannot absolute responsibility to manage these Arrow assets make any payment to a third party if all or any part of the with the highest level of integrity and to avoid any misuse payment will be given to a person for a prohibited purpose. of such assets. Fraud, theft, embezzlement, or other Arrow could be held liable for such payments even if improper means of diverting corporate funds is, of Arrow did not know, but should have known, that the course, illegal as well as unethical. Preventing the theft, payment was going to a person for a prohibited purpose. misuse, or misappropriation of Arrow’s property by others should be a concern of every Arrow employee. If an employee has knowledge of a violation of this Such losses can often be limited through normal policy, the employee is encouraged to report it to precautions, through handling Arrow assets in a prudent Arrow’s general counsel, the chief compliance officer, manner, and through compliance with our established the Law Department or Arrow’s AlertLine. internal control procedures and processes. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 17 Anti-Corruption Assessment Conflicts of Interest These examples do not include all possible conflicts Employees must act in the best interests of Arrow and of interest, and some minor or apparent conflicts may avoid conflicts of interest. A conflict of interest arises be acceptable if they are fully disclosed and approved when an employee’s private interests either conflict, by management. (For certain types of conflicts, only or appear to conflict, with Arrow’s interests. Employees Arrow’s board of directors may waive these requirements.) may not take for themselves or others business If an employee is dealing with a situation that they suspect opportunities that have been discovered because of might be a conflict of interest, or requires a waiver for their position with Arrow or the use of Arrow property an existing conflict, they must contact Worldwide or information. No employee may compete with Arrow Compliance Services or the Law Department. directly or indirectly. It is not possible to list all potential conflicts of interest, but the following are some examples Employee Political Activity of unacceptable conflicts: Personal political activities must be kept separate • Profiting from a personal business from Arrow. Any such activities should not be carried transaction that involves Arrow. on in a way that interferes with job responsibilities or • Doing work for, or getting paid by, a supplier, creates a conflict of interest. If an employee holds or customer, or competitor of Arrow. seeks political office, they must do so on their own • Having a financial or other type of interest in time and cannot give the appearance of acting or a supplier, customer, or competitor of Arrow speaking on Arrow’s behalf. Similarly, if making a (a shareholding of less than three percent in political contribution, an employee may not refer in a publicly traded company is permitted). any way to their employment at Arrow or use Arrow • Conducting Arrow business with a family funds in connection with their contributions. They member, or taking a business action that is may not accept a political position based on their intended to benefit a family member. status as an Arrow employee without first obtaining • Permitting an employee to work in any written approval from the chief compliance officer situation where a member of that employee’s or the general counsel. family is in a position to influence the terms or conditions of his or her employment. Relationships and Fair Dealing • Dating or conducting a romantic relationship Customers, suppliers, competitors, and colleagues must with a fellow employee if in a position to be dealt with fairly. We avoid at all times manipulation, influence the terms or conditions of that concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepperson’s employment or if that employee resentation of facts, or any other practice that could be can influence the terms or conditions of considered unfair dealing. We treat customers and employment. suppliers honestly and fairly. Sales and purchasing • Giving or accepting special treatment from decisions should be based on price, product quality, any supplier, customer, or competitor of service quality, and the consistency and dependability Arrow. This includes giving or taking money, of customer and supplier relationships involved. Giving personal gifts, non-business travel, discounts, or receiving any kickbacks, bribes, or a similar payment and loans. of any sort is prohibited. Speak honestly of customers, suppliers, and competitors. We avoid exaggeration, damaging or misleading remarks, and the improper or unnecessary disclosure of confidential information. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 18 Anti-Corruption Assessment Gifts and Entertainment a commitment to abide by all relevant anticorruption Gifts and entertainment should be offered or accepted laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt only as a means of showing good will and never to gain Practices Act, and provides for inspection of the an inappropriate business advantage. We do not want consultant’s or agent’s business records by Arrow. to gain a business advantage through improper means. All engagements require the approval of an employee’s Business gifts that compromise, or even appear to business unit president or the managing director of compromise, our ability to make objective and fair their region, as applicable. Any engagement in which business decisions are inappropriate. Gifts to existing an independent registered public accounting firm is to and potential customers and suppliers should generally be retained requires the consent of the chief financial be limited to small promotional items. Business enterofficer. Any engagement of an IT consultant requires tainment should be in keeping with the policy of each the consent of the chief information officer. Before specific Arrow company and must be legal, in keeping retaining any outside legal firm, an employee must with the highest standards of business conduct, and obtain the consent of the general counsel. Similarly, not extravagant. If an employee receives a gift that is the engagement of a human resources consultant not appropriate under Arrow policy, they should return requires the consent of the senior vice president of it with an appropriate explanation. If it is not possible human resources. to do so, the gift should be turned over to the Arrow’s Law Department. Finance Code of Ethics Additionally, Arrow has a Finance code of ethics because Consultants, Agents, and Representatives we are committed to ensuring ethical conduct in the Arrow may in certain circumstances utilize the services practice of financial management throughout the world. of independent third parties, such as consultants, agents, The chief executive officer and senior financial managers and representatives, to assist in its business activities. hold an important and elevated role in corporate These persons or entities can have a significant governance. They are in a unique position to ensure that impact, not only on Arrow’s sales, but also on its image all stakeholders’ interests are appropriately balanced, and reputation. protected, and preserved. This code provides principles to which the chief executive officer and financial managers Accordingly, it is important that these persons and entities are expected to adhere and advocate. It embodies be selected and screened carefully. Prior to engaging rules regarding individual and peer responsibilities, consultants, agents, or representatives, a due diligence as well as responsibilities to Arrow, the public, and process should be undertaken that identifies the ownerother stakeholders. ship and reputation of the entity, as well as securing United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 19 Anti-Corruption Assessment CODE OF ETHICS FOR FINANCE 1. A 2. P 3. C  ct with honesty and integrity, avoiding actual or apparent conflicts of interest in personal and professional relationships.  rovide information that is accurate, complete, objective, relevant, timely, and understandable.  omply with rules and regulations of federal, state, provincial, and local governments, and other appropriate private and public regulatory agencies. The chief executive 4. Act in good faith, responsibly, with due care, competence, and diligence, officer and all Arrow without misrepresenting material facts or allowing one’s independent judgment to be subordinated. senior financial managers 5. Respect the confidentiality of information acquired in the course of one’s work, except when authorized or otherwise legally obligated to disclose. and their staff will: Confidential information acquired in the course of one’s work will not be used for personal advantage. 6. S  hare knowledge and maintain skills important and relevant to constituents’ needs. 7. Proactively promote ethical behavior as a responsible partner among peers and subordinates, in the work environment, and the community. 8. Achieve responsible use of and control over all assets and resources employed or entrusted. 9. Be accountable for adhering to this code of ethics. 10. P  romptly bring to the attention of the chief financial officer (or alternatively the general counsel, chief executive officer, or audit committee) any information the financial manager may have concerning: (a) a ny violation of this code, including any actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the company’s financial reporting, disclosures, or internal controls; (b) a ny significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the company’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial data; (c) a ny fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the company’s financial reporting, disclosures, or internal controls; (d) a ny evidence of material violation of the securities or other laws, rules, or regulations applicable to the company and the operation of its business by the company or any of its agents; or (e) w hether any material information of which the financial manager may become aware affects the disclosures made by the company in its public filings or otherwise requires disclosure. Any employee who fails to comply with the disclosure In 2013, Arrow plans to introduce a Business Partner Code requirements in this code or the recommended action of Conduct. The Business Code will address subjects includthat the company deems necessary to resolve a conflict, ing, but not limited to, compliance with laws, professionalism or otherwise violates this code, is subject to disciplinary and harassment in the workplace, health, safety and action up to and including termination of employment, in environment, labor practices, universal human rights and accordance with local employment laws. It is understood confidential reporting through Arrow’s AlertLine. Upon that the board of directors shall determine appropriate its implementation, Arrow will expect all new resellers, actions to be taken in the event of violations of this code consultants and agents to adopt Arrow’s Business Code by the chief executive officer or the company’s senior or certify that their own internal policies do not conflict financial officers. with Arrow’s Business Code. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 20 Anti-Corruption Assessment Goals In 2013, Arrow plans to introduce a Business Partner Code of Conduct that will apply to all new resellers, consultants and agents of the company and its subsidiaries (the “Business Partners”). The code will address subjects including, but not limited to, compliance with laws, professionalism and harassment in the workplace, health, safety and environment, labor practices, universal human rights and confidential reporting through Arrow’s AlertLine. In 2013, we also plan to continue to expand our internal anti-bribery training initiatives. Our objective is to build even greater awareness of the company’s legal and ethical requirements in regard to anti-bribery across our global workforce. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 21 Arrow Electronics, Inc. 7459 S. Lima Street Englewood, CO 80112-5816 (303) 824-4000
