INVESTMENT ENERGY DEMAND girls' Campus un global compact progress report EDUCATION KEY DATA fe society YOUTH SCIENCE i L COMPETITION CORPORATE GOALS for ASSOCIATE COMMITMENT SOCIAL AFFAIRS th~ e d t Primavera vi In y ilit nsib CO2-reduction hydroelectricity Resp DIVERSITY o environment TRAINING energieTRANSITION TO NEW Cli 19,000 NEW JOBS ma FORMS OF ENERGY efficiency te ot Pr ec n conserving tio 6,600 APPRENTICES ovative stre managementCli resources n systems mate Protectio n ASSOCIATES In EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES ~ FLEXIBLE WORKING HOURS SENIOR EXPERTS 6 NETWORKS ty rsi ive D ng SUPER EFFICIENCY PORTFOLIO clean diesel hybrid code of business conduct 4.2 BN ON pat ents 4.1 26 patents 4.12 6 pa compliAnce VALUES ten RESEARCH & company 26 locations IN 4.1 DEVELOPMENT RENEWABLE ENERGY products ts 60 COUNTRIES of social respo STAKEHOLDER dialog ples STRATEGynsibility megatrends 38,500 ASSOCIATES IN RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ci REMANUFACTURING rin E-MOBILITY P house of orientation CULTURE 188 Sin c e Bosch Sustainability Report 2011 Mile 1961 new technology helps to cut fuel consumption and lower harmful Support for gifted emissions. young people Stones 1999 → On the occasion of its 75th anniversary, Bosch donates one Senior experts million German marks to support in our sustainable gifted young people. → Bosch sets up Bosch Manageactions ment Support GmbH (BMS) 1973 to make use of the expert knowledge of former associates Environmental between the ages of 60 and 70. Guideline Since then, these retirees have provided expert support for → By implementing a binding global projects. guideline, management makes environmental protection a firm 2004 1906 part of the Group's corporate principles. Global Compact Eight-hour working day → Robert Bosch is one of the 1985 → The company underlines its ­commitment to eco-friendly and first entrepreneurs in Germany Jugend forscht socially compatible globalization to introduce the eight-hour workby signing up to the United Naing day. tions' Global Compact Initiative. → Bosch becomes a sponsor of the “Jugend forscht” competition 1910 in Baden-Württemberg. Since 2007 then, the company has organized Committed and financed the regional final for Charter of Diversity philanthropist the 15 to 21-year-old age group. → Bosch joins the “Charter of → A donation of one million German marks to Stuttgart Polytech1993 Diversity” set up by a number of German companies. nic signals the start of the civic Recycling center and social initiatives established by Robert Bosch. A responsible 2010 → Under the management of citizen and philanthropist, the comLithium-ion batteries Bosch, leading manufacturers of pany founder contributes to the power tools set up a joint recywell-being of the community many → The first hybrid vehicles with cling center in Willershausen. more times in the years to come. Bosch drive technology are launched. In the same year, series 1995 1929 production of lithium-ion batterEnvironmental ies begins at SB LiMotive, a joint Bosch Hilfe management system venture with Samsung. → Robert Bosch establishes the Bosch-Hilfe e.V. benevolent fund, thus laying the foundation for → Robert Bosch GmbH decides to 2011 introduce an environmental mancompany pension benefits. Bosch InterCampus agement system at all production locations. Program 1937 Robert Bosch GmbH 1997 → As part of the “Bosch InterCampus Program,” the company Common rail will spend around 50 million → To ensure that the company reeuros to support universities and mained in family ownership, Robresearch projects around the → The introduction of the Bosch ert Bosch changed its form from world over the next ten years. common-rail high-pressure diesel an AG, or stock corporation, into injection system marks the birth a GmbH, or close corporation. of the modern diesel engine. This Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Dr. Volkmar Denner, Chairman of the Board of Management of Robert Bosch GmbH Responsibility is more than just a management concept. It is a mindset. Our company founder Robert Bosch wanted a company that benefits society, a company that generates social capital beyond its products and services. At Bosch, working to ensure a bright future has been company policy for 126 years. Our definition of sustainability has grown organically over generations of associates, and is not merely the product of decisions made in the boardroom. This is something we are extremely proud of. I am one of more than 300,000 associates who represent the Bosch Group's strategic imperative “Invented for life.” Cutting-edge technology provides solutions for the sustainability challenges of our times, whether they relate to climate and environmental protection, resource conservation, or the mobility of the future. We are pooling our innovative strength in these areas, with 38,500 researchers and engineers, more than 4,100 patents filed in 2011, and a development budget for sustainable products of more 3 “The major challenges we face require a shared mindset and approach – and they always need a leader, either in the form of countries, companies, or people.” Dr. Volkmar Denner than two billion euros. Solutions developed with the aim of conserving resources and protecting the environment already account for 40 percent of Bosch Group sales. These technologies not only create value – they maintain it, too. This will help Bosch secure its lasting success. Individuals alone cannot tackle the major challenges we face. They require a culture of shared responsibility, a shared mindset and approach – and they always need a leader, either in the form of countries, companies, or people. Bosch is leading by example through its commitment and expertise. One of my predecessors, Hans Lutz Merkle, coined the phrase: “Leading also means serving.” We believe that substance is more important than appearance, and this trait has perhaps helped our company develop from its roots in the German state of Baden-Württemberg into a global player. Results are what count for us. This compact report highlights some of our main commitments to a sustainable future. It also documents recent measures and the progress we have made as part of the UN Global Compact, the ten principles of which we agreed to when we signed up to this initiative in 2004. I hope you enjoy reading our report and would encourage you to read more on our sustainability website csr.bosch.com. After all, responsibility is multifaceted. Best regards, Dr. Volkmar Denner Chairman of the Board of Management of Robert Bosch GmbH 4 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Thinking – and acting – responsibly “In the long term, an honest and fair approach to doing business will always be the most profitable. And the business world holds such an approach in much higher esteem than is generally imagined.” Robert Bosch made this statement in 1921. To this day, the words of our company founder guide the company in matters of responsible corporate management. Think globally – act locally. Bosch engages in dialog around the world with people inside and outside the company. Our corporate management is guided by the principle that we need to understand each other in order to learn from one another. This is regardless of whether we are talking about the future of mobility, responsible use of raw materials, or how we wish to live and work together in future. Bosch devotes considerable attention to the complex change processes that are informed by megatrends such as the globalization of markets and lifestyles, climate change, and finite natural resources. These megatrends span decades and shape the long-term development of our markets. The current boom in smartphones and eBikes, or the discussion surrounding the transition to new forms of energy are prime examples of the change occurring. The global network known as the internet of things and services is contributing to the speed and scope of this change. And all of this is happening in the context of a ­rapidly growing world population, which has a strong impact on all of the challenges ­mentioned herein. 5 A global approach to managing global challenges: Scholarship holders of the Fellowship Program for promising young leaders from the United States in front of Robert Bosch House, the company founder’s former home. Demographic change is also affecting companies' working practices and HR policies. Bosch promotes the education and training of young people worldwide. Moreover, the company is globally committed to equal opportunities for all, and offers new employment models such as part-time work and jobsharing. Requirements vary greatly from one region to another – and this is something we endeavor to reflect in our policies. Bosch employs more than 300,000 associates worldwide to develop and manufacture products that improve the quality of life. More than 6,600 young people are ­currently training with us. Our Code of Business Conduct, which sets out the principles of integrity and rules of behavior that are geared to our corporate goals, applies to all associates in equal measure. It defines all the relevant legal and internal regulations, including the “Basic principles of social responsibility at Bosch,” which were approved in 2004. In conjunction with the Bosch Values, which describe the company's ethos in its dealings with business partners, investors, associates, and society, the Code of Business Conduct lays the foundation for the trust placed in Bosch and the company's global success. Today, Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH holds 92 percent of Bosch shares. The Stiftung carries on the civic and social endeavors of our company's founder in contemporary form. It sees itself as a foundation that pursues its objectives with programs and institutions of its own. The Stiftung also supports the projects and initiatives of other organizations that address the challenges society faces. Robert Bosch Stiftung mainly promotes international understanding, welfare, education, and health. // More information on our company can be found here and more information on the Robert Bosch Stiftung can be found here 6 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Action for the environment: The resource cycle Mitigating climate change, protecting the environment, and conserving natural resources are three of the major challenges we face in the 21st century, especially in these times of global trade and business. Bosch offers innovative, forward-looking technologies which show that a commitment to the environment makes sound economic sense. A s a leading technology and service com­ pany, Bosch has been fulfilling its responsibility to protect the environment Bosch eXchange program Our remanufacturing activities in the automotive sector via our Bosch eXchange proand the climate for over 30 years. The envigram is one example of how we do this. It is ronmental management systems at our based on an intelligent return system for production plants are a good example of old components which no longer work. By how we do this. We have methodically taking back and remanufacturing used expanded these systems so that more than parts, the company reduces its resource half of Bosch’s 259 sites are now certified in footprint and its materials expenses – enaline with the international environmental bling it to pass these advantages on to its standard ISO 14001. By 2020, we also want customers. This makes Bosch’s remanufacto slash carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by tured spare parts for vehicle repairs up to 20 percent and improve energy efficiency 30 to 40 percent less expensive than their by 20 percent. On top of this, we are pronew equivalents. Demand for our eXchange moting the sustainable use of natural components has soared around the world resources throughout the company by in recent years. The market segment is conoffering solutions which help people continuously expanding in Europe, recording Necessity is the mother of serve resources both at home and at work. considerably higher growth rates than the invention: scarce resources These efforts are not only the result of our traditional parts business. We expect the are making remanufacturing company's awareness of environmental more and more important. issues – they are also based on economic considerations. As a consequence of globalization, the resources needed by industry are growing increasingly scarce. To counteract the resulting price and supply risks, Bosch pays close attention to reducing the materials it uses. The company also seeks alternatives to rare materials and makes consistent attempts to integrate them back into the material cycle. 7 Key figures for 2011 Total waste generated → 0.5 million metric tons Reduction since 2007 5.4 % Total water used → 15.4 million cubic meters Reduction since 2007 11.6 % Total wastewater → 11.9 million cubic meters Reduction since 2007 14.2 % Total energy demand → 6.1 million megawatt hours Reduction since 2007 9.8 % Total CO2 emissions → 2.4 million metric tons Reduction since 2007 6.6 % A new lease of life: remanufacturing vehicle parts conserves resources and reduces energy demand. European remanufacturing market to grow less CO2 emissions than manufacturing to 30 million components a year by 2015. new ones. The eXchange program also cuts In line with this trend, Bosch now offers the amount of energy used at our Göttingen remanufacturing for some 9,000 vehicle plant alone by approximately 105,000 parts from 27 different product groups. megawatt-hours a year. That is an 88 perThis makes us the leading supplier of cent reduction compared to manufacturing industrially remanufactured automotive new parts. The total volume of reused parts – including starters, generators, airmaterials at this plant in Lower Saxony conditioning compressors, brake callipers, includes 240 tonnes of copper, 440 tonnes distributors and high-pressure directof aluminium, and 2,200 tonnes of steel. injection systems. Remanufacturing does not result in a lower-grade product: all components meet Reducing the need for resources and the same quality, performance and durabilenergy without compromising on quality ity standards as new parts. For this reason, From an environmental perspective, the Bosch is able to offer a two-year guarantee main argument in favor of remanufacturing on remanufactured parts, too. // vehicle parts is that the majority of the original product is retained. This means that it uses fewer resources and emits less CO2 than producing a new component. Bosch For more information about our remanufactures some 2.5 million parts commitment to the environment, please every year, which generates 23,000 tonnes click here 8 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Action for the environment: Project portfolio Green headquarters Bosch’s regional headquarters in Singapore opened in 2010 and are a textbook example of consistent energy efficiency. The development won a Platinum award – the highest commendation – as part of the government’s Green Mark scheme. By presenting this award, the national Building and Construction Authority confirmed that the energy requirements of our new regional headquarters are at least 30 percent below Singapore’s legally stipulated limit. For more information, please click here Hydroelectric power Water is at the heart of the new energy concept at our ­Blaichach site in Germany, where a hydroelectric power plant generates approximately 15,600 megawatt-hours of renewable electricity every year. That is equivalent to around 80 percent of the total energy needed. By using green electricity, Bosch cuts its annual CO2 emissions by some 6,600 tonnes. In spite of the global economic crisis, the management team and staff in Blaichach remained absolutely committed to making their plant’s energy supply environmentally friendly. For more information, please click here Machine tools Cooling lubricant is used to regulate the temperature of machine tools in industrial production processes. In many cases, it is impossible to adjust the lubricant supply system to feed in exactly the right quantity because the necessary pumps run at a constant speed. This is why we have developed variable-speed pumps for machine tools, which enable operators to use just as much lubricant as they really need. This conserves resources and saves energy. For more information, please click here Action for Products: Mobility 2.0 for a cleaner future Some one billion cars, trucks, and buses are on the world's roads – an increase of approximately 35 percent in one decade. Mass motorization will continue to rise, especially in Asia, eastern Europe, and Latin America. This increased traffic volume is not only a burden on the environment. It is also a drain on oil reserves. This raises two core questions for Bosch, one of the world's leading automotive suppliers. How can the carbon footprint of the internal-combustion engine be further reduced? And which new powertrain concepts provide convincing solutions for the post-fossil fuel era? W hen it comes to developing sustainable mobility solutions, Bosch engineers are on a mission to find a low-emislenges to building an electric car for series production. Battery prices are still too high to make fitting them as standard equipment sions vehicle that is not dependent on fossil economically viable. In addition, the curfuels. The electric car that approximately rent prototypes can run a maximum of 150 1,100 Bosch associates are working on around kilometers before having to be re-charged the world is one example. The goal is to profrom a socket. For everyday use, electric vide the automobile industry with an elecvehicles need to achieve a range of at least tric drivetrain concept from a single source. 250 kilometers. Only then will electric drivThis also involves engineering high-perforing become a real alternative for 90 percent mance batteries – one of the greatest chalof all transport operations. 10 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Halving fuel consumption In the long run, the electric motor will oping suitable engine systems and flexible gain significance. In the meantime, four injection components for the automotive out of five cars worldwide will run on gasindustry. This shows our commitment to oline or diesel. At the same time as workdrive concepts that are based on renewaing on powertrain electrification, Bosch is ble energies and use the existing infratherefore continuing to work on improvstructure and technology. // ing the energy efficiency of internal-combustion engines and reducing their carbon dioxide emissions. The first milestone will be reached in 2015. A mid-range car More information on our sustainable fitted with a Bosch gasoline engine should mobility solutions can be found here have an average fuel consumption of 5.5 liters per 100 kilometers – approximately 30 percent less than a current standard engine. And there is still a lot of potential to be exploited. We believe that efficient internal-combustion engines, aerodyKey data 2011 namic bodywork, and lightweight materials will contribute to halving fuel conAssociates working in sumption in the next few years compared research and development → 38,500 associates with the average in 2009. Patent applications worldwide → 4,126 patents Alternatives to gasoline and diesel Share of sales accounted The use of alternative fuels such as ethafor by sustainable products → 40 % nol, biogas, and synthetic biodiesel proReduction of fuel vides another possibility to cut exhaust consumption in mid-range emissions. Made of plant-based material, cars by 2015 → 30 % these mixtures reduce CO2 emissions by CO2 emissions with up to 90 percent. To increase the market clean diesel → 97 g/km share of alternative fuels, Bosch is devel11 Action for Products: Project portfolio Clever combination The hybrid drive represents a stage of evolution from gasoline and diesel vehicles to the electric car. It combines the internal-combustion engine with an electric motor that activates, for example, at ignition and on accelerating. This “boost” function can help reduce CO2 emissions by as much as 30 percent. The market-ready Bosch technology is used in the manufacture of the VW Touareg, for example. For more information, please click here Making a clean start Bosch engineers have optimized the traditional combustion process to make passenger vehicles with diesel engines meet the Euro 6 exhaust gas standards. They have done this by increasing exhaust gas recirculation rates and the charge-air and injection pressures. Exhaust gas treatment also contributes to improving the efficiency of the diesel. Another feature of the clean diesel concept is the smaller, 1.2-liter engine with a performance of 83 kilowatts per liter of engine displacement. Together, these measures reduce CO2 emissions to 97 grams per kilometer. For more information, please click here Economical navigation Developed by Bosch engineers, the ECO2 navigation system has an option for calculating the route with the lowest fuel consumption. It does this by factoring in the route profile, the road classification, and the number of junctions on the route. The engine and driving style also come into the equation. The route planner, which is ready for series production, cuts fuel consumption by an average of nine percent. For more information, please click here Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Action for our Associates: Diversity as advantage Demographic developments are posing enormous challenges for business and society. Competition for specialists and executives is on the rise. At the same time, the proportion of older associates is growing as the requirements of younger people change. With the shift in personal value systems and the desire to have a work-family balance, there is a growing need for flexible working models. Bosch aims to meet these challenges by promoting a culture of diversity and equal opportunities. This is the basis for a forward-looking human resources policy that will boost the company's innovative strength. W e were quick to recognize that diversity is a crucial element in the success of our business. Our associates contribute Targeted use of potential Bosch sees equal opportunities for women as elementary for three reasons. First, to the innovative strength of the company around 80 percent of the associates we with their qualifications, skills, and experiemploy have a technical or scientific qualience, and this provides us with a competification. The proportion of women in these tive edge around the world. That is why we courses has traditionally been very low. have firmly established diversity as one of Bearing in mind the growing shortage of our strategic values, and we actively prospecialists and executives and our need mote it. At present, our efforts focus espefor innovative strength and quality, we cially on the areas of gender, nationality, will need many more qualified female engiworking culture and generation. neers in the future. Second, studies have 13 Key data 2011 New recruits worldwide → 19,000 Apprentices worldwide → 6,600 Spending on training → 200 million € Bosch wants to increase the proportion of women in technical professions Absences and actively encourages talented women to pursue this course. (since 2007) → –31 % Associate satisfaction → 84 % shown that mixed teams work more effilife, for instance with regard to childcare ciently and achieve better results, because and the care of dependants. gender-specific skills complement each other. That is why we encourage male and Inspire, recruit, promote female associates to work together and, in We have developed a variety of measures in doing so, optimize results. And third, the all operating units. These include, for examproportion of women in management ple, the annual Girls' Day and Girls' Campus, ­positions may have increased in the last which we use to inspire schoolgirls and decade – by about nine percent in Germany, female students to take up technical and scifor example – but women are still underentific careers. One way we promote female represented in executive positions. This is associates is the women's network women@ also true at Bosch. We therefore intend to bosch, through which we have done piocontinue increasing the number of female neering work all over Germany. Another executives worldwide, and are already on example is our Business Women's Program the right path. Our aim is to increase this for trainee specialists and executives in figure to 20 percent by 2020. areas such as clever negotiating, leadership skills, and self-marketing. Commitment to equal opportunities The aim of recruiting and promoting For us, acting responsibly also means enafemale specialists and executives has been bling our associates to have a balanced lifeon the agenda at Bosch since 1994. The style. We are therefore committed to the issue was included in the worldwide compatibility of work and private life. Our Change Roadmap in 2010, becoming one commitment to childcare and our varied of our strategic priorities. The corporate range of flexible working models – from office “Associate Development, Diversity shorter working hours to job-sharing – is and Equal Opportunities” pools all of the aimed at both men and women. And so the projects and measures in the company and topic of diversity has come full circle at has assumed responsibility for driving the Bosch – it's not just about women. // topic forward in the long term. The activities are spread over three key areas – recruiting more women to Bosch, promoting female associates at all levels of the hierarchy, and implementing measures to Further information on our commitment strike a balance between work and family to our associates can be found here 14 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Action for our Associates: Project portfolio Inspiring interest in technology Bosch is committed to attracting more young women to technical professions. Measures include Girls Campus, a one-year seminar program for female high school students in Stuttgart and the surrounding area. The focus of the lectures and practical exercises is on topics such as robotics research, mechatronics, and acoustics research. For more information, please click here Successful networking The women's network women@bosch is a central component of equal opportunities for women. The aim is to offer female associates a platform for sharing experiences, opening up career opportunities, and inspiring training. The local networks are organized by associates. They plan lectures, initiate working groups, and support each other in the implementation of ideas in the workplace. For more information, please click here Flexible work models To raise awareness on the issue of combining work and private life among executives and to recruit them as role models for family-friendly work practices, Bosch launched the “MORE” project in 2011. Some 160 executives tried out various working models, which included working from home or working parttime, for 125 days. Following the positive response to this, Bosch is continuing the project this year. For more information, please click here Action for the Society: Building the future together Key data 2011 Local presence on a global scale – with more than 300,000 associates at 300 locations in 60 countries, Wissensfabrik (Knowledge Bosch is not only a major employer and business partner, Factory, Germany) → 100 partnerships Projects authorized by but also a committed corporate citizen. We want to play Robert Bosch Stiftung → 800 projects an active role in shaping the social environment that Total amount donated by surrounds us. After all, that is where our associates and Robert Bosch Stiftung → 70 million € Spendings for their families, relatives, and friends live – as do countInterCampus Program → 50 million € less other ­people who experience Bosch as a contribuDonation-total of associates’ tor to economic development. We have taken our initiative Primavera → 0,6 million € responsibility to this community seriously since 1886. O ur commitment is linked to entrepreneurial interests. For example, attractive living conditions and a stable commuEmployer and trainer In 2011, we took on a total of 19,000 new associates worldwide – 15,000 of whom nity make Bosch an even more attractive had university degrees. We are also trainemployer for skilled specialists and top ing 6,600 young adults, mostly in techniexecutives. Such an environment can also cal disciplines. All in all, some 80 percent enable people to gain access to good qualof our associates have a background in ity education and training. We strongly technology or engineering. Bosch files 16 believe that education is the key to ensurpatents each working day. As a driving ing society has a bright future. This is why force of technological innovation in a strategies and projects that promote edubroad range of areas that show promise cation are among the central focal points of for the future, it is essential that we can our corporate social responsibility. rely on the best young talent and on 16 Company Environment Products Associates Society key figures & facts ­specialists and executives who are at the Young people doing top of their game. research for tomorrow today People who experience the wonder of sciDifferent starting ence and technology at an early age often points around the world go on to pursue a career in these fields. This When it comes to promoting education, the is reason enough for Bosch to provide longbasic starting point differs considerably term support to the German youth science from region to region. Industrialized competition “Jugend forscht.” We have nations such as Germany have a high standorganized the regional heat in Badenard of education. In these countries, the Württemberg since 1985. focus is on encouraging interest in technical and scientific disciplines. In other words, As a founding member of the “Wissensfabwe focus on cultivating tomorrow’s specialrik” (Knowledge Factory) initiative, we ists and leaders. When it comes to safehave been promoting the education of chilguarding locations in economies with limdren and young people in science and ited raw materials, well-trained individuals technology disciplines since 2005. Since are important social capital. The situation is then, more than 100 companies have somewhat different in dynamic emerging joined in the initiative. markets such as China, where Bosch represents hope for a promising future. In these Making education possible countries, our training opportunities shape China is one of our strategic core markets. the foundation that will allow young people Bosch has been operating there for more to take charge of their lives – perhaps as than 100 years and currently employs a associates at our company. workforce of some 30,000 in the country. However, the dynamism that marks out the Supporting universities around the world economy has yet to take root in society at The Bosch InterCampus Program reprelarge. Established in 2011, our China Charsents a strategic commitment to education ity Center pools the various aspects of our for the next decade. We will spend a total of commitment in China. Each year, some 50 million euros to support and bring three million euros are spent on the poorer together universities and research projects rural areas with the aim of ensuring chilin Germany, China, India, and the United dren there have access to education. // States – from Aachen and Bangalore to Beijing, Stanford, and Stuttgart. We want to significantly improve research conditions and speed up development in core areas More information on our social that show great promise for the future – responsibility can be found here electromobility, power generation, energy efficiency, and emissions reduction. 17 Action for the Society: Project portfolio Associate commitment Some 84 percent of our associates are proud to work for Bosch. That means they are willing to give something back – also to society. One example is the Primavera initiative, which was set up by associates in Brazil in 1990 to support disadvantaged children. This charity is now active in other countries including China, India, and the Philippines. For more information, please click here Bosch India Foundation Founded in 2008, the foundation is dedicated entirely to helping children who are growing up in poverty. Its main areas of activity include delivering basic medical aid, financing essential operations and treatments, and providing training opportunities in forward-looking areas such as production, assembly technology, and agriculture. For more information, please click here “Wissensfabrik“ (knowledge factory) Bosch is a founding member of the initiative Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland (Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany). Through 100 partnerships with schools and kindergartens across Germany, we provide children and young people with an insight into the complex worlds of technology and business. The Knowledge Factory also stages the WECONOMY new business owner competition for students and young entrepreneurs. For more information, please click here Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts KEY DATA 2011 KEY DATA ON THE GROUP SALES BY BUSINESS SECTOR 51,494 IN SALES million € 4,190 million € INDUSTRIAL 16 TECHNOLOGY +9 % SALES RESEARCH AND GROWTH DEVELOPMENT 25 % 59 over 2010 EXPENDITURE AUTOMOTIVE 77 % SALES CONSUMER TECHNOLOGY REVENUE generated outside Germany GOODS AND BUILDING 4,126 PATENT APPLICATIONS TECHNOLOGY SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE SOME OF OUR CORE AIMS BOSCH FAMILY 7 1 robert bosch gmbh 20% REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS by 2020 compared to 2007 levels ROBERT BOSCH % 92 20% PROPORTION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES by 2020 STIFTUNG GMBH HEADCOUNT ENVIRONMENT 302,519 2007 2011 +6.7% 2010 2011 ENERGY demand –9.8% 6.1 million megawatt hours OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TOTAL WASTE GENERATED –5.4% 3,500 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS 0.5 million metric tons 3,000 2,500 3,012 2,687 2,000 2,128 1,500 1,818 1,913 WATER CONSUMPTION 1,000 –11.6% 500 –36.5% 15.4 million cubic meters 50,000 DAYS LOST 40,000 WASTEWATER 30,000 39,311 –14.2% 20,000 36,250 28,037 27,082 11.9 million cubic meters 10,000 24,672 5,000 0 –31.1% total co2 -emissions –6.6% 500,000 HEADCOUNT 2.4 million metric tons 400,000 300,000 200,000 271,265 281,717 270,687 283,507 302,519 ENVIRONMENTALLY 100,000 FRIENDLY INVESTMENT 50,000 +138% 0 +11.5% 50 million euros Further information about our sustainability figures can be found here 19 Communication on progress Activities in brief Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004 and has pledged to uphold the initiative’s ten universal principles for responsible business ­management. The table below presents an overview of the progress made with regard to these ten principles in 2011. Principle Framework/objectives Activities Results 1. Support and respect Code of Business Organizing the ResQ project to boost Analysis agreement with participating human rights Conduct resource efficiency among Chinese suppliers over a three-year period suppliers/business partners Principles of social Continuing with the supplier audit: Presentation of the Bosch Supplier Award responsibility at Bosch social and environmental audits of to the best suppliers; imposition of 240 suppliers (by 2014) sanctions on suppliers who are unable to comply Purchasing guidelines 2. No complicity in human rights abuses 3. Uphold freedom of Company target: See principle 1, conducting supplier See principle 1, presentation of the Bosch association 20 percent of manageaudits to check that they comply Supplier Award to the best suppliers; rial positions filled by with defined ecological/social labor imposition of sanctions on suppliers who women by 2020 standards (social standards based on are unable to comply the ILO guidelines) 4. Elimination of all forms of Incorporating the issue forced and compulsory labor of diversity/female quota into the Bosch 5. Abolition of child labor Group’s strategic 6. Elimination of discriminaroadmap Launching a company-wide campaign Named ‘Most Family-Friendly Company’ by tion to boost diversity with a focus on the German Federal Ministry of Family increasing the percentage of women Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth Bosch Human in managerial roles Resources System (BHS) Bosch’s ‘Turkish Forum’ won an award in the business category of the German Prize for Civic Engagement (‘Deutscher Engagementpreis’) Offering over 100 different working time models Participating in the initiative ‘Changing Corporate Cultures – Preventing Career Breaks’ (‘Unternehmenskulturen verändern – Karrierebrüche vermeiden’) launched by the German Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth to increase the percentage of women in managerial positions Company-wide staff survey every 84 percent of employees are proud to two years work for Bosch; 82 percent would recommend Bosch as an employer Expanding Bosch Management 910 consultations by 1,400 senior experts Support (BMS): actively involving around the world retired employees as experienced advisors 20 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Principle Framework/objectives Activities Results 7. Precautionary environCompany target: Achieving ISO 14001 environmental 7.2 percent reduction in CO2 emissions mental protection 20 percent reduction of management systems at sites around from combustion processes to 337,000 t CO2 by 2020 the world Commissioning a hydroelectric power Energy generated per annum: Basic principles for plant to supply the energy needed at 15,600 MWh, CO2 reduction: 6,600 t environmental protecthe Blaichach site (Germany) tion and occupational Increasing company-wide investments 8 percent reduction in total energy health and safety in environmental protection by demand in comparison to sales 25 percent to EUR 50 million to 6,100 GWh Bosch Product EngiAdvising on energy efficiency to neering System (BES) reduce electricity demand at factories 8. Initiatives to promote Obtaining a commitment from the Imposition of sanctions on suppliers with greater environmental Bosch Production Bosch Group’s preferred suppliers to insufficient environmental standards responsibility System (BPS) a proprietary, certified environmental through to terminating business relations management system Design for Environment Attendance at and organization of Presenting top environmentally friendly (DfE) sustainability events technologies at the ‘Week of the Environment’ (‘Woche der Umwelt’) under the patronage of Germany’s President Joachim Gauck Touring China with a mobile exhibition – the ‘Clean Diesel Tour’ – with stops in 20 cities to inform people about ways of reducing traffic emissions Green building project: EcoPlusHome In the test, a family of six uses 14,000 kWh in Canada: demonstrating that there of electricity – at the same time, the are viable models for comfortable, EcoPlusHome generates 15,000 kWh of eco-friendly homes with a year-long green energy. Winner of the Scotiabank test run by Bosch EcoLiving Award 2011 9. Development and diffuMaintaining a consistently high level Sustainable, environmentally friendly prodsion of environmentally of investment in developing sustainucts account for 40 percent of the comfriendly technologies able products: 50 percent of the pany’s total sales entire R&D budget totalling EUR 4.19 billion Investing EUR 400 million in developing electric vehicles Further developing small electric Reduction in emissions thanks to the units engines for the automotive sector: produced for electromechanical (instead increasing efficiency and reducing of hydraulic) steering systems: 1.9 million weight tonnes of CO2 Development partnership with Dürr 30 percent reduction in the energy needed Systems, the world’s market-leading supplier of automotive paint systems Setting up a study center dedicated to Capital expenditure of EUR 30 million power electronics (for electric vehicles, energy flows and photovoltaics) in Reutlingen and Stuttgart (Germany) Further developing and marketing Expansion of the ultra-efficient portfolio of ultra-efficient fridge-freezers which use class A+++ appliances to 20 models by 70 percent less energy than comparaautumn 2011 ble appliances did 15 years ago Participating in the European ComThe idea is to gather practical experience mission’s four-year ‘Green eMotion’ in model regions throughout Europe for initiative to promote electric vehicles the purpose of further developing the relevant technology. Bosch is contributing a networked recharging infrastructure for a total of 10,000 electrical power charging points 21 Principle Framework/objectives Activities Results 10. Work against corruptio Code of Business Code Managing compliance by means of a Staff regularly take part in compulsory of Business Conduct central compliance committee and training sessions focusing on compliance, regional compliance managers money laundering, legality and fraud Principles of social responsibility at Bosch Setting up an independent compliance hotline and reporting system for internal and external stakeholders Purchasing guidelines Initiating double-checking, job rotation in sensitive areas, a strict distinction between sourcing and superviMembership of sory systems, Group-wide staff ­Transparency training ­International e. V. Other key aspects of the Bosch Group framework for sustainable business: ‘House of Orientation’: vision, guiding principles, values, key competencies, and the Bosch Business System Newly created bodies are responsible for efficiently implementing all sustainability activities in the Group: Sustainability office, expert committee and steering committee Scope of the report All information is contextualized in connection with each text, key figure, or target. This report is a summary of current activities from the Bosch Group’s full range of sustainability measures. It therefore serves as a communication on progress in conjunction with the company’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2011. The reporting period is the 2011 calendar year. Information available until the time of going to print – October 25, 2012 – has also been included for the sake of providing up-to-date details. Memberships (excerpt) United Nations Global Compact (2004) Transparency International (1995) econsense (2000, founding member) Global Reporting Initiative (Organizational Stakeholder) 22 Company Environment Products Associates society key figures & facts Looking back at takes place. Some 84 percent of of the competition is to highlight 11/12 all associates take part. Associsuccess stories and show that ates evaluate the strategy and employees and companies can reputation of Bosch, working conboth benefit from flexible models ditions, and collaboration. The that strike a balance between results are positive – 84 percent family and work. of associates are proud to work for Bosch, three percent more than in 2009. 2011 September Expansion of the Super DECEMBER ­Efficiency Portfolio GRANTS FOR CHINESE STUDENTS → To coincide with IFA, the → The Bosch China Charity world's leading trade fair for Center (BCCC) initiates a new consumer electronics, BSH Bosch grant program that pays the firstand Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH year tuition fees of students from present their Super Efficiency poor backgrounds. The Bosch JUNE Portfolio. In the refrigerators University Bursary Program will segment alone, consumers can run for at least three years and choose from 20 models in the support 900 new students at uniENVIRONMENT WEEK A+++ energy-efficiency class, versities throughout China during → Bosch joined 200 other exwhich are 30 percent more energy this time. hibitors at Environment Week in efficient than class A refrigerators. Berlin. The company presented 2012 innovations that reduce society's TARGETED EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES APRIL dependency on fossil-based raw FOR WOMEN materials. Taking center stage SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT FOR was the interplay of photovoltaTHE ENVIRONMENT ics, electromobility, and cutting→ Bosch China and four other edge storage technologies as companies are launching the used in the zero-energy house ResQ pilot project to provide and the e-bike. suppliers in China with training in CSR, environmental protection, and energy and material JULY efficiency. The aim is to work with selected suppliers and use ENERGY FROM WATER POWER → Bosch supports a joint initiaresource efficiency analyses to → Bosch starts up a new hydrotive by the German Federal govidentify activities and complete a electric power station at the ernment and business for more training program. Blaichach location. In the future, female executives. In cooperation this power plant will generate with nine other companies, Bosch some 15,600 megawatt-hours of is participating in the “Changing company cultures – avoiding MAY electricity each year. As a result, Bosch will be covering some career breaks” project until the 80 percent of its power consumpend of 2012. EXEMPLARY PERSONNEL POLICY → The Bosch Group is awarded tion with an ecofriendly solution the title of most family-friendly and save some 6,600 metric tons large company in Germany as part of CO2 each year. NOVEMBER of the competition “Erfolgs­faktor Familie” (Family as a success facSTRONG SENSE OF IDENTIFICAtor). The award is presented by TION AMONG ASSOCIATES the Federal Ministry for Family Af→ For the fourth time since 2005, fairs, Senior Citizens, Women and the Group-wide associate survey Youth (BMFSFJ). The central aim Publishing details Published by Robert Bosch GmbH Corporate Department Corporate Communications, Brand Management, and Sustainability Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany Phone +49 711 811-0 Fax +49 711 811-6630 Manager Uta-Micaela Dürig Contact Head of Sustainability Office Bernhard Schwager bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Phone +49 711 811-6402 Fax +49 711 811-7082 www.bosch.com Additional information about the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: Annual Report 2011 Bosch today
