Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging Communication on Progress Report 2012 Global Compact Syria Message from the Sawaf Doctors: Dear Friends, We are pleased to present the 2012 Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging United Nations Global Compact, Communication on Progress. We are proud to comply with the 10 universal principles set forth in the United Nations Global Compact regarding human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The principles truly reflect our commitment to the health and well being of the communities we serve. The United Nations Global Compact enhances the Sawaf’s Institute culture of caring and respect. We are proud to be a part of the Global Compact network in Syria and shall continue to support its goals and aspirations. The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging is committed to protecting human rights, directly and indirectly through our employment and community engagement. Brief description about the Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging: The Sawaf Institute is the oldest Radiology center in Damascus. We have been operating for 50 years now. It is a private owned Sawaf family radiology center. We perform radiography, mammography, C.T scan, MRI, and ultrasounds. There are four Sawaf Doctors whom are all certified with American Board of Radiology from the United States. There are 10 technicians along with 10 other employees (including secretaries). We are committed to ensuring health and safety in our community It’s our goal each day to detect the presence or extent of disease as early as possible. We recently purchased the Siemens MRI. Advanced Imaging combines leading imaging technology and unmatched professional expertise. We aim to provide our patients and physicians to get an accurate diagnosis and treatment plan quickly. The Principles of the Global Compact The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values within Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging has no direct experience of human rights abuses. We are committed to respecting the human rights of our employees and technicians. We treat patients with respect. In addition, we avoid discrimination and promote tolerance, transparency, and accountability at all times. Professionalism is the basis of The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging contract with society, placing the interests of patients above those of the physician, setting, and maintaining standards of competency and integrity, and providing expert advice to society on matters of health—in short, a contract that addresses issues of ethics, knowledge, and communication. In practice, professionalism encompasses a set of beliefs, values, and behaviors that reflect commitments to:  Professional competence  Honesty with patients  Patient confidentiality  Maintenance of appropriate relations with patients  Sensitivity to patients of diverse backgrounds  Improvement of quality of care  Improvement of access to care  Scientific knowledge  Maintenance of trust by managing conflicts of interest  Maintenance of appropriate relations with other physicians and healthcare professionals Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging has no direct experience of being involved in forced and compulsory Labour. We do not promote child labour in any way or form, we seek to avoid discrimination in our recruitment, and we have high degree of diversity in the workforce. Furthermore, the Sawaf Institue for Medical Imaging has an ongoing commitment to the health of its employees and patients by strictly prohibiting smoking in all locations of the center. Additionally, the Sawaf Institute encourages personal development in the field of radiology in order to upgrade knowledge and skills within their field. We are members of the Radiological Society of North America and we attend the conference annually. It is the single, most important radiology gathering in the United States. The Purpose of RSNA The mission of the Radiological Society of North America is to promote and develop the highest standards of radiology and related sciences through education and research. The Society seeks to provide radiologists and allied health scientists with educational programs and materials of the highest quality, and to constantly improve the content and value of these educational activities. The Society seeks to promote research in all aspects of radiology and related sciences, including basic clinical research in the promotion of quality healthcare. The Society seeks to foster closer fellowship among all radiologists and greater cooperation among radiologists and members of other branches of medicine and allied healthcare professionals. The Society's success in achieving its goals in education and research is due to the high level of professionalism of its members and other colleagues who generously share their scientific knowledge and administrative abilities. The 97th Scientific Assembly & Annual Meeting of the Radiological Society of North America, which hosts nearly 60,000 attendees, is the world's premier scientific and educational forum in radiology. Highlights from the meeting include:  Breaking news from approximately 20 scientific and exhibitor press conferences, and more than 2,400 scientific presentations and posters covering the latest trends in radiologic research. Following are just a few headlines generated by reporters covering last year's meeting: o Virtual Biopsy' May Detect Athletes' Brain Injury o CT Best at Seeing Smugglers' Internal Drugs o Belly Fat Puts Women at Osteoporosis Risk o Annual Mammograms May Cut Mastectomy Rate for Some o Walking May Cut Alzheimer's Risk  Opportunity to interview experts in all radiologic subspecialties and related fields  Access to approximately 1,800 education exhibits and informatics demonstration Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging recycles and reuse where possible and employees are conscious of energy and water use. The center encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly medical products through our work with patients. Moreover, we ensure that our patients are protected by minimizing radiation exposure. Radiation Safety in The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging Radiologists, medical physicists, and other radiology professionals, have long recognized the need for conscientious implementation of medical procedures that deliver ionizing radiation and have assumed a collective responsibility for maintaining rigorous standards of practice. The following is among the many posters warning our patients of radiation We follow strict imaging utilization standards. Our radiologists and medical physicists work together to assure the safety of imaging by minimizing exposure without sacrificing diagnostic ability. Our physicists’ reports are continually well below the suggested radiation dose administration per exam. Our Syrian community’s safety is of utmost important to us. Anti –Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging does not allow or tolerate corruption and bribery in any shape or form. There have been no cases of bribery or corruption reported. We have an auditor who ensures that the finances are well taken care of as well as doing inventories on a weekly basis. Corporate Social Responsibility In an agreement with BASMA, an NGO that supports children with cancer, the Sawaf Institute for Medical Imaging provides children with cancer special discounts in regards to Medical Imaging examinations. (BASMA seeks to improve health and social conditions of children with cancer in Syria, throughout providing psychological and proper support to children and their families during the treatment period, as well as the financial support to treatment cost).
