Fit for the future Annual Report 2011 Metso is ﬁt for the future Metso is a global supplier of technology and services to customers in the process industries, including mining, construction, pulp and paper, power, and oil and gas. Our 30,000 professionals based in over 50 countries deliver sustainability and proﬁtability to customers worldwide. Our new strategy implementation is focused on ﬁve strategic must-wins to ensure that Metso is the perfect ﬁt for its stakeholders now and in the future. Metso’s businesses Mining and Construction Technology, processes, machinery and services for aggregates production, construction, mining and minerals processing. (41% of Metso’s net sales) 7 Automation Process industry ﬂow control solutions, 41 automation and information management systems and applications and services. 40 (12% of Metso’s net sales) Pulp, Paper and Power 12 Processes, machinery, equipment, services, paper machine clothing and ﬁlter fabrics for the pulp, paper and power industries. (40% of Metso’s net sales) Others Separate entities: Links & Recycling and Valmet Automotive notes (7% of Metso’s net sales) 1 www.metso.com 2 www.metso.com/2011 3 www.twitter.com/metsogroup How to read this report The printed Annual Report for 2011 is published in Finnish and English and the Online Annual Report 2011 in English at www.metso.com/2011. We discuss our new strategy and strategic 2011 must-wins in the printed report. The Online Annual Report 2011 has three main parts: Strategy, Financial Performance and Sustainability Results. Sustainability information presented both in the printed and the online version has been externally assured. In our sustainability reporting we apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines. www.metso.com www.metso.com/ The ’Links & Notes’ section contains additional sources and information about the Annual 2011 Report topics. Some links are presented as QR codes for camera-equipped mobile devices. Contents Key figures Metso EUR million 2010 2011 Change From the CEO .............................. 2 Net sales 5,552 6,646 20% Services, % of external net sales* 45 45 Metso and megatrends .......... 4 Earnings before interest, tax and amortization (EBITA) Organizational culture ............ 6 and nonrecurring items 491.0 628.5 28% % of net sales 8.8 9.5 Strategy review............................ 8 Profit 258 358 39% Strategic must-wins ................ 10 Earnings per share, EUR 1.71 2.38 39% Dividend per share, EUR** 1.55 1.70 10% Targets and Return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, % 13.5 18.4 achievements............................. 20 Gearing, % 15.0 12.2 Risks and risk Free cash flow 435 375 –14% management ............................. 24 Research and development expenses*** 111 124 12% Orders received 5,944 7,961 34% Order backlog, December 31 4,023 5,310 32% Business review Personnel, December 31 28,593 30,324 6% Lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) 12.4 9.1 –27% Customer industries................ 26 Sponsorship and donations 3.1 1.1 –65% Metso’s businesses .................. 28 Carbon dioxide emissions, 1,000 t 297 272 –8% Energy consumption, TJ 3,938 3,643 –7% Mining and Construction...... 30 Metals use, 1,000 t 237 264 11% Automation................................. 32 Changes have been made to the 2010 carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and metals use data. * Calculated out of external net sales excluding Valmet Automotive, which does not have services business. Pulp, Paper and Power........... 34 ** 2011 Board’s proposal *** without IPR expenses Figures .......................................... 36 Net sales and EBITA Orders received and order backlog Financial statements before non-recurring items Table of Contents...................... 41 EUR million % EUR million Board of Directors’ Report............................................ 42 7,000 14 8,000 6,000 12 7,000 Consolidated Financial 6,000 Statements ................................. 51 5,000 10 4,000 8 5,000 Financial Indicators................102 4,000 3,000 6 Parent Company 3,000 Financial Statements.............104 2,000 4 2,000 1,000 2 Shares and Shareholders......106 1,000 0 0 0 Auditor’s Report .....................112 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales Orders received Governance EBITA before non-recurring items, % of net sales Order backlog Corporate Governance .......113 Board of Directors..................118 Personnel by area Net sales by customer industry Personnel 30,324 Net sales EUR 6,646 million Executive Team........................120 (2010: 28,593) (2010: EUR 5,552 million) Investor information Finland 30% (31%) Mining 30% (27%) Investor relations....................122 5 Other Nordic countries 10% (10%) Construction 13% (13%) For shareholders ....................123 17 30 Other European countries 15% (15%) 30 30 Power generation 11% (11%) 10 North America 13% (12%) Oil and gas 7% (7%) Independent 10 6 13 13 15 South and Central America 3 7 11 Recycling 3% (4%) Assurance Report............124 10% (11%) Pulp 6% (8%) Asia-Pacific 17% (16%) Paper 30% (30%) Africa and Middle East 5% (5%) www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 1 From the CEO From the CEO 2011 was a successful year for Metso in many ways. Despite the global economic uncertainty that marked the end of the year, our company’s profitability grew steadily. Our order backlog ended up at an all-time record high and our net sales increased slightly more than expected. The positive development in these key indicators is a result of the work done in all our businesses. Last year, we achieved all the major targets we set. The increased general uncertainty wasn’t wideI am especially pleased with the positive developly visible in our customers’ investments. Our order ment in the order intake in the services business: backlog developed steadily until the end of the the orders were valued at over three billion euros year, when orders for paper and board machines and accounted for about 40 percent of all orders started to decline. In our other businesses, demand received. Additionally, the strategically important remained steady. expansion of our operations in growth markets progressed favorably and the number of new Customer needs come first orders in the mining business increased by over One of Metso’s strengths is its ability to solve 50 percent compared to 2010. a broad spectrum of customer problems. Our company has solid specialized expertise, technolChanges in management and strategy ogy solutions for a diverse range of needs and There were major changes in the company’s a comprehensive understanding of processes. management in early 2011, as a significant portion Metso’s size and strong balance sheet are also imof the Executive Team retired and nearly every portant factors in the delivery of large projects: our Executive Team position was filled by a new person. customers value delivery reliability and being able The renewal of our business structure and portfolio to count on the continuity of collaboration. following this change has now been successfully Listening more carefully to customers has also completed, and the company is even more prepared become a key success factor: we must be more to meet customer challenges and changes in our prepared to build new kinds of fit-for-purpose operating environment. solutions that meet customer needs. The demand Last year, we reviewed the strategy process for economically efficient solutions that are typical covering all Metso businesses. The renewal started for emerging markets has clearly grown also in with the mission, vision and values. In the process, Metso’s customer industries. Success in these marwe also defined the Metso-wide strategic mustkets depends on the ability to evolve and to adapt wins that are important for our future success (read to changes in demand in the customer interface. more about these elsewhere in this report). We also Flexibility and the fluidity of controlled change is reviewed the extensive strategy implementation an important area of development for Metso in process, the aim of which is to make sure that all the future. Metso people know their own unit’s targets and their own role in executing the strategy. As a result Leadership, safety and well-being of this strategy work, we are able to respond to the are targets of development changes in our operating environment and ensure In 2011, we invested strongly also in leadership our success in the longer term. development and in occupational safety and well-being. We adopted new leadership principles Instability in the global economy that we are using to develop supervisory work and There were changes in our operating environment leadership at all levels. Our leadership principles last year. The positive trend that marked the first part are: show the way forward, build inspiration and of 2011 was reflected on Metso through exceptionally trust, develop and coach, and drive results. Our relarge orders. The economic crisis in Europe in summer newed values – driving customer success, seeking and autumn put a damper on the overall market innovations, performing together, respecting each sentiments. The financing situation on the Chinese other – guide our leadership. markets became more difficult, and there was a slowAt Metso, occupational safety is an integral part down in the markets in the United States. The imporof all operations. During recent years, we have seen tance and size of the growth markets in maintaining a clear drop in the number of injuries resulting the level of demand was emphasized. The situation in absences; this progress must be reinforced in balanced out in all markets later in the year. every way possible. When safety is at a high level, 2 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com From the CEO productivity and quality also improve. Metso is conFuture success factors Links & stantly striving to make the company an even safer It appears that the global economic uncertainty will notes workplace for its own people and for its partners. continue in 2012. This is a source of concern also in Occupational well-being makes a difference Metso’s key market areas. However, Metso is in good 1 CEO’s video greeting both inside and outside the company. A good work shape and, despite the uncertainties, I am confident www.metso.com/2011 environment supports competence development that our company’s business will develop favorably 2 Metso Executive Team video and productive work performances. Occupational also this year. Our strategic priorities – attaining www.metso.com/2011 well-being also has a direct impact on the service growth in the services business, reinforcing our local 3 Organizational culture p. 6–7 customers receive and on the company’s ability to presence in growth countries and leveraging the 4 Strategy overview p. 8–9 achieve results. favorable development in the mining industry – are 5 Strategic must-wins p. 10–19 most important in creating value for Metso. Other key requisites for Metso’s future success include agility in seizing business opportunities and adapting to a market environment that is more susceptible to change. 2011 was a successful year Realizing strategic goals is not possible without motivated and competent personnel. The company’s for Metso in many ways. 2011 positive performance in 2011 is a good indication of We achieved all the major the strong commitment Metso people have to the company’s goals. Let’s keep the good momentum targets we set. going. Metso is fit for the future. www.metso.com/ 2011 www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 3 Metso and megatrends Expo 2010 Shanghai China Metso and megatrends Megatrends are an important element in our strategic thinking, and our view is that they are likely to be the largest driver for change in our customer industries for the next decades. Over the last few years, we Over the last few years, have identified the megatrends relevant to Metso and have directed investments accordingly. we have identified the Although these megatrends are largely global, megatrends relevant to they impact our individual businesses in different ways, depending on the region and the market. Metso and have directed We take these impacts into consideration in our investments accordingly. strategy, in our business model and in our approach in different markets. Our strategic goal is to achieve a significant presence in emerging markets and to grow by actively expanding our installed equipment base. In developed markets, we are focusing on defending our strong market positions through services growth. Most of Metso’s markets have recovered and have reached or surpassed the level before the significant decline seen in 2008–2009; however, the current debt crises in the EU and USA – together with increasing traditional Western competitors are improving their inflationary pressures due to high food and commodmarket positions through mergers and acquisitions ity prices throughout the world – have led to lower and new entrants from emerging markets are targetLinks & growth expectations for the global economy. Gross ing an increasing share of new equipment business notes domestic product is expected to rise, but the regional with low pricing. This trend is expected to continue, differences will widen – emerging markets, especially and thus strengthening our presence in China and 1 Strategic must-wins China and India, are growing briskly, whereas growth India as well as in other selected growth countries is p. 10 –19 is slower in the USA and Western Europe. Economic crucial. A key requirement for our success is the abil2 www.metso.com/2011 growth continues to be fueled by big investment ity to seize business opportunities and to adapt to 3 More information on needs in all emerging markets. increasingly volatile market environments. Monitormegatrends www.metso.com/ The operating environment and competitive ing and understanding market development are the investors landscape have changed rapidly during recent years; keys to survival in today’s unstable economy. 4 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Metso and megatrends Globalizing economy Rise of the growth countries Redistribution of economic power, new players in New superpowers in global economy, growing affluence global market, change in supply chains of middle class, local cost-effective solutions Emerging markets Developed markets Emerging markets Developed markets • The BRIC countries, along with • The installed equipment base • Growth countries are becoming • Metso’s solid foothold in other regions in Latin America in developed markets creates more affluent and are the developed markets gives us a and Southeast Asia, have been strong demand for Metso’s engines of the global economy. strong position against new the engines of global economic services business. Rapid development and large competitors from growth growth in the last two decades. investments have stimulated countries. This growth has increased the • Players from growth countries extensive investments in consumption of minerals, paper are increasingly penetrating infrastructure and industry. • Our fit-for-purpose R&D aimed developed markets, which at emerging markets can be and board in those regions, Our growing presence in these changes the competitive transferred and adapted to meet which boost Metso’s businesses. markets has resulted in new environment significantly. the needs of traditional Western customers and has increased • Changes in the industry • Business success in the changed mining and construction customers as well. structure open the door to new competitive environment demand. competitors that are smaller, but requires added value from more agile and more driven to product development, design, • The rapidly growing new grow their market share both middle-class in growth know-how, brand and lifelocally and in export markets. countries is spending more cycle services, in addition to money on consumer goods • Responding to customer needs manufacturing. and housing, leading to growth in manufacturing-intense growth in the demand for paper and markets requires development of packaging products, energy local supply chains. and infrastructure services. • Companies in growth countries are very cost conscious, thus products offered in these markets need to be customized for local requirements. We understand our customers’ needs very well; our longspanning local presence gives us the know-how to respond to local challenges. Demographic changes Sustainability and climate change Urbanization, aging workforce in traditional markets, New eco-efficient technologies, new energy solutions and knowledge transfer and training energy efficiency, increasing regulation Emerging markets Developed markets Emerging markets Developed markets • Rapid urbanization creates • With an aging workforce, shifting • The limited supplies of raw • Tightening environmental new demands for the mobility labor-intensive functions to materials, energy and clean legislation, customer awareness of people and goods and, emerging markets with growing water drive the search for and higher prices for carbon consequently, drives the demand workforces has become more solutions based on renewable emissions allowances are calling for infrastructure expansion and attractive for companies. Our natural resources. New for the reduction of greenhouse modernization customers have started to technologies can be used to gases and more efficient use increasingly outsource some of reduce the use of raw materials of energy and raw materials. • Infrastructure construction their functions, thus improving or to make their use more Additionally, energy is the boosts the demand for minerals our business opportunities, efficient. most significant cost factor for – particularly iron, nickel and especially in the services a number of our customers. copper – as well as aggregates business. • Solutions improving energy This supports the increased and Metso’s business. efficiency can be implemented focus on providing eco-efficient • The growing competition in our • Global employee development is relatively quickly and efficiently. technologies. essential to help harmonize the The demand for power plants customer industries has also led to increasing competition for different working styles, cultures utilizing bio-energy or other • The increasing number of and practices while pursuing renewable energy sources is regulations on emissions talent. new markets and facilitating expected to develop favorably. and energy is driving our multinational work teams. customers to implement more environmentally sustainable processes. Consequently, there is a constant focus on developing solutions that are more sustainable. www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 5 Organizational culture Organizational culture Vision, mission and values Metso’s values are: Driving customer success, Our operating environment is constantly changing seeking innovations, performing together, and and driving the need for us to continuously renew respecting each other. Our values embody the spirit and improve our operations. We published our new and energy of Metso and are essential if we are to vision, mission and values in March 2011. Our vision, succeed over time in a competitive environment. mission and new operating practices more clearly Values drive our performance and guide us in how support our values and our renewal. we do business and in how we work together with Our vision is “Working as One to be Number One.” internal and external stakeholders. Working as one means working closely with customers and other key stakeholders and within the Leadership company. To be number one means creating added We are dedicated to continuing to make our people, value for stakeholders in everything we do and beand their know-how, Metso’s key competitive ing the best at it. Metso’s mission, the purpose of our advantage. “People” was defined as one of Metso’s operations, emphasizes sustainable solutions: “We five must-wins, and in spring 2011 Metso develcontribute to a more sustainable world by helping oped its first Group-wide People Strategy – a set of our customers to process natural resources and prioritized choices about where and how to invest recycle materials into valuable products.” In accordin people. We want to create a work environment ance with the mission, we are committed to working that drives the full potential of employees through together with customers and being an active particiemployee well-being, meritocratic performance pant in building a more sustainable world. management and adapted employee offerings. We 6 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Organizational culture Monisha Majumdar (left) and Chhavi Gupta. We are committed to taking personal responsibility for our own safety and for the safety of others. work effectively as a global team with responsibiliit is embedded in our daily operations. We strive for ties geographically balanced and knowledge sysconsistent and transparent management so that tematically shared. Our strong management bench our stakeholders can reliably assess the company’s and culture of leadership has the ability to deliver operations and development around the world. our business targets in an increasingly fast-paced and unpredictable environment. Health, safety and the environment (HSE) We are committed to taking personal responsibilSustainability as part of Metso’s ity for our own safety and for the safety of others. strategy and everyday life We believe that all incidents and accidents can be In harmony with our mission, we are convinced that prevented. We emphasize our high HSE standards the world needs technologies that contribute to of conduct when dealing with customers, suppliers sustainable development. All our businesses offer and other stakeholders. Compliance with applicable products and services that reduce the environmenlaws and regulations is only a minimum requiretal load and improve the quality of our customers’ ment. We aspire to minimize our environmental operations. This thinking also guides our efforts to footprint along the entire value chain. Links & develop new innovative solutions to help customnotes ers improve their own operational performance. We believe advanced technology plays a significant 1 Must-win: People p. 18–19 role in curbing and adapting to climate change. 2 www.metso.com/2011 Sustainability is not a separate sub-area for Metso; > Sustainability Results www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 7 Strategy review Strategy review A strategy for value creation and growth The development of Metso’s mining and Metso’s strategic goal is long-term sustainable and construction business is accelerated by the brisk profitable growth. Our comprehensive product and economic growth in emerging markets, sizable services offering, extensive installed equipment infrastructure investments and a strong demand base and strong global presence provide an outfor minerals. This growth is expected to continue in standing foundation for implementing our strategy the coming years. For us, the growth in mining and and further developing Metso. Our ambition is to be construction requires a lot of resources, the readithe leading technology and service provider in all ness to invest and expansion of our global presence our businesses. to support profitable growth. Our long-term target The strategic challenges that affect our businessis to strengthen our position as one of the leading es are crystallized in five must-wins: strong developsuppliers of technology and services for the mining ment of the services business, strengthening our industry. presence in growth countries, retaining our technolWe are developing the currently well-performing ogy leadership and developing our offering for local Automation business as an independent segment. needs, developing a global operating model, and Within the Automation segment, we are pursuing creating a working environment that enables our growth particularly in the area of flow control solupeople to succeed. tions. There is plenty of potential to utilize process We are pursuing growth both organically and automation expertise and solutions as a means to through complementary acquisitions. We strive for stand out from the competition and to expand the improved profitability and return on capital by fooffering to Metso’s other customer industries, especusing on developing the cost and capital structures cially the mining and construction sector. Currently, of our core businesses and by improving the finanautomation is most utilized in the Pulp, Paper and cial performance of our least profitable businesses Power business. or divesting them. Pulp, paper and power industries continue to offer opportunities for growth and profitability. Balanced business portfolio Our goal is to maintain our position as the leadTo ensure our continued profitable growth and ing pulp and paper technology supplier and to value creation and to gain the critical size needed continue to grow as one of the leading suppliers to be competitive, we have made strategic choices of biopower solutions. We are also further develto focus our business portfolio. Metso will focus its oping our business in other biomass technology resources on businesses in which it can achieve a solutions. We believe that through increased intestrong global market position and in which services gration of the Pulp, Paper and Power businesses and the right application of technology in different we can further enhance our offering and responmarkets, close to the customers, are the decisive siveness to our customers’ needs. Furthermore, competitive factors. This solution offers opportunithe new structure offers us a means to improve ties for growth and improved profitability, creating our profitability, strengthen our cash flow and creadded value both in the short-term and long-term. ate a platform for further strategic development To accelerate the execution of our new strategy, and growth. we adopted a new operating structure on December 1, 2011. The reporting segments of the new structure New long-term financial are Mining and Construction; Automation; and Pulp, targets to create added value Paper and Power. Our target is to create shareholder value through The Recycling and Valmet Automotive businesses growth and profitability. Our new financial targets are managed as separate entities. We are reviewing are a central part of our strategy and its execution. other strategic alternatives for the Recycling business. >> SEE LINK 1 8 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategy review From must-wins to success Our new strategy is driven by five Group-level mustwins and selected business-focused must-wins. Leveraging our strengths to drive business performance Must-wins are key strategic measures that we must Competing in a continuously changing business implement to achieve our ambition and our most environment is becoming increasingly challenging. important targets. Defining the common must-wins It requires companies, including us, to continuously guides our businesses in the right direction and develop and change. We aim to strengthen our posiprovides a common platform for collaboration that tion in emerging markets, particularly in China and India. To achieve this goal, we need products that fit supports our success. the needs of our customers in each market, as well as a corporate culture valuing commercial skills and The must-wins aim to maximize our value creation leadership. We believe that we will achieve our goal and to support the implementation of the strategy. We by leveraging our unique strengths, which are: have three must-wins related to customers and markets 1. A global sales and services network (Services, Growth countries, Technology) and two operating close to our customers (Operating model, People) that enhance internal value 2. Advanced expertise in the services business, creation. Each segment implements the must-wins in high-quality products and accordance with their own segment priorities, and thus project management know-how they directly impact the growth of our business. 3. A profound understanding of our customers’ processes 4. The leading technology in the sector Our strengths have emerged over decades in our TH COUNTRI OW quest to respond to the challenges of our customers and markets, and we are continuously developing R ES G our strengths and adapting them to new conditions as needed. GY NOLO ES CH S E RV I C TE Our ambition is to be the leading technology and service provider in all our businesses EL OD Links & notes PE O M G PL E TI N 1 Targets and achievements p. 20 –23 OP ERA 2 Strategic must-wins p. 10 –19 3 www.metso.com/2011 > Metso Strategy www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 9 Strategic must-wins Fit for performance 1. Must-win: Services Accelerating services business growth Our ambition Our ambition is to be the best service provider in our businesses. Our target is to grow our share of the services business markets and achieve annual profitable net sales growth of over 10 percent. 10 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategic must-wins Services net sales Net sales by type* EUR million % 3,500 50 Services business 45% 3,000 40 20 Project business 35% 2,500 30 Product business 20% 45 2,000 20 35 1,500 10 1,000 0 500 -10 0 -20 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Services net sales *Based on management estimate % of external net sales Growth, % Growth target, % Summary are supplying the equipment, maintenance and Links & operational support for this project and continuously A well functioning services business is a must for monitoring equipment performance and efficiency. notes securing and improving customer productivity. We This arrangement maximizes the customer’s capac1 Strategy overview are continuously developing and expanding our ity utilization, minimizes operational risks, and thus p. 8 –9 services offering. Our operations are based on our improves the profitability of the project. 2 Figures p. 36–40 extensive experience and on our strong, continu3 Board of Directors’ ously growing network. Our key strength is the exReport p. 42–50 tensive installed equipment base, which has driven Our focus going forward 4 www.metso.com/2011 the continuous strong growth in services over the > Financial years and which also provides the prerequisites to Our aim is to develop the best services offering for Performance >> Finance and further develop the services business. each customer industry by applying the appropriate operations pricing models. We aim to grow in services locally by leveraging our installed equipment base and through Starting point collaboration between our different businesses. We aim to grow our market share also by serving Our solid track record in the services business has and maintaining the installed base delivered by our gained strength over the past ten years. competitors. In order to better serve our customers, In 2011, the services business accounted for 45 we must improve our global distribution network, percent (45% in 2010 and 42% in 2009) of our net strengthen our local presence and increase the numsales. In developed markets, our services network ber of local service units operating close to customers. is particularly strong and the share of services was 49% of net sales. In emerging markets, the share was 38% in 2011. We can offer our customers the support they need quickly, anywhere and at any time. For instance, we have more than 50 service centers worldwide serving Pulp, Paper and Power customers. We have a deep understanding of customer processes and a broad range of life-cycle services to optimize those processes. A life-cycle services contract gives the customer access to our extensive process knowledge and experience. In the spring of 2011, we signed an Metso’s services business extensive multi-year life-cycle services contract with in the mining industry. Russian Copper Company. The contract includes Read more in our online Annual Report at equipment maintenance, planning and operational www.metso.com/2011 support, process and product support services, as > Metso Strategy well as wear and spare parts and components. We >> Must-win: Services www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 11 Strategic must-wins Fit for opportunities 2. Must-win: Growth countries Creating value in growth countries Our ambition Our ambition is to be a significant and broad-scope player in our core businesses in all growth markets. We aim to strengthen our local presence and growth, particularly in Brazil, India, China and Russia, as well as in other key growth countries. Summary Metso must strengthen its position in all the selected growth markets by adapting its business practices and products to meet local needs, by increasing investments and by expanding the sales and services network to serve customers everywhere in the world. 12 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategic must-wins Metso in emerging and developed markets 35% 51% 26% 18% 2,176 2,313 25% 1,143 1,208 1,665 12 % 2001 2011 North America 521 2001 2011 2001 2011 Europe Asia-Pacific 19% 13% 5% 5,746 3,845 17% 3% 4% 66% 55% 344 1,210 17% 8% 1,116 19,960 16,591 143 5,309 2001 2011 360 Africa and Middle East 2001 2011 South and Central America 5% 5% 1,512 1,415 % of total net sales 6% 10% Developed markets Net sales, Number of employees and EUR million () % of total personnel, 2001 1,814 3,164 Emerging markets Net sales, Number of employees and Metso’s operating countries EUR million (1) % of total personnel, 2011 In addition to ensuring the capacity to serve Our focus going forward Links & local customers, we are investing in utilizing growth countries for global procurements and production We will continue to sharpen our focus on growth notes without forgetting to bring the new products and countries. The list of growth countries will be 1 Metso and services concepts created in the growth countries to dynamic and will follow economic development in megatrends the developed markets. new regions and countries. From a regional point of p. 4–5 view, we plan to expand our presence in the Middle 2 Strategy overview East and North Africa as well as Southeast Asia. This p. 8–9 Starting point requires the appropriate product and service offer3 www.metso.com/2011 ings for the growth countries and an even better > Financial Performance We have continued to reinforce our presence understanding of local customer needs. To achieve >> Finance and particularly in emerging markets, where we have the targeted expansion, the number of employees operations about 10,000 employees, or 34 percent of Metso’s we have working in the growth markets is expected total personnel (34% in 2010, 31% in 2009). Emergto increase in the upcoming years. ing markets accounted for 51 percent of our new orders in 2011 and 49 percent of our net sales. We have been strong in the BRIC markets (Brazil, Russia, India, China), and we see plenty of potential in other growth countries, such as Chile, Mexico, Peru, Poland, Turkey, Czech Republic, Indonesia, South Korea, Vietnam, Thailand and Malaysia. In 2011, the top three countries for new orders were Brazil, the US and China. Measured by net sales, the largest countries were the US, China and Brazil. As a result of our very good reputation and position Metso is developing in Brazil, in spring 2011 we received the biggest order the infrastructure for ever in our history. Metso signed an agreement with sporting events in Brazil. Suzano Papel e Celulose, one of the largest producers Read more in our online of pulp and paper in Latin America, to supply the key Annual Report at www.metso.com/2011 technology for a new pulp mill. This deal demon> Metso Strategy strated our strong know-how as a total scope supplier >> Must-win: Growth in the pulp industry. countries www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 13 Strategic must-wins Fit for global and local needs 3. Must-win: Technology Maintaining technology leadership with a cost-efficient, mid-market offering Our ambition Our ambition is to maintain our technology leadership with cost-efficient and environmentally sustainable products and process solutions. We aim to develop our mid-market product offering by aligning our research and development efforts and resources globally. 14 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategic must-wins Right portfolio for selected market segments’ needs World-class quality, functionality and price Premium us oc ’s f t so Me Meeting market demands Mid-market through mid-market solutions Price-focused Mass “commodity” market Summary must boost sales of mid-market innovations to other Links & emerging and developed markets. To ensure that Technology is a key enabler for us in terms of realwe have the technological capability to respond notes izing our goal to be the leading technology and serto these expectations, we will allocate more R&D 1 Strategy overview vice provider in all our businesses. We are continuing resources to China, India and Russia. The goal is to p. 8–9 to develop technology that is applicable for the adapt products to meet local needs. 2 Figures p. 36–40 growth markets and is responsive to the increasing Maintaining our technology leadership is 3 www.metso.com/2011 importance of environmental sustainability. important also for securing our long-term success. > Metso Strategy While we aim to develop our mid-market offerings, >> Highlights of Metso products we will continue to focus on high-end technology Starting point leadership with cost-competitive and modularized solutions. Additionally, we are responding to the Metso has traditionally focused on industry-leading growing sustainability requirements by focusing on advanced technology. We have excellent engineertechnologies that enable us to offer more enviing competence for the design of high-quality and ronmentally friendly solutions for the pulp, paper, reliable products and production processes. In the power, mining and construction industries. We will premium segment, world-class quality, functionalalso continue to develop efficient solutions for waity and price competitiveness are very important. ter, energy and raw materials. In this respect, process Additionally, with environmental legislation continautomation is a significant factor: it helps to save uously becoming tighter, the product requirements on inputs and reduce wastes through enhanced in the areas of sustainability, the use of energy process efficiency. and water, and materials efficiency are becoming increasingly complex. Metso has a strong background in this area. Our focus going forward A significant part of our growth is coming from Modular, full-scope paper emerging markets. We understand that there is a and board-making clear demand for localized products in the mid-marconcept, OptiConcept M, ket segment. To leverage this growth potential, we for mid-market demand. will need to innovate and strengthen our position by Read more in our online Annual Report at expanding our customer base. Mid-market products www.metso.com/2011 and services are tied to a particular customer experi> Metso Strategy ence and customer-specific need. Furthermore, we >> Must-win: Technology www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 15 Strategic must-wins Fit for eﬃciency 4. Must-win: Operating model Supporting local growth with a global operating model Our ambition Our ambition is to secure the quality of operations and deliveries globally by improving cost efficiency. Another important aim is to strengthen regional organizations to support growth in the services business and equipment sales; we want to expand our global presence and create a world-class business structure around the world. Summary With our ambition to be the leading technology and service provider in all our businesses, it is important to optimize our operating model at both the global 16 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategic must-wins Example of Metso’s global operating model 2. Selecting key locations: 1. Defining targets • Sourcing and manufacturing footprint • Research, training and development and engineering 3. Ensuring functional cooperation 4. Achieving scale advantages and local level. Furthermore, developing efficient Our key focus is to find segment-specific benefits Links & operating models to enable our core businesses to from shared competencies and networks in order outperform the competition is seen as crucial. We to achieve: notes must make decisions and offer our expertise close to 1 Strategy overview our customers. • Better global delivery capability p. 8–9 and improved quality 2 Must-win: People p. 18–19 • Global presence in production, 3 www.metso.com/2011 Starting point procurement and engineering > Sustainability Results • Global supply chain excellence through >> Health, safety and environment Metso is present in various industries and is constandardized processes tinuously expanding its network in order to better • Zero incidents through focused and effective HSE 4 www.metso.com/2011 > Financial Performance serve its customers. We have over 300 locations (Health, Safety and Environment) practices >> Finance and worldwide. Our know-how and our world-class • Accessibility and the right people in operations production and office facilities bring us closer to our the right places, close to customers customers and enable us to meet their expectations. New production facilities and equipment ensure In order to achieve these targets, we must support high quality, cost efficiency and on-time deliverthe local presence and local processes with a global ies. In September 2011, Metso opened a new valve operating model. technology center in Finland. Since 2008, we have invested in several Automation business plants in Brazil, China, Finland and the United States. One of Metso’s core competence areas is strong project management expertise in delivering complete systems and related services. We have a competent and experienced network operating around the world, providing support services and equipment deliveries globally. Our presence around the world is growing, but we still must expand our operations and harmonize our ways of operating. Our global valve producOur focus going forward tion and service network. Read more in our online Well-managed operating and supply chain structures Annual Report at www.metso.com/2011 benefit everyone. Therefore, our focus is on develop> Metso Strategy ing optimized working models that meet local needs >> Must-win: Operating and, at the same time, utilize global scale advantages. model www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 17 Strategic must-wins Fit for success 5. Must-win: People in focus Developing a working environment that enables our business success Our ambition Our ambition is to continue to grow close to our customers and to create a working environment where employees have the opportunity to succeed. Our aim is for Metso to be a workplace that attracts talented people, helps them to develop and gives them the opportunity to apply their own skills in a balanced manner. Summary Because leadership has been defined as one of the main goals in our new People strategy, issues related to performance, know-how and resourcing are important for us. In line with the People strategy, we are focusing on talent and strategic development of Metso employees. In doing so, we believe we can create the right work environment to attract the right people and help them to succeed. 18 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Strategic must-wins The aim of Metso’s People strategy To develop a working environment that... ...attracts the right people to work with us ...helps our employees develop ...allows everyone to perform at their highest capabilities ...enables business success Starting point balanced manner. Our supervisors act in accordance Links & with principles of leadership. We ensure that there is In 2011, we introduced new leadership principles, a succession plan in place for all relevant supervisory notes renewed values and HSE (health, safety and environpositions. Increasing job rotation and diversiﬁcation 1 Organizational culture ment) targets. In 2011, Metso also developed a new also support the globalization of our leadership base. p. 6–7 competency model to support the continuous 2 Strategy overview development of employees. The model deﬁnes the 2. Performance-driven teams p. 8 –9 focus areas for developing the competencies needEﬀective performance management is based on the 3 www.metso.com/2011 ed in the diﬀerent businesses. Continuous learning annual performance and development review pro> Sustainability Results and development are an important part of Metso’s cess that we are carrying out consistently through>> People and society development and culture. To support learning and out a good part of Metso. Furthermore, good per4 www.metso.com/2011 development, we have a global talent development formance must be rewarded and low performance > Sustainability Results >> Reporting portfolio consisting of both a global and local trainmust be addressed. principles ing oﬀering. At the end of 2011, Metso had a total of 30,324 3. Competent employees employees. 34 percent of Metso’s employees worked in We deﬁne prioritized competence areas based on the emerging markets (34 in 2010). Women accountour business goals. These competence areas are ed for 19 percent (18 in 2010) of our workforce, and included in the annual development discussions. the average age of employees was 42 years. To support the deﬁned competence areas, we are building a strong training oﬀering. Our focus going forward 4. Resourcing An eﬀective and eﬃcient recruitment process is critiMetso’s strategic focus is to strengthen our presence cal to our businesses success. With agility being an in growth countries. This also reﬂects directly on our essential trait in today’s business environment, we People strategy. The aim of the People strategy is to are developing a more eﬃcient onboarding process. make Metso stronger in all four focus areas: strong global leaders, performance-driven teams, competent employees and resourcing, i.e. having the right people in the right places. Developing our competence with the Metso 1. Leadership Award competition. The key goal is to ensure that Metso has strong Read more in our online Annual Report at global leaders. Our managers must know their subwww.metso.com/2011 ordinates and be able to engage them and support > Metso Strategy them so that they can apply their competencies in a >> Must-win: People www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 19 Targets and achievements Targets and achievements Metso’s Board of Directors decided in November 2011 on new targets to increase the transparency of our businesses. long-term ﬁnancial targets. The new targets replace the targets Growth in sales and earnings, combined with a high return set in autumn 2008. Our goal is to create shareholder value on capital employed, are the main drivers of our shareholder through growth and proﬁtability. We will focus on growth in value going forward. businesses in which we are targeting a strong global position During the year we achieved the net sales growth target of and in the services business in all our segments. over 10 percent, and the services net sales exceeded the annual We measure proﬁtability by earnings per share (EPS) at the 10 percent target. Our earnings per share grew 39 percent, Group level. Additionally, we set segment-speciﬁc proﬁtability achieving its growth target. Long-term ﬁnancial targets Target Description Financial development 2011 Graph Net sales t Annual average net sales growth of over Our target for net sales growth is unchanged. Metso’s net sales grew 20 percent and our 1 10 percent (CAGR) including acquisitions The growth will be attained both organically services business grew 17 percent. tOver 10 percent annual growth and through value-enhancing, complementary 2 in our services business acquisitions. Proﬁtability Earnings per share (EPS) growth exceeding net Our new Group-level proﬁtability target is annual Metso’s earnings per share grew 39 percent. 3 sales growth. earnings per share (EPS) growth exceeded net Our net sales growth was 20 percent, i.e. EPS sales growth. growth exceeded the net sales growth. Segment-speciﬁc proﬁtability targets Minimum EBITA,%* Targeted EBITA,%* Proﬁtability targets (EBITA,%, earnings before interFavorable demand resulted in improved proﬁt(low demand) (high demand) 4 est, tax and amortization, and before non-recurring ability in all business segments: Mining and Construction 10% 15% items) have been set for the segments, and the 5 Automation 11% 16% target ranges reﬂect the diﬀerent characteristics of Mining and Construction 11.7% Pulp, Paper and Power 6% 9% our businesses. Automation 13.5% 6 * before non-recurring items Pulp, Paper and Power 8.1% Capital eﬃciency Return on capital employed before tax (ROCE,%) Return on capital employed before tax (ROCE,%) is ROCE before taxes was 18.4 percent. 7 above 20 percent (excluding the impact of major one of the key indicators used in Metso. Our ROCE acquisitions). target was decreased in 2011 to enable future growth investments (the previous ROCE % target, set in 2008, and was over 25% before taxes). Capital structure Credit rating: solid investment grade. Our target to maintain a solid investment grade In December 2011, Moody’s raised our credit rating remained unchanged. rating outlook from stable to positive. Standard & Poor’s credit rating remained unchanged. Moody’s, December 22, 2011: Long-term credit rating: Baa2, outlook positive Standard & Poor’s, August 12, 2010: Long-term corporate credit rating: BBB, stable and shortterm credit rating: A-2 Dividend At least 50 percent of annual earnings per share. The target for our dividend policy remained Metso’s Board of Directors proposes a dividend of 8 unchanged. Our target is to distribute at least 50 EUR 1.70 per share for 2011. This corresponds to percent of annual earnings per share as a dividend 71% of the year’s earnings per share. or in other forms (share buybacks, redemptions etc.) of repatriation of capital. 20 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Targets and achievements 1 Net sales 2 Services net sales 3 Earnings per share EUR million % EUR million % EUR % 8,000 50 3,500 50 4.5 80 7,000 40 4.0 60 3,000 40 6,000 30 3.5 40 2,500 30 3.0 20 5,000 20 2,000 20 2.5 0 4,000 10 1,500 10 2.0 -20 3,000 0 1.5 -40 1,000 0 2,000 -10 1.0 -60 1,000 -20 500 -10 0.5 -80 0 -30 0 -20 0.0 -100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales Services net sales Earnings per share Growth, % % of external net sales Earnings per share growth, % Target, % Growth, % Net sales growth, % Growth target, % Earnings per share growth is targeted to exceed net sales growth 4 EBITA, % before non-recurring items 5 EBITA, % before non-recurring items 6 EBITA, % before non-recurring items Mining and Construction Automation Pulp, Paper and Power % % % 16 16 10 14 14 8 12 12 10 10 6 8 8 6 6 4 4 4 2 2 2 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 EBITA before non-recurring items EBITA before non-recurring items EBITA before non-recurring items Minimum EBITA before non-recurring items Minimum EBITA before non-recurring items Minimum EBITA before non-recurring items Targeted EBITA before non-recurring items Targeted EBITA before non-recurring items Targeted EBITA before non-recurring items 7 Return on capital employed (ROCE) 8 Earnings per share before tax and dividend per share % EUR 30 3.0 25 2.5 20 2.0 15 1.5 10 1.0 5 0.5 0 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011* Return on capital employed (ROCE) before tax Earnings per share Minimum dividend per Target Dividend per share dividend policy *Board's proposal (at least 50% of EPS) www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 21 Targets and achievements Our operating environment and demand in 2011 process solutions. We estimate that the high share of our busiThere were no major changes in our operating environment ness derived from the services business and emerging growth during 2011. The demand returned to a normal level in most of markets will compensate the possible negative eﬀects that our customer industries. The natural disaster in Japan early in market uncertainties may have. the year, the unrest in the Middle East and Northern Africa, as well as the economic instability in Europe and the US did not Financial development have a signiﬁcant impact on the demand for our products and We measure our proﬁtability by earnings per share on the Group services. The good capacity utilization rates of our customer level. In addition, we have introduced segment-level proﬁtabilindustries impacted positively on the demand for our services ity targets in an eﬀort to increase the transparency. In 2011, our business. Our operating environment was good in emerging proﬁt (EBITA) before non-recurring items increased 28 percent markets, especially in the early part of the year, but softened and was EUR 628.5 million. The growth came from all our busisomewhat towards the end of the year, particularly in China, nesses and was especially strong in the Mining and ConstrucIndia and Brazil. tion segment. We have opportunities to further improve our Metso’s strong development and growth continued throughproﬁtability, and we will sharpen our cost-eﬃciency, proﬁtability out the year. We achieved record quarters in terms of new and pricing. This will us move towards our segment-speciﬁc orders and net sales. Increased delivery volumes and improved proﬁtability targets. capacity utilization rates had a positive impact also on our profThe target for our return on capital employed before taxes itability. In spite of the high delivery volumes, for the most part (ROCE, ) is higher than 20 percent (excluding the impact of our net working capital remained under control. major acquisitions). We lowered this target from 25 percent to enable growth investments, for example in our services busiTargeting continued proﬁtable growth ness. ROCE in 2011 was 18.4 percent and the cash conversion was In September, we sharpened our business structure to eﬀecgood, above 100 percent. tively achieve our targets: to ensure the value creation of Metso Our total cash assets at the end of the year were EUR 757 and to gain the critical size needed to be competitive. We are million and our equity to assets ratio was 39.8 percent. Our focusing on businesses in which we can have a strong global strong cash ﬂow has enabled yearly investments, dividends and market position and in which services and technology close strengthening of the balance sheet. Over the years 2010 and to customers are decisive competitive advantages. Shortand 2011, we have paid down debts altogether by nearly EUR 600 long-term value creation through growth and proﬁtability million. Cash and cash equivalents totaled EUR 590 million at development has been the major factor in selecting the way the end of 2011. The proﬁt attributable to shareholders in 2011 forward. Additionally, we are aiming for increased simplicity and corresponded to EUR 2.38 per share. The Board’s 2011 dividend transparency of Metso’s businesses. proposal, EUR 1.70 per share, i.e. 71 percent of earnings per share, indicates our good liquidity position. Strategic focus areas In conjunction with our new strategy, we deﬁned three strateOur guidance for 2012 gic focus areas, which are supported by our long-term ﬁnancial Assuming that the growth in the global economy is not distargets and the development of which we will purposefully rupted and the development in our customer industries does measure, monitor and report. These three focus areas are not clearly weaken due to the European economic situation or strong growth in our services business, an increasing pressome other similar factor, we estimate that our net sales for 2012 ence in emerging markets and strong growth in our mining will grow compared to 2011, and that our proﬁt (EBITA before business. non-recurring items) will improve. Our estimate is based on the Our services business has grown from one year to the next market outlook at the end of 2011, the approximately EUR 4.0 biland in 2011 accounted for 45 percent of our net sales. The fact lion order backlog for 2012, the business scope as well as foreign that each of our segments has a business line focusing speciﬁexchange rates similar to those of December 2011. cally on the services business indicates the importance this The global economic turmoil may have an impact on our focus area will continue to have. ﬁnancial development. The uncertainties in the eurozone and We have a solid foothold in emerging markets. These ﬂuctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse eﬀect on markets accounted for nearly half, or 49 percent, of our total the availability of ﬁnancing from capital markets. Nevertheless, net sales. A growing number of our employees are in emerging our exposure to the eﬀects of global megatrends, our investmarkets; currently, the share is about one third. ments in rapidly growing markets and our large base of equipWe believe there will be steady growth in mining industry ment give us excellent opportunities for growth. investments. This will bring growth opportunities also for Metso. The orders we received from the mining industry increased during the 2011 by more than half and we received a few exceptionally large orders. Growth in the mining industry’s services orders was also strong, 25 percent. We estimate that the business environment in our customer industries will develop favorably as a result of global megatrends, such as the rise of emerging markets, urbanization and the increasing importance of environmentally sustainable 22 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Targets and achievements Global Health, Safety and Environment goals We have two sustainability targets that we set in 2009 regarding energy savings and safety. Last year over half of our units achieved the short-term safety goal. To achieve our energysavings target, we have set unit-level energy-savings targets, improved reporting on energy consumption and continued mapping opportunities to save energy in our biggest units. Year 2011 Year 2012 Health and safety overview Our short-term safety target is to achieve a lost In 2011, our LTIF was 9.1. Out of our 117 largest We will focus on safety by strengthening our time incident frequency (LTIF) of less than 5 in units, 78 achieved the group LTIF target level of health and safety organization and by e.g. every Metso unit by 2015. Our long-term less than 5. increasing training in safety issues. occupational safety target is zero incidents. Environmental overview Our goal is to improve energy eﬃciency and to In 2011, we continued mapping opportunities to In 2012, we will conclude the mapping of opreduce carbon dioxide emissions by 15 percent save energy in our energy-intensive production portunities to save energy in our largest producby 2015 and by 20 percent by 2020. units and launched more extensive investments tion units. Upon completion, approximately 80 targeting energy eﬃciency improvements. percent of Metso’s energy consumption will be mapped. In 2012, energy-savings measures will be implemented in most of Metso’s production units; our goal is to signiﬁcantly increase the number of ongoing and implemented improvement projects, compared to 2011. Global health and safety targets are the steel and iron foundries. The mapping will continue in Metso’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) policy supports 2012. Upon completion, 80 percent of Metso’s energy consumpthe development of a safe, healthy and well-managed work ention will be mapped. vironment. Our long-term target is zero work-related incidents. The biggest energy-savings opportunities are related to We believe that every incident can be prevented. the use of fuel and heat. Potential savings outside our producOur short-term occupational safety target is to achieve a tion processes were also found, e.g. in cooling and compressed lost-time incident frequency (LTIF) of less than 5 by 2015. In 2011, air systems. We have deﬁned energy-eﬃciency indices for our our LTIF was 9.1. LTIF reﬂects the number of incidents resulting production units, and the units report their energy consumpin an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. tion in accordance with the indices on a quarterly basis, which In 2011, 78 of Metso’s 117 biggest units achieved the group LTIF promotes energy-eﬃciency and monitoring at the Metso level. target level of less than 5. The results reported by Metso’s units in this area vary widely, and there is clearly room for improvement in our occupational Links & health and safety work. In 2012, we will further increase our notes focus on developing a strong and decentralized safety organization by implementing new tools in occupational safety training. 1 Figures p. 36 –40 2 Board of Directors’ Energy eﬃciency beneﬁts Report p. 42–50 the environment and the economy 3 Formulas for calculaIn 2009, we set global, Group-wide energy-saving and carbon tion of indicators p. 103 dioxide emissions targets for our own production. The major4 www.metso.com/2011 ity of our reported CO2 emissions come from the use of energy; > Sustainability Results >> Health and safety therefore decreasing energy consumption will also reduce emisresults sions – while also bringing ﬁnancial beneﬁts. 5 www.metso.com/2011 Mapping the opportunities to save energy and decrease > Sustainability Results carbon dioxide emissions at the Metso level was started in the >> Sustainability and most energy-intensive production units, the biggest of which strategy www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 23 Risks and risk management Risks and risk management As Metso’s operations expand globally and target new technologies and customer industries, our business environment and competitive arena become more complex. This development increases our operational uncertainty. We use risk management to support the achievement of our strategic and business goals and to ensure continuity of our operations also in changing circumstances. Enterprise risk management supports In 2011, we renewed our risk management policy the achievement of strategic goals to fulﬁll the requirements of the ISO 31000 standard. We deﬁne risks as uncertainties, which, if materialThe risk management policy deﬁnes the starting ized, can either positively or negatively impact our points, goals, principles and responsibilities of our chances of achieving our goals. So, risk is either an enterprise risk management. opportunity or a threat, or a combination of them. We assess the signiﬁcance of a risk as a combination Risk management responsibilities of probability and consequences of the occurrence. Metso’s Board of Directors approves our risk manThe leading principle of our risk management agement policy. Additionally, the Board oversees is to strengthen our business opportunities. In that the planning, information and control systems addition, we aim to minimize the negative eﬀects in place for risk management are suﬃcient for the of the risks on our operations and to avoid hazard mapping and handling of risks. The Board’s Audit risks. We can manage some risks on our own, while Committee assesses the adequacy of risk manageother risks are beyond our control, and we can only ment and ensures that it is consistent with our risk prepare for them. management principles. Our risk management focus is on risk assessThe Metso Executive Team ensures suﬃcient ments and proactively implementing any measures resources and operating conditions for risk mannecessary. This allows us to take advantage of agement. Business management is responsible for opportunities and to limit adverse impacts so that the implementation of the risk management policy we achieve our goals. We map and analyze risks to and the annual risk management program in their support the strategic and daily operative planning respective areas of operations. of our business operations and decision-making. The Risk Management Team, comprised of Comprehensive and systematic risk management Metso’s CFO and representatives of the businesses, also increases the conﬁdence that internal and deﬁnes the risk management program and ensures external stakeholders have in our operations. that the views of the diﬀerent stakeholders are taken We map and assess risks systematically throughinto consideration in them. out our organization and in all our functions, and The Group Risk Management function supports we adjust our operations when needed. In the and oversees the implementation of the risk mansegment-speciﬁc risk assessments supporting our agement policy and risk management program and annual strategy process, we analyze the impacts develops common processes, practices, guidelines of the opportunities and threats on our business and tools for use by the entire Metso organization. and ﬁnancial position during the ongoing strategy Group Treasury manages our ﬁnancial risks and period and, based on the analyses, we compile a secures the availability of equity and debt ﬁnancrisk proﬁle for Metso Group. If threats materialize, ing with competitive terms. Group Treasury works regardless of us having prepared for them, they in cooperation with the businesses and centrally may have a signiﬁcant adverse impact on our busimanages external funding. Additionally, it is responness, ﬁnancial situation and operating result or on sible for managing ﬁnancial assets and for hedging Links & the value of our shares and other securities. We related to our ﬁnancial risks. notes aim to reduce the ﬁnancial impacts of any adverse events and to restore operations to normal as Risk management focus areas 1 A more detailed quickly as possible. In addition, we have prepared and development in 2011 description of Metso’s risk management for possible risks through insurance programs. We Uncertainties in the euro area, the budget deﬁcit is presented on estimate that our overall level of risks is currently at in the United States, weakened availability for our website a manageable level in proportion to the scope of funding and ﬂuctuations in currency exchange www.metso.com/risks our operations and to the practical measures availrates increased the threats related to our operating 2 www.metso.com/2011 able. However, it must be kept in mind that global environment. Additionally, the increased political > Sustainability Results >> Sustainability business is dependent on a number of sudden and tension in the Middle East and the related events threats and unforeseen political, economic and other widewith their broader impacts increased the general opportunities ranging risk factors. political and economic uncertainty. However, there 24 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Risks and risk management Most signiﬁcant threats and opportunities We deﬁne risks as uncertainties that can be both opportunities and threats for our business operations and strategy implementation. In our annual risk assessment, we systematically assess the signiﬁcance and development of various risks. In the risk assessment for 2012, our business were no signiﬁcant changes in the market activity of management capability and the changes in customers’ our customer industries, and demand was strong in technology and product scope are seen as increased the emerging markets. In addition to renewing the risk management opportunities. The impact of global economic cycles and policy, in 2011 we strengthened our already holistic uncertainty in global ﬁnancial markets, on the other hand, approach to risk management, and developed and are seen as increasing threats in our operating environment. documented riskand crisis-management processes and good practices. The most signiﬁcant factors creating threats and We also reassessed the content of audits conducted to determine the level of risk management, opportunities for Metso based on the 2012 risk assessment: and made adjustments for better alignment with Metso’s strategy, which was updated in autumn 2011. Technical improvements were made to the tEnsuring suﬃcient competence and talent resources globally: maintaining a high level of business and risk assessment tool to facilitate the monitoring of leadership capability and ability to implement strategy. changes in risk levels. In crisis management, we deployed a text messaging-based communications system to improve the reachability of our travelling personnel tBrand and reputation: ability to retain and strengthen position as the industry’s leading company. in exceptional situations. We continued developing the global risk management contact network by appointing new contact persons for handling crisis situations in particular. Many of the crisis situations tAvailability of mergers and acquisitions and capacity to utilize them. related to natural phenomena and events that occurred at our own and our customers’ production facilities during the year required crisis management measures. tAbility to meet customers’ demand for services. In corporate security, we focused particularly on development and monitoring of and training in tMaintaining competitive position and market share. information security and on product safety. In IT risk management, we continued the auditing of server environments. Additionally, we arranged internal tImpact of global and key market economic cycles on meeting strategic goals. training in e.g. travel safety and in issues related to property insurance. We are continuously optimizing the insurance terms and conditions, limits and premiums of our tMaintaining and developing presence in emerging markets. global insurance programs. Our property insurance company conducted audits in 20 of our units, and we worked with our insurance broker to evaluate the risk management tGlobal sourcing capability: success in supply chain management. level in 10 of our units. We held transportation safety training and evaluation events in collaboration with our transportation insurer. tStability of the ﬁnancing sector and capital markets and the impact on the availability and cost of long-term ﬁnancing for Metso and its customers. www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 25 Customer Industries Customer industries Mining Construction Oil and gas Pulping t Mining investments driven t Infrastructure investments t Growth in energy t Growth of paper, board and by demand for minerals consumption tissue consumption in Asia t Growth of emerging markets t Infrastructure investments t Long-term supply and t Availability and price of raw Market drivers t Urbanization demand for oil and gas materials in South America t Growth of middle class with and Southeast Asia purchasing power t Opportunities for new t Urbanization ﬁber-based products and applications t South America, Africa and t Future growth in the emergt Increased demand and price t Investments for new lines Australia driven by infrastrucing markets, particularly in for energy creates favorable concentrated to Asia and ture building and consumpEastern Europe, India, China development in investments South America. Several pulp tion in China and India and South America, where and demand for automation projects planned. the public sector also supand ﬂow control solutions Market trends t Depletion of ore bodies reports infrastructure projects t Continuous demand for quires capacity investments t Growth driven by China, India, rebuilds, process improvet An increasing need to other BRIC countries ments and maintenance t Growing demand and price upgrade and maintain and the Middle East services also in developed for minerals drives up the the Western infastructure markets growth rate in the services after years of limited ﬁscal business spending t Development of nano cellulose solutions t Increased environmental responsibilities t Overall market environment t Good demand for equipment t Industry growing faster t Industry growing slower is very good in Asia-Paciﬁc and Brazil than the market, on average than the market on average t Strong demand for our mint Satisfactory demand for t High oil prices keep investt Investments in South ing services from growing equipment in Europe and ments at a good level America drive growth Market outlook mineral demand and our North America large installed base t High energy cost and t Growth potential in Asiat Services demand satisfactory increasing regulations force Paciﬁc in capital and t Good demand for equipment energy eﬃciency and services markets and project businesses emission reduction t Services demand good t Services demand is good/excellent Organic growth potential Excellent Good Good Satisfactory Acquisition potential Some Some Extensive Satisfactory Share of orders received in 2011 33% 11% 7% 8% Services business orders in 2011 45% 38% 26% 30% (% of total orders) 26 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Customer Industries Paper, board and tissue Power generation Our three business segments – Mining and Construction, t Growth of emerging markets t Need for energy eﬃciency Automation, and Pulp, Paper and t Growth in middle class with purchasing power in emerging t Growth in energy consumption Power – oﬀer products and services t Investments in markets renewable energy to a range of customer industries t Digital media t Refurbishment of aging t Need for raw materials eﬃciency power plants Customers in several industries We serve customers around the world in the mining, construction, oil and gas, pulp and paper, as well as power generation industries by supplying them with capital goods and related process solutions and services. Most of our customers are industrial companies, like mining, energy and paper companies. We also have contractor cust Capacity utilization rates of paper t European countries and the tomers, mainly in the construction industry. Most of our and board industry to drive United States to increase use of customers operate in the process industry and use natural services demand renewable energy and to raw materials or recycled materials in their production. modernize aging power plants. t Continuous demand for rebuilds, We have a balanced oﬀering of products, projects and process improvements and t Increasing investments in services business. Large-scale project deliveries are typical maintenance services also in electric power developed markets to the mining, power generation, and pulp and paper industries. Our deliveries to the construction and the oil and gas industries mainly consist of individual equipment components and smaller package solutions. The share of the services business is signiﬁcant in all our businesses. Our customers make investment decisions based primarily on the long-term demand and price forecasts for their products. They ﬁnance their bigger investment projects typically with a combination of cash ﬂows and debt ﬁnancing and the smaller purchases with their own cash ﬂows. As a principal rule, we do not participate in the t Industry growing slower than t Industry growing faster than ﬁnancing of customer projects. the market, on average the market, on average Our customers are emphasizing return on investt Investments in China t Opportunities in bioenergy and ment in their decision-making and are thus pursuing drive growth new technologies in EMEA, the largest installed based market. eﬃcient solutions with low initial investment and t Growth potential in Asia-Paciﬁc in capital and services markets t Bioenergy opportunities also operating costs. in North America t Services important in North America due to large installed t Growth potential in Asia-Paciﬁc Mining industry base. Also capital opportunities. in capital and services markets Our mining industry customers include global mining git Opportunities in South t South American pulp industry is ants, signiﬁcant regional players, and smaller, local mining America for paper an important market companies. In recent years the mining industry has cont Services demand satisfactory t Legislation-driven growth solidated, but a signiﬁcant part of operations is still carried in bioenergy out by smalland medium-sized mining companies. t Services demand good We estimate that about two thirds of the equipment and processes we supply are used in the production of iron ore, copper and gold. Other mining operations, such as the production of nickel, platinum, zinc, silver and Satisfactory Good diamonds, are also important to us. To secure the eﬃcient operation of their existing Satisfactory Extensive mines, mining companies must make replacement investments and purchase spare and wear parts and maintenance services for existing machines and equipment. Our 25% 13% services business is strong, accounting for half of our deliveries, and it oﬀsets the impact of economic ﬂuctuations 46% 25% on our net sales. www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 27 Customer Industries Metso’s businesses Construction industry Segment and The customer base in the construction industry Mining and Construction: EUR 2,760 million net sales in 2011 is fragmented: the sector consists of a few major aggregates producers, but the majority of our t Full-scope solutions for mining industry customers are smalland medium-sized compaProducts and services nies and contractors. The net sales of our construct Grinding mills, grinding solutions tion business are almost equally divided between t Crushers, crushing solutions; Process equipment, such as pumps, quarries and contractors. Quarries are either major ﬁlters, thickeners, separation equipment international companies or local and regional playt Mobile crushers and screens ers. Contractors are mainly smallor medium-sized t Bulk materials handling solutions, conveyors local or regional companies operating as contract t Expert and maintenance services crushers. Our construction industry customers t Spare and wear parts typically react quickly to changes in the market situation by adjusting their level of new investments. We supply our construction industry customers with rock crushers, mobile and stationary crushing t Mining industry Customers plants, screens and conveyors as well as expert and t Construction industry (quarries and contractors) maintenance services. Our customers are interested particularly in energy-eﬃcient mobile solutions that can be easily transferred from one location to another and that generate as little waste, noise and dust as possible. More than one third of our construction industry net sales come from the services business. t Mining industry: FLSmidth, Outotec, ThyssenKrupp, Sandvik, Caterpillar, Weir, Citic Paciﬁc, ABB Mining, Bateman, Excel, Joy Global, Competitors Oil, gas and petrochemical industry KHD, Magotteaux, Rema Tip Top, Rubber Engineering, Siemens Mining We supply our oil and gas industry customers t Construction industry: Terex, Atlas Copco, Caterpillar, Sandvik, Astec, with industrial valves used mainly for ﬂow control Deister, Excel, FLSmidth, Furukawa, Haver, Boecker, Kawasaki, Komatsu, and with automation systems used to control and Magotteaux, Pegson, Puzzolana, Schenk, Shanghai Shanbao, Siebtechnik, Volvo Construction Equipment, Wirtgen Group monitoring processes, as well as with expert and t Services business: Many local and regional competitors maintenance services. Flow control solutions are a critical part of the reﬁning process, the eﬃciency of which has a signiﬁcant impact on the proﬁtability of reﬁneries. Over two-thirds of our ﬂow control Global market Mining: Construction: solutions go to the oil, gas and petrochemical industry, and the rest mainly to the pulp and paper t Grinding mills (1) t Crushing and screening (1–2) industry. t Mining crushers (1) position t A strong position in selected niches Pulp and paper industry Our customer base in the pulp and paper industry consists of major regional or global players and a large number of smaller, local companies. We are one of the world’s leading suppliers of paper, board t Minerals Processing Solutions: net sales EUR 906 million and tissue lines, pulping lines, the related spare and Business t Crushing and Screening Equipment: net sales EUR 465 million wear parts, and expert and maintenance services. lines t Services: net sales EUR 1,389 million Power generation The power generation industry is a sizable market, of which Metso holds a key position in a niche area. Operating Independent energy companies and municipal In mining industry products, we focus on engineering and managpower plants account for about two thirds of the ing delivery projects. In construction equipment products, we focus on the ﬁnal assembly of components supplied by our submodel net sales of our Power business, and pulp and paper contractor network. We manufacture spare and wear parts mainly mills account for about one third. Our strengths in in our own factories. power generation solutions include our technological know-how that enables the use of biomass Share of orders and waste in energy production, and controlling received in 2011 43% technically challenging combustion processes that Services business’ utilize multiple fuels simultaneously, supported by advanced automation solutions. share of segment’s orders received in 2011 43% 28 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Customer Industries Automation: EUR 770 million Pulp, Paper and Power: EUR 2,703 million t Process automation and information management application t Chemical pulping lines and equipment networks and systems t Mechanical pulping lines and equipment t Process measurement systems and analyzers t Paper and board making lines, machines and rebuilds t Control, on-oﬀ and emergency shutdown (ESD) valves t Tissue making lines, machines and rebuilds t Intelligent positioners t Power boiler plants and chemical recovery boilers, evaporators, t Intelligent condition monitoring ﬂue-gas cleaning and environmental systems, boiler rebuilds and upgrades, biomass power plants t Expert and life cycle services t Expert and maintenance services t Fabrics and ﬁlters for the pulp, paper, energy and mining industries t Spare and wear parts t Power generation industry t Chemical and mechanical pulp producers t Oil and gas industry t Paper, board and tissue producers t Pulp and paper industry t Industrial power generators, municipalities and utility companies t Mining and construction industry t Selected other process industries t Automation systems: ABB, Honeywell t Pulp: Andritz, GLV Foster Wheeler, Wuhan t Valves: Emerson Process Management, GE, Flowserve t Paper and board: Andritz, Voith t Power plants: Renewa, Urbas Maschinenfabrik t Tissue: Acelli, Andritz, Toscotec, Voith t Fabrics: Albany, AstenJohnson, Voith, Xerium t Recovery and power boilers: Andritz, Babcock & Wilcox, CBC, t Services: Local and regional competitors Process automation systems: Flow control: t Chemical pulping lines (1–2) t Biomass–ﬁred, ﬂuidized bed boiler technology for t Pulp and paper control t Pulp and paper control valves t Mechanical pulping lines (1–2) the energy industry (1–3) systems (3) (1) t Paper and board machines t Recovery and power boilt Power control systems (9) t Oil and gas control valves (5) (1–2) ers for the pulp and paper t A strong position in selected t Reﬁning control valves (4) t Tissue machines (1) industry (1–2) niches t Fabrics (5) t Chemical control valves (7) t Mill services (1–2) t Process Automation Systems: net sales EUR 188 million t Paper: net sales EUR 795 million t Flow Control: net sales EUR 378 million t Fiber: net sales EUR 397 million t Services: net sales EUR 205 million t Power*: net sales EUR 715 million t Services: net sales EUR 916 million *Power business line includes also services business Valves and positioners are assembled mainly in our own We engineer and assemble paper, board and tissue machines in our factories and the components are outsourced. Our process and units. In our Fiber business line solutions, we focus primarily on engiautomation solutions are based on our own engineering knowneering and delivery project management. We manufacture fabrics how. A signiﬁcant part of the engineering work is purchased and paper machine clothing in our own factories. In power industry Links & from our subcontractors operating in competitive countries. products, we focus on engineering and project management. notes 1 Metso and megatrends 10% 40% p. 4– 5 2 Segment reviews p. 30 –35 46% 36% 3 Figures p. 36 –40 www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 29 Mining and Construction Mining and Construction We are fully committed to delivering the targeted performance by capitalizing on mining growth and by leveraging our strong global position. We will continue to develop the services business through our installed base and to expand our presence and oﬀering organically and through acquisitions. We are a global, full-scope supplier of technolSome of our Chinese suppliers have become our ogy and services for the mining and construction competitors in the global markets. In order to stay industries. Growth and urbanization in the emerging competitive, we need to manage our cost structures markets will boost demand for minerals for years to and fully utilize our technology. Our global sales and come. Australia and South America are our key minservices network supports us in the competition. ing markets, driven by consumption growth in China and India. Infrastructure maintenance in developed Great opportunities in both markets and continued expansion in the emerging mining and construction markets will drive the demand for our crushing and We have long and deep exposure to the fast-growscreening equipment. ing mining industry. We will continue to strengthen our resources in the growth markets, expand our Global presence close to our customers services oﬀering and develop services hubs close to Global presence is one of our key strengths. We have our customers. Acquisitions are one way of achievbeen present in the emerging markets for a long time, ing this growth. as these are the traditional markets for our industry. We have a strong position in the crushing and Over the years, we have built a strong presence that screening niche of the construction industry. We includes also manufacturing and services capabilities. explore opportunities to enter into complementary Currently, half of Mining and Construction’s personnel product areas to expand and strengthen our curwork in the emerging markets. We are continuing to rent position. The mid-market, meaning localized grow our presence wherever our customers operate. versions of our products originally designed for In Brazil, we have a strong and stable position. We Western markets, is an interesting area for us. have supplied comprehensive process lines for minerals production and for infrastructure and building Services business growth projects. New infrastructure projects related to the through installed base Olympics and World Cup oﬀer us great opportunities. We have a long history of supporting our installed In Russia, we are strong especially in mining. We base in North America and Europe. The markets for will develop and strengthen our own operations, the services business, which are mainly driven by including improving our project capabilities and our customer capacity utilization rates, are more stable sales and services network, as the local operating than the markets for new equipment. We aim to environment evolves. grow the business also in the emerging markets We have established our presence in crushing through our new installed base and by leveraging and screening as well as in iron ore concentration in and developing our global presence and services India. A key to our success is our Metso Park facility concepts close to our customers. in Alwar, in the state of Rajasthan, and our mid-marThe majority of our services business is related ket solutions adapted to local cost structures. to wear and spare parts. Our customers are becoming increasingly interested in our performance soSuccess in China is a must lutions. Currently, half of the Mining and ConstrucThe Chinese construction market is worth half of the tion business is connected to our services business. global construction market and a key to our global success. We have a strong foothold in the premium Sustainability is our license to operate crushing market in mining. We have also succeeded Environmental impact is a major issue for any big in grinding and bulk materials handling. The fastmining company. We must support our customers growing mid-market segment in construction oﬀers in assuring local communities and authorities that us good growth opportunities. these issues are addressed. Health and safety issues We currently produce large crushing machines are a clear priority for us. In terms of the environin China. Our aim is to build our capabilities in China ment, we help our customers to reduce their energy to serve the domestic Chinese markets as well as the and water use as well as the noise and dust generglobal markets. We will continue to develop our organiated by the use of our equipment. zation, supply chain and distribution network in China. 30 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Our strategy is executed through must-wins Key figures, EUR million Services 2 010 2 011 • Services offering – focus on growth through value proposition and engineered services solutions. Net sales 2,235 2,760 EBITA* 264.8 322.1 • Product offering expansion. % of net sales 11.8 11.7 • Growth via exploitation of installed base. Personnel, Dec 31 10,206 10,771 *before non-recurring items Growth countries • Increase local presence in the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China) by strengthening the organization and supply capabilities. Technology • Sustainability is critical. • Water and energy conservation. • Energy and raw materials efficiency. Links & notes Operating model 1 Customer industries • Health, safety and environment a continued focus. 2 p. 26 –29 • Move Figures p. 36 –40 towards a globally functional organization and 3 Segment’s financial develwith uniform processes. opment in 2011 in the Board of Directors’ Report p. 48 4 www.metso.com/ miningandconstruction People 5 President of Mining and • Recruit, retain and develop people to address business needs. Construction Andrew Benko’s presentation at Metso Capital Markets Day 2011 www.metso.com/CMD www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 31 Automation Automation The Automation segment’s solutions and services meet the growing needs of Metso’s customer industries to improve production process eﬃciency as raw materials and energy sources become scarcer and their costs increase. Automation has been a separate business segment improve productivity, lower risk and optimize costs. since the end of 2011 with excellent prerequisites for Its service portfolio includes, for example, process proﬁtable growth. The Automation segment aims optimization and monitoring, process automation to grow its share in all of Metso’s customer indusupgrades and maintenance, valve maintenance, tries, organically and through business acquisitions. spare part management, outsourcing solutions, and Services account for about half of the segment’s net engineering and environmental services. The busisales. ness line has a local presence close to customers on Automation is the market leader in solutions for all continents and in major industrial locations. the pulp and paper industry and has solid growth targets also in all of Metso’s other main customer Good outlook for growth in demand industries – power generation, mining and construcMetso is developing Automation as a separate tion, and oil and gas. Automation’s products and business segment with the aim of tapping into the services support and strengthen Metso’s overall global growth potential of the business. Demand portfolio and thus improve Metso’s position in its for automation solutions is growing faster than the strong customer sectors. The profound customer world’s gross domestic product. As a result, automaindustry knowledge of Metso’s other business segtion investments are also outpacing the growth rate ments signiﬁcantly supports the development of the of industry investments in general. Automation segment. Exhaustible and increasingly more expensive raw materials, along with the use of clean and eﬃcient Strong position in our customer industries energy, are structural growth factors that have a Automation’s customers are typically leading players strong impact on Automation’s business operations. in their respective sectors. They value Metso’s thorAutomation’s products and services are needed to ough knowledge of customer industries, its technolboost process eﬃciency and optimize production. ogy leadership and global service network. The increasing investments in electricity and heat Automation’s products and services help customers production, the long-term supply and demand for develop their own production processes, in which even oil and gas, the shortage of labor, and the growminor improvements can lead to signiﬁcant improveing investments in infrastructure also all stimulate ments in cost, materials and energy eﬃciency. Automagrowth and demand. tion generally accounts for a small part of the actual investment in a production plant, but it has a major Markets can accommodate expanded impact on the plant’s functionality and eﬃciency. oﬀering and operations The products and services oﬀered by Automation All the factors mentioned above create considerare divided into three business lines: Process Autoable potential for growth, and Automation has mation Systems, Flow Control and Services. several diﬀerent directions to expand its operations. Process Automation Systems’ main customer Geographically, the key growth markets are the industries are currently pulp and paper and power BRIC countries and the Middle East. Of these, Metso generation. It also serves other process industries, has the strongest foothold in China, where there is such as mining and construction and the marine a high demand for Metso’s systems and valves. Auindustry. Its products include automation and tomation is pursuing growth also through business information management systems and applications, acquisitions that can expand its product oﬀering analyzers and measurement systems. and increase its capacity. Flow Control’s main customer segment is the oil and gas industry, but it also serves the needs of other process industries, such as the petrochemical and pulp and paper industries. The business line’s products include control valves, automated on/oﬀ and emergency shut-down valves, as well as smart positioners and condition monitoring. The Services business line provides process industry customers with business solutions to 32 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Frank Schneider Our strategy is executed through must-wins Key figures, EUR million Services 2010 2011 • Increase local presence by strengthening global service network. Net sales 650 770 EBITA* 72.2 103.9 • Expand the accessible market with solutions that improve Metso customers’ business performance. % of net sales 11.1 13.5 Personnel, Dec 31 3,639 3,892 *before non-recurring items Growth countries • Soperations trengthen local hubs for sales, service, and research, training and development. Technology • Analyzer technology for new customer industries. • Expand valve offering. Links & • Extend DCS offering and ensure its competitiveness. notes 1 Customer industries p. 26 –29 2 Figures p. 36 –40 Operating model 3 • Select and implement operational excellence programs. Segment’s financial development in 2011 in the Board of Directors’ Report p. 48 4 www.metso.com/ automation People 5 President of Automation • Recruit and develop personnel in growth markets. Perttu Louhiluoto’s presentation at Metso Capital Markets Day 2011 www.metso.com/CMD www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 33 Pulp, Paper and Power Pulp, Paper and Power The services and solutions oﬀered by Metso’s Pulp, Paper and Power segment meet the needs of a sustainability-focused society. The segment serves industries that utilize renewable raw materials and are based on carbon-neutral power generation. Our solutions help customers to use renewable raw We are already the leader in our product segment, materials in the manufacturing of products and but there are still potential growth opportuniin the generation of energy. Metso aims to be the ties for us in Asia, Central and South America, and world’s leading supplier of pulp, paper and bioenin the lower product segment of power boilers. ergy solutions and to further develop its operations Developing new technologies is critical for growth. related to other biomass technologies. At the moment, we are acting on the growth opBy integrating the pulp, paper and power portunities we see in gasiﬁcation technology by operations, we are able to serve a large share of our introducing a new solution to the markets. customers with a single organization. Internally, we can leverage the special expertise and experience Most comprehensive of our diﬀerent businesses. For example, Power has service network in the markets more experience with the Indian markets than the We have more than 12,000 employees globally other businesses, and it, in turn, can beneﬁt from in our Pulp, Paper and Power segment, and our the strong knowledge the other businesses have network of 110 service centers covers virtually all about China. the main pulp and paper industry and bioenergy Services growth is an important strategic target production sites. for our operations. Services already account for 39 We have a very strong presence in North Amerpercent of our net sales. Our oﬀering is the most ica and Europe, and we aim to further strengthen extensive in the market, and we are constantly inour presence in growing and emerging markets, troducing new solutions and technologies. We aim like China. to be the technology leader in our sector. We respond to the tightening competition by Operational eﬃciency is also an important goal developing new, cost-eﬃcient and easy-to-use and one that requires us to collaborate through our solutions, like the OptiConcept M production line global network, in line with Metso’s vision. that uses highly advanced technology and is designed for the mid-market segment. Additionally, Sustainable production from we respond to competition by constantly improvrenewable raw materials ing our service capacity and customer relations As the range of renewable raw materials continues around the world. As a result, we stay ahead of new to expand, the spectrum of products made from competitors. them will grow. Our solutions therefore must be compatible with a variety of raw materials, both in the pulp and paper industry as well as in power generation. Lately, interest in the use of nanoand microcellulose to create new properties and applications for materials has been growing. For example, board can be developed as a replacement for plastic packaging material. Our aim in bioenergy is to develop solutions for using and reﬁning new kinds of fuels. We meet all our customers’ needs Our portfolio for the pulp and paper industry is the most comprehensive in the market. We can meet any of the needs our customers have in pulp, paper, board and power production, including Metso’s Automation solutions. This full-scope portfolio is one of Metso’s great strengths and gives us a competitive edge in the market. Our goal is to strengthen our market position and expand our oﬀering in bioenergy production. 34 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Lahti Energia’s waste gasiﬁcation plant in Finland will start operations in 2012. Our strategy is executed through must-wins Key ﬁgures, EUR million Customer closeness 2010 2011 tBe in direct and close contact with customers. Net sales 2,453 2,703 EBITA* 167.9 218.8 % of net sales 6.8 8.1 Services Personnel, Dec 31 12,114 12,528 tImprove services market share and proﬁtability with new products and markets. *before non-recurring items Growth countries tSpeed up business development and strengthen area organizations to support growth in services and capital. Technology Links & tMaintain technology leadership position with new products, and cost-eﬃcient and sustainable solutions. notes 1 Customer industries p. 26 –29 2 Figures p. 36 –40 Operating model 3 Segment’s ﬁnancial development in 2011 in tSecure quality of operations and deliveries in global processes. the Board of Directors’ Report p. 49 4 www.metso.com/ pulpandpaper 5 www.metso.com/power People 6 President of Pulp, Paper tBuild capabilities and competencies to enhance growth. and Power Pasi Laine’s presentation at Metso Capital Markets Day 2011 www.metso.com/CMD www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 35 Key ﬁgures Group key ﬁgures Key ﬁgures EUR million 2010 2011 Net sales 5,552 6,646 Services, % of net sales 45 45 Earnings before interest, tax and amortization (EBITA) and non-recurring items 491.0 628.5 % of net sales 8.8 9.5 Operating proﬁt 445.2 571.8 % of net sales 8.0 8.6 Proﬁt before taxes 370 507 % of net sales 6.7 7.6 Proﬁt 258 358 % of net sales 4.6 5.4 Procurements* 3,470 4,319 Research and development expenditure, gross (including IPR expenses) 129 137 Research and development personnel 829 852 Priority applications, pcs* 181 180 Invention disclosures, pcs* 780 649 Gross capital expenditure (excluding business acquisitions) 135 166 Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired 21 15 Earnings per share, EUR 1.71 2.38 Dividend per share, EUR ** 1.55 1.70 Balance sheet total 6,232 6,618 Return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, % 13.5 18.4 Return on equity (ROE), % 13.6 17.8 Equity to assets ratio, % 38.1 39.8 Gearing, % 15.0 12.2 Free cash ﬂow 435 375 Orders received 5,944 7,961 Order backlog, December 31 4,023 5,310 Personnel, December 31 28,593 30,324 * Unaudited ** 2011 Board’s proposal Metso's target markets in 2011 EUR 42.3 billion Pulp, Paper and Power Mining and Construction EUR 11.3 billion EUR 19.0 billion – Mining EUR 11 billion – Pulp EUR 1.8 billion – Construction EUR 8 billion – Paper EUR 8 billion 11.3 bn – Power EUR 1.5 billion 19.0 bn 12.0 bn Automation EUR 12.0 billion – Systems EUR 4 billion – Flow control EUR 8 billion 36 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Key ﬁgures Balance sheet structure Free cash ﬂow Gearing and equity to assets ratio EUR million EUR million % 3,000 800 80 700 70 2,500 600 60 2,000 500 50 1,500 400 40 300 30 1,000 200 20 500 100 10 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total equity Fixed assets Gearing Net interest bearing Goodwill Equity to assets ratio liabilities Net working capital Capital structure Net sales by market area Research and development expenditure (including IPR expenses) EUR million EUR million 2,500 Finland 6% (5%) 150 56 2,000 6 Other Nordic countries 6% (7%) 125 25 Other Europe 23% (24%) 100 23 1,500 North America 18% (17%) 75 17 18 South and Central 1,000 America 17% (14%) 50 Asia-Paciﬁc 25% (28%) 500 25 Other countries 5% (5%) 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Interest bearing Long-term interest receivables bearing debt Cash and cash equivalents Short-term interest Total equity bearing debt Orders received by customer industry Orders received by market area Orders received EUR 7,961 million (2010: EUR 5,944 million) Mining 33% (29%) Finland 5% (6%) Construction 11% (13%) 6 5 7 Other Nordic countries 7% (7%) 25 Links & 33 Power generation 13% (11%) 21 Other European countries 19% (23%) 19 notes 8 Oil and gas 7% (7%) North America 18% (15%) 3 11 24 1 More ﬁgures 7 Recycling 3% (3%) 18 South and Central 13 America 24% (17%) www.metso.com/2011 Pulp 8% (10%) > Financial Performance Asia-Paciﬁc 21% (27%) Paper 25% (27%) Africa and Middle East 6% (5%) 2 More ﬁgures www.metso.com/2011 > Sustainability Results 3 www.metso.com/2011 > Financial Performance >> Quarterly Information www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 37 Key ﬁgures Segment key ﬁgures Mining and Construction Net sales by customer industry Segment key ﬁgures EUR million 2010 2011 Net sales 2,235 2,760 Services net sales 1,139 1,378 EBITA before non-recurring items 264.8 322.1 Mining 71% (67%) % of net sales 11.8 11.7 Construction 29% (33%) Operating proﬁt 290.4 313.1 29 Capital employed, Dec 31 1,151 1,268 71 Gross capital expenditure (including business acquisitions) 37 49 Research and development expenses, gross 18 22 Orders received 2,457 3,464 Order backlog, Dec 31 1,356 2,027 Personnel, Dec 31 10,206 10,771 Orders received by market area Orders received and order backlog Net sales EUR million EUR million 3,500 3,000 Finland 2% (3%) 8 2 10 Other Nordic countries 10% (5%) 3,000 2,500 21 16 Other European countries 16% (18%) 2,500 2,000 North America 15% (13%) 2,000 15 1,500 28 South and Central America 28% (28%) 1,500 1,000 Asia-Paciﬁc 21% (24%) 1,000 Africa and Middle East 8% (9%) 500 500 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Orders received Order backlog Personnel by area Services net sales Operating proﬁt and EBITA before non-recurring items EUR million % EUR million % Finland 10% (10%) 1,400 70 400 16 10 10 Other Nordic countries 9% (9%) 1,200 60 9 300 12 17 Other European countries 14% (14%) 1,000 50 14 North America 16% (15%) 800 40 200 8 24 16 South and Central 600 30 America 24% (26%) Asia-Paciﬁc 17% (15%) 400 20 100 4 Africa and Middle East 10% (11%) 200 10 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Services net sales Operating proﬁt % of external net sales EBITA before non-recurring items EBITA before non-recurring items, % of net sales 38 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Key ﬁgures Automation Net sales by customer industry Segment key ﬁgures EUR million 2010 2011 Net sales 650 770 Services net sales 297 345 EBITA before non-recurring items 72.2 103.9 Oil and gas 60% (58%) % of net sales 11.1 13.5 Pulp and paper 40% (42%) Operating proﬁt 65.6 99.7 Capital employed, Dec 31 235 292 40 60 Gross capital expenditure (including business acquisitions) 19 21 Research and development expenses, gross 26 31 Orders received 695 822 Order backlog, Dec 31 308 364 Personnel, Dec 31 3,639 3,892 Orders received by market area Orders received and order backlog Net sales EUR million EUR million Finland 17% (14%) 900 800 5 800 700 17 Other Nordic countries 3% (4%) 23 700 600 3 Other European countries 21% (26%) 600 500 21 North America 24% (24%) 7 500 400 South and Central America 7% (6%) 400 24 Asia-Paciﬁc 23% (21%) 300 300 200 200 Africa and Middle East 5% (5%) 100 100 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Orders received Order backlog Personnel by area Services net sales Operating proﬁt and EBITA before non-recurring items EUR million % EUR million % Finland 41% (40%) 350 70 120 18 2 17 Other Nordic countries 1% (2%) 300 60 100 15 Other European countries 15% (16%) 5 41 250 50 80 12 North America 19% (20%) 19 200 40 60 9 1 South and Central America 5% (5%) 15 150 30 Asia-Paciﬁc 17% (15%) 40 6 100 20 Africa and Middle East 2% (2%) 20 3 50 10 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Services net sales Operating proﬁt % of external net sales EBITA before non-recurring items EBITA before non-recurring items, % of net sales www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 39 Key ﬁgures Pulp, Paper and Power Net sales by customer industry Segment key ﬁgures EUR million 2010 2011 Net sales 2,453 2,703 Services net sales 923 1,048 EBITA before non-recurring items 167.9 218.8 Pulp 15% (17%) % of net sales 6.8 8.1 15 Paper 59% (58%) Operating proﬁt 115.8 189.2 26 Power 26% (25%) Capital employed, Dec 31 755 596 Gross capital expenditure (including business acquisitions) 77 75 Research and development expenses, gross 64 68 59 Orders received 2,583 3,225 Order backlog, Dec 31 2,347 2,863 Personnel, Dec 31 12,114 12,528 Orders received by market area Orders received and order backlog Net sales EUR million EUR million Finland 8% (8%) 3,500 3,000 4 8 Other Nordic countries 6% (9%) 3,000 2,500 21 6 Other European countries 16% (24%) 2,500 16 2,000 North America 19% (14%) 2,000 26 19 South and Central 1,500 1,500 America 26% (11%) 1,000 Asia-Paciﬁc 21% (33%) 1,000 Africa and Middle East 4% (1%) 500 500 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Orders received Order backlog Personnel by area Services net sales Operating proﬁt and EBITA before non-recurring items EUR million % EUR million % Finland 41% (43%) 1,200 60 250 10 2 Other Nordic countries 14% (15%) 1,000 50 22 200 8 Other European countries 9% (8%) 3 41 800 40 North America 9% (9%) 150 6 9 600 30 9 South and Central America 3% (2%) 14 100 4 Asia-Paciﬁc 22% (21%) 400 20 Africa and Middle East 2% (2%) 50 2 200 10 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Services net sales Operating proﬁt % of external net sales EBITA before non-recurring items EBITA before non-recurring items, % of net sales 40 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 Financial Statements 2011 Financial statements presented in the Annual Report are condensed from the audited ﬁnancial statements of Metso Corporation and comprise the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Metso, the Board of Directors’ report, as well as the income statement, balance sheet and statement of changes in the shareholders’ equity of the Parent Company. Audited ﬁnancial statements, including also notes to the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, are available on our website www.metso.com. Table of Contents Board of Directors’ Report 42 1 Accounting principles 56 2 Financial risk management 62 Consolidated Statements of Income 51 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgments 65 and Comprehensive Income 4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 67 5 Other operating income and expenses, net 67 Consolidated Balance Sheets 52 6 Personnel expenses and the number of personnel 68 7 Depreciation and amortization 69 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 54 8 Financial income and expenses, net 70 9 Income taxes 70 Consolidated Statements of Changes in 55 10 Acquisitions 72 Shareholders’ Equity 11 Earnings per share 72 12 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements * 56 13 Investments in associated companies 76 14 Available-for-sale equity investments 77 15 Inventory 77 16 Percentage of completion 77 Exchange Rates Used 101 17 Change in net working capital 78 18 Interest bearing and non-interest bearing receivables 78 Financial Indicators 2007–2011 102 19 Financial assets and liabilities 79 20 Cash and cash equivalents 81 Formulas for Calculation of Indicators 103 21 Equity 81 22 Share-based payments 83 23 Long-term debt 85 24 Provisions 86 Parent Company Statement of Income, FAS 104 25 Short-term debt 87 26 Trade and other payables 87 Parent Company Balance Sheet, FAS 104 27 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations 87 28 Mortgages and contingent liabilities 90 Parent Company Statement of Changes 105 29 Lease contracts 91 in Shareholders’ Equity, FAS 30 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 91 31 Subsidiaries 93 32 Reporting segment and geographic information 95 33 Audit fees 99 Shares and Shareholders 106 34 Lawsuits and claims 99 35 New accounting standards 100 Auditor’s Report 112 36 Events after balance sheet date 101 * The accompanying notes form an integral part of these Financial Statements. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 41 Board of Directors’ Report Board of Directors’ Report Operating environment and demand in 2011 Orders received and order backlog There were no major changes in our operating environment We received new orders worth EUR 7,961 million in January– during the year and the demand from our customer industries December, i.e. 34 percent more than in the comparison period. was mostly good. The unrest in the Middle East and Northern The change was equal using comparable exchange rates. The Africa early in the year, and the economic instability in Europe growth in demand was strong in the Mining and Construction and North America, which carried over into the second half segment, where orders received increased more than 40 percent of the year, did not have far-reaching eﬀects on our demand. on the previous year. Orders received by the Pulp, Paper and Uncertainty somewhat increased towards the end of the year Power segment increased 25 percent and by the Automation impacting mainly the paper and board industry. This was seen segment 18 percent. Services orders grew 18 percent and totaled as delays in decision making in some projects under negotiaEUR 3,100 million. Emerging markets accounted for 43 percent of tions. There were no cancellations, however, from our order our services orders received (41). backlog. High commodity prices kept capacity utilization rates The top three countries for new orders were Brazil, the US in our customer industries at a good level and the demand for and China, which together accounted for 39 percent of all orders our services business remained good. Our operating environreceived. All four BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) ment was strong in the emerging markets especially in the early were among the top twelve. The share of emerging markets in part of the year, but saw a slight softening towards the end of our new orders was 51 percent (53). the year, especially in China, India and Brazil. At the end of the year, our order backlog was EUR 5,310 The market activity for the mining industry improved in the million, which was 32 percent stronger than at the end of 2010 ﬁrst half of the year as metal prices remained high, largely due (EUR 4,023 million). Around EUR 4.0 billion of the deliveries in our to the strong demand in China and India and the upswing in the order backlog are expected to be recognized as net sales in 2012, global economy. Demand for copper and iron ore, for example, and around 24 percent of these are services business orders. exceeded production early in the year. Market activity was good The order backlog included the Fibria pulp mill project in Brazil, throughout 2011, which contributed positively to the volume of which is valued at around EUR 350 million and has an uncertain orders we received. For example we received several exceptiondelivery schedule (EUR 340 million at the end of September 2011; ally large orders for equipment in the ﬁrst and second quarters. the change in order value resulted from exchange rates). Metal prices leveled out towards the end of the year but held steady at a high level. The growth in demand for minerals, espeNet sales cially in emerging countries, and our large installed equipment Our net sales in 2011 increased 20 percent on the comparison base kept demand for our services business strong. period and totaled EUR 6,646 million (EUR 5,552 million). The The economic growth and infrastructure construction change was equal using comparable exchange rates. Organic projects in emerging countries maintained demand for congrowth was 17 percent. Growth was strongest in Mining and struction equipment at a good level all year. Uncertainty in the Construction, which recorded a 23 percent increase in net sales. European and US economies delayed construction projects and The Automation segment’s net sales grew 18 percent and the the demand for equipment and services in aggregates producPulp, Paper and Power segment recorded 10 percent growth. tion remained satisfactory. Services business net sales increased 17 percent and accounted Demand for automation products remained good for the for 45 percent of the total net sales (45). Emerging markets acwhole year, and the turbulence in the world economy did not counted for 43 percent of our services business net sales (39). aﬀect our customer industries. Investments made by the oil, Measured by net sales, the largest countries were the US, gas and petrochemical industries continued and the demand reChina and Brazil, together accounting for 35 percent of our net mained at a good level. Demand by the pulp and paper industry sales. The share of emerging markets of our net sales was 49 also developed favorably and was good. percent (50). Investment decisions in three new pulp plants were made in South America during the ﬁrst half of the year, after which the Financial results market for new mills slowed down. In addition, the high pulp In 2011, our earnings before interest, tax and amortization price and our customers’ high capacity utilization rates boosted (EBITA) and before non-recurring items, were EUR 628.5 million, demand for plant rebuilds and pulp mill services. i.e. 9.5 percent of net sales (EUR 491.0 million and 8.8). Our Demand for paper, board and tissue lines was satisfactory EBITA before non-recurring items improved 28 percent on the in the ﬁrst half of 2011. Activity in our main market for paper comparison period. Improvement resulted from increased delivmachines, China, slowed down in the latter half of the year as ery volumes and improved capacity utilization rates. Selling, genﬁnancing became more diﬃcult and caused delays in our cuseral and administrative expenses increased less than net sales, tomers’ decision making. Utilization rates in the paper industry i.e. 8 percent on the comparison period (excluding the eﬀect of were suﬃcient to maintain the demand for our services business exchange rate and non-recurring items). Proﬁtability improved in at a good level. Automation and in Pulp, Paper and Power and remained on the Demand for power plants utilizing renewable energy was level of the comparison period in Mining and Construction. satisfactory in Europe and North America. Several European Selling, general and administrative expenses of the Group countries and the US have published targets to increase the use Head Oﬃce were approximately EUR 3 million higher than in of renewable energy, which has supported the demand for our the comparison period, mainly due to several development power plant solutions fuelled by biomass and waste. However, projects. Group Head Oﬃce’s result (EBITA before non-recurring the pending policies over subsidy mechanisms are estimated to items) included also foreign exchange hedging and other risk have an impact on investment decisions. Demand for our power management related items, which had an EUR 2 million positive plant services business was good throughout the year. impact (EUR 12 million). 42 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Board of Directors’ Report In January–December 2011, our operating proﬁt (EBIT) was the year, whereas capital was released in the Pulp, Paper and EUR 571.8 million, i.e. 8.6 percent of net sales (EUR 445.2 million Power segment. Due to the increased delivery volumes, net and 8.0). The operating proﬁt includes EUR 5.1 million in nonworking capital was tied up in inventories and receivables, recurring expenses (EUR 11.8 million in non-recurring income). which was partly compensated by advances received. The high Non-recurring items are speciﬁed in the tables below. invoicing in the last quarter of the year increased the amount Net ﬁnancing expenses in 2011 were EUR 65 million (EUR 75 of receivables, and as a result net working capital increased by million). These included EUR 75 million in interest expenses (EUR EUR 116 million. 69 million), EUR 26 million in interest income (EUR 18 million), Free cash ﬂow in January–December was EUR 375 million EUR 3 million in foreign exchange losses (EUR 13 million), and (EUR 435 million). Net interest-bearing liabilities totaled EUR 260 EUR 13 million in other net ﬁnancial expenses (EUR 11 million). million at the end of December (EUR 310 million). Our proﬁt before taxes was EUR 507 million (EUR 370 million) Our total cash assets at the end of December were EUR 757 and our tax rate was 29 percent (30). million, of which EUR 167 million had been invested in ﬁnancial The proﬁt attributable to shareholders was EUR 356 million instruments with an initial maturity exceeding three months. (EUR 257 million) in 2011, corresponding to earnings per share The remaining EUR 590 million has been accounted for as cash (EPS) of EUR 2.38 (EUR 1.71 per share). and cash equivalents. Additionally we have an undrawn synThe return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes in Janudicated EUR 500 million revolving credit facility available until ary–December was 18.4 percent (13.5) and the return on equity 2015. The facility is primarily to support our short-term funding. (ROE) was 17.8 percent (13.6). Our liquidity position is good. Financial indicators for the years 2007–2011 are presented on In April, following the Annual General Meeting, we paid page 102. EUR 232 million in dividends for 2010. Our gearing at the end of December was 12.2 percent (15.0) and our equity to assets ratio Cash ﬂow and ﬁnancing was 39.8 percent (38.1). Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to EUR 466 million (EUR 506 million) in 2011. Mining and Construction and Automation tied up net working capital during Non-recurring items and amortization of intangible assets 2011 Mining and Pulp, Paper Metso EUR million Construction Automation and Power total EBITA before non-recurring items 322.1 103.9 218.8 628.5 % of net sales 11.7 13.5 8.1 9.5 Intellectual property related items –0.8 –0.8 Gain on sale of production plant in Sweden 2.6 2.6 Cost related to business acquisition projects –0.8 Costs related to bankruptcy of THINK Global A/S –6.1 Amortization of intangible assets *) –8.2 –4.2 –32.2 –51.6 Operating proﬁt (EBIT) 313.1 99.7 189.2 571.8 *) Includes EUR 23.8 million amortization of intangible assets acquired through business acquisitions. 2010 Mining and Pulp, Paper Metso EUR million Construction Automation and Power total EBITA before non-recurring items 264.8 72.2 167.9 491.0 % of net sales 11.8 11.1 6.8 8.8 Capacity adjustment expenses –1.8 –2.7 –10.2 –17.0 Gain on sale of Talvivaara shares 8.4 8.4 Intellectual property related items 27.6 27.6 Gain on business disposal 0.9 0.9 Credit loss reserve related to two paper machine customers 0.9 0.9 Provision for prior years’ ICMS (VAT) tax credits in Brazil –2.8 –2.0 –4.8 Cost related to business acquisition projects –4.2 Amortization of intangible assets *) –6.7 –3.9 –40.8 –57.6 Operating proﬁt (EBIT) 290.4 65.6 115.8 445.2 *) Includes EUR 32.9 million amortization of intangible assets acquired through business acquisitions. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 43 Board of Directors’ Report Capital expenditure research and development expenses in 2011 totaled EUR 124 Our gross capital expenditure in January–December, excluding million, representing 1.9 percent of net sales (EUR 111 million business acquisitions, was EUR 166 million (EUR 135 million). The and 2.0). In addition, expenses for intellectual property rights share of maintenance investments was 61 percent, i.e. amounted to EUR 13 million in 2011 (EUR 18 million). EUR 101 million (58 and EUR 78 million). We estimate capital Decreased energy, water and raw materials use, reduced efexpenditure in 2012 to increase 10–20 percent on the 2011 level. ﬂuents and improved process eﬃciency are the outcome of our In 2011, we invested in a new technology center in the R&D work. In 2011, we launched many innovations and products Helsinki region in Finland to strengthen our global industrial where these were important goals. For example, key targets valve production network. The investment in buildings was guiding the development work for the new full-scope paperaccounted as an operating lease. In Massachusetts, in the US, and board-making concept were: total investment economy, we are expanding our valve production facilities by an investpersonnel safety, machine usability and reduced environmental ment totaling about EUR 4 million. In Peru and Chile, we are load. The solution comprises a new, modular way of designing, investing in new service workshops for mining and construcbuilding and operating a paper machine for cost-eﬀective, hightion industries. The second phase of construction of our largest quality and ﬂexible paper and board making. single investment so far in India, Metso Park, is currently under The reﬁning stage in stock preparation plays a crucial role in way. In Araucaria, Brazil, construction work on a new facility for developing ﬁber properties for paper production. This greatly our regional pulping and power operations is under way. The aﬀects the runnability of the paper machine and the paper qualinvestment project in global enterprise resource planning (ERP) ity. We have launched a revolutionary low-consistency reﬁning systems continues in the Automation segment. In Mining and concept with a new reﬁner, which combines high unit capacities Construction, the extensive ERP project was ﬁnalized during the with excellent development of ﬁber quality at signiﬁcantly lower ﬁrst half of the year. electrical energy consumption. In Mining and Construction we have added resources to Acquisitions, divestments and associated companies speed up the technological development. High crushing efIn December, we sold our workshop in Valkeakoski, Finland, and ﬁciency and throughput, low energy consumption, versatility related equipment and screen basket manufacturing. The deal and safety are all features of the newly launched cone crusher entailed as a transfer of undertakings and had no signiﬁcant and jaw crusher. Easy maintenance is another advantage, which, impact on our results, and it has been reported as sales of propcombined with the above-mentioned features, ensures the cost erty, plant and equipment. The personnel of 76 of the divested eﬀectiveness of these improved machines. operations transferred to the new employer. The sale was part In the area of process automation systems and ﬂow control of our Pulp, Paper and Power segment’s work to develop its solutions we continue developing products and services to all production structure in order to improve competitiveness amid our customer industries. For example, our automation system tightening global competition. was added with new control applications to beneﬁt especially In August, we acquired the mining services business of power generation and mining and construction customers. Copperstate Industrial Services, based in Arizona, the US. The In order to conduct our R&D projects eﬀectively, we have also acquired business strengthens our position as a leading service continued our development of Life Cycle Assessment as a tool to and technology provider for the mining industry in North Amersupport the R&D work. Life cycle assessment (LCA) is an enviica and Mexico. A team of 43 service personnel in the American ronmental management technique whereby the environmental hard-rock mining region was transferred to Metso. impacts of a product are estimated throughout its entire life In August, we entered into an agreement with the Chinese cycle, including the manufacturing stage, usage stage, and endSAC, Guodian Nanjing Automation, to strengthen our position in of-life stage. Although LCAs are generally used to communicate the power automation control systems market in China. Metso environmental impacts, they can also be used to calculate cost or owns 33 percent and SAC 67 percent of the new associated comconsumption ﬁgures. Hence, LCAs are also very useful in guiding pany. The new company will develop new products and provide our product development towards more sustainable oﬀerings. comprehensive after-sales services. The associated company has over 300 employees. Environment and environmental technology Many of our technology solutions have been developed in close Research and development cooperation with our customers. The solutions are related to Our research and development activities focus on our ability to renewable energy sources, the energy eﬃciency of our customrespond to present and future challenges such as global availers’ production processes, waste management, recycling, the ability and cost of energy, water and raw materials. eﬃcient utilization of raw materials and water, reducing dust, With new technology our customers can enhance both noise, carbon dioxide and particle emissions, and process optitheir short-term competitiveness and their long-term business mization, to name a few. development. We also provide training, maintenance and other services We run our R&D program in partnership with our customers. related to our technology. We take care of the entire life cycle In addition, we cooperate with many universities and research of production processes and promote the optimal and environinstitutes and jointly improve products and processes for our mentally sustainable way to use our solutions. customers. Metso also participates in academic development The environmental impacts of our own production are minor through scholarships and research ﬁnancing. and relate mainly to the consumption of raw materials and Our research and development network encompasses energy, emissions to air, water consumption and waste. We are approximately 40 units around the world. R&D employed 852 continuously improving our environmental management pracpeople in 2011 (829) in engineering oﬃces, R&D centers and testtices and the eco-eﬃciency of our production facilities, as well ing facilities. New technologies, processes and service solutions as developing our cooperation, towards greater environmental are protected actively. During the year, our R&D network made eﬃciency with our subcontractors and the entire supply chain. about 650 invention disclosures (780), which led to over 180 priWe have set global energy savings and carbon dioxide emisority patent applications (180). At the end of 2011, approximately sions targets for our production. Our aim is to boost our energy 2,950 Metso inventions were protected by patents (3,000). Our eﬃciency and reduce our carbon dioxide emissions by 15 per44 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Board of Directors’ Report cent by 2015 and 20 percent by 2020. In 2011, we continued the The levels of net working capital and capital expenditure group-wide project to chart our opportunities to save energy have a key impact on the adequacy of ﬁnancing. We have deand reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the production units veloped our practices and the supporting information systems that consume the most energy. Charting of the most energy-inrelating to the management of net working capital. We expect tensive units will be completed in 2012, at which time 80 percent that these measures will help us to control movements in our of our energy consumption will be mapped out. The biggest net working capital. We estimate that we are well positioned to energy-saving opportunities related to the use of fuel and heat. keep our capital expenditure at the level of total amortization and depreciation. Risks and business uncertainties At the end of 2011, we had EUR 883 million of goodwill on Our operations are aﬀected by various strategic, ﬁnancial, opour balance sheet which is mainly related to business acquisierational and hazard risks. We take measures to exploit emergtions made over the last 10 years. We conduct impairment tests ing opportunities and to limit the adverse eﬀects of potential regularly once a year and more frequently if needed, and have threats. If such threats materialized, they could have material not detected any impairment. adverse eﬀects on our business, ﬁnancial situation, and operatChanges in labor costs and in the prices of raw materials ing result or on the value of Metso shares and other securities. and components can aﬀect our proﬁtability. Currently also Our risk assessments take into consideration the probability high wage inﬂation continues. Our target is to pass the cost of the risks and the estimated impact of them on our net sales increases to our sales prices, but there’s a risk that tight competiand ﬁnancial results. Management estimates that the overall risk tion doesn’t allow us targeted cost compensation in all product level of the company is currently manageable in proportion to categories. On the other hand, some of our customers are raw the scope of our operations and the practical measures available material producers whose ability to operate and invest may be to manage these risks. enhanced by strengthening raw material prices and hampered The ﬁnancial uncertainty in the euro zone and the US budget by declining raw material prices. deﬁcit are creating a potential negative impact on funding from Currency exchange rate risks are among the most substantial capital markets coupled with ﬂuctuations in exchange rates ﬁnancial risks to Metso. Exchange rate changes can aﬀect our and tightening ﬁnancial market regulation, which may have an business, although the wide geographical scope of our operaadverse eﬀect on availability of ﬁnancing from bank and capital tions decreases the impact of any individual currency. In genmarkets. This may decrease market activity. Despite this, we estieral, uncertainty in the economy is likely to increase exchange mate that the business environment in our customer industries rate ﬂuctuations. We hedge the currency exposures that arise will develop favorably as a result of global megatrends, such as from ﬁrm delivery and purchase agreements. the rise of emerging markets, urbanization and the increasing importance of environmentally sustainable process solutions. Legal proceedings and claims We estimate that the high share of our business derived from In December, Metso won a patent infringement lawsuit against services and emerging markets will diminish the possible negaTerex Corporation, one of its subsidiaries and two of its dealtive eﬀects that market uncertainties may have. ers. As on December 9, 2011, the Federal District Court of New If global economic growth is disturbed, it might have adYork aﬃrmed the jury’s earlier verdict that the defendants had verse eﬀects on new projects under negotiation or on projects willfully infringed on Metso’s U.S. patent relating to mobile in our order backlog. Some projects may be postponed or they crushing and screening machines. Due to the willfulness of the may be suspended or canceled. At the end of the year, our order infringement, the court doubled the original damages award backlog included uncertain orders worth some EUR 350 million to USD 31.6 million covering the infringing sales from March related to the pulp mill project for Fibria in Brazil, the delivery 2000 through October 2007. In addition, the defendants will schedule of which is still open. In long-term delivery projects have to pay additional compensation covering infringing sales the initial customer down payments are typically 10–30 percent after October 2007, which will be accounted for later and also of the value of the project, in addition to which the customer doubled. The ﬁnal compensation for Metso will also include makes progress payments during the project execution. This interest. signiﬁcantly decreases our risk and ﬁnancing requirements In July, the court issued an order permanently barring the related to these projects. We continually assess our customers’ defendants from marketing their mobile screening machines creditworthiness and ability to meet their obligations. As a rule, that were found to infringe upon our patents. Terex has apwe do not ﬁnance customer projects. If the growth in the global pealed the court decision and the lawsuit will continue in economy slows down signiﬁcantly, the markets for our products the appeals court. We will recognize the compensation in the may shrink, which may lead to tightening price competition. ﬁnancial statements only after the ﬁnal outcome of the lawsuit We might see changes in the competitive situation of our is clear. We will continue to be active in protecting our intelindividual businesses, such as the emergence of new, cost-eﬀeclectual property rights globally, with the objective of enhancing tive players in the growth markets. We can safeguard our market fair competition. position by developing our products and services, and through good customer service and a local presence. Personnel Securing the continuity of our operations requires that we At the end of December, we had 30,324 employees, which was have suﬃcient funding available under all circumstances. We 6 percent more than at the end of 2010 (28,593 employees). The estimate that our cash assets totaling EUR 757 million and availnumber of personnel increased by 1,731 people during the year. able credit facilities are suﬃcient to secure short-term liquidity Our personnel increased in all segments, mostly in Mining and and overall ﬁnancial ﬂexibility. The average maturity for our Construction. Increases were seen in China in the Paper busilong-term debt, current portions included, is 3.1 years. There are ness and Automation segment, in the US in mining services no prepayment covenants in our debt facilities that would be and in Brazil in mining industry and Fiber business. The protriggered by changes in credit ratings. Some of our debt faciliportion of our personnel in emerging markets was 34 percent ties include ﬁnancial covenants related to capital structure. We (34). In 2011, we had an average of 29,590 employees. fully meet the covenants and other terms related to our ﬁnancMining and Construction employed 36 percent, Automation ing agreements. 13 percent, Pulp, Paper and Power 41 percent, and Recycling, Valwww.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 45 Board of Directors’ Report met Automotive, Metso Shared Services and Group Head Oﬃce from the Metso Executive Team as of March 1, 2011 and from 10 percent of our personnel. The countries with the largest numMetso on April 30, 2011. bers of personnel were Finland, China, the US, Sweden and Brazil. In December, the Board of Directors decided to discontinue These countries employed 67 percent of our total personnel. the Metso Executive Forum, which was established in 2008. In 2011, we implemented new leadership principles, revised The forum consisted of the members of the Metso Executive values and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) targets. A new Team and the heads of Metso’s most signiﬁcant businesses and competence model to support the continuous development of market areas. our personnel was also developed. It deﬁnes the focus areas for developing the future competencies required by various busiReorganization of operating structure nesses. Continuous learning and personnel development are In September, Metso’s Board decided to modify the company’s important parts of our development and corporate culture and business structure in order to more eﬀectively achieve business they are supported by a global and local training oﬀering. targets. As a result, the Power business, which was part of the In 2011, we continued with the implementation of our occuEnergy and Environmental Technology segment, was integrated pational health and safety monitoring system, the HSE Moniwith the new Pulp, Paper and Power segment. The Recycling tor, which currently encompasses 23,000 of our personnel. All business, which also was part of Energy and Environmental observed risks and absences relating to occupational health Technology, is managed as a separate entity and Metso is reand safety are collected in the HSE Monitor and analyzed with viewing other strategic alternatives for it. the goal of preventing similar incidents. Our long-term target In the new operating structure, Metso has three reporting is zero occupational accidents. Data on possible environmental segments; Mining and Construction, Automation as well as Pulp, accidents that occur in our units is now also entered in the sysPaper and Power. In addition to Recycling, also Valmet Automotem. Also in 2011, around 400 of our supervisors were trained tive is managed as a separate entity. in HSE matters, and the training continues this year. The salaries and wages of our personnel are determined Financial targets and dividend policy on the basis of local collective and individual agreements, In November, Metso’s Board decided on new long-term ﬁnancial employee performance and job evaluations. Basic salaries and targets in relation to Metso’s new strategy. The new ﬁnancial wages are complemented by performance-based compensatargets replaced the previous targets set in August 2008: tion systems. In 2011, altogether EUR 1,229 million was paid in salaries and wages (EUR 1,106 million). Indirect employee costs t The target of 10 percent annual average sales growth (CAGR) totaled EUR 347 million (EUR 319 million). including acquisitions remains unchanged. t In the services business we target to reach more than 10 percent growth annually. Personnel by area t The proﬁtability targets are annual earnings per share (EPS) Dec 31, 2010 Dec 31, 2011 Change % growth exceeding the sales growth and the following EBITA Finland 8,748 9,222 5 margin before non-recurring items targets for the segments: Other Nordic countries 2,880 2,935 2 Mining and Construction 10-15 percent, Automation 11-16 Rest of Europe 4,183 4,434 6 percent and Pulp, Paper and Power 6-9 percent. North America 3,491 3,845 10 t Capital eﬃciency is measured by the return on capital emSouth and Central America 3,166 3,164 0 ployed before taxes (ROCE, ) and we target a return higher Asia-Paciﬁc 4,700 5,309 13 than 20 percent (excluding the impact of major acquisitions). Africa and Middle East 1,425 1,415 –1 t The target in our capital structure is to maintain a solid Metso total 28,593 30,324 6 investment grade. This target is unchanged. t The target for dividend policy remains unchanged as well; our target is to distribute at least 50 percent of annual Corporate Governance Statement earnings per share as a dividend or through other forms of We have prepared a separate Corporate Governance Statement repatriation of capital (share buybacks, redemptions etc). for 2011 which complies with the recommendations of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for listed companies. It also covDecisions of the Annual General Meeting ers other central areas of corporate governance. The statement Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) on March 30, 2011 approved is presented condensed in this Annual Report on pages 113–121 the Financial Statements for 2010 and decided to discharge the and can be found in full at www.metso.com/governance. members of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO from liability. The AGM approved the proposals of the Board Changes in top management of Directors to authorize the Board of Directors to resolve on a Matti Kähkönen started as Metso’s President and Chief Executive repurchase of Metso’s own shares and on a share issue. Oﬃcer on March 1, 2011, at which time his predecessor, Jorma The AGM decided that a dividend of EUR 1.55 per share will Eloranta, retired. be paid for 2010. The dividend was paid on April 12, 2011. Metso’s new Executive Team also took eﬀect on March 1, comThe AGM elected Jukka Viinanen Chairman of the Board and prising of Andrew Benko, President of Mining and Construction; Maija-Liisa Friman Vice Chairman of the Board. Ozey K. Horton, Perttu Louhiluoto, President of Automation; and Pasi Laine, PresiJr., was elected as a new member of the Board. Mikael von dent of Pulp, Paper and Power as well as Metso’s Executive Vice Frenckell, Christer Gardell, Yrjö Neuvo, Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen and President and Deputy to the CEO; Harri Nikunen, Chief Financial Pia Rudengren were re-elected as Board members. Oﬃcer; Merja Kamppari, Senior Vice President, Human Resources; The AGM decided that the annual remunerations for Board and Kalle Reponen, Senior Vice President, Strategy and M&A. All members are EUR 92,000 for the Chairman, EUR 56,000 for the of the above-mentioned individuals report to Matti Kähkönen, Vice Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and who serves as Chairman of the Metso Executive Team. EUR 45,000 for the members. In addition, it was decided that a Metso’s previous CFO, Olli Vaartimo, and the previous Presimeeting fee of EUR 600 is paid to members whose residence is dent of Paper and Fiber Technology, Bertel Langenskiöld, retired in the Nordic countries, EUR 1,200 to members whose residence 46 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Board of Directors’ Report is elsewhere in Europe and to those residing outside Europe, and votes. The holdings of the Board and Executive Team equaled EUR 2,400 per meeting they attend, including committee meet0.11 percent of the total amount of shares and votes in Metso. ings. Based on the decision of the AGM, the Board members Metso is not aware of any shareholders’ agreements regardhave used 40 percent of their annual remuneration to buy ing the ownership of Metso shares and voting rights. Metso shares. The Board members acquired a total of 4,308 shares from the market within two weeks after the publication Share-based incentive plans of the ﬁrst quarter Interim Review on April 28, 2011. Metso’s share ownership plans are part of the remuneration The auditing company Authorized Public Accountants Priceand commitment program for Metso management. The reward waterhouseCoopers Oy was re-elected as our Auditor until the shares for the plan are acquired in public trading and therefore end of the next Annual General Meeting. the plans will not have a diluting eﬀect on the share value. The AGM decided to establish a Nomination Board of the AGM to prepare proposals regarding the composition and Share Ownership Plan for 2009–2011 remuneration of the Board. Representatives of the four biggest In October 2008, the Board approved a share ownership plan shareholders entered in the shareholder register were elected for the years 2009–2011. The plan has one three-year earnings to the Nomination Board, and the Chairman of the Board of period and required participants’ personal investment in Metso Directors serves as the Nomination Board’s expert member. shares at the beginning of the program. Any possible reward On October 1, the four biggest shareholders were Solidium Oy, from the plan requires continued employment with Metso and Cevian Capital II Master Fund, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurachievement of the ﬁnancial targets set for the plan. At the ance Company and Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Compaend of 2011, 84 people were participating in the plan and the ny, and their representatives appointed to Metso’s Nomination rewards that can be paid correspond to a maximum of 354,975 Board were Kari Järvinen, Managing Director (Solidium Oy); Metso shares. Members of the 2011 Executive Team may receive Lars Förberg, Managing Partner (Cevian Capital); Harri Sailas, a maximum of 54,600 shares as share rewards. President and CEO (Ilmarinen); and Matti Vuoria, President and CEO (Varma). Kari Järvinen was elected Chairman of the Share Ownership Plan for 2010–2012 Nomination Board. In October 2009, the Board approved a similar kind of share ownership plan for the years 2010–2012. The plan has one Members of the Board committees three-year earnings period and required participants’ personal and personnel representative investment in Metso shares at the beginning of the program. Our Board elected members for the Audit Committee and RemuAny possible reward from the plan requires continued employneration and HR Committee at its assembly meeting on March ment with Metso and achievement of the ﬁnancial targets set 30, 2011. The Board’s Audit Committee consists of Pia Rudengren for the plan. At the end of 2011, 88 people were participating (Chairman), Maija-Liisa Friman and Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen. The in the plan and the rewards that can be paid correspond to Remuneration and HR Committee consists of Jukka Viinanen a maximum of 329,600 Metso shares. Members of the 2011 (Chairman), Mikael von Frenckell, Christer Gardell and Yrjö Neuvo. Executive Team may receive a maximum of 51,325 shares as The Board decided that the personnel representative particishare rewards. pates in the Board meetings as an invited expert subject to the Finnish Act on Personnel Representation in the Administration of Share Ownership Plan for 2011–2013 Undertakings with no voting rights or legal liability for the Board’s In September 2010, the Board approved a similar kind of share decisions. Metso’s personnel groups in Finland have elected Jukka ownership plan for the years 2011–2013. The plan includes one Leppänen as the personnel representative. His term of oﬃce is three-year earnings period and requires participants’ personal the same as the Board members’ term. investment in Metso shares at the beginning of the program. Any possible reward from the plan requires continued employShares and share capital ment with Metso and achievement of the ﬁnancial targets set At the end of December 2011, our share capital was for the plan. At the end of 2011, 72 people were participating EUR 240,982,843.80 and the number of shares was 150,348,256. in the plan and the rewards that can be paid correspond to a The number of shares included 719,060 shares held by the Parmaximum of around 243,898 Metso shares. Members of the ent Company, which represent 0.5 percent of all the shares and Executive Team may receive a maximum of 77,400 shares as votes. The average number of shares outstanding in January– share rewards. December 2011, excluding shares held by the Parent Company, was 149,629,690 and the average number of diluted shares was Long-term Incentive Plan for 2012–2014 149,832,989. In December 2011, Metso’s Board decided on a new share-based During January–December, 663 shares were returned from incentive plan for the Group’s top management. The plan inMetso Share Ownership Plan participants to the Parent Comcludes three performance periods, which are the calendar years pany due to employment terminations. 2012, 2013 and 2014. Metso’s Board shall decide on the perforAs of December 31, 2011, the Board had not exercised the mance criteria, targets and participants at the beginning of each AGM’s authorization to buy back the company’s own shares, performance period. For the performance period 2012, the plan issue new shares or grant special rights. is targeted at about 100 people in Metso’s management, and the Market capitalization of Metso, excluding the shares held potential reward of the plan is based on the net sales growth by the Parent Company, was EUR 4,287 million on December 31, of the services business, return on capital employed (ROCE, ) 2011 (EUR 6,255 million). before taxes, and earnings per share (EPS). Metso Board members and their interest parties held altoThe potential rewards to be paid on the basis of the pergether 120,480 shares on December 31, 2011, i.e. 0.08 percent of formance period 2012 will correspond to a maximum total of the total amount of shares and votes. The Metso Executive Team approximately 450,000 Metso shares. Members of the Execuand their interest parties’ holdings totaled 46,061 shares at the tive Team may receive a maximum of 95,123 shares as share end of December, i.e. 0.03 percent of the total amount of shares rewards. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 47 Board of Directors’ Report Reporting segments Mining and Construction Automation EUR million 2010 2011 Change % EUR million 2010 2011 Change % Net sales 2,235 2,760 23 Net sales 650 770 18 Net sales of services business 1,139 1,378 21 Net sales of services business 297 345 16 % of net sales 51 50 % of net sales 49 48 Earnings before interest, tax and amortizaEarnings before interest, tax and amortization (EBITA) and non-recurring items 264.8 322.1 22 tion (EBITA) and non-recurring items 72.2 103.9 44 % of net sales 11.8 11.7 % of net sales 11.1 13.5 Operating proﬁt 290.4 313.1 8 Operating proﬁt 65.6 99.7 52 % of net sales 13.0 11.3 % of net sales 10.1 12.9 Orders received 2,457 3,464 41 Orders received 695 822 18 Orders received of services business 1,223 1,497 22 Orders received of services business 316 352 11 % of orders received 50 43 % of orders received 49 46 Order backlog at end of period 1,356 2,027 49 Order backlog at end of period 308 364 18 Personnel at end of period 10,206 10,771 6 Personnel at end of period 3,639 3,892 7 The net sales of the Mining and Construction segment increased The net sales of the Automation segment grew 18 percent on 23 percent on the comparison period and were EUR 2,760 million the comparison period and were EUR 770 million in 2011. The in 2011. Net sales from mining customers were up by 31 percent net sales of the Flow Control business increased 17 percent and and from construction customers by 10 percent. The services those of the Process Automation Systems business increased business net sales increased 21 percent and accounted for 20 percent on the comparison period. The net sales of the servic50 percent of the segment’s net sales. es business increased 16 percent and accounted for 48 percent Mining and Construction’s EBITA before non-recurring of the segment’s net sales. items was EUR 322.1 million, i.e. 11.7 percent of net sales. The Automation’s EBITA before non-recurring items was segment’s result improved strongly and the investments in EUR 103.9 million, i.e. 13.5 percent of net sales. The improvement increased sales and marketing eﬀorts paid oﬀ in higher sales in proﬁtability was due to improved sales volumes which were volumes. Favorable proﬁt development was mainly due to strong especially in Process Automation Systems business. growth in volumes. Operating proﬁt (EBIT) for January–December increased Operating proﬁt (EBIT) for January–December was EUR 52 percent and was EUR 99.7 million, i.e. 12.9 percent of net 313.1 million, i.e. 11.3 percent of net sales. The EBIT includes sales. The EBIT for 2010 included EUR 2.7 million in non-recurring non-recurring expenses of EUR 0.8 million, whereas the expenses related to capacity adjustment actions (non-recurring non-recurring income was EUR 32.3 million in the comparison items are analyzed in the ’Financial result’ section). period (non-recurring items are analyzed in the ’Financial Orders received by the segment were at a record high level result’ section). and increased 18 percent on the comparison period. Our orders Orders received by the segment increased 41 percent on the received totaled EUR 822 million and the increase came from all of comparison period and totaled EUR 3,464 million. New orders the segment’s businesses and from all geographical regions. Magrew in all market areas and growth was strong for example jor orders received during the year included automation systems in Sweden, Brazil, Russia and Australia. Orders from mining for the world’s largest pulp mill for Suzano Papel e Celulose in customers increased 54 percent and from construction cusBrazil and for the Gainesville Renewable Energy Center in Florida, tomers 15 percent on the comparison period. Orders received as well as a service contract covering 11 reﬁneries for the Brazilian grew strongly both in developed countries and in emerging energy company Petrobras. Services orders increased 11 percent markets. Orders from emerging markets totaled 58 percent of and accounted for 46 percent of the segment’s orders received. the segment’s orders received. Major orders received in 2011 The order backlog was strong in all of the segment’s business included minerals processing equipment and a multi-year es at the end of 2011, and totaled EUR 364 million, which was service contract for Northland Resources’ Kaunisvaara iron ore 18 percent higher than at the end of 2010 (EUR 308 million). project in Sweden and for Russian Copper Company’s copper operation in Russia, as well as equipment for a mining customer in South America. The 22 percent increase in service orders came from both customer industries. Services orders accounted for 43 percent of the segment’s orders received. The order backlog strengthened 49 percent during the year and totaled EUR 2,027 million at the end of December (EUR 1,356 million). Around 80 percent of the deliveries in our order backlog are expected to be recognized as net sales in 2012. 48 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Board of Directors’ Report Pulp, Paper and Power Separate business entities In accordance with Metso’s new operating structure, which took EUR million 2010 2011 Change % eﬀect on December 1, 2011, the Recycling business and Valmet Net sales 2,453 2,703 10 Automotive are now managed as separate entities. Net sales of services business 923 1,048 14 % of net sales 38 39 Recycling Earnings before interest, tax and amortization (EBITA) and non-recurring items 167.9 218.8 30 Orders received by the Recycling business in 2011 increased 30 % of net sales 6.8 8.1 percent and totaled EUR 253 million (EUR 195 million). Net sales Operating proﬁt 115.8 189.2 63 increased 12 percent and were EUR 212 million (EUR 190 million). % of net sales 4.7 7.0 EBITA before non-recurring items was EUR 2.3 million, i.e. 1.1 perOrders received 2,583 3,225 25 cent of net sales (EUR 6.5 million and 3.4). The order backlog at Orders received of services business 999 1,145 15 the end of December stood at EUR 115 million (EUR 72 million). % of orders received 39 36 The number of personnel in the Recycling business totaled Order backlog at end of period 2,347 2,863 22 662 at the end of the year (682), most of whom were located in Personnel at end of period 12,114 12,528 3 Germany, the US and Denmark. Valmet Automotive The net sales of the Pulp, Paper and Power segment grew 10 perValmet Automotive’s net sales increased 235 percent in January– cent, and were EUR 2,703 million in 2011. The growth in net sales December primarily as a result of the roof business acquired in came from the Fiber and Power businesses. The Paper business the fourth quarter of 2010 and the increased sales of engineernet sales decreased from the comparison period. The net sales ing services. Net sales were EUR 281 million (EUR 84 million). of the services business increased 14 percent and accounted for EBITA before non-recurring items was EUR 12.0 million positive 39 percent of the segment’s net sales. (EUR 4.6 million negative). In the second quarter, EUR 6.1 million Pulp, Paper and Power’s EBITA before non-recurring items in non-recurring expenses were entered as a result of a petition was EUR 218.8 million, i.e. 8.1 percent of net sales. Proﬁtability for bankruptcy ﬁled in June by THINK Global A/S. improved mainly as a result of high delivery volumes. In addiValmet Automotive employed 1,705 people at the end of 2011 tion, the services business contributed positively with strong (1,425), about half of whom were employed in Finland and the net sales and solid margins. rest mainly in Germany and Poland. Operating proﬁt (EBIT) was EUR 189.2 million, i.e. 7.0 percent of net sales. The EBIT included non-recurring income (nonMetso’s Nomination Board’s proposals for recurring items are analyzed in the ’Financial result’ section) Board members and Board remuneration that improved the result by EUR 2.6 million (non-recurring items The Nomination Board established by Metso’s Annual General weakened the EBIT by EUR 11.3 million). Meeting proposes to the next Annual General Meeting, which The value of orders received by Pulp, Paper and Power is planned to be held on March 29, 2012, that the number of the increased 25 percent and totaled EUR 3,225 million. New orders Board of Directors should be seven. from the pulp industry grew 78 percent during the year. Orders The Nomination Board proposes that Jukka Viinanen, from paper, tissue and board customers remained at the level of Mikael von Frenckell, Christer Gardell, Ozey K. Horton, Jr., Erkki the comparison year and orders from Power business customers Pehu-Lehtonen and Pia Rudengren would be re-elected. In grew 50 percent. Major orders received in 2011 included a recovaddition, it is proposed to elect Ms. Eeva Sipilä, M.Sc. (Econ), ery boiler and evaporation plant for Eldorado Celulose e Papel’s CEFA, Chief Financial Oﬃcer of Cargotec Corporation, as a new new pulp mill and the world’s largest pulp mill for Suzano Papel member. e Celulose, both in Brazil. Other orders included two containThe Nomination Board proposes that the Board members erboard machines for Anhui Shanying Paper Industry and a would be paid the following annual remuneration: Chairman coated board line for International Paper & Sun Cartonboard, of the Board of Directors EUR 100,000; Vice-Chairman of the both orders from China. Services orders increased 15 percent on Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Audit Committee the comparison year and accounted for 36 percent of the segEUR 60,000; and the other members of the Board of Directors ment’s orders. EUR 48,000 each. The Nomination Board furthermore proposes The order backlog at the end of the year increased 22 percent that for each Board and committee meeting a fee of EUR 700 from the end of 2010 and was EUR 2,863 million (EUR 2,347 milwould be paid to the members of the Board that reside in the lion). Around EUR 350 million in the order backlog relates to the Nordic countries, EUR 1,400 to the members that reside in other pulp mill and power boiler project for Fibria in Brazil (of which European countries and EUR 2,800 to the members that reside approx. EUR 90 million is part of the Power business’ deliveries), outside Europe. The Nomination Board proposes that as a condifor which the delivery schedule is still open. tion for the annual remuneration the members of the Board of Directors are obliged, directly based on the General Meeting’s decision, to use 40 of the ﬁxed annual remuneration for purchasing Metso shares from the market at a price formed in public trading and that the purchase will be carried out within two weeks from the publication of the ﬁrst quarter interim review scheduled for April 26, 2012. The Nomination Board notes that a personnel representative will also participate as an external expert in the Metso Board meetings in the next Board term within the limitations imposed by Finnish law. The new Board of Directors will invite the personnel representative as its external expert in its organizing meeting after the Annual General Meeting. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 49 Board of Directors’ Report Short-term outlook Financial development In line with our earlier statement and assuming that the current Market development demand in our customer industries does not clearly weaken due In recent months, demand has been healthy in most of our custo the European economic situation or some other similar factor, tomer industries with some variation by customer industry and we estimate that our net sales for 2012 will grow compared to geographic area. We estimate that in the emerging markets the 2011 and that our proﬁt (EBITA before non-recurring items) will operating environment will continue to be good. We anticipate improve. that most of our customer industries will continue to utilize their The estimates for our ﬁnancial performance in 2012 are based capacity at a good or satisfactory level supporting our services on Metso’s current market outlook, order backlog for 2012 and business. The ﬁnancial uncertainty in the euro zone, the budget business scope as well as on foreign exchange rates similar to deﬁcit in the US, the availability of ﬁnancing and ﬂuctuations in those of December 2011. the exchange rates may, however, inﬂuence market activity in the early part of 2012. Board of Director’s proposal for the use of proﬁt Metal prices still remain relatively high. The activity level for The Parent Company’s distributable funds totaled quotations for equipment and projects from mining companies EUR 1,647,076,626.57 on December 31, 2011, of which the net has been good. We expect the underlying demand in the minproﬁt for the year 2011 was EUR 353,155,391.07. ing market to remain good in the early part of 2012, although we The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 1.70 do not anticipate the same amount of large capital orders we per share be paid based on the balance sheet to be adopted received last year. However, a potential further tightening in the for the ﬁnancial year which ended December 31, 2011 and the availability of ﬁnancing and a continued decline in metal prices remaining part of the proﬁt be retained and carried further in may have a negative impact on the demand for new equipthe Company’s unrestricted equity. ment. Due to the expected high utilization rates of mines and The dividend shall be paid to shareholders who on the our large installed equipment base, we expect demand for our dividend record date April 3, 2012 are registered in the Commining services to remain good. pany’s shareholders’ register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd. The In the Asia-Paciﬁc region and Brazil, economic growth condividend shall be paid on April 12, 2012. tinues and infrastructure projects are maintaining demand for All the shares in the Company are entitled to a dividend construction equipment at a good level. We anticipate that the with the exception of own shares held by the Company on the demand for equipment used in aggregates processing by the dividend record date. construction industry in Europe and in North America will stay at the current relatively low level going forward. We estimate Annual General Meeting 2012 that the demand for our services for the construction industry The Annual General Meeting of Metso Corporation will be held will remain satisfactory. at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 29, 2012 at the Helsinki Fair We estimate that the demand for our automation products Centre. (Messuaukio 1, FI–00520 Helsinki). will continue to be good in early 2012. We anticipate the activity from the pulp and paper industry to somewhat slow down. Helsinki, February 9, 2012 We expect the demand for our automation solution services to continue to be excellent. Metso Corporation’s Board of Directors We expect the market for pulp mills to remain satisfactory after recent large project orders. The demand for rebuilds and services is expected to remain good, even though lower pulp prices and lower capacity utilization rates may stabilize the demand. Demand for paper and board lines is expected to be weak and for tissue lines satisfactory in the early part of 2012. Capacity utilization rates in the paper and board industry may fall somewhat, yet keep the demand for our services at a good level. Demand for power plants that use renewable energy sources is expected to continue to be good in the early part of 2012. There is continuous need to replace old energy sources and build new capacity. Demand for the power plant services business is expected to be good. 50 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Income Year ended December 31, EUR million Note 2010 2011 Net sales 32 5,552 6,646 Cost of goods sold 6, 7 –4,130 –4,978 Gross proﬁt 1,422 1,668 Selling, general and administrative expenses 4, 6, 7 –1,028 –1,107 Other operating income and expenses, net 5 50 11 Share in proﬁts and losses of associated companies 13 1 0 Operating proﬁt 32 445 572 Financial income and expenses, net 8 –75 –65 Proﬁt before tax 370 507 Income taxes 9 –112 –149 Proﬁt 258 358 Attributable to: Shareholders of the company 257 356 Non-controlling interests 1 2 Proﬁt 258 358 Earnings per share Basic, EUR 11 1.71 2.38 Diluted, EUR 11 1.71 2.38 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Year ended December 31, EUR million Note 2010 2011 Proﬁt 258 358 Cash ﬂow hedges, net of tax 21, 30 24 –22 Available–for–sale equity investments, net of tax 14, 21 –4 0 Currency translation on subsidiary net investments 21 121 –11 Net investment hedge gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax 21 –13 10 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan actuarial gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax 27 –11 –35 Other comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) 117 –58 Total comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) 375 300 Attributable to: Shareholders of the company 374 298 Non–controlling interests 1 2 Total comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) 375 300 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 51 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Assets As at December 31, EUR million Note 2010 2011 Non-current assets Intangible assets 12 Goodwill 880 883 Other intangible assets 287 272 1,167 1,155 Property, plant and equipment 12 Land and water areas 64 67 Buildings and structures 283 294 Machinery and equipment 459 447 Assets under construction 43 46 849 854 Financial and other assets Investments in associated companies 13 14 16 Available-for-sale equity investments 14, 19 9 6 Loan and other interest bearing receivables 18, 19 6 9 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 18, 19 169 2 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19, 30 2 Deferred tax asset 9 168 167 Other non-current assets 18, 19 42 45 410 245 Total non-current assets 2,426 2,254 Current assets Inventories 15 1,305 1,677 Receivables Trade and other receivables 18, 19 1,242 1,510 Cost and earnings of projects under construction in excess of advance billings 16 287 351 Loan and other interest bearing receivables 18, 19 6 1 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 18, 19 178 78 Financial instruments held for trading 18, 19 59 87 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19, 30 55 54 Income tax receivables 29 16 1,856 2,097 Cash and cash equivalents 20 645 590 Total current assets 3,806 4,364 Total assets 6,232 6,618 52 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholders’ equity and liabilities As at December 31, EUR million Note 2010 2011 Equity 21 Share capital 241 241 Cumulative translation adjustments 46 45 Fair value and other reserves 726 706 Retained earnings 1,036 1,123 Equity attributable to shareholders 2,049 2,115 Non-controlling interests 22 21 Total equity 2,071 2,136 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Long-term debt 19, 23 956 755 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations 27 195 238 Provisions 24 59 71 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19, 30 3 6 Deferred tax liability 9 50 40 Other long-term liabilities 19 6 7 Total non-current liabilities 1,269 1,117 Current liabilities Current portion of long-term debt 19, 23 388 209 Short-term debt 19, 25 29 63 Trade and other payables 19, 26 1,377 1,520 Provisions 24 230 234 Advances received 503 659 Billings in excess of cost and earnings of projects under construction 16 299 597 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19, 30 30 38 Income tax liabilities 36 45 Total current liabilities 2,892 3,365 Total liabilities 4,161 4,482 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 6,232 6,618 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 53 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Year ended December 31, EUR million Note 2010 2011 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Proﬁt 258 358 Adjustments to reconcile proﬁt to net cash provided by operating activities Depreciation and amortization 7 178 172 Gain (–) / loss (+) on sale of ﬁxed assets 5 –2 –5 Gain (–) / loss (+) on sale of subsidiaries and associated companies 5 –2 1 Gain on sale of available-for-sale equity investments 5 –9 0 Share of proﬁts and losses of associated companies 13 –1 0 Dividend income and interests, net 8 51 48 Income taxes 9 112 149 Other non–cash items 52 38 Change in net working capital, net of eﬀect from business acquisitions and disposals 17 25 –123 Interest paid –73 –78 Interest received 15 28 Dividends received 0 0 Income taxes paid –98 –122 Net cash provided by operating activities 506 466 Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Capital expenditures on ﬁxed assets 12 –134 –164 Proceeds from sale of ﬁxed assets 7 10 Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired 10 –21 –15 Proceeds from sale of businesses, net of cash sold 8 Investments in associated companies –2 Investments in available-for-sale equity investments –1 0 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale equity investments 11 0 Investments in available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments –333 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 195 268 Investments in ﬁnancial instruments held for trading –19 –119 Proceeds from sale of ﬁnancial instruments held for trading 86 Increase in loan receivables –2 –3 Decrease in loan receivables 7 6 Net cash provided by (+) / used in (–) investing activities –282 67 Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Redemption of own shares 21 –7 Dividends paid –105 –232 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries 20 0 Net borrowings (+) / payments (–) on short-term debt –46 36 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 24 49 Principal payments of long-term debt –218 –436 Principal payments of ﬁnance leases –3 –1 Other items –4 –3 Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities –339 –587 Net increase (+) / decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents –115 –54 Eﬀect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 33 –1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 20 727 645 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 645 590 54 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity s ve ion er e sts sla t res ta bl ere er t ran th gs u b rs i n et do in tri e ing it al tiv nts an arn at h o l d oll ty ap l u ea e d e i t y r e n t r ui c m tm alu i ne qu sha co l eq are Cu djus ir v t a E n t a EUR million Sh a Fa Re to No To Balance at December 31, 2009 241 –62 710 894 1,783 9 1,792 Proﬁt 257 257 1 258 Other comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) Cash ﬂow hedges, net of tax 24 24 24 Available-for-sale equity investments, net of tax –4 –4 –4 Currency translation on subsidiary net investments 121 121 121 Net investment hedge gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax –13 –13 –13 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan acturial gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax –11 –11 –11 Total comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) 108 20 246 374 1 375 Dividends –105 –105 –1 –106 Donations to universities –2 –2 –2 Redemption of own shares –7 –7 –7 Share-based payments, net of tax 0 –1 –1 –1 Other 3 –4 –1 0 –1 Changes in non-controlling interests 8 8 13 21 Balance at December 31, 2010 241 46 726 1,036 2,049 22 2,071 Proﬁt 356 356 2 358 Other comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) Cash ﬂow hedges, net of tax –22 –22 –22 Available-for-sale equity investments, net of tax 0 0 0 Currency translation on subsidiary net investments –11 –11 –11 Net investment hedge gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax 10 10 10 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan acturial gains (+) / losses (–), net of tax –35 –35 –35 Total comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) –1 –22 321 298 2 300 Dividends –232 –232 –1 –233 Redemption of own shares 0 0 0 Share-based payments, net of tax 2 0 2 2 Other 0 –2 –2 –1 –3 Changes in non-controlling interests 0 0 –1 –1 Balance at December 31, 2011 241 45 706 1,123 2,115 21 2,136 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 55 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Accounting principles Description of businesses All intercompany transactions, balances and gains or losses on Metso Corporation (the “Parent Company”) and its subsidiaries transactions between subsidiaries are eliminated as part of the (together with the Parent Company, “Metso” or the “Group”) form a consolidation process. Non-controlling interests are presented in the global supplier of sustainable technology and services, which designs, consolidated balance sheets within equity, separate from the equity develops and produces systems, automation solutions, machinery and attributable to shareholders. Non-controlling interests are separately equipment for process industries. The main customer industries operdisclosed in the consolidated statements of income. ate in mining, construction, oil and gas, pulp, paper as well as power Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition generation industries. method. The purchase consideration of an acquisition is measured at Metso Corporation is a publicly listed company and its shares are fair value over the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities incurred listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd under the trading symbol or assumed at the date of acquisition. For each acquisition the nonMEO1V. Metso Corporation is domiciled in Finland and the address of controlling interest in the acquiree, if any, can be recognized either the Group Head Oﬃce is Fabianinkatu 9A, 00130 Helsinki, Finland. at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share These consolidated ﬁnancial statements were authorized for issue by of the acquiree’s net assets. The excess acquisition price over the the Board of Directors on February 9, 2012 after which, in accordance fair value of net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill (see also with Finnish Company Law, the ﬁnancial statements are either apintangible assets). If the purchase consideration is less than the fair proved, amended or rejected in the annual shareholders’ meeting. value of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired, the diﬀerence is recognized directly through proﬁt and loss. Basis of preparation and changes in accounting policies Transactions with non-controlling interests are regarded as transacThe consolidated ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with tions with equity owners. In case of purchases from non-controlling International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by interests, the diﬀerence between any consideration paid and the the EU include the ﬁnancial statements of Metso Corporation and its relevant share of the carrying value of net assets acquired in the subsubsidiaries. There are no diﬀerences between IFRS standards and sidiary is recorded in shareholders’ equity. Gains or losses on disposals interpretations as adopted by the EU, as applied in Metso, and IFRS as to non-controlling interests are also recorded directly in shareholders’ written by the IASB. equity. There are no new standards or amendments to existing standards applicable from January 1, 2011 onwards with material impact to these Associated companies and joint ventures ﬁnancial statements. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in associated companies in which the investment provides Metso the ability to Use of estimates exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the operating and ﬁnancial policies The preparation of ﬁnancial statements, in conformity with IFRS, of the investee company. Such inﬂuence is presumed to exist for inrequires management to make estimates and assumptions that aﬀect vestments in companies in which Metso’s direct or indirect ownership the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of continis between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights. Investments in asgent assets and liabilities at the dates of the ﬁnancial statements and sociated companies are initially recognized at cost after which Metso’s the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting share of their post-acquisition retained proﬁts and losses is included period. Actual results could diﬀer from those estimates. as part of investments in associated companies in the consolidated balance sheets. Accounting convention Under the equity method, the share of proﬁts and losses of associThe ﬁnancial statements are prepared under the historical cost ated companies and joint ventures is presented separately in the convention, except for assets and liabilities classiﬁed as fair valued consolidated statements of income. through proﬁt and loss, available-for-sale investments, ﬁnancial Investments in joint ventures in which Metso has the power to instruments held for trading and derivative instruments, which are jointly govern the ﬁnancial and operating activities of the investee recognized at fair value. company are accounted for using the equity method. Principles of consolidation Segment reporting Metso’s operations are divided into three operating segments: MinSubsidiaries ing and Construction, Automation and Pulp, Paper and Power, the The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the ﬁnancial statements performances of which are regularly reviewed by the chief operating of the Parent Company and each of those companies in which it owns, decision maker, in Metso the Board of Directors, to decide on allocation directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, over 50 percent of the voting of resources and to assess the performance. rights or in which it is in a position to govern the ﬁnancial and operatThe performance of each segment is reported in the notes using ing policies of the entity. The companies acquired during the ﬁnancial same measurements and subtotals as reported to the chief operating period have been consolidated from the date Metso acquired control. decision maker. One key indicator of performance is EBITA (Earnings Subsidiaries sold have been included up to their date of disposal. before interest, taxes and amortization). The performance is also 56 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements analyzed by excluding from EBITA items qualifying as non-recurring, currency denominated ﬁrm commitments. The interest component such as capacity adjustment costs, outcome of material intellectual is recognized under other operating income and expenses, net. The property rights’ disputes, gains and losses on disposal of listed shares gain or loss relating to the eﬀective portion of the currency forward and business disposals, business prospection and acquisition costs and contracts is recognised in the income statement concurrently with the other infrequent events, as these items reduce the comparability of the underlying in the same line item. The eﬀective portion of foreign cursegments’ performance from one period to another. rency forwards hedging sales and purchases is recognized in the net The accounting policies applicable to the segment reporting are sales and the cost of goods sold, respectively. The gain or loss relating the same as those used for establishing the consolidated ﬁnancial to the eﬀective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate statements. borrowings is reversed from the hedge reserve through the OCI to the income statement within ﬁnancial items concurrently with the recogForeign currency translation nition of the underlying. Both at hedge inception and at each balance The ﬁnancial statements are presented in euros, which is the Parent sheet date an assessment is performed to ensure the continued eﬀecCompany’s functional currency and Metso’s presentation currency. tiveness of the designated component of the derivatives in oﬀsetting Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of changes in the fair values of the cash ﬂows of hedged items. exchange prevailing at the date of the transaction. At the end of the Metso assesses regularly the eﬀectiveness of the fair value changes accounting period, unsettled foreign currency transaction balances of the electricity forwards in oﬀsetting the changes in the fair value are valued at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet changes of the underlying forecasted electricity purchases in diﬀerent date. Trade ﬂow related foreign currency exchange gains and losses countries. The gain or loss relating to the eﬀective portion of the elecare recorded in other operating income and expenses, unless the fortricity forward contracts is recognised in the cost of goods sold. eign currency denominated transactions have been subject to hedge The eﬀective portion of the derivatives is recognized through OCI accounting, in which case the related exchange gains and losses are in the hedge reserve under equity and reversed through OCI to be recorded in the same line item as the hedged transaction. Foreign recorded through proﬁt and loss concurrently with the underlying exchange gains and losses associated with ﬁnancing are entered as a transaction being hedged. net amount under ﬁnancial income and expenses. The gain or loss relating to the ineﬀective portion of the derivatives The statements of income of subsidiaries with a functional currency is reported under other operating income and expenses, net or under diﬀerent from the presentation currency are translated into euro at ﬁnancial items when contracted to hedge variable rate borrowings. the average exchange rates for the ﬁnancial year and the balance Should a hedged transaction no longer be expected to occur, any sheets are translated at the exchange rate of the balance sheet date. cumulative gain or loss previously recognized under equity is reversed This exchange rate diﬀerence is recorded through Other Comprehenthrough OCI to proﬁt and loss. sive Income/Expense (OCI) in the cumulative translation adjustment line item in equity. Net investment hedge The translation diﬀerences arising from subsidiary net investments Metso may hedge its net foreign investments in certain currencies to and long-term subsidiary loans without agreed settlement dates are reduce the eﬀect of exchange rate ﬂuctuations. The hedging instrurecognized through the OCI to the cumulative translation adjustments ments are mainly foreign currency loans and foreign currency forward under equity. When Metso hedges the net investment of its foreign contracts. Both realized and unrealized exchange gains and losses subsidiaries with foreign currency loans and with ﬁnancial derivameasured on these instruments are recorded, net of taxes, through tives, the translation diﬀerence is adjusted by the currency eﬀect of OCI in a separate component of equity against the translation diﬀerhedging instruments which has been recorded, net of taxes, through ences arising from consolidation to the extent these hedges are efthe OCI in equity. When a foreign entity is disposed of, the respective fective. The interest portion of derivatives qualifying as hedges of net accumulated translation diﬀerence, including the eﬀect from qualifyinvestment is recognized under ﬁnancial income and expenses, net. ing hedging instruments, is reversed through the OCI and recognized in the consolidated statements of income as part of the gain or loss Derivatives at fair value through proﬁt and loss on the sale. Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments, which have been contracted to mitigate risks Derivative ﬁnancial instruments arising from operating and ﬁnancing activities, comprise foreign exDerivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and change forward contracts, currency and interest rate options, interest subsequently measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. rate swaps and swap agreements for nickel. Derivatives are designated at inception either as hedges of ﬁrm comChanges in the fair value of interest rate swaps are recognized in mitments or forecasted transactions (cash ﬂow hedge), or as hedges interest expenses. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forof net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge), or as ward contracts are mainly recognized in other operating income and derivatives at fair value through proﬁt and loss that do not meet the expenses. However, when the foreign exchange forwards have been hedge accounting criteria. contracted to mitigate the exchange rate risks arising from foreign In case of hedge accounting, Metso documents at inception the currency denominated cash and from ﬁnancial instruments used for relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items in cash management, the changes in fair value of the derivatives are accordance with its risk management strategy and objectives. Metso recognized in ﬁnancial income and expenses, net. Changes in the fair also tests the eﬀectiveness of the hedge relationships at hedge incepvalue of other derivative instruments such as commodity instruments tion and quarterly both prospectively and retrospectively. are recognized in other operating income and expenses, net. Derivatives are classiﬁed as non-current assets or liabilities when the remaining maturity exceeds 12 months and as current assets or Fair value estimation of derivative instruments liabilities when the remaining maturity is less than 12 months. The fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. The Cash ﬂow hedge fair value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value Metso applies cash ﬂow hedge accounting to certain interest rate of the estimated future cash ﬂows based on observable yield curves. swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and to electricity forwards. The fair value of the commodity forwards and swaps are based on Metso designates only the currency component of the foreign curquoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of oprency forward contracts as the hedging instrument to hedge foreign tions is determined using Black-Scholes valuation model. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 57 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Employee beneﬁts Percentage-of-completion method Sales and anticipated proﬁts under engineering and construction Share-based payments contracts are recorded on a percentage-of-completion basis. The stage Metso has share-based incentive plans for its key personnel. of completion is determined either by units of delivery, which are based The equity-settled share awards are valued based on the market on predetermined milestones and on the realized value added (contract price of the Metso share as of the grant date, and recognized as an value of the work performed to date) or by the cost-to-cost method employee beneﬁt expense over the vesting period with corresponding of accounting. Estimated contract proﬁts are recorded in earnings in entry in other reserves of the equity. The liability resulting from the proportion to recorded sales. In the cost-to-cost method, sales and cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market price of the proﬁts are recorded after considering the ratio of accumulated costs to Metso share as of the balance sheet date and accrued as an employee estimated total costs to complete each contract. Subcontractor materials, beneﬁt expense with corresponding entry in the current liabilities until labor and equipment, are included in sales and costs of goods sold when the settlement date. management believes that Metso is responsible for the ultimate acMarket conditions, such as the total shareholder return upon which ceptability of the project. Changes to total estimated contract costs and vesting is conditioned, is taken into account when estimating the fair losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined. value of the equity instruments granted. The expense relating to the market condition is recognized irrespective of whether that market Service revenue condition is satisﬁed. Revenues from short-term service contracts are recognized once the Non-market vesting conditions, such as operating proﬁt, services service has been rendered. Revenues from long-term service contracts business growth, return on capital employed and earnings per share are recognized using the output method. targets, are included in assumptions about the amount of sharebased payments that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet Trade-ins date, Metso revises its estimates on the amount of share-based paySales against which trade-ins are accepted are recorded at contract ments that are expected to vest. The impact of the revision to previprice. Any reduction between the agreed trade-in price and its ous estimate is recognized through proﬁt and loss with correspondrecorded value in the inventory is recognized in cost of goods sold ing adjustment to equity and current liabilities, as appropriate. concurrently with the sale. Pensions and coverage of pension liabilities Government grants Metso has several diﬀerent pension schemes in accordance with Government grants relating to acquisition of property, plant and local regulations and practices in countries where it operates. In equipment are deducted from the acquisition cost of the asset and certain countries, the pension schemes are deﬁned beneﬁt plans with they reduce the depreciation charge of the related asset. Other govretirement, disability, death, and other post retirement beneﬁts, such ernment grants are deferred and recognized in proﬁt and loss concuras health services, and termination income beneﬁts. The retirement rently with the costs they compensate. beneﬁts are usually based on the number of service years and the salary levels of the ﬁnal service years. The schemes are generally funded Emission rights and trading through payments to insurance companies or to trustee-administered Metso has received emission rights under the European Emission Tradfunds as determined by periodic actuarial calculations. ing Scheme. These rights, for the recognition of which there are no In addition, certain companies within Metso have multi-employer authoritative rules, are recognized as government grants at acquisition pension arrangements and deﬁned contribution pension schemes. price and as they have been granted free of charge their acquisition The contributions to deﬁned contribution plans and to multi-employer value is nil. They are being consumed concurrently with CO2 emisand insured plans are charged to proﬁt and loss concurrently with the sions over the compliance period. Any excess of rights is disposed of payment obligations. and the gain is recognized under other operating income. Should the In the case of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the liability recognized from emissions made exceed the initially allocated rights, additional rights the plan is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation as of are acquired at prevailing market price and recognized as cost in the the balance sheet date, adjusted by the fair value of the plan assets costs of goods sold. and by the unamortized portion of past service cost. Independent actuaries calculate the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation by applying the Other operating income and expenses, net projected unit credit method under which the estimated future Other operating income and expenses, net, comprise income and cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using the interest expenses, which do not directly relate to the operating activity of rates approximating the terms of the pension engagement. The cost businesses within Metso or which arise from unrealized and realof providing retirement and other post retirement beneﬁts to the ized changes in fair value of foreign currency denominated ﬁnancial personnel is charged to proﬁt and loss concurrently with the service instruments associated with the operating activity, including forward rendered by the personnel. Actuarial gains and losses arising from exexchange contracts. Such items include costs related to signiﬁcant perience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and amendrestructuring programs, gains and losses on disposal of assets, except ments to plans are recognized through OCI into shareholders’ equity. for those qualifying as discontinued operations, and foreign exchange gains and losses, excluding those qualifying for hedge accounting and Revenue recognition those, which are reported under ﬁnancial income and expenses, net. Revenues from goods and services sold are recognized, net of sales Additionally, non recoverable foreign taxes, which are not based on taxes and discounts, when substantially all the risks and rewards taxable proﬁts, are reported in other operating income and expenses, of ownership are transferred to the buyer or when legal title of the net. These include for example foreign taxes and/or suchlike payments goods and responsibility for shipment has been transferred to the not based on Double Tax Treaties in force. buyer. The transfer of risk takes place either when the goods are shipped or made available to the buyer for shipment depending on Income taxes the terms of the contract. The credit worthiness of the buyer is veriIncome taxes presented in the consolidated statements of income ﬁed before engaging into a sale. However, if a risk of non-payment consist of current and deferred taxes. Current taxes include estimated arises after revenue recognition, a provision for non-collectability is taxes corresponding to the Group companies’ results for the ﬁnancial established. year, and adjustments to taxes for previous years. 58 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements A deferred tax liability or asset has been determined for all temdeclines in sales, operating proﬁt or cash ﬂows or material adverse porary diﬀerences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities changes in the business environment, suggest that its carrying value and their amounts in ﬁnancial reporting, using the enacted tax rates may not be recoverable. The testing of goodwill is performed at the eﬀective for the future years. The deferred tax liabilities are recognized cash generating unit level, whereas the testing of other intangible in the balance sheet in full, and the deferred tax assets are only recassets with an indeﬁnite useful life is either performed as part of a ognized when it is probable that there will be suﬃcient taxable proﬁt cash generating unit or separately if the asset generates independent against which the asset can be utilized. No deferred income tax is cash ﬂows. The annual testing may be performed using previous year’s accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability recoverable amounts of the cash generating units if there has not in a transaction other than a business combination. been any signiﬁcant changes to the assets and liabilities of the cash No deferred tax liability has been recognized for undistributed earngenerating unit, if in the previous testing the recoverable value clearly ings of domestic subsidiaries (i.e. Finnish) since such earnings can be exceeded the carrying values tested, or if the likelihood that the curtransferred to the Parent Company without tax consequences. Metso rent recoverable value would be less than the current carrying value of does not provide deferred income taxes on undistributed earnings of the cash generating unit is remote. Metso uses a discounted cash ﬂow foreign subsidiaries, except in situations where Metso has elected to analysis to assess the fair value of goodwill or of another intangible distribute earnings, which become subject to additional non-recoverasset subject to testing. A previously recognized impairment loss on able taxes triggered by a distribution. goodwill is not reversed even if there is a signiﬁcant improvement in circumstances having initially caused the impairment. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributResearch and development able to equity shareholders of the Parent Company by the weighted Research and development costs are mainly expensed as incurred. Reaverage number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding search and development costs comprise salaries, administration costs, own shares held by the Parent Company. depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by including the potenDevelopment costs meeting certain capitalization criteria under IAS tially diluting ordinary shares to the weighted average number of 38 are capitalized and amortized during the expected economic life of ordinary shares in issue excluding own shares. The potentially diluting the underlying technology. ordinary shares are related to the share ownership plans targeted to Metso’s key personnel. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, less acFixed assets cumulated depreciation and impairment loss, if any. Land and water Fixed assets comprise intangible assets and property, plant and areas are not depreciated. equipment. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets as follows: Intangible assets Intangible assets, which comprise mainly goodwill, trademarks, Buildings and structures 15–40 years patents and licenses, are stated at historical cost less accumulated Machinery and equipment 3–20 years amortization and impairment loss, if any. Goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives, such as brands, are not amortized, but Expected useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and if tested annually for impairment. they diﬀer signiﬁcantly from previous estimates, the remaining depreciation periods are adjusted accordingly. Amortization of intangible assets Subsequent improvement costs related to an asset are included in Amortization of intangible assets with a deﬁnite useful life is calcuthe carrying value of such asset or recognized as a separate asset, as lated on a straight-line basis over the expected economic lives of the appropriate, only when the future economic beneﬁts associated with assets as follows: the costs are probable and the related costs can be separated from normal maintenance costs. Patents and licenses 5–10 years Metso reviews property, plant and equipment to be held and used Computer software 3–5 years by the company for impairment whenever events and changes in Technology 3–15 years circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not Customer relationships 3–12 years be recoverable. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and Other intangibles (incl. order backlog) < 1–15 years capital gains and losses on their disposal are included in other operating income and expenses, net. Previously recognized impairment on Expected useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and if property, plant and equipment is reversed only if there has been a they diﬀer signiﬁcantly from previous estimates, the remaining amortisigniﬁcant change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable zation periods are adjusted accordingly. amount, however not to exceed the carrying value, which would have The carrying value of intangible assets subject to amortization is been recorded had there been no impairment in prior years. reviewed for impairment whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be Capitalization of interest expenses recoverable. A previously recognized impairment loss may be reversed The interest expenses of self-constructed investments are capitalized if there is a signiﬁcant improvement to the circumstances having iniin Metso’s ﬁnancial statements. The capitalized interest expense is tially caused the impairment, however not to a higher value than the amortized over the estimated useful life of the underlying asset. carrying amount, which would have been recorded had there been no impairment in prior years. Leases Leases for property, plant and equipment, where Metso has substanImpairment of intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives tially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classiﬁed as ﬁnance The carrying value of goodwill for each segment and of other intanleases. Finance leases are capitalized at the inception of the lease at gible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives are reviewed annually or more the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value frequently for impairment, if the facts and circumstances, such as of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 59 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements between the liability and ﬁnance charges. The corresponding rental ments, e.g. bonds, commercial papers and time deposits with maturiobligations, net of ﬁnance charges, are included in long-term debt, ties exceeding one year or with an undeﬁned maturity and which and the interest element is charged to proﬁt and loss over the lease Metso plans to hold for more than one year. The instruments are fair period. Property, plant and equipment acquired under ﬁnance leases valued quarterly and the change in fair value is recognized through are depreciated over the useful life of the asset or over the lease OCI in the fair value reserve of equity. Gains and losses at disposal and period, if shorter. impairment, if any, are recorded in proﬁt and loss and the accumuLeases of property, plant and equipment, where the lessor retains a lated change in fair value previously recorded in the fair value reserve signiﬁcant portion of the risks and rewards, are classiﬁed as operating of equity is reversed through OCI. leases. Payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred. Current available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments Financial assets and liabilities Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments, which are reported under Metso classiﬁes its ﬁnancial investments into the following categories: current assets, comprise highly liquid investments, which have been assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt and loss, loans and contracted as part of the cash management of Metso and which do receivables and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. The classiﬁcation is not qualify as cash and cash equivalents. They are fair valued quarterly determined at the time of the acquisition depending on the intended and the change in fair value is recognized through OCI in the fair purpose. Assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss comprise derivavalue reserve of equity. Gains and losses at disposal and impairment, if tives and ﬁnancial instruments designated as at fair value through any, are recorded in proﬁt and loss and the accumulated change in fair proﬁt and loss upon initial recognition. value previously recorded in the fair value reserve of equity is reversed Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are further classiﬁed into availablethrough OCI. for-sale equity investments and available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments. Loans and receivables include loans and other interest bearing Loans and receivables receivables and other receivables, which are not interest bearing. Loan and other interest bearing receivables comprise interest bearing Purchases and sales of assets and liabilities at fair value through trade and loan receivables. proﬁt and loss, and loans and receivables are recognized or derecogLoans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value including nized on the trade date, i.e. the date Metso commits to purchase or transaction costs. Subsequently they are recognized at amortized cost sell the asset. Purchases and sales of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets using the eﬀective interest method. They are subject to regular and are recognized on the transaction date at fair value including transacsystematic review as to collectability. If a loan receivable is estimated tion costs. to be partly or totally unrecoverable, an impairment loss is recognized Financial assets are presented as non-current when their maturity for the shortfall between the carrying value and the present value of exceeds one year. the expected cash ﬂows. Interest income on loan and other interest At each balance sheet date, Metso assesses whether there is objecbearing receivables is included in ﬁnancial income and expenses, net. tive evidence of an available-for-sale ﬁnancial asset or of a group of assets under this category being impaired. In case of prolonged Inventories signiﬁcant decline in the fair value of such an asset compared to its Inventories are stated at the lower of historical cost calculated on acquisition value, the accumulated net loss is reversed from equity average cost basis or net realizable value. Costs include purchase costs and recognized in the income statement. as well as transportation and processing costs. The costs of ﬁnished goods include direct materials, wages and salaries plus social costs, Assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt and loss subcontracting and other direct costs. In addition, production costs Financial instruments held for trading, which are fair valued through include an allocable portion of production and project administration proﬁt and loss, comprise investments in ﬁnancial instruments, e.g. overheads. Net realizable value is the estimated amount that can be bonds, commercial papers and time deposits with various maturities realized from the sale of the asset in the normal course of business exceeding three months. The instruments are fair valued quarterly and after allowing for the costs of realization. the change in fair value is recognized through proﬁt and loss. Gains Inventories are shown net of a reserve for obsolete and slow-movand losses at disposal and impairment, if any are recorded in proﬁt ing inventories. A reserve is established and a corresponding charge and loss. is taken to proﬁt and loss in the period in which the loss occurs based Derivatives that are not designated as hedges do not meet the upon an assessment of technological obsolescence and related factors. hedge accounting criteria, and are fair valued quarterly through proﬁt Trade-in equipment received is recorded as inventory at the lower of and loss. Gains and losses at disposal are recorded in proﬁt and loss. cost or net realizable value. Available-for-sale equity investments Trade receivables Available-for-sale equity investments include mainly shares in publicly Trade receivables are recognized at original invoice amount to listed companies. Available-for-sale equity investments are carried at customers and reported in the balance sheet, net of impairment. The fair value, based on quoted closing prices as of the respective balance impairment, which is expensed under selling, general and administrasheet date. Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in fair tive expenses, is recorded on the basis of periodic reviews of potential value are recognized through OCI in the fair value reserve of equity. non-recovery of receivables by taking into consideration individual Gains and losses at disposal and impairment, if any, are recorded in customer credit risk, economic trends in customer industries and the proﬁt and loss and the accumulated change in fair value previchanges in payment terms. Bad debts are written oﬀ when oﬃcial ously recorded in the fair value reserve of equity is reversed through announcement of receivership, liquidation or bankruptcy is received OCI. Unlisted shares, for which fair values cannot be measured reliably, conﬁrming that the receivable will not be honored. are recognized at cost less impairment, if any. If extended payment terms, exceeding one year, are oﬀered to customers, the invoiced amount is discounted to its present value and Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments interest income is recognized over the credit term. Non-current available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments, which are reported under Cash and cash equivalents non-current assets and which have been contracted as part of the Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in banks and other liquid cash management of Metso, comprise investments in ﬁnancial instruinvestments with initial maturity of three months or less. 60 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Assets classiﬁed as held-for-sale Capitalization of transaction costs Non-current assets and discontinued operations are classiﬁed as heldrelated to modiﬁcation of debt instruments for-sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and the fair value less Transaction costs arising from modiﬁcation of debt instruments are incost to sell, if their carrying value is recovered principally through a cluded in the carrying value of the debt and amortized using the eﬀecsale transaction rather than through a continuing use. tive interest method over the remaining period of the modiﬁed liability A discontinued operation results from the management’s decision provided that the new conditions obtained through the modiﬁcation and commitment to dispose of a separate business for which the do not substantially diﬀer from those of the original debt. The assessrelated assets, liabilities and operating results can be distinguished ment of whether the conditions are substantially diﬀerent is based on both operationally and for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. When a comparison of the discounted present value of the cash ﬂows under speciﬁc criteria for the held-for-sale classiﬁcation has been met, the the new terms and the present value of the remaining cash ﬂows of the non-current assets are recorded at the lower of carrying value or fair original ﬁnancial liability. value less cost to sell, and non-current assets subject to depreciation or amortization are no longer amortized. The assets and liabilities of Provisions a disposal group classiﬁed as held-for-sale are presented in the balProvisions, for which settlement is expected to occur more than one ance sheet separate from assets and liabilities related to continuing year after the initial recognition, are discounted to their present value operations as of the date the operation qualiﬁed as discontinued. and adjusted in subsequent closings for the time eﬀect. The results of discontinued operations, net of taxes and the gain or loss on their disposal are presented for all periods separate from Restructuring and capacity adjustment costs continuing operations in the consolidated statements of income. A provision for restructuring and capacity adjustment costs is recognized Balance sheet data from periods preceding the qualifying disposal only after management has developed and approved a formal plan to decision is not reclassiﬁed. which it is committed. Employee termination beneﬁts are recognized after the representatives of employees or individual employees have been Issue of new shares and own shares informed of the intended measures in detail and the related compensaTransaction costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or tion packages can be reliably measured. The costs included in a provision options are shown net of their tax eﬀect in equity as a deduction from for capacity adjustment are those costs that are either incremental or the proceeds. incurred as a direct result of the plan or are the result of a continuing Own shares held by the Parent Company and valued at historicontractual obligation with no continuing economic beneﬁt to Metso or cal acquisition price are deducted from equity. Should such shares a penalty incurred to cancel the contractual obligation. Restructuring and be subsequently sold or reissued, the consideration received, net of capacity adjustment expenses are recognized in either cost of goods sold any directly attributable transaction costs and related income tax, is or selling, general and administrative expenses depending on the nature recorded in the equity. of the restructuring expenses. Should there be a Metso or segment wide restructuring program, the related costs are recognized in other operatDividends ing income and expenses, net. Restructuring costs can also include other Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors are not recognized in costs incurred as a result of the plan, which are recorded under other the ﬁnancial statements until they have been approved by the shareoperating income and expenses, net, such as asset write-downs. holders in the Annual General Meeting. Environmental remediation costs Long-term debt Metso accrues for losses associated with environmental remediation Long-term debt is initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction obligations when such losses are probable and can be estimated relicosts incurred. Debt is classiﬁed as current liability unless the Group ably. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental remediation has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at obligations generally are recognized no later than completion of the least 12 months after the balance sheet date. remedial feasibility study. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental Capitalization of transaction costs remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when their related to issuance of debt instruments receipt is deemed virtually certain. Transaction costs arising from issuance of debt instruments are included in the carrying value of the debt and amortized using the eﬀective Warranty costs interest method over the period of the respective liability. An accrual is made for expected warranty costs. The adequacy of this accrual is reviewed periodically based on an analysis of historical experience and anticipated probable warranty liabilities. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 61 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial risk management As a global company, Metso is exposed to a variety of business and mitted undrawn credit facilities to EUR 500 million (EUR 500 million). ﬁnancial risks. Financial risks are managed centrally by the Group The ﬁve year revolving credit facility matures in 2015. Treasury under annually reviewed written policies approved by the Liquidity risk management as described here excludes trade receivBoard of Directors. Treasury operations are monitored by the Treasury ables (both interest and non-interest bearing) and similar ﬁnancial Management Team chaired by the CFO. Group Treasury functions as instruments, as they are not considered active risk management tools counterparty to the operating units, manages centrally external fundwithin the responsibility of Group Treasury. Similarly, non-interest ing and is responsible for the management of ﬁnancial assets and apbearing liabilities such as trade and other payables are not included in propriate hedging measures. Group Treasury identiﬁes, evaluates and liquidity management. hedges ﬁnancial risks in close co-operation with the operating units. Metso’s reﬁnancing risk is managed by balancing the proportion of The objective of ﬁnancial risk management is to minimize potential short-term and long-term debt as well as the average remaining maadverse eﬀects on Metso’s ﬁnancial performance. turity of long-term debt. The tables below analyze the repayments and interests on Metso’s liabilities by the remaining maturities from the Sensitivity analysis balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The net interest Sensitivity analysis ﬁgures presented in connection with diﬀerent payments of interest rate swaps hedging long-term loans are included ﬁnancial risks are based on the risk exposures at the balance sheet in the long-term debt repayment ﬁgures. date. The sensitivity is calculated by assuming a change in one of the Detailed information of balance sheet items is presented in other risk factors of a ﬁnancial instrument, such as interest or currency. It notes to consolidated ﬁnancial statements. is not likely that the future volatility of a risk factor will develop in Capital structure management in Metso comprises both equity and accordance with the test assumptions and that only one factor would interest bearing debt. As of December 31, 2011 the equity attributbe impacted. able to shareholders was EUR 2,115 million (EUR 2,049 million) and the When calculating the sensitivity, Metso has chosen to use market conamount of interest bearing debt was EUR 1,027 million (EUR 1,373 milventions in assuming a one percentage point (100 basis points) variation lion). The objectives are to safeguard the ongoing business operations in interest rates, 10 percent change in foreign exchange rates and in and to optimize the cost of capital. Metso has a target to maintain a commodity prices because this provides better comparability from one solid investment grade credit rating. period to another and information on the volatility to users of ﬁnancial statements. Metso is aware that such assumptions may not be realistic The credit ratings are as at December 31, 2011: when compared to past volatility and they are not intended to reﬂect the future. Metso has chosen not to use past volatility as this could Moody’s Baa2 mislead the users of ﬁnancial statements to assume the analysis reﬂect Standard & Poor’s BBB / A-2 management’s view on the future volatility of the ﬁnancial instruments. There are no prepayment covenants in Metso’s ﬁnancial contracts Liquidity and reﬁnancing risk which would be triggered by changes in credit rating. Financial and capital structure management covenants included in some loan agreements refer to Metso’s capital Liquidity or reﬁnancing risk arises when a company is not able to arstructure. Metso is in compliance with all covenants and other terms range funding at terms and conditions corresponding to its creditworof its debt instruments. thiness. Suﬃcient cash, short-term investments and committed and Capital structure is assessed regularly by the Board of Directors and uncommitted credit facilities are maintained to protect short-term managed operationally by the Group Treasury. liquidity. Diversiﬁcation of funding among diﬀerent markets and Capital structure ratios are included in ﬁnancial indicators for years adequate number of ﬁnancial institutions is used to safeguard the 2007–2011 on page 102 in these ﬁnancial statements. The formulas for availability of liquidity at all times. Group Treasury monitors bank calculating the ﬁnancial indicators are presented on page 103. account structures, cash balances and forecasts of the operating units and manages the utilization of the consolidated cash resources. Interest rate risk At the end of 2011 (end of 2010 respectively) cash and cash equivaInterest rate risk arises when changes in market interest rates and lents amounted to EUR 590 million (EUR 645 million), available-for-sale interest margins inﬂuence ﬁnance costs, returns on ﬁnancial investﬁnancial investments to EUR 80 million (EUR 347 million), ﬁnancial ments and valuation of interest bearing balance sheet items. Interest instruments held for trading EUR 87 million (EUR 59 million) and comrate risks are managed through balancing the ratio between ﬁxed and Maturities as of December 31, 2010 Maturities as of December 31, 2011 EUR million <1 year 1 – 5 years >5 years EUR million <1 year 1 – 5 years >5 years Long-term debt Long-term debt Repayments 388 761 195 Repayments 209 498 257 Interests 66 116 9 Interests 49 118 25 Short-term debt Short-term debt Repayments 29 Repayments 63 Interests 1 Interests 2 Trade payables 815 Trade payables 855 Other liabilities 568 Other liabilities 673 Total 1,867 877 204 Total 1,851 616 282 Financial guarantee contracts 1 Financial guarantee contracts 3 62 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements ﬂoating interest rates and duration of debt and investment portfolios. Upper limits have been set on the open currency exposures managed Additionally, Metso may use derivative instruments such as forward by the Group Treasury; limits have been calculated on the basis of rate agreements, swaps, options and futures contracts to mitigate the their potential proﬁt impact. To manage the foreign currency exposure risks arising from interest bearing assets and liabilities. The interGroup Treasury may use forward exchange contracts and foreign est rate risk is managed and controlled by the Group Treasury and exchange options. measured using sensitivity analysis and duration of long term debt. Total amount of foreign currency exposures on December 31 was as The Macaulay Duration of long term debt was 1.8 years on December follows: 31, 2011 (1.6 years). At the end of 2011 the balance sheet items exposed to interest rate EUR million 2010 2011 risk were interest bearing assets of EUR 767 million (EUR 1,063 million) Operational items 627 804 and interest bearing debt of EUR 1,027 million (EUR 1,373 million). Of Financial items –136 –365 the total of the interest bearing debt 68 percent (74) was denomiHedges –446 –479 nated in EUR. Total exposure 45 –40 The basis for the interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is an aggregate group level interest rate exposure, composed of interest bearing This aggregate group level currency exposure is the basis for the assets, interest bearing debt and ﬁnancial derivatives, such as interest sensitivity analysis of foreign exchange risk. This exposure, net of rate swaps and options, which are used to hedge the underlying respective hedges, is composed of all assets and liabilities denomiexposures. For all interest bearing debt and assets to be ﬁxed during nated in foreign currencies, projected cash ﬂows for unrecognized ﬁrm next 12 months a one percentage point move upwards or downwards commitments, both shortand long-term sales and purchase contracts in interest rates with all other variables held constant would have an and anticipated operational cash ﬂows to the extent their realization eﬀect on Metso’s net interest expenses, net of taxes, of EUR –/+ 2.5 has been deemed highly probable and therefore hedged. This analysis million (EUR –/+ 3.0 million). excludes net foreign currency investments in subsidiaries together A one percentage point move upwards or downwards in all interest with instruments hedging these investments. Assuming euro to apprerates with all other variables held constant would have following efciate or depreciate ten percent against all other currencies, the impact fects, net of taxes, in income statement and equity: on cash ﬂows, net of taxes, derived from the year-end net exposure as deﬁned above, would be EUR –/+ 4.0 million (EUR –/+ 1.2 million). Transaction exposure is spread in about 30 currencies and as of DeEUR million 2010 2011 cember 31, 2011 the biggest open exposures were in CNY (18) and USD Eﬀects in (14). A 10 percent appreciation of CNY would have an eﬀect, net of tJODPNFTUBUFNFOU +/− 0.7 +/−1.0 taxes, of EUR +1.6 million. A corresponding eﬀect on USD would be EUR tFRVJUZ −/+ 1.7 +/–1.4 +1.3 million and on any other currency would be less than EUR 1 million. A sensitivity analysis of ﬁnancial instruments as required by IFRS The eﬀect in the income statement comprises the changes in the fair 7, excludes following items: projected cash ﬂows for unrecognized value of ﬁnancial instruments which are directly recognized through ﬁrm commitments, advance payments, both shortand long-term proﬁt and loss. The eﬀect in the equity is comprised of the changes in purchase contracts and anticipated operational cash ﬂows. The table the fair value of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and derivatives qualibelow presents the eﬀects, net of taxes, of a +/–10 percent change in fying as eﬀective cash ﬂow hedge instruments for long-term ﬂoating EUR foreign exchange rates: rate debt. 2010 2011 Foreign exchange risk EUR million Total USD SEK others total Metso operates globally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk in Eﬀects in several currencies, although the geographical diversity of operations tJODPNFTUBUFNFOU +/–11.1 +/–14.5 +/–2.3 +/–1.4 +/–18.2 decreases the signiﬁcance of any individual currency. Over 60 percent tFRVJUZ +/– 31.0 +/–14.4 +/–10.6 +/–4.3 +/–29.3 of Metso’s net sales originate from outside euro zone; the main currencies being EUR, USD, SEK, BRL, CNY and AUD. Eﬀect in equity is the fair value change in derivatives contracts qualifying as cash ﬂow hedges for unrecognized ﬁrm commitments. Eﬀect Transaction exposure in income statement is the fair value change for all other ﬁnancial Foreign exchange transaction exposure arises when an operating unit instruments exposed to foreign exchange risk including derivatives, has commercial or ﬁnancial transactions and payments in other than which qualify as cash ﬂow hedges, to the extent the underlying sales its own functional currency, and when related cash inﬂow and outﬂow transaction, recognized under the percentage of completion method, amounts are not equal or concurrent. has been recognized as revenue. In accordance with the Metso Treasury Policy, operating units are required to hedge in full the foreign currency exposures on balance Translation or equity exposure sheet and other ﬁrm commitments. Future cash ﬂows denominated in Foreign exchange translation exposure arises when the equity of a a currency other than the functional currency of the unit are hedged subsidiary is denominated in currency other than the functional curwith internal foreign exchange contracts with the Group Treasury for rency of the parent company. The major translation exposures are in periods, which do not usually exceed two years. Operating units also CNY, BRL and USD, which altogether comprise around 60 percent of do some hedging directly with banks in countries, where regulation the total equity exposure. Metso is currently not hedging any equity does not allow corporate internal cross-border contracts. The majority exposure. In the previous year-end 97 of its USD denominated net of the hedged future currency cash ﬂows relate to foreign currency investments were hedged. denominated order backlog. In addition, units can hedge anticipated foreign currency denominated cash ﬂows. Commodity risk Group Treasury monitors the net position of each currency and Metso is exposed to variations in prices of raw materials and of supdecides to what extent a currency position is to be closed. Group plies including energy. Metso units identify their commodity price Treasury is however responsible for entering into external forward hedging needs and hedges are executed through the Group Treasury transaction whenever an operating unit applies hedge accounting. using approved counterparties and instruments. For commodity risks www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 63 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements separate overall hedging limits are deﬁned and approved. Hedging is are adhered to with respect to terms of payment and required collateral. done on a rolling basis with a declining hedging level over time. Metso has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risks. Electricity exposure in the Scandinavian units has been hedged The maximum credit risk equals the carrying value of trade and loan with electricity forwards and ﬁxed price physical contracts, which are receivables. The credit quality is evaluated both on the basis of aging of designated as hedges of highly probable future electricity purchases. the trade receivables and also on the basis of customer speciﬁc analyHedging is focused on the estimated energy consumption for the sis. The aging structure of trade receivables is presented in note 18. next two year period with some contracts extended to approximately Counterparty risk arises also from ﬁnancial transactions agreed upon ﬁve years. Execution of electricity hedging has been outsourced to with banks, ﬁnancial institutions and corporates. The risk is managed an external broker. As of December 31, 2011 Metso had outstanding by careful selection of banks and other counterparties, by counterelectricity forwards amounting to 636 GWh (755 GWh). party speciﬁc limits and netting agreements such as ISDA (Master To reduce its exposure to the volatility caused by the surcharge for agreement of International Swaps and Derivatives Association). The certain metal alloys (Alloy Adjustment Factor) comprised in the price compliance with counterparty limits is regularly monitored. of stainless steel charged by its suppliers, Metso has entered into averThe maximum amount of ﬁnancial counterparty risk is calculated age-price swap agreements for nickel. The Alloy Adjustment Factor is as the fair value ﬁnancial assets available for sale or held for trading, based on monthly average prices of its components of which nickel is derivatives and cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet date. the most signiﬁcant. As of December 31, 2011 Metso had outstanding nickel swaps amounting to 528 tons (486 tons). Fair value estimation The following table on the sensitivity analysis of the commodity For those ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which have been recognized at prices based on ﬁnancial instruments under IFRS 7 comprises the net fair value in the balance sheet, the following measurement hierarchy aggregate amount of commodities bought through forward contracts and valuation methods have been applied: and swaps but excludes the anticipated future consumption of raw materials and electricity. Level 1 Quoted unadjusted prices at the balance sheet date in active A 10 percent change upwards or downwards in commodity prices markets. The market prices are readily and regularly available would have following eﬀects, net of taxes: from an exchange, dealer, broker, market information service system, pricing service or regulatory agency. The quoted marEUR million 2010 2011 ket price used for ﬁnancial assets is the current bid price. Level Electricity – eﬀect in equity +/–2.5 +/–1.7 1 ﬁnancial instruments include debt and equity investments Electricity – eﬀect in income statement +/–0.2 +/–0.1 classiﬁed as ﬁnancial instruments available-for-sale or at fair Nickel – eﬀect in income statement +/–0.6 +/–0.5 value through proﬁt and loss. As cash ﬂow hedge accounting is applied, the eﬀective portion of Level 2 The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments in Level 2 is determined electricity forwards is recognized in equity. The ineﬀective portion is using valuation techniques. These techniques utilize observrecognized through proﬁt and loss. Hedge accounting is not applied able market data readily and regularly available from an to nickel agreements, and the change in the fair value is recorded exchange, dealer, broker, market information service system, through proﬁt and loss. pricing service or regulatory agency. Level 2 ﬁnancial instruOther commodity risks are not managed using ﬁnancial derivative ments include: instruments. t 0WFSUIFDPVOUFS EFSJWBUJWFT DMBTTJmFE BT mOBODJBM BTTFUT liabilities at fair value through proﬁt and loss or qualiﬁed for Credit and counterparty risk hedge accounting. Credit or counterparty risk is deﬁned as the possibility of a customer or t %FCU TFDVSJUJFT DMBTTJmFE BT mOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT BWBJMBCMF a ﬁnancial counterparty not fulﬁlling its commitments towards Metso. for-sale or at fair value through proﬁt and loss. Metso’s operating units are primarily responsible for credit risks pertaining to sales and procurement activities. The units assess the credit quality of Level 3 A ﬁnancial instrument is categorized into Level 3 if the calculatheir customers, by taking into account their ﬁnancial position, past expetion of the fair value cannot be based on observable market rience and other relevant factors. When appropriate, advance payments, data. Metso had no such instruments in 2010 or in 2011. letters of credit and third party guarantees are used to mitigate credit risks. Group Treasury provides centralized services related to customer The tables below present Metso’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that ﬁnancing and seeks to ensure that the principles of the Treasury Policy are measured at fair value: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets Assets Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss Derivatives 18 Derivatives 35 Securities 12 47 Securities 62 25 Derivatives qualiﬁed for hedge accounting 39 Derivatives qualiﬁed for hedge accounting 19 Available for sale investments Available for sale investments Equity investments 1 Equity investments 1 Debt investments 320 27 Debt investments 80 Total assets 333 131 Total assets 143 79 Liabilities Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt and loss 13 Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt and loss Derivatives 20 Derivatives 15 Derivatives qualiﬁed for hedge accounting Derivatives qualiﬁed for hedge accounting 29 Total liabilities 33 Total liabilities 44 64 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Critical accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements requires ment control, which cannot be foreseen when initiating the hedge management to make estimates and judgments aﬀecting the amounts relationship. Such factors can be a change in the market environment reported in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and accompanying causing the other party to postpone or cancel the commitment. To the notes. These estimates and judgments, based on historical evidence extent possible management tries to include in the contracts clauses and plausible future scenarios, are continually evaluated. Following asreducing the impact of such adverse events to its results. sets and liabilities include a high degree of management estimate and assumptions and their carrying value can therefore materially diﬀer Accounting for income taxes from current value in the next ﬁnancial year. As part of the process of preparing its consolidated ﬁnancial statements, Metso is required to estimate the income taxes in each of the Trade receivables jurisdictions and countries in which it operates. This process involves Metso’s policy is to calculate an impairment loss based on the best esestimating the actual current tax exposure together with assessing timate of the amounts that are potentially uncollectable at the balance temporary diﬀerences resulting from diﬀering treatment of items, sheet date. The estimates are based on a systematic, on-going review such as deferred revenue and cost reserves, for tax and accounting and evaluation performed as part of the credit-risk evaluation process. purposes. These diﬀerences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, As part of this evaluation, Metso takes into account the history of colwhich are included in the consolidated balance sheet. The likelihood lections, the size and compositions of the receivable balances, current for the recovery of deferred tax assets from future taxable income is economic events and conditions and other pertinent information. assessed, and to the extent the recovery is not considered likely the deferred asset is adjusted in accordance. Inventory Signiﬁcant management judgment is required in determining the Metso’s policy is to maintain a provision for slow-moving and obsolete provision for income taxes and the deferred tax assets. Metso has inventory based on the best estimate of such amounts at the balance recorded net deferred tax assets of EUR 127 million as of December sheet date. The estimates are based on a systematic, on-going review 31, 2011, adjusted by EUR 11 million for uncertainties related to its abiland evaluation of inventory balances. As part of this evaluation, Metso ity to utilize some of the deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of also considers the composition and age of the inventory compared to operating losses carried forward and deductible temporary diﬀerences anticipated future needs. for certain foreign subsidiaries and the ﬁnal outcome of tax audits in some subsidiaries. The adjustment is based on Metso’s estimates of Revenue recognition taxable income by country in which it operates, and the period over Metso delivers complete installations to its customers, where the which the deferred tax assets will be recoverable based on estimated moment of signing a sales contract (ﬁrm commitment) and the ﬁnal future taxable income and planned tax strategies to utilize these acceptance of a delivery by the customer may take place in diﬀerent assets. In the event that actual results diﬀer from these estimates, the ﬁnancial periods. In accordance with its accounting principles, Metso deferred tax asset needs to be adjusted in coming ﬁnancial years. The applies the percentage of completion method (“POC method”) for ﬁnal outcome may also be aﬀected by future changes in tax laws aprecognizing such long-term delivery contracts. In year 2011, approxiplicable in the jurisdictions where Metso operates. mately 32 percent of the net sales were recognized under the POC method, which is based on predetermined milestones and where the Allocation of purchase price to acquired assets revenue is recognized based on the estimated realized value added or In accordance with the accounting principles, the purchase price is on the cost-to-cost method. A projected loss on a ﬁrm commitment allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities the excess is recognized through proﬁt and loss, when it becomes known. The being recognized as goodwill in the balance sheet. Whenever feaestimated revenue, the costs and proﬁt, together with the planned sible, Metso has used as a basis for such allocations readily available delivery schedule of the projects are subject to regular revisions as the market values to determine the fair value to be recognized. However, contract progresses to completion. Revisions in proﬁt estimates are when this has not been possible, as often is the case with noncharged through proﬁt and loss in the period in which the facts that current intangible assets and certain assets with no active markets or give rise to the revision become known. Although Metso has signiﬁavailable price quotations, the valuation has been based on past percant experience using the POC method, the total costs estimated to formance of such asset and expected future cash generating capacbe incurred on projects may change over time due to changes in the ity. The appraisals, which have been based on current replacement underlying project cost structures, which may ultimately aﬀect the costs, discounted cash ﬂows and estimated selling prices depending revenue recognized. Therefore, the POC method is not applied for recon the underlying asset, require management to make estimates and ognizing sales commitments where the ﬁnal outcome of the project assumptions of the future performance and use of these assets and and related cost structure cannot be pre-established reliably. their impact on the ﬁnancial position. Any change in Metso’s future business priorities and orientations may aﬀect the planned outcome Hedging of foreign currency of initial appraisals. denominated ﬁrm commitments Under Metso hedging policy units have to hedge their foreign Impairment testing currency risk when they become engaged in a ﬁrm commitment The carrying value of identiﬁable intangible assets with indeﬁnite denominated in a currency diﬀerent of their functional currency. economic life such as goodwill is tested annually or more frequently if The commitment can be either internal to Metso or external. When a events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value ﬁrm commitment qualiﬁes for recognition under the percentage of may not be recoverable. The carrying values of property, plant and completion method, the unit applies cash ﬂow hedge accounting and equipment and intangible assets, subject to depreciation and amorrecognizes the eﬀect of the hedging instruments in the OCI until the tization are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indications commitment is recognized. Though Metso has deﬁned the characthat their carrying values could exceed their value in use or disposal teristics triggering a ﬁrm commitment, the ﬁnal realization of the value if disposal is considered as a possible option. Triggering events unrecognized commitment depends also on factors beyond managefor impairment reviews include the following: www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 65 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements t Material permanent deterioration in the economic or political envit An assumed discount rate based on rates observed in the beginning ronment of the customers’ or of own activity of the ﬁnancial year to be used in the calculation of the current year t Business’s or asset’s signiﬁcant under-performance relative to historipension expense and pension liability balance. This rate may not be cal or projected future performance indicative of actual rates realized in the market. t Signiﬁcant changes in Metso’s strategic orientations aﬀecting the t Estimated rates of future pay increases. Actual increases may not business plans and previous investment policies reﬂect estimated future increases. Due to the signiﬁcant change in the Group’s structure and the uncertainty of the global market place, The policy related to the impairment tests is based on numerous estithese estimates are diﬃcult to project. mates. The valuation is inherently judgmental and highly susceptible to change from period to period because it requires Metso to make The actuarial experience that diﬀers from the assumptions and assumptions about future supply and demand related to its indichanges in the assumptions results in gains and losses, which are vidual business units, future sales prices and achievable cost savings. recognized in OCI. A one percentage point increase in the expected The value of the beneﬁts and savings expected from the eﬃciency return on plan assets would have reduced pension beneﬁt expense improvement programs are inherently subjective. The fair value of the by approximately EUR 3 million, and a one percentage point decrease cash generating units is determined using a derived weighted average in the expected return on plan assets would have increased pension cost of capital as the rate to discount estimated future cash ﬂows. This beneﬁt expense by approximately EUR 3 million for the year ended rate may not be indicative of actual rates obtained in the market. In December 31, 2011. the annual goodwill impairment test, a 0.5 percentage point reduction in the terminal growth rate applied for determining the fair values of Share-based payments the cash generating units would have reduced the total value of units Share-based payment plans and related incentive programs include tested by 4 percent and would not have caused impairment. A second vesting conditions such as targets for operating proﬁt, earnings per sensitivity test with a two percentage point increase in the discount share and total shareholder return, and service year requirements subrates combined with the lower terminal growth rate would have sequent to the grant date. The maximum share reward is in relation reduced the fair values by 20 percent without triggering impairment. to each participant’s annual salary. At each balance sheet date, the management revises its estimates for the number of shares that are Reserve for warranty and guarantee costs expected to vest. As part of this evaluation, Metso takes into account The warranty and guarantee reserve is based on the history of past warthe changes in the forecasted performance of the Group and its reranty costs and claims on machines and equipment under warranty. The porting segments, the expected turnover of the personnel beneﬁting typical warranty period is 12 months from the date of customer accepfrom the incentive plan and other pertinent information impacting the tance of the delivered equipment. For larger projects, the average warrannumber of shares to be vested. ty period is two years. For sales involving new technology and long-term delivery contracts, additional warranty reserves can be established on a Financial instruments case by case basis to take into account the potentially increased risk. In accordance with the disclosure requirements on ﬁnancial instruments, the management is obliged to make certain assumptions of Pensions the future cash inand outﬂows arising from such instruments. The In accordance with IAS 19, the pension beneﬁt expense is based on management has also had to assume that the fair values of derivaassumptions that include the following: tives, especially foreign currency denominated derivatives at balance sheet date materially reﬂect the future realized cash inor outﬂow of t A weighted average expected return assessed in the beginning of such instruments. the ﬁnancial year on plan assets. Actual return on plan assets may diﬀer signiﬁcantly based on market activity. 66 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Selling, general and  Other operating income and administrative expenses expenses, net Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 EUR million 2010 2011 Marketing and selling expenses –527 –583 Gain on sale of subsidiaries and businesses 1 Research and development expenses, net –110 –121 Gain on sale of ﬁxed assets 2 7 Administrative expenses –391 –403 Gain on sale of available-for-sale equity investments 9 0 Total –1,028 –1,107 Royalty income 3 3 Rental income 3 2 Foreign exchange gains ¹⁾ 50 50 Research and development expenses, net, consist of following: Intellectual property settlements 32 Other income 11 11 Year ended December 31, Other operating income, total 111 73 EUR million 2010 2011 Research and development expenses, total –111 –124 Loss on sale of ﬁxed assets 0 –2 Capitalized development costs 0 Loss on sale of associated companies –1 Capital expenditure 3 5 Write-downs on ﬁxed assets –6 –2 Grants received 6 6 Costs related to bankruptcy of THINK Global A/S –3 Depreciation and amortization –8 –8 Foreign exchange losses ¹⁾ –36 –49 Research and development expenses, net –110 –121 Net eﬀect for prior years’ ICMS (VAT) credits in Brazil –5 0 Intellectual property lawsuits –5 –1 Other expenses –9 –4 Other operating expenses, total –61 –62 Other operating income and expenses, net 50 11 ¹⁾ Includes foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from trade receivables and payables and related derivatives. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 67 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Personnel expenses and the number of personnel Personnel expenses: Board remuneration: Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 EUR thousand 2010 ²⁾ 2011 ³⁾ Salaries and wages –1,100 –1,226 Serving Board members December 31, 2011: Pension costs, deﬁned contribution plans –84 –90 Jukka Viinanen –129 –106 Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans ¹⁾ –12 –10 Maija-Liisa Friman –79 –68 Other post-employment beneﬁts ¹⁾ –3 –5 Mikael von Frenckell –51 –59 Share-based payments –6 –3 Christer Gardell –69 –59 Other indirect employee costs –220 –242 Ozey K. Horton, Jr. –72 Total –1,425 –1,576 Yrjö Neuvo –70 –59 Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen –51 –58 ¹⁾ For more information on pension costs, see note 27. Pia Rudengren –68 –68 Jukka Leppänen ¹⁾ –8 –8 Number of personnel at end of year: Former Board members: Jaakko Rauramo –20 2010 2011 Arto Honkaniemi –17 Mining and Construction 10,206 10,771 Total –562 –557 Automation 3,639 3,892 Pulp, Paper and Power 12,114 12,528 ¹⁾ Has attended meetings as a personnel representative, without voting right. Recycling 682 662 ²⁾ In addition to 2010 remuneration includes also remuneration until the end of Annual General Meeting in 2011. Valmet Automotive 1,425 1,705 ³⁾ Includes remuneration for 2011 and remuneration from 2011 Annual General Group Head Oﬃce and other 527 766 Meeting until 2012 Annual General Meeting. Group Head Oﬃce and others total 2,634 3,133 Metso total 28,593 30,324 According to the resolution of the Annual General Meeting held on March 30, 2011, the annual fees of the Board members are as follows: Average number of personnel during the period: Chairman EUR 92,000, Vice Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee EUR 56,000, and other members EUR 45,000 each. Based on 2010 2011 the decision of the Annual General Meeting, the Board members have Mining and Construction 9,812 10,629 used 40 percent of their annual remuneration to buy Metso shares. Automation 3,603 3,757 The Board members acquired the shares from the market within two Pulp, Paper and Power 12,129 12,394 weeks after the publication of the ﬁrst-quarter 2011 Interim Review on Recycling 707 655 April 28, 2011. In addition, an attendance fee of EUR 600 per meeting is Valmet Automotive 840 1,497 paid to members whose residence is in the Nordic countries, EUR 1,200 Group Head Oﬃce and other 494 658 to members whose residence is elsewhere in Europe and for those Group Head Oﬃce and others total 2,041 2,810 residing outside Europe, EUR 2,400 per meeting they attend, including Metso total 27,585 29,590 committee meetings. Compensations for traveling expenses and daily allowances are paid in accordance with Metso’s travel policy. Remuneration paid to Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Executive Vice President and other Executive Team members: Paid Annual performance Fringe Share-based EUR salary bonus beneﬁts payment Total 2010 President and CEO Jorma Eloranta 550,790 263,752 12,812 827,354 Executive Vice President Olli Vaartimo from Jan 1 to Sep 30, 2010 305,973 143,722 18,234 467,929 Executive Vice President Matti Kähkönen from Oct 1 to Dec 31, 2010 90,315 3,545 93,860 Other Executive Team members 1,364,759 322,783 56,817 1,744,359 Total 2,311,837 730,257 91,408 3,133,502 2011 President and CEO Jorma Eloranta from Jan 1 to Feb 28, 2011 117,680 253,012 2,166 372,858 President and CEO Matti Kähkönen from Mar 1 to Dec 31, 2011 419,357 190,113 12,349 621,819 Executive Vice President Matti Kähkönen from Jan 1 to Feb 28, 2011 84,942 2,363 87,305 Executive Vice President Pasi Laine from Mar 1 to Dec 31, 2011 304,900 200,340 9,500 514,740 Other Executive Team members 1,353,595 857,595 60,915 2,272,105 Total 2,280,474 1,501,060 87,293 3,868,827 68 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Additionally, in 2012 a bonus of about EUR 217,500 will be paid to Remuneration paid to Executive Vice President Pasi Laine is presentPresident and CEO Matti Kähkönen and a bonus of about EUR 197,500 ed in the table on the previous page. The fringe beneﬁts comprised a to Executive Vice President Pasi Laine based on 2011 performance. company car and a telephone. Mr. Laine participates in the remuneraRemuneration paid to President and CEO Matti Kähkönen is presenttion programs for Metso’s management, the remuneration of which ed in the table on the previous page. The fringe beneﬁts comprised consists of Metso shares and a cash-settled portion. a company car and a telephone. Mr. Kähkönen participates in the According to his executive contract, Pasi Laine is eligible to retire at remuneration programs for Metso’s management, the remuneration the age of 63 (2026). In case of termination of contract, he is entitled to of which consists of Metso shares and a cash-settled portion. For more compensation equivalent to 12 months’ salary. information on share-based payments, see note 22. Metso has subscribed supplementary pension plans for senior manAccording to his executive contract, Matti Kähkönen is eligible to agement for retirement, the beneﬁciaries include the Metso Executive retire at the age of 63 (2019) and his retirement pension is 60 percent Team. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, these pension of his pensionable compensation during the past four service years. In insurance premium payments totaled approximately EUR 3.0 million case of termination of contract, he is entitled to compensation equivaand EUR 1.8 million, respectively. lent to 24 months’ salary. Board share ownership in Metso as at December 31, 2011: Executive Team share ownership in Metso as at December 31, 2011: Jukka Viinanen 3,301 Matti Kähkönen 12,328 Maija-Liisa Friman 2,900 Pasi Laine 9,437 Mikael von Frenckell 101,125 Harri Nikunen 4,931 Christer Gardell 1,125 Andrew Benko 9,989 Ozey K. Horton, Jr. 452 Perttu Louhiluoto 2,750 Yrjö Neuvo 8,225 Merja Kamppari 2,100 Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen 1,875 Kalle Reponen 4,155 Pia Rudengren 1,235 Total 45,690 Jukka Leppänen¹⁾ 520 Total 120,758 ¹⁾ Has attended meetings as a personnel representative, without voting right.  Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization by function are as follows: Year ended December 31, Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 EUR million 2010 2011 Cost of goods sold –100 –96 Intangible assets –58 –52 Selling, general and administrative expenses Property, plant and equipment Marketing and selling –23 –22 Buildings and structures –24 –23 Research and development –8 –8 Machinery and equipment –96 –97 Administrative –47 –46 Total –178 –172 Total –178 –172 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 69 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial income and expenses, net Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 Financial income Dividends received 0 0 Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 12 21 Income on ﬁnancial investments 6 5 Other ﬁnancial income 3 6 Financial income total 21 32 Financial expenses Interest expenses from ﬁnancial liabilities at amortized cost –69 –75 Interest expenses on ﬁnancial leases 0 0 Other ﬁnancial expenses –14 –19 Net loss from foreign exchange –13 –3 Financial expenses total –96 –97 Financial income and expenses, net –75 –65  Income taxes The components of income taxes are as follows: The diﬀerences between income tax expense computed at Finnish statutory rate and income tax expense provided on earnings are as Year ended December 31, follows: EUR million 2010 2011 Year ended December 31, Current tax expense –123 –135 EUR million 2010 2011 Deferred taxes 11 –14 Income before taxes 370 507 Income taxes, total –112 –149 Income tax expense at Finnish statutory rate –96 –132 Income tax for prior years –3 –2 Diﬀerence between Finnish and foreign tax rates –19 –21 Beneﬁt of operating loss carryforward 1 1 Operating losses with no current tax beneﬁt –2 –1 Non-deductible expenses –1 –1 Tax exempt income 3 Other 8 4 Income tax expense –112 –149 Tax eﬀects of components in other comprehensive income: Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 EUR million Before taxes Tax After taxes Before taxes Tax After taxes Cash ﬂow hedges 34 –10 24 –31 9 –22 Available-for-sale equity investments –5 1 –4 0 0 0 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan acturial gains (+) / losses (–) –15 4 –11 –50 15 –35 Currency translation on subsidiary net investments 138 –17 121 –10 –1 –11 Net investment hedge gains (+) / losses (–) –17 4 –13 14 –4 10 Total comprehensive income (+) / expense (–) 135 –18 117 –77 19 –58 Current tax –5 –1 Deferred tax –13 20 Total –18 19 70 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of deferred tax balances: Balance at Charged to Charged to shareTranslation Balance at EUR million beginning of year income statement holders’ equity diﬀerences end of year 2010 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 41 2 –10 33 Fixed assets 17 1 18 Inventory 33 2 35 Provisions 29 –3 26 Accruals 29 2 31 Pension related items 32 2 5 39 Other 43 –8 5 40 Total deferred tax assets 224 6 –13 5 222 Oﬀset against deferred tax liabilities ¹⁾ –53 –1 –54 Net deferred tax assets 171 5 –13 5 168 Deferred tax liabilities Purchase price allocations 69 –8 61 Fixed assets 26 1 27 Other 14 2 16 Total deferred tax liabilities 109 –5 104 Oﬀset against deferred tax assets ¹⁾ –53 –1 –54 Net deferred tax liabilities 56 –6 50 Deferred tax assets, net 115 11 –13 5 118 Balance at Charged to Charged to shareTranslation Balance at EUR million beginning of year income statement holders’ equity diﬀerences end of year 2011 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 33 –12 –3 18 Fixed assets 18 5 23 Inventory 35 –5 30 Provisions 26 12 6 44 Accruals 31 –16 15 Pension related items 39 –3 15 51 Other 40 –7 2 3 38 Total deferred tax assets 222 –26 20 3 219 Oﬀset against deferred tax liabilities ¹⁾ –54 2 –52 Net deferred tax assets 168 –24 20 3 167 Deferred tax liabilities Purchase price allocations 61 –6 55 Fixed assets 27 –1 26 Other 16 –5 11 Total deferred tax liabilities 104 –12 92 Oﬀset against deferred tax assets ¹⁾ –54 2 –52 Net deferred tax liabilities 50 –10 40 Deferred tax assets, net 118 –14 20 3 127 ¹⁾ Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oﬀset when there is a legally enforceable right to oﬀset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same ﬁscal authority. A deferred tax liability on undistributed proﬁts of subsidiaries located in countries where distribution generates tax consequences is recognized when it is likely that earnings will be distributed in the near future. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively, earnings of EUR 263 million and EUR 281 million would have been subject to recognition of a deferred tax liability, had Metso regarded a distribution in the near future as likely. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 71 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Acquisitions During 2011, Metso made two small acquisitions for a total consideration of EUR 6 million whereof EUR 1 million is payable after 2011. These acquisitions had only an immaterial eﬀect on Metso and no goodwill was recognized. In addition, Metso paid EUR 10 million as a deferred portion of an acquisition completed in 2010.  Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated as follows: Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding own shares. Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 Proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company, EUR million 257 356 Weighted average number of shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 149,683 149,630 Earnings per share, basic, EUR 1.71 2.38 Diluted The shares to be potentially issued in the future are treated as outstanding shares when calculating the “Diluted earnings per share” if they have a diluting eﬀect. The own shares held by Metso are reissued within the terms of the share ownership plan to the key personnel if the targets deﬁned in the plan are met. The diluted earnings per share are calculated by increasing the weighted average number of outstanding shares with the number of those shares, which would be distributed to the beneﬁciaries based on the results achieved, if the conditional earnings period ended at the end of the ﬁnancial period in question. As at December 31, 2011, Metso held 719,060 own shares intended for the share ownership plans. Year ended December 31, 2010 2011 Proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company, EUR million 257 356 Weighted average number of shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 149,683 149,630 Adjustment for potential shares distributed (in thousands) 154 203 Weighted average number of diluted shares issued and outstanding (in thousands) 149,837 149,833 Earnings per share, diluted, EUR 1.71 2.38 72 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Intangible assets Patents and Capitalized Other intangible Intangible assets EUR million Goodwill licences software assets total 2010 Acquisition cost at beginning of year 863 74 120 342 1,399 Translation diﬀerences 16 1 3 9 29 Business acquisitions ¹⁾ 4 6 –3 7 Disposals of businesses –1 –1 Capital expenditure 2 2 21 25 Reclassiﬁcations 5 24 –29 0 Decreases –2 –9 –2 –17 –30 Acquisition cost at end of year 880 79 147 323 1,429 Accumulated amortization at beginning of year –45 –57 –122 –224 Translation diﬀerences –1 –2 –1 –4 Business acquisitions 0 0 Disposals of businesses Reclassiﬁcations 0 0 0 0 Decreases 7 0 17 24 Amortization charges for the year –8 –13 –37 –58 Accumulated amortization at end of year –47 –72 –143 –262 Net book value at end of year 880 32 75 180 1,167 2011 Acquisition cost at beginning of year 880 79 147 323 1,429 Translation diﬀerences 3 0 0 1 4 Business acquisitions 6 6 Disposals of businesses Capital expenditure 5 2 22 29 Reclassiﬁcations 2 17 –13 6 Decreases –5 –1 –1 –7 Acquisition cost at end of year 883 81 165 338 1,467 Accumulated amortization at beginning of year –47 –72 –143 –262 Translation diﬀerences 0 0 0 0 Business acquisitions Disposals of businesses Reclassiﬁcations –5 –5 Decreases 4 1 2 7 Amortization charges for the year –8 –15 –29 –52 Accumulated amortization at end of year –51 –91 –170 –312 Net book value at end of year 883 30 74 168 1,155 ¹⁾ Preliminary fair value allocations of Tamfelt business acquired in December 2009 were changed during 2010. The goodwill increased by EUR 3 million and other intangible assets were reduced accordingly. Metso participates in the European Emissions Tradings Scheme (EU ETS) and has been granted CO2 emission rights of 70,972 units for the current compliance period of 2008–2012 against greenhouse gases emitted by its production units. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining emission rights amounted to 32,463 units, the market value of which was roughly EUR 0.2 million. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 73 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment Property, plant Land and water Buildings and Machinery and Assets under and equipment EUR million areas structures equipment construction total 2010 Acquisition cost at beginning of year 62 595 1,502 47 2,206 Translation diﬀerences 2 22 76 3 103 Business acquisitions 0 5 10 0 15 Disposals of businesses –3 –12 –15 Capital expenditure 0 14 35 60 109 Reclassiﬁcations 0 21 45 –66 0 Decreases 0 –18 –53 –1 –72 Acquisition cost at end of year 64 636 1,603 43 2,346 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of year –334 –1,053 –1,387 Translation diﬀerences –10 –50 –60 Business acquisitions –1 –3 –4 Disposals of businesses 2 10 12 Reclassiﬁcations Decreases 14 48 62 Depreciation charges for the year –24 –96 –120 Accumulated depreciation at end of year –353 –1,144 –1,497 Net book value at end of year 64 283 459 43 849 2011 Acquisition cost at beginning of year 64 636 1,603 43 2,346 Translation diﬀerences 0 3 –3 0 0 Business acquisitions 0 0 Disposals of businesses Capital expenditure 4 18 56 57 135 Reclassiﬁcations 0 13 35 –54 –6 Decreases –1 –7 –76 0 –84 Acquisition cost at end of year 67 663 1,615 46 2,391 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of year –353 –1,144 –1,497 Translation diﬀerences –1 2 1 Business acquisitions Disposals of businesses Reclassiﬁcations 5 5 Decreases 8 66 74 Depreciation charges for the year –23 –97 –120 Accumulated depreciation at end of year –369 –1,168 –1,537 Net book value at end of year 67 294 447 46 854 For information on pledged assets, see note 28. Other intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful life, i.e. brands, amountAssets leased under ﬁnancial lease arrangements are included in ed to EUR 16 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, property, plant and equipment as follows: respectively. They relate to Mining and Construction segment as well Property, as Recycling business, and have been recognized in connection with Machinery plant and business acquisitions. As no economic useful life can be determined Buildings and and equipment EUR million structures equipment total for these brands, the management has assessed them to have indeﬁ2010 nite useful lives based on their continuous competitive advantage to Acquisition cost at end of year 13 6 19 the business. The brands are actively used in promoting the products. They are subject to annual impairment test concurrently with that of Accumulated depreciation at end of year –12 –5 –17 the goodwill. Net book value at end of year 1 1 2 For the year ended December 31, 2011 the amortization expense related to the intangible assets recognized through business acquisi2011 tions was EUR 24 million. The future amortization expense is expected Acquisition cost at end of year 13 6 19 to amount to EUR 20, EUR 17, EUR 14, EUR 13 and EUR 12 million for the Accumulated depreciation at end of year –12 –6 –18 years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Net book value at end of year 1 0 1 74 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Goodwill and impairment tests The recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is based on value-inIn the year ended December 31, 2011, the total amount of goodwill use calculations. In the discounted cash ﬂow method, Metso discounts was EUR 883 million equal to 41 of the equity. As at December 31, forecasted performance plans to their present value. 2010, the goodwill amounted to EUR 880 million being equal to 42 The performance plans, which include four years of projection, are of the equity. calculated in the annual strategy process and subsequently reviewed The goodwill arising from business acquisitions is allocated as of by Metso’s management and approved by the Board of Directors. In the acquisition date to cash generating units expected to beneﬁt from addition to the projection period, the discounted cash ﬂows include the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets an additional year, which is extrapolated from the performance of the or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. In 2011, there projection period adjusted for cyclicality of each cash generating unit. were no acquisitions which would have generated new goodwill. The growth rate reﬂecting the long-term average growth rate of busiIf Metso reorganizes its reporting structure by changing the comnesses subject to testing, was estimated to be 1.7 in 2010 and 2011. position of one or more cash generating units to which goodwill has The forecasted sales and production volumes are based on current been allocated, the goodwill is reallocated to the units aﬀected based structure and existing property, plant and equipment used by each on their relative fair values, which correspond to the present values of cash generating unit. The assumptions requiring most management the cash generating units’ cash ﬂows at the time of the reorganization. judgment are the market and product mix. Values assigned to key asSubsequent to reorganization announced in September 2011 the numsumptions reﬂect past experience. Data on growth, demand and price ber of cash generating units changed as the Fabrics business line was development provided by various research institutions are utilized in combined with the Paper business line and the goodwill of Fabrics establishing the assumptions for the projection period. was allocated to the latter. The discount rates used in testing are derived from the weighted avThe cash generating units are either segments, such as Mining and erage cost of capital based on comparable peer industry betas, capital Construction and Automation, or separate businesses like Recycling or structure and tax rates. The impact of the tax is eliminated to obtain business lines under reporting segments. The business lines of Pulp, pre-tax discount rates. Paper and Power are presented in the segment note 32. In 2011, Metso In the September 2011 annual test, the average EBITDAs (earnings had six cash generating units with goodwill. before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) of the tested cash Metso assesses the value of its goodwill for impairment annually or generating units for the projection period 2011-2015 were following: more frequently, if facts and circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. Mining and Construction 15, Automation 15, Pulp, Paper and Power The assessment is done using fair value measurement techniques, such 10 and Recycling 10 of net sales. as the discounted cash ﬂow methodology. The testing is performed on As a result of the annual impairment tests, no impairment loss was the cash generating unit level to which the goodwill has been allocated. recognized in 2010 and 2011. Summary of assumptions and impacts of sensitivity tests to present values: Sensitivity tests Reduction of present values *) Derived weighted average cost Increase of discount rate by 200 bp, of capital applied Terminal growth rate 1.2% terminal growth rate 1.2% 2010 Mining and Construction 10.7% 4% 21% Automation 11.3% 3% 20% Pulp, Paper and Power 9.7–10.7% 4% 21% Recycling 10.4% 4% 22% Total 9.7–11.3% 4% 21% 2011 Mining and Construction 10.9% 4% 21% Automation 12.1% 3% 18% Pulp, Paper and Power 10.7–11.1% 3% 20% Recycling 10.4% 4% 23% Total 10.4–12.1% 4% 20% *) Sensitivity numbers represent the weighted average impact to segments and the total represents the impact to the combined carrying goodwill of all segments. The sensitivity to impairment of each cash generating unit is tested by management, the goodwill was reviewed for impairment in Septemapplying a change both in the discount and terminal growth rate. The ber 2011. The sensitivity tests showed that there was no indication of discount rate is increased by 200 basis points and the terminal growth impairment. rate is dropped from 1.7 to 1.2. The sensitivity tests did not indicate Management believes that no reasonably possible change of the any impairment need. key assumptions used would cause the carrying value of any cash Sensitivity tests using same assumptions performed in 2010 indigenerating unit to exceed its recoverable amount. cated that the goodwill allocated to the Fabrics business line would From time to time the sensitivity tests include several cash projections have been impaired by EUR 34 million if the terminal growth rate were based on reasonable change in the future performance of a unit. Howreduced from 1.7 to 1.2 and the discount rate increased from 9.7 ever, the impact to the fair value obtained is limited as long as there to 11.7. Even if the business was combined with the Paper business is no permanent weakening expected for the business, which would line and its performance is not anymore analyzed separately by the aﬀect the terminal value. These projections have not led to impairment. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 75 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements A summary of changes in Metso’s goodwill is as follows: Translation Balance at diﬀerences and Balance at As percent of EUR million beginning of year other changes Acquisitions end of year total goodwill 2010 Mining and Construction 358 0 358 41% Automation 31 0 31 3% Pulp, Paper and Power 425 13 4 442 50% Recycling 49 0 49 6% Total 863 13 4 880 100% 2011 Mining and Construction 358 1 359 41% Automation 31 0 31 3% Pulp, Paper and Power 442 1 443 50% Recycling 49 1 50 6% Total 880 3 883 100% Apart from Mining and Construction, which forms one single cash goodwill and was EUR 211 million at December 31, 2011. The remainder generating unit, no other cash generating unit has a signiﬁcant is evenly spread over the other cash generating units. Valmet Automoamount of goodwill in comparison with the total amount of goodwill tive carries no goodwill. The amount of other intangible assets with in Metso. The second biggest goodwill allocated to a cash generatindeﬁnite useful lives is insigniﬁcant and their carrying value is tested ing unit, Power business line, represented 24 of the total amount of as part of the annual goodwill impairment tests.  Investments in associated companies As at December 31, The amounts representing Metso’s share of the assets and liabilities, EUR million 2010 2011 net sales and results of the associated companies and joint ventures, Investments in associated companies and joint ventures which have been accounted for using the equity method are preAcquisition cost at beginning of year 3 3 sented below: Translation diﬀerences 0 0 Increases 2 Year ended December 31, Disposals and other decreases 0 0 EUR million 2010 2011 Acquisition cost at end of year 3 5 Assets 35 37 Liabilities 21 21 Equity adjustments in investments in associated companies and joint ventures Net sales 32 30 Equity adjustments at beginning of year 10 11 Proﬁt 1 0 Share of results 1 0 Translation diﬀerences 1 1 Dividend income 0 0 Related party transactions Disposals and other changes –1 –1 Equity adjustments at end of year 11 11 The following transactions were carried out with associated companies and joint ventures and the following balances have arisen from Carrying value of investments in associated companies and joint ventures at end of year 14 16 such transactions: Year ended December 31, As at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 Net sales 1 1 Carrying Carrying Purchases 2 2 EUR million Ownership value Ownership value Allimand S.A. 35.8% 4 35.8% 4 Receivables 1 0 Shanghai Neles-Jamesbury Payables 0 4 Valve Co. Ltd 50.0% 8 50.0% 9 Nanjing SAC Metso Control Systems Co. Ltd 33.0% 2 Others 2 1 Total investments in associated companies and joint ventures 14 16 Shanghai Neles-Jamesbury Valve Co. Ltd is classiﬁed as joint venture because Metso has, together with the other shareholder, joint power to govern the company. 76 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Available-for-sale equity  Inventory investments As at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 The available-for-sale equity investments as at December 31, 2010 and Materials and supplies 250 296 2011 comprise EUR 1 million of publicly listed shares which are valued Work in process 570 759 at their market value. The remaining EUR 8 million as at December Finished products 485 622 31, 2010 and EUR 5 million as at December 31, 2011 consist of various Total inventory 1,305 1,677 industrial participations, shares in real estate companies and other shares for which market values do not exist and thereby they are The cost of inventories recognized as expense was EUR 4,030 million valued at cost. and EUR 4,882 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The available-for-sale equity investments have changed as follows: Provision for inventory obsolescence has changed as follows: EUR million 2010 2011 EUR million 2010 2011 Carrying value at beginning of year 15 9 Balance at beginning of year 94 104 Additions 1 0 Impact of exchange rates 6 0 Changes in fair values 3 0 Additions charged to expense 21 16 Disposals and other changes –10 –3 Increase from business acquisitions 0 0 Carrying value at end of year 9 6 Used reserve –5 –9 Deductions / other additions –12 –19 Balance at end of year 104 92  Percentage of completion Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion method amounted to EUR 2,024 million, or 37 percent of net sales, in 2010 and EUR 2,144 million, or 32 percent of net sales, in 2011. The percentage was highest in the Pulp, Paper and Power segment, where it accounted for 57 percent in 2010 and 50 percent in 2011. Information on balance sheet items of uncompleted projects at December 31 is as follows: Cost and earnings of EUR million uncompleted projects Billings of projects Net 2010 Projects where cost and earnings exceed billings 2,019 1,732 287 Projects where billings exceed cost and earnings 1,152 1,451 299 2011 Projects where cost and earnings exceed billings 2,254 1,903 351 Projects where billings exceed cost and earnings 1,544 2,141 597 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 77 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Change in net working capital Change in net working capital, net of eﬀect from business acquisitions and disposals: Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in assets and increase (+) / decrease (–) in liabilities: Inventory –44 –373 Trade and other receivables –265 –289 Percentage of completion: recognized assets and liabilities, net –17 233 Trade and other payables 351 306 Total 25 –123  Interest bearing and non-interest bearing receivables As at December 31, 2010 2011 EUR million Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Interest bearing receivables Loan receivables 5 2 7 8 1 9 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 169 178 347 2 78 80 Financial instruments held for trading 59 59 87 87 Trade receivables 1 4 5 1 1 Total 175 243 418 11 166 177 Non-interest bearing receivables Loan receivables 1 1 0 0 Trade receivables 0 989 989 2 1,244 1,246 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 93 93 91 91 Other receivables 42 159 201 43 175 218 Total 42 1,242 1,284 45 1,510 1,555 Metso actively manages its cash by investing in ﬁnancial instruments with varying maturities. Instruments exceeding maturity of three months are classiﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments or ﬁnancial instruments held for trading. As of December 31, 2010, other non-interest bearing receivables comprised EUR 46 million of Brazilian tax credits arising from circulation of goods and transfer of services (ICMS) recognized by local subsidiaries, EUR 20 million thereof was classiﬁed as long-term. As of December 31, 2011, these Brazilian tax credits amounted to EUR 55 million, of which EUR 15 million was long-term. Provision for impairment has changed as follows: Analysis of non-interest bearing trade receivables by age: As at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 EUR million 2010 2011 Balance at beginning of year 39 42 Trade receivables, not due at reporting date 702 837 Impact of exchange rates 3 0 Trade receivables 1–30 days overdue 133 223 Additions charged to expense 9 18 Trade receivables 31–60 days overdue 78 66 Increase from business acquisitions 0 0 Trade receivables 61–90 days overdue 16 41 Used reserve –3 –7 Trade receivables 91–180 days overdue 28 44 Deductions / other additions –6 –11 Trade receivables more than 180 days overdue 32 33 Balance at end of year 42 42 Total 989 1,244 78 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities divided by categories were as follows as of December 31: Financial Financial assets/ Availableliabilities liabilities at fair value for-sale measured at through proﬁt and Loans and ﬁnancial amortized Carrying EUR million loss and derivatives receivables assets cost value Fair value 2010 Non-current assets Available-for-sale equity investments 9 9 9 Loan receivables 5 5 5 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 169 169 169 Financial instruments held for trading Trade receivables 1 1 1 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 2 2 2 Other receivables 42 42 42 Total 2 48 178 228 228 Current assets Loan receivables 3 3 3 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 178 178 178 Financial instruments held for trading 59 59 59 Trade receivables 993 993 993 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 55 55 55 Other receivables 252 252 252 Total 114 1,248 178 1,540 1,540 Non-current liabilities Bonds 578 578 649 Loans from ﬁnancial institutions 331 331 341 Pension loans 26 26 26 Finance lease obligations 0 0 0 Other long-term debt 21 21 21 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3 3 3 Other liabilities 6 6 6 Total 3 962 965 1,046 Current liabilities Current portion of long-term debt 388 388 388 Loans from ﬁnancial institutions 29 29 29 Trade payables 815 815 815 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 30 30 30 Other liabilities 562 562 562 Total 30 1,794 1,824 1,824 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 79 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Financial assets/ Availableliabilities liabilities at fair value for-sale measured at through proﬁt and Loans and ﬁnancial amortized Carrying EUR million loss and derivatives receivables assets cost value Fair value 2011 Non-current assets Available-for-sale equity investments 6 6 6 Loan receivables 8 8 8 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 2 2 2 Financial instruments held for trading Trade receivables 3 3 3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Other receivables 43 43 43 Total 54 8 62 62 Current assets Loan receivables 1 1 1 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments 78 78 78 Financial instruments held for trading 87 87 87 Trade receivables 1,244 1,244 1,244 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 54 54 54 Other receivables 266 266 266 Total 141 1,511 78 1,730 1,730 Non-current liabilities Bonds 500 500 548 Loans from ﬁnancial institutions 239 239 248 Pension loans 16 16 16 Finance lease obligations 0 0 0 Other long-term debt 0 0 0 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6 6 6 Other liabilities 7 7 7 Total 6 762 768 825 Current liabilities Current portion of long-term debt 209 209 209 Loans from ﬁnancial institutions 63 63 63 Trade payables 855 855 855 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 38 38 38 Other liabilities 666 666 666 Total 38 1,793 1,831 1,831 For more information on derivative ﬁnancial instruments, see note 30. 80 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Cash and cash equivalents As at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 Bank and cash 313 285 Commercial papers and other investments 332 305 Total cash and cash equivalents 645 590  Equity Share capital and number of shares Metso Corporation’s registered share capital, which is fully paid, was EUR 240,982,843.80 as at December 31, 2010 and 2011. 2010 2011 Number of outstanding shares, January 1 149,938,639 149,629,859 Redemption of own shares by the Parent Company –300,000 Shares granted/returned from share ownership plans –8,780 –663 Number of outstanding shares, December 31 149,629,859 149,629,196 Own shares held by the Parent Company 718,397 719,060 Total number of shares, December 31 150,348,256 150,348,256 During 2010, Metso Corporation repurchased 300,000 of company’s own Fair value and other reserves shares to be used as a payment for possible rewards related to Metso Hedge reserve includes the fair value movements of derivative ﬁnanshare ownership plans. During the year 2010 Metso recovered 8,780 cial instruments which qualify as cash ﬂow hedges. shares from share-based incentive plan participants having terminated Fair value reserve includes the change in fair values of assets classitheir employment and 663 shares during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, ﬁed as available-for-sale. Share-based payments are presented in fair the acquisition price of 719,060 own shares held by the Parent Company value reserve. was EUR 11,628,877 and was recognized in the treasury stock. Legal reserve consists of restricted equity, which has been transferred from distributable funds under the Articles of Association, local Dividends company act or by a decision of the shareholders. The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 1.70 per share Other reserves consist of the distributable fund and the invested be paid based on the balance sheet to be adopted for the ﬁnancial non-restricted equity fund held by the Parent Company. year which ended December 31, 2011 and the remaining part of the proﬁt be retained and carried further in the Company’s unrestricted equity. These ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect this dividend payable of EUR 254 million. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 81 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in fair value and other reserves: Treasury Hedge Fair value Legal Other EUR million stock reserve reserve reserve reserves Total Balance as of December 31, 2009 –5 –12 9 26 692 710 Cash ﬂow hedges Fair value gains (+) / losses (–), net of taxes 10 10 Transferred to proﬁt and loss, net of taxes Net sales 11 11 Cost of goods sold / Administrative expenses 3 3 Available-for-sale equity investments Fair value gains (+) / losses (–), net of taxes 2 2 Transferred to proﬁt and loss, net of taxes –6 –6 Redemption of own shares –7 –7 Share-based payments, net of taxes 0 0 0 Other 3 3 Balance as of December 31, 2010 –12 12 5 29 692 726 Cash ﬂow hedges Fair value gains (+) / losses (–), net of taxes –16 –16 Transferred to proﬁt and loss, net of taxes Net sales –8 –8 Cost of goods sold / Administrative expenses 0 0 Interest income / expenses 2 2 Available-for-sale equity investments Fair value gains (+) / losses (–), net of taxes 0 0 Transferred to proﬁt and loss, net of taxes 0 0 Redemption of own shares 0 0 Share-based payments, net of taxes 0 2 2 Other 0 0 Balance as of December 31, 2011 –12 –10 7 29 692 706 Foreign currency translation included in the shareholders’ equity: EUR million 2010 2011 Cumulative translation adjustment as of January 1 –62 46 Currency translation on subsidiary net investments 121 –11 Hedging of net investment denominated in foreign currency –17 14 Tax eﬀect 4 –4 Cumulative translation adjustment as of December 31 46 45 82 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Share-based payments Share ownership plan 2006–2008 The equity-settled portion of the plan is recognized over the vesting The Board of Directors of Metso decided in December 2005 upon a period i.e. from the beginning of 2010 until the end of April 2013 based share ownership plan for the 2006–2008 strategy period. The share on calculated fair value of the Metso share as of the grant date of EUR ownership plan was part of the remuneration and commitment 22.63. The historical development of the Metso share and the expected program of the management and covered a maximum of 360,000 dividends have been taken into account when calculating the fair value. own shares. The share ownership plan covered three earnings periods i.e. calendar years 2006, 2007 and 2008. The incentives consisted of Share ownership plan for 2011–2013 both shares and cash. The cash-settled portion was dedicated to cover The Board of Directors of Metso Corporation approved in September taxes and tax-related payments of the beneﬁciaries. The main earnings 2010 a new, share-based incentive plan for Metso’s management for triggers were the operating proﬁt targets and four years of service the years 2011–2013. The plan includes one three-year earnings period. subsequent to grant date. The operating proﬁt targets and potential Participation in the plan required a personal investment in Metso personal earnings triggers were set separately for each year. shares at the beginning of the earnings period. 72 key persons are A maximum share price was determined annually for the share participating in the plan and their initial investment was 35,615 Metso ownership plan. shares, which must be held until the end of the earnings period. The The equity-settled portion for the earnings period 2006 was recogrewards to be paid from the plan correspond to a maximum of 243,898 nized over the vesting period i.e. from 2006 until March 2010, for the shares. Earnings criteria are based on Metso’s Total Shareholder Return earnings period 2007 from 2007 until March 2011 and for the earn(TSR) during three years’ time and on earnings per share in the years ings period 2008 from 2008 until March 2012. The ﬁnal amount of the 2011–2013. The reward will be paid in Metso shares and partly in cash. granted shares was based on the share price on the payment date of The cash-settled portion is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related the rewards. payments. The maximum share reward is capped to each participant’s taxable annual basic salary, excluding performance bonuses and Share ownership plan for 2009–2011 share-based payments, multiplied by 1.5. The Board of Directors of Metso Corporation approved in October The equity-settled portion of the plan is recognized over the vesting 2008 a new, share-based incentive plan for Metso’s management for period i.e. from the beginning of 2011 until the end of April 2014 based the years 2009–2011. The plan includes one three-year earnings period. on calculated fair value of the Metso share as of the grant date of EUR Participation in the plan required a personal investment in Metso 37.37. The historical development of the Metso share and the expected shares at the beginning of the earnings period. 84 key persons are dividends have been taken into account when calculating the fair value. participating in the plan and their initial investment was 52,550 Metso shares, which must be held until the end of the earnings period. The Long-term Incentive Plan for 2012–2014 rewards to be paid from the plan correspond to a maximum of 354,975 In December 2011 the Board of Directors of Metso Corporation apshares. Earnings criteria are based on Metso’s Total Shareholder Return proved a new, share-based incentive plan for Metso’s management. (TSR) during three years’ time and on earnings per share in the years The plan includes three performance periods, which are calendar years 2009–2011. The reward will be paid in Metso shares and partly in cash. 2012, 2013 and 2014.The Board shall decide on the performance criteria, The cash-settled portion is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related targets and participants in the beginning of each performance period. payments. The maximum share reward is capped to each participant’s For the performance period 2012, the plan is targeted to approximately taxable annual basic salary, excluding performance bonuses and 100 persons in Metso’s management. The potential rewards to be share-based payments, multiplied by 1.5. paid from the plan correspond to a maximum total of approximately The equity-settled portion of the plan is recognized over the vesting 450,000 shares. Earnings criteria of the performance period 2012 are period i.e. from the beginning of 2009 until the end of April 2012 based based on the net sales growth of the services business, return on on calculated fair value of the Metso share as of the grant date of EUR capital employed (ROCE) before taxes and earnings per share (EPS). 8.64. The historical development of the Metso share and the expected The reward will be paid in Metso shares and partly in cash. The cashdividends have been taken into account when calculating the fair value. settled portion is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related payments. The reward for each performance period of plan may not exceed 120 Share ownership plan for 2010–2012 percent of a participant’s total annual base salary. The Board of Directors of Metso Corporation approved in October 2009 a new, share-based incentive plan for Metso’s management for Costs recognized for the share ownership plans the years 2010–2012. The plan includes one three-year earnings period. The compensation expense for the shares, which is accounted for as Participation in the plan required a personal investment in Metso equity-settled, is recognized as an employee beneﬁt expense with shares at the beginning of the earnings period. 88 key persons are corresponding entry in equity. The cost of the equity-settled portion, participating in the plan and their initial investment was 48,800 Metso which will be evenly recognized during the required service period, is shares, which must be held until the end of the earnings period. The based on the market price of the Metso share on the grant date. The rewards to be paid from the plan correspond to a maximum of 329,600 compensation expense resulting from the cash-settled portion is recshares. Earnings criteria are based on Metso’s Total Shareholder Return ognized as an employee beneﬁt expense with a corresponding entry (TSR) during three years’ time and on earnings per share in the years in short-term liabilities. The cash-settled portion is fair valued at each 2010–2012. The reward will be paid in Metso shares and partly in cash. balance sheet date based on the prevailing share price and accrued The cash-settled portion is dedicated to cover taxes and tax-related until the settlement date. payments. The maximum share reward is capped to each participant’s taxable annual basic salary, excluding performance bonuses and share-based payments, multiplied by 1.5. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 83 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Beneﬁciaries and granted shares of the share ownership plan as at December 31, 2011: Metso Other Beneﬁciaries Executive Team Shares beneﬁciaries Shares total Shares total Plan 2006 Granted 7 25,815 53 74,146 60 99,961 Returned during 2007 –4 –6,500 –4 –6,500 Returned during 2008 –4 –4,500 –4 –4,500 Returned during 2009 –4 –7,508 –4 –7,508 Returned during 2010 –1 –2,050 –1 –2,050 At end of year 7 25,815 40 53,588 47 79,403 Plan 2007 Granted 7 15,763 83 55,186 90 70,949 Returned during 2008 –4 –990 –4 –990 Returned during 2009 –4 –5,402 –4 –5,402 Returned during 2010 –3 –4,273 –3 –4,273 At end of year 7 15,763 72 44,521 79 60,284 Plan 2008 Granted 6 6,996 95 27,269 101 34,265 Returned during 2009 –1 –1 Returned during 2010 –3 –2,457 –3 –2,457 Returned during 2011 –4 –663 –4 –663 At end of year 6 6,996 87 24,149 93 31,145 Total at the end of year 48,574 122,258 170,832 Costs recognized for the share ownership plans: Plan Plan Plan EUR thousand Plan 2006 Plan 2007 Plan 2008 2009–2011 2010–2012 2011–2013 Total 2006 Metso Executive Team –1,365 –1,365 Other beneﬁciaries –3,466 –3,466 Total –4,831 –4,831 2007 Metso Executive Team –187 –685 –872 Other beneﬁciaries –182 –2,059 –2,241 Total –369 –2,744 –3,113 2008 Metso Executive Team –161 –258 –128 –547 Other beneﬁciaries –406 –575 –300 –1,281 Total –567 –833 –428 –1,828 2009 Metso Executive Team –161 –143 –82 –184 –570 Other beneﬁciaries –229 –312 –294 –754 –1,589 Total –390 –455 –376 –938 –2,159 2010 Metso Executive Team –38 –135 –63 –419 –1,122 –1,777 Other beneﬁciaries –70 –347 –140 –2,022 –2,011 –4,590 Total –108 –482 –203 –2,441 –3,133 –6,367 2011 Metso Executive Team –24 –29 –45 –220 –532 –850 Other beneﬁciaries –97 –123 –126 –948 –1,222 –2,516 Total –121 –152 –171 –1,168 –1,754 –3,366 Total –6,265 –4,635 –1,159 –3,550 –4,301 –1,754 –21,664 As of balance sheet date, a liability of EUR 2,772 thousand was recognized as an accrued expense for the cash-settled portion of Metso Share Ownership Plan 2009–2011, EUR 2,504 thousand from Plan 2010–2012 and EUR 775 thousand from Plan 2011–2013. 84 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Long-term debt As at December 31, Carrying values Fair values EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 Bonds 868 582 931 630 Loans from ﬁnancial institutions 415 333 425 342 Pension loans 36 26 36 26 Finance lease obligations 2 1 2 1 Other long-term debt 23 22 23 22 1,344 964 1,417 1,021 Less current maturities 388 209 388 209 Total 956 755 1,029 812 The fair values of long-term debt are equal to the present value of their future cash ﬂows. Bonds: Outstanding carrying value Nominal Eﬀective at December 31, interest rate interest rate Original EUR million Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2011 loan amount 2010 2011 Public bond 2004–2011 274 222 Public bond 2009–2014 7.25% 7.40% 300¹⁾ 199 199 Private placements maturing 2012–2018 2.2%–8.1% 428 447 383 Bonds total 868 582 Less current maturities 290 82 Bonds, long-term portion 578 500 1) Out of this EUR 300 million total Metso Capital Ltd – 100 owned subsidiary of Metso – has subscribed EUR 100 million for potential resale. Metso has a Euro Medium Term Note Program (EMTN) of EUR 1.5 denominated. The interest rates vary from 1.0 to 11.6.The loans are billion, under which EUR 868 million and EUR 582 million at carrying payable from year 2012 to 2018. value were outstanding at the end of 2010 and 2011, respectively. EUR Interest rates of pension loans and ﬁnance lease obligations vary 199 million of the outstanding amount were public bonds and EUR 383 from 3.0 to 5.0. million private placements. Metso’s ﬁve-year revolving loan facility of EUR 500 million was reLoans from ﬁnancial institutions consist of bank borrowings with newed in 2010 and includes 14 banks. The facility was undrawn at the either ﬁxed or variable interest rates. A major share of loans is EUR end of 2010 and 2011. Contractual maturities of interest bearing debt as at December 31, 2011 are as follows: Loans from Finance Other ﬁnancial lease long-term EUR million Bonds institutions Pension loans obligations debt Total Repayments 82 94 10 1 22 209 Interests 38 10 1 0 0 49 Total 2012 120 104 11 1 22 258 Repayments 54 80 10 0 0 144 Interests 35 7 0 0 0 42 Total 2013 89 87 10 0 0 186 Repayments 200 71 5 0 0 276 Interests 32 5 0 0 0 37 Total 2014 232 76 5 0 0 313 Repayments 0 57 0 0 0 57 Interests 18 2 0 0 0 20 Total 2015 18 59 0 0 0 77 Repayments 0 21 0 0 0 21 Interests 18 1 0 0 0 19 Total 2016 18 22 0 0 0 40 Repayments 246 10 1 0 0 257 Interests 25 0 0 0 0 25 Later 271 10 1 0 0 282 The maturities of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are presented in note 30. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 85 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Provisions As at December 31, 2010 2011 EUR million Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Warranty and guarantee liabilities 19 181 200 37 183 220 Accrued restructuring expenses 7 17 24 5 9 14 Environmental and product liabilities 5 5 1 4 5 Other provisions 33 27 60 28 38 66 Total 59 230 289 71 234 305 The provisions, both non-current and current, have changed as follows during the ﬁnancial year 2011: Accrued Environmental EUR million restructuring expenses and product liabilities Total Balance at beginning of year 24 5 29 Impact of exchange rates 0 0 0 Addition charged to expense 5 1 6 Used reserve –10 –1 –11 Reversal of reserve / other changes –5 0 –5 Balance at end of year 14 5 19 Provisions, for which the expected settlement date exceeds one year Warranty and guarantee provisions from the moment of their recognition, are discounted to their present Metso issues various types of contractual product warranties under value and adjusted in subsequent periods for the time eﬀect. which it generally guarantees the performance levels agreed in the sales contract, the performance of products delivered during the Accrued restructuring expenses agreed warranty period and services rendered for a certain period or The costs included in a provision for restructuring are those costs that term. The warranty liability is based on historical realized warranty are either incremental and incurred as a direct result of the formal costs for deliveries of standard products and services. The usual warplan approved and committed by management, or are the result of a ranty period is 12 months from the date of customer acceptance of continuing contractual obligation with no economic beneﬁt to Metso the delivered equipment. For larger projects, the average warranty or a penalty incurred for a cancelled contractual obligation. period is two years. For more complex contracts, including long-term projects, the warranty reserve is calculated contract by contract and Environmental and product liabilities updated regularly to ensure its suﬃciency. Metso accrues for losses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such losses are probable and reasonably calculable. The provisions for warranty and guarantee liabilities have changed as The amounts of accruals are adjusted later as further information defollows: velops or circumstances change. As at December 31, 2011, environmental liabilities amounted to EUR 3 million. They included clean-up costs EUR million 2010 2011 for soil and water contamination at various sites in the Unites States Balance at beginning of year 179 200 previously operated by Mining and Construction. Impact of exchange rates 11 0 Metso is occasionally involved in product liability claims. As at Increase for current year’s deliveries 82 94 December 31, 2011, provisions for product liabilities amounted to Increase for previous years’ deliveries 27 33 EUR 2 million. Increase from business acquisitions 0 1 Used reserve –71 –64 Other provisions Reversal of reserve / other changes –28 –44 Other provisions comprise among other things provisions related to Balance at end of year 200 220 personnel, delivery project costs and lawsuits. 86 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Short-term debt  Trade and other payables Metso’s short-term debt comprised loans from various ﬁnancial instituAs at December 31, tions amounting to EUR 29 million and EUR 63 million at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 2010 and 2011, respectively. Trade payables 815 865 The weighted average interest rate applicable to short-term borrowAccrued interests 19 16 ing at December 31, 2010 and 2011 was 6.7 and 4.9, respectively. Accrued personnel costs 207 237 In 2012, interest amounting to EUR 1.7 million is expected to be paid Accrued project costs 89 195 concurrently with respective principals on the short-term debt. Other 247 207 Metso has established a Finnish commercial paper program amountTotal 1,377 1,520 ing to EUR 500 million. There were no commercial papers outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2011. The maturities of payables rarely exceed six months. The maturities of trade payables are largely determined by local trade practices and individual agreements between Metso and its supplier. Accrued project costs may be settled after six months depending on the issuance of the supplier invoice when the costs arise from work performed by third parties. The accrued personnel costs, which include holiday pay, are settled in accordance with local laws and stipulations.  Post-employment beneﬁt obligations The companies within Metso have various pension schemes pursumined by periodic actuarial calculations. Metso uses December 31 as ant to local conditions and practices of the countries in which they measurement date for its deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements. The discount operate. Some of these programs are deﬁned beneﬁt schemes with rates applied are based on yields available on high quality (“AA” rated) retirement, healthcare, death, jubilee and termination income beneﬁts. corporate bonds. If such reference is not available, the rates are based The beneﬁts are generally a function of years of employment and on government bond yields as of the balance sheet date. The terms salary in Metso. The schemes are mostly funded through payments of corporate and government bonds are consistent with the currency to insurance companies or to trustee-administered funds as deterand the estimated term of the pension obligations. The amounts recognized as of December 31 in the balance sheet were following: Other Pension beneﬁts, Pension beneﬁts, post-employment Finnish foreign beneﬁts Total Total EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Present value of funded obligations 21 16 337 385 358 401 Fair value of plan assets –15 –9 –300 –313 –315 –322 6 7 37 72 43 79 Present value of unfunded obligations 102 109 45 49 147 158 Unrecognized asset 2 0 2 0 Unrecognized past service cost 1 0 1 1 2 1 Net liability recognized 7 7 141 181 46 50 194 238 Amounts in the balance sheet: Liabilities 7 7 142 181 46 50 195 238 Assets –1 0 –1 0 Net liability recognized 7 7 141 181 46 50 194 238 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 87 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Movements in the net liability recognized in the balance sheet were as follows: Foreign pension and other Pension beneﬁts, Finnish post-employment beneﬁts EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 Net liability at beginning of year 4 7 186 187 Adjustments for new plans covered 1 Acquisitions (+) and disposals (–) 0 Net expense recognized in the income statement 2 1 13 13 Employer contributions –3 –2 –38 –20 Gain (+) / loss (–) recognized through OCI 4 1 11 48 Translation diﬀerences 15 2 Net liability at end of year 7 7 187 231 The amounts recognized in the income statement were as follows: Year ended December 31, Pension Pension Other postbeneﬁts, Finnish beneﬁts, foreign employment beneﬁts EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Service cost 2 2 8 8 1 1 Interest cost 1 1 21 21 2 3 Expected return on plan assets –1 0 –19 –19 Amortization Past service cost 0 0 0 0 0 0 Gains (−) / losses (+) on immediate settlements 0 –2 0 –1 0 Expense (+) / income (−) recognized in income statement 2 1 10 9 3 4 Actual return (+) / loss (−) on plan assets 1 –2 24 10 The amounts recognized through OCI were following: Year ended December 31, Other Pension beneﬁts, Pension beneﬁts, post-employment Finnish foreign beneﬁts Total Total EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Experience gain (−) / loss (+) on assets 0 2 –5 9 –5 11 Actuarial gain (−) / loss (+) on liabilities due to change in assumptions 3 2 15 37 3 5 21 44 Actuarial gain (−) / loss (+) on liabilities due to experience 1 –3 –4 2 2 –3 –1 –4 Gain (−) / loss (+) as result of asset ceiling 0 –2 0 –2 Total gain (−) / loss (+) recognized through OCI 4 1 6 46 5 2 15 49 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognized changes in the beneﬁt obligation arise from actuarial gains and losses, through OCI amounted to net loss of EUR 81 million and EUR 130 the related payroll tax is also recognized in the Statement of Other million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Comprehensive Income. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and The accumulated amount does not include translation diﬀerences of 2011 the amount of payroll tax recognized through OCI was a a loss of previous years. less than EUR 0.1 million and a loss of EUR 1.2 million, respectively. In certain countries, companies are liable to pay a speciﬁc payroll tax on employee beneﬁts, including on deﬁned beneﬁts. To the extent the 88 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements The changes in the value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation were as follows: Pension beneﬁts, Pension beneﬁts, Other postFinnish foreign employment beneﬁts Total Total EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at beginning of year 15 21 396 439 37 45 448 505 Adjustments for new plans covered 1 1 Service cost 2 2 8 8 1 1 11 11 Interest cost 1 1 21 21 2 3 24 25 Plan participant contributions 1 2 0 0 1 2 Past service cost (+) / credit (–) 0 0 0 0 0 Acquisitions (+) and disposals (–) 1 1 Actuarial gain (–) / loss (+) due to change in assumptions 3 2 15 37 3 5 21 44 Actuarial gain (–) / loss (+) due to experience 1 –3 –4 2 2 –3 –1 –4 Settlements –1 –7 –10 0 –11 –7 Translation diﬀerences 33 6 3 1 36 7 Beneﬁts paid –22 –22 –3 –3 –25 –25 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at end of year 21 16 439 494 45 49 505 559 The changes in the fair value of the plan assets during the year were as follows: Foreign pension and other Pension beneﬁts, Finnish post-employment beneﬁts Total Total EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Fair value of assets at beginning of year 12 15 248 300 260 315 Settlements –1 –6 –9 –10 –6 Acquisitions 1 1 Actual return on plan assets 1 –2 24 10 25 8 Plan participant contributions 1 2 1 2 Employer contributions 3 2 38 20 41 22 Beneﬁts paid –25 –24 –25 –24 Translation diﬀerences 22 5 22 5 Fair value of assets at end of year 15 9 300 313 315 322 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets as at December 31 were as follows: 2010 2011 Equity securities 41% 37% Bonds 39% 42% Other 20% 21% The expected return on plan assets is set by reference to historical returns on each of the main asset classes, current market indicators such as long-term bond yields and the expected long-term strategic asset allocation of each plan. Summarized information on pension liabilities and plan assets for the ﬁve periods is as follows: EUR million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations at December 31 424 395 448 505 559 Fair value of plan assets at December 31 250 210 260 315 322 Deﬁcit 174 185 188 190 237 Experience gain (+) / loss (–) on liabilities 0 1 –2 1 4 Experience gain (+) / loss (–) on assets –1 –42 19 5 –11 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 89 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements The principal actuarial assumptions at December 31 (expressed as weighted averages): Finnish Foreign 2010 2011 2010 2011 Beneﬁt obligation: discount rate 4.75% 4.75% 5.38% 4.78% Beneﬁt obligation: rate of compensation increase 4.44% 4.19% 3.66% 3.54% Beneﬁt obligation: rate of pension increase 2.10% 2.10% 1.52% 1.93% Expense in income statement: discount rate 5.00% 4.75% 5.67% 5.38% Expense in income statement: rate of compensation increase 4.41% 4.44% 3.61% 3.66% Expense in income statement: expected return on plan assets 5.37% 4.60% 7.47% 7.26% Expense in income statement: rate of pension increase 2.10% 2.10% 1.55% 1.52% The expected contributions in 2012 shall amount to EUR 0.5 million to Finnish plans and EUR 20 million to foreign plans. The expected beneﬁts to be paid in 2012 shall amount to EUR 26 million. The life expectancy of the participants is based on regularly updated An increase of one percentage point in the assumed health care cost mortality tables, which reﬂect the life expectancy of the local populatrend would increase the accumulated post-employment beneﬁt tion. The mortality tables used for the major deﬁned beneﬁt plans are obligation by EUR 5 million at December 31, 2011. It would increase the following: sum of the service and interest cost by EUR 0.5 million for 2011. A decrease of one percentage point in the assumed health care cost trend Finland Gompertz’ model with Finnish TyEL parameters would decrease the accumulated post-employment beneﬁt obligation Sweden FFFS2011 by EUR 4 million at December 31, 2011. It would have decreased the Germany Heubeck RT 2005 G sum of the service and interest cost by EUR 0.4 million for 2011. The 110% S1NXA with CMI_2011 projections health care cost trend is assumed to be 7.50 for members under age United Kingdom and 1% long-term trend 65 and 7.30 for members over age 65, decreasing to 5 over the next Canada UP94 generational seven years by an average of 0.35 percentage points per annum. United States RP2000 projected to 2015  Mortgages and contingent liabilities As at December 31, The mortgages given as security for own commitments relate to EUR million 2010 2011 industrial real estate and other company assets. The mortgage amount On own behalf on corporate debt has been calculated as the amount of correspondMortgages 4 5 ing loans. The nominal value of the mortgages at December 31, 2011 On behalf of others was EUR 1 million higher than the amount of the corresponding loans. Guarantees 4 8 The repurchase commitments represent engagements whereby Other commitments Metso agrees to purchase back equipment sold to customer. The Repurchase commitments 3 3 conditions triggering the buy back obligation are speciﬁc to each sales Other contingencies 2 3 contract. The amounts in the beside table comprise the agreed value Total 13 19 in full of each repurchase commitment. Metso Corporation has guaranteed obligations arising in the ordinary course of business of many of its subsidiaries up to a maximum of EUR 1,344 million and EUR 1,797 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. 90 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Lease contracts Metso leases oﬃces, manufacturing and warehouse space under variNet present value of annual rentals for ﬁnance leases in eﬀect at ous noncancellable leases. Certain contracts contain renewal options December 31 are shown in the table below: for various periods of time. Minimum annual rental expenses for leases in eﬀect at December 31 EUR million 2010 2011 are shown in the table below: Not later than 1 year 2 1 Later than 1 year and not later than 2 years 1 0 Operating leases Finance leases Later than 2 years and not later than 3 years 0 0 EUR million 2010 2011 2010 2011 Later than 3 years and not later than 4 years 0 0 Not later than 1 year 54 54 2 1 Later than 4 years and not later than 5 years 0 Later than 1 year and not later than 2 years 39 40 1 0 Later than 5 years 0 Later than 2 years and not later than 3 years 34 33 0 0 Total net present value of ﬁnance leases 3 1 Later than 3 years and not later than 4 years 25 22 0 0 Later than 4 years and not later than 5 years 20 13 0 Total rental expenses amounted to EUR 43 million and EUR 57 million Later than 5 years 70 54 0 in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Total minimum lease payments 242 216 3 1 Annual repayments of principal are presented in the maturities of Future ﬁnancial expenses 0 0 long-term debt, see note 23. Total net present value of ﬁnance leases 3 1  Derivative ﬁnancial instruments Notional amounts and fair values of derivative ﬁnancial instruments as at December 31 were as follows: Notional Fair value, Fair value, Fair value, EUR million amount assets liabilities net 2010 Forward exchange contracts ¹⁾ 2,137 49 30 19 Interest rate swaps 163 0 3 –3 Cross currency swaps Option agreements Bought 2 0 0 Sold 10 0 0 Electricity forward contracts ²⁾ 755 7 0 7 Nickel swap contracts ³⁾ 486 1 0 1 Total 57 33 24 2011 Forward exchange contracts ¹⁾ 3,100 54 35 19 Interest rate swaps 75 0 2 –2 Cross currency swaps 33 3 –3 Option agreements Bought 1 0 0 Sold 10 0 0 Electricity forward contracts ²⁾ 636 0 3 –3 Nickel swap contracts ³⁾ 528 0 1 –1 Total 54 44 10 ¹⁾ Some 52 percent and 49 percent of the notional amount at the end of 2010 and 2011, respectively, qualiﬁed for cash ﬂow hedge accounting. ²⁾ Notional amount GWh ³⁾ Notional amount tons The notional amounts indicate the volumes in the use of derivatives, but do not indicate the exposure to risk. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 91 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in balance sheet as at December 31 are presented below: 2010 2011 EUR million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate swaps cash ﬂow hedges 1 0 Interest rate swaps non-qualifying hedges 0 2 0 2 0 3 0 2 Cross currency swaps cash ﬂow hedges 3 Forward exchange contracts cash ﬂow hedges 32 19 19 23 Forward exchange contracts non-qualifying hedges 17 11 35 12 49 30 54 35 Electricity forward contracts cash ﬂow hedges 7 0 0 3 Nickel swaps non-qualifying hedges 1 0 0 1 Options non-qualifying hedges 0 0 0 0 Total derivatives 57 33 54 44 In the year ended December 31, 2011 there was ineﬀectiveness related to the cash ﬂow hedges, which resulted in recognition of EUR 0.7 million loss (none in year 2010) in the income statement. As at December 31, 2011, the ﬁxed interest rates of swaps varied from 2.5 percent to 5.4 percent. As at December 31, 2011, the maturities of ﬁnancial derivatives are the following (expressed as notional amounts): EUR million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and later Forward exchange contracts 2,977 118 5 Interest rate swaps 20 20 35 Cross currency swaps 33 Option agreements 12 Electricity forward contracts ¹⁾ 250 194 131 44 17 Nickel swap contracts ²⁾ 492 36 ¹⁾ Notional amount GWh ²⁾ Notional amount tons 92 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Subsidiaries Company name Ownership, % Company name Ownership, % Finland United Kingdom Metso Minerals Oy 100.0% Metso Minerals (UK) Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Finland) Oy 100.0% Metso Minerals (Cappagh) Ltd 100.0% EC Technology Oy 100.0% Metso Automation Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation Oy 100.0% Metso Paper Ltd 100.0% Metso Endress+Hauser Oy 90.0% Metso Captive Insurance Limited 100.0% Metso Paper Oy 100.0% Italy Metso Fabrics Oy 100.0% Metso SpA 100.0% Metso Foundries Jyväskylä Oy 100.0% Metso Minerals (Italy) SpA 100.0% Metso Mill Service Kauttua Oy 100.0% Metso Automation SpA 100.0% Metso Power Oy 100.0% Metso Paper Italy SpA 100.0% MW Power Oy 60.0% Metso Paper Como Srl 100.0% Tampereen Verkatehdas Oy 100.0% Netherlands Valmet Automotive Oy 61.4% Metso Minerals International BV 100.0% Metso Shared Services Oy 100.0% Metso Minerals (Dordrecht) BV 100.0% Metso Capital Oy 100.0% Metso Automation BV 100.0% Kaukotalo Oy 87.2% Poland Avantone Oy 96.4% Metso Minerals (Poland) Sp zoo 100.0% Rauma Oy 100.0% Metso Automation Polska Sp zoo 100.0% Sweden Tamfelt Sp zoo 87.0% Metso Svenska AB 100.0% Valmet Automotive Poland Sp zoo 61.4% Metso Minerals (Sweden) AB 100.0% Portugal Metso Automation AB 100.0% Metso Minerals (Portugal) Lda 100.0% Metso Paper Sweden AB 100.0% Metso Automation Portugal Lda 100.0% Metso Paper Karlstad AB 100.0% Metso Fabrics Portugal Lda 100.0% Metso Mill Service AB 100.0% Spain Metso Mill Service Husum AB 100.0% Metso Minerals Espana SA 100.0% Metso Power AB 100.0% Metso Automation Espana SA 100.0% MW Power AB 60.0% Metso Paper SA 100.0% Lignoboost AB 100.0% Metso Mill Service SL 81.0% Norway Russia Metso Minerals (Norway) A/S 100.0% ZAO Metso Minerals (CIS) 100.0% Metso Automation A/S 100.0% ZAO Metso Automation 100.0% Metso Mill Service A/S 100.0% Metso Paper ZAO 100.0% Austria United States Metso Minerals (Austria) GmbH 100.0% Metso USA Inc. 100.0% Metso Automation GesmbH 100.0% Metso Minerals Industries Inc. 100.0% Metso Paper GesmbH 100.0% Metso Copperstate Inc. 100.0% Belgium Svedala Project Services Inc. 100.0% Metso Minerals (Belux) SA 100.0% Neles-Jamesbury Inc. 100.0% Metso Automation SA NV 100.0% Metso Automation USA Inc. 100.0% Metso Belgium NV 100.0% Jamesbury Shanghai Valve (USA) Inc. 100.0% Czech Republic Metso Paper USA Inc. 100.0% Metso Minerals s.r.o. 100.0% Metso Fabrics USA Inc. 100.0% Nordberg s.r.o. 100.0% Metso Fabrics PMC USA LLC 100.0% Metso Automation s.r.o. 100.0% Metso Wyesco Service Center Inc. 100.0% Metso Paper CR s.r.o. 100.0% Valmet Automotive USA Inc. 61.4% Metso Paper Steti s.r.o. 100.0% Canada France Metso Minerals Canada Inc. 100.0% Metso SAS 100.0% Metso Automation Canada Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (France) SA 100.0% Metso Paper Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Cisa) SA 100.0% Tamfelt PMC, Canada Inc. 100.0% Metso Automation SAS 100.0% Metso Canada Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper France SAS 100.0% Metso Shared Services Ltd 100.0% Germany Brazil Metso Deutschland GmbH 100.0% Metso Brazil Indústria e Comércio Ltda 100.0% Metso Minerals (Germany) GmbH 100.0% Metso Automation do Brasil Ltda 100.0% Metso Automation Mapag GmbH 100.0% Metso Paper South America Ltda 100.0% Metso Automation GmbH 100.0% Metso Paper Sulamericana Ltda 100.0% Metso Paper GmbH 100.0% Metso Fabrics Brasil Tecidos Técnicos Ltda 100.0% Metso Mill Service Plattling GmbH 100.0% Metso Panelboard GmbH 100.0% Metso Lindemann GmbH 100.0% Valmet Automotive GmbH 61.4% www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 93 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Company name Ownership, % Company name Ownership, % Chile Singapore Metso Minerals (Chile) SA 100.0% Metso Minerals (Singapore) Pte Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation Chile Ltda 100.0% Metso Automation Pte Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper SA 100.0% Metso Paper (Asia-Paciﬁc) Pte Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper Asesorias Tecnicas SA 100.0% South Korea Mexico Metso Automation Korea Ltd 100.0% Metso (Mexico) SA de CV 100.0% Metso Paper Korea Inc. 100.0% Metso SA de CV 100.0% Thailand Australia Metso Minerals (Thailand) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Australia) Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation (ANZ) Pty Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper (Thailand) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper (ANZ) Pty Ltd 100.0% South Africa China Metso Minerals Investment Holdings (SA) (Pty) Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Tianjin) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (South Africa) Pty Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Tianjin) International Trade Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation RSA (Pty) Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Hong Kong) Ltd 100.0% Metso ND Engineering (Pty) Ltd 70.0% Metso Automation (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper South Africa (Pty) Ltd 100.0% Metso Paper (China) Co. Ltd 100.0% Others Metso Paper (Guangzhou) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Denmark A/S 100.0% Metso Paper (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 100.0% Noviter Eesti 60.0% Metso Paper Technology (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso (Kazakhstan) LLP 100.0% Metso Paper Technology (Xian) Co. Ltd 75.0% Metso Minerals Dis Ticaret Limeted Sirketi 100.0% Metso (Shanghai) Surface Treatment Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals (Ukraine) LLC 100.0% Metso Fabrics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Perú SA 100.0% Metso Fabrics (Tianjin) Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Argentina SA 100.0% Tamfelt GMCC (Tianjin) Paper Machine Clothing Co. Ltd 60.0% Metso Minerals (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100.0% Metso (China) Investment Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso New Zealand Ltd 100.0% India Metso Minerals (Philippines) Inc. 100.0% Metso Minerals (India) Private Ltd 100.0% Svedala (Philippines) Inc. 100.0% Metso Minerals (Mumbai) Private Ltd 100.0% Metso Vietnam Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation India Private Ltd 100.0% Metso Minerals Algeria 100.0% Metso Paper India Private Ltd 100.0% Metso Ghana Ltd 100.0% Metso Power India Private Ltd 74.0% Metso Minerals (Lebanon) sarl 100.0% Indonesia Metso Minerals (Zambia) Ltd 100.0% PT Metso Minerals Indonesia Ltda 100.0% Metso Minerals (Zimbabwe) PVT Ltd 100.0% PT Metso Indonesia 100.0% Nordberg Manufacturing (Pty) 100.0% PT Metso Paper Indonesia 100.0% Nordberg Namibia (Pty) 100.0% Japan Metso Automation FZE (Dubai) 100.0% Metso Minerals Japan Co. Ltd 100.0% Metso Automation KK 100.0% Metso Paper Japan Co. Ltd 100.0% 94 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Reporting segment and geographic information Corporate structure est, tax and amortization (EBITA) both in absolute ﬁgures and as Metso Group is a global supplier of sustainable technology and percentage of net sales. The performance is being measured through services for mining, construction, oil and gas, pulp, paper and power EBITA before non-recurring items. The eﬀect the non-recurring items generation industries. have on cost of goods sold, selling, general and administrative The Board of Directors, which has been identiﬁed as Metso’s expenses as well as other income and expenses, net, is presented chief operating decision maker, decides on strategy, selection of in the segment information. Financial income and expenses, net, key employees, major development projects, business acquisitions, and income taxes are not allocated to segments but included in the investments, organization and ﬁnancing. The operating segments in proﬁt (loss) of Group Head Oﬃce and other. The treasury activities Metso are determined based on the reports delivered to the Board of of Metso are coordinated and managed by the Group Treasury to Directors who uses them in decision making. beneﬁt from cost eﬃciency obtained from pooling arrangements, ﬁThe operations are organized into the following three segments: nancial risk management, bargaining power, cash management, and other measures. Tax planning aims at the minimization of Metso’s Mining and Construction supplies technology, processes, machinery overall tax cost and it is based on the legal structure and the utilizaand services for aggregates production, construction, mining and tion of holding company structure as applicable. minerals processing. The segment is organized in three business lines: Segment assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and Minerals Processing Systems, Crushing and Screening Equipment as equipment, investments in associated companies and joint ventures, well as Services. available-for-sale equity investments, inventories and non-interest bearing operating assets and receivables. They exclude interest Automation supplies process industry ﬂow control solutions, automabearing assets, including also cash and cash equivalents, income tax tion and information management systems and applications and receivables and deferred tax assets, which are included in the assets of services. Automation comprises three business lines: Flow Control, Group Head Oﬃce and other. Process Automation Systems and Services. Segment liabilities comprise non-interest bearing operating liabilities and exclude income tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities, Pulp, Paper and Power supplies processes, machinery, equipment, which are included in the liabilities of Group Head Oﬃce and other. services, paper machine clothing and ﬁlter fabrics for the pulp, paper Interest bearing liabilities are not allocated to segments, but included and power industries. The segment is organized in four business lines: in the liabilities of Group Head Oﬃce and other. Paper, Fiber, Power and Services. Non-cash write-downs include write-oﬀs made to the value of notes, receivables, and inventories and impairment and other writeGroup Head Oﬃce and other is comprised of the Parent Company oﬀs recognized to reduce the value of intangible assets, property, and shared service centers in Finland, Sweden, Canada and Brazil as plant and equipment and other assets. well as holding companies in several countries. Valmet Automotive Gross capital expenditure comprises investments in intangible and Recycling are both reported as separate businesses. assets, property, plant and equipment, associated companies, joint ventures and available-for-sale equity investments including additions Transfer pricing in intra-Metso transactions is primarily based on marthrough business acquisitions. ket prices. In some cases, cost-based prices are used, thereby including Information about Metso’s reportable segments as of and for the years the margin (cost plus method). ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 is presented in the following tables. The ﬁnancial performance of the segments is measured through their ability to generate operating proﬁt and earnings before interwww.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 95 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Group Head Mining and Pulp, Paper Valmet Oﬃce Metso EUR million Construction Automation and Power Recycling Automotive and other Eliminations total 2010 External net sales 2,222 606 2,450 190 84 5,552 Intra-Metso net sales 13 44 3 0 –60 Net sales 2,235 650 2,453 190 84 –60 5,552 EBITA before non-recurring items 264.8 72.2 167.9 6.5 –4.6 –15.8 491.0 % of net sales 11.8 11.1 6.8 3.4 –5.5 n/a 8.8 Operating proﬁt (loss) 290.4 65.6 115.8 0.3 –6.4 –20.5 445.2 % of net sales 13.0 10.1 4.7 0.2 –7.6 n/a 8.0 Non-recurring items in cost of goods sold –1.2 –2.7 –7.8 –1.9 –13.6 Non-recurring items in selling, general and administrative expenses –0.6 –1.5 –0.4 –2.5 Non-recurring items in other operating income and expenses, net 34.1 –2.0 –1.8 –2.4 27.9 Total non-recurring items 32.3 –2.7 –11.3 –2.3 –1.8 –2.4 11.8 Amortization –7 –4 –41 –4 0 –2 –58 Depreciation –36 –13 –58 –3 –9 –1 –120 Gross capital expenditure (including business acquisitions) –37 –19 –77 –1 –17 –5 –156 Non-cash write-downs –9 –2 –9 –2 0 –22 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 669 123 1,071 84 50 19 2,016 Investments in associated companies 9 5 0 14 Available-for-sale equity investments 0 0 3 0 3 3 9 Inventories and other non-interest bearing assets 1,302 306 1,100 103 48 103 2,962 Interest bearing assets 1,063 1,063 Deferred tax assets 168 168 Total assets 1,971 438 2,179 187 101 1,356 6,232 Non-interest bearing liabilities 820 203 1,424 88 60 143 2,738 Interest bearing debt 1,373 1,373 Deferred tax liability 50 50 Total liabilities 820 203 1,424 88 60 1,566 4,161 Capital employed 1,151 235 755 99 41 1,163 3,444 Orders received 2,457 695 2,583 195 84 –70 5,944 Order backlog 1,356 308 2,347 72 –60 4,023 Capital employed includes only external balance sheet items. 96 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Group Head Mining and Pulp, Paper Valmet Oﬃce Metso EUR million Construction Automation and Power Recycling Automotive and other Eliminations total 2011 External net sales 2,748 714 2,692 211 281 6,646 Intra-Metso net sales 12 56 11 1 –80 Net sales 2,760 770 2,703 212 281 –80 6,646 EBITA before non-recurring items 322.1 103.9 218.8 2.3 12.0 –30.6 628.5 % of net sales 11.7 13.5 8.1 1.1 4.3 n/a 9.5 Operating proﬁt (loss) 313.1 99.7 189.2 –0.1 3.4 –33.5 571.8 % of net sales 11.3 12.9 7.0 0.0 1.2 n/a 8.6 Non-recurring items in cost of goods sold Non-recurring items in selling, general and administrative expenses –3.3 –0.8 –4.1 Non-recurring items in other operating income and expenses, net –0.8 2.6 –2.8 –1.0 Total non-recurring items –0.8 2.6 –6.1 –0.8 –5.1 Amortization –8 –4 –32 –3 –3 –2 –52 Depreciation –35 –10 –58 –3 –13 –1 –120 Gross capital expenditure (including business acquisitions) –49 –21 –75 –3 –23 –10 –181 Non-cash write-downs 15 1 –10 –8 –6 0 –8 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 667 129 1,059 83 45 26 2,009 Investments in associated companies 12 4 0 16 Available-for-sale equity investments 0 0 3 0 0 3 6 Inventories and other non-interest bearing assets 1,621 394 1,385 110 57 86 3,653 Interest bearing assets 767 767 Deferred tax assets 167 167 Total assets 2,288 535 2,451 193 102 1,049 6,618 Non-interest bearing liabilities 1,020 243 1,855 104 49 144 3,415 Interest bearing debt 1,027 1,027 Deferred tax liability 40 40 Total liabilities 1,020 243 1,855 104 49 1,211 4,482 Capital employed 1,268 292 596 89 53 866 3,164 Orders received 3,464 822 3,225 253 281 –84 7,961 Order backlog 2,027 364 2,863 115 –59 5,310 Capital employed includes only external balance sheet items. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 97 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements Entity-wide information Metso’s businesses are present in over 50 countries. The main market areas are Europe and North America accounting for over 50 procent of net sales. However, Asia and South America are becoming increasingly important. Metso has production units on all continents. Net sales to unaﬃliated customers by destination: Other Other South and Nordic European North Central AsiaAfrica and Metso EUR million Finland countries countries America America Paciﬁc Middle East total 2010 295 368 1,305 920 795 1,576 293 5,552 2011 418 411 1,484 1,208 1,116 1,665 344 6,646 Metso’s exports, including sales to unaﬃliated customers and intra-group sales from Finland, by destination: Other Other South and Nordic European North Central AsiaAfrica and EUR million countries countries America America Paciﬁc Middle East Total 2010 175 644 119 65 729 47 1,779 2011 221 660 236 213 523 47 1,900 Long-term assets by location: Other Other South and Nordic European North Central AsiaAfrica and NonMetso EUR million Finland countries countries America America Paciﬁc Middle East allocated total 2010 505 73 90 170 94 179 10 960 2,081 2011 485 67 87 174 108 198 8 949 2,076 Long-term assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in associated companies, available-for-sale equity investments and other non-interest bearing non-current assets. Non-allocated assets include mainly goodwill and other allocated assets arising from business acquisitions that have not been pushed down to the subsidiaries’ books. Gross capital expenditure (excluding business acquisitions) by location: Other Other South and Nordic European North Central AsiaAfrica and Metso EUR million Finland countries countries America America Paciﬁc Middle East total 2010 67 9 9 6 9 34 1 135 2011 67 10 14 10 31 32 2 166 Analysis of net sales by category: Year ended December 31, Major customers EUR million 2010 2011 Metso delivers large long-term construction contracts, which however Sale of services 2,453 2,871 rarely exceed 10 percent of its net revenue. In 2011, the Pulp, Paper and Sale of projects, equipment and goods 3,099 3,595 Power segment signed a delivery agreement of which EUR 100 million Total 5,552 6,466 was recognized in net sales in 2011, the remaining amount of EUR 600 million will be recognized over the coming years. 98 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Audit fees Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 Audit –2.5 –2.6 Tax consulting –2.0 –2.0 Other services –1.0 –1.1 Total –5.5 –5.7  Lawsuits and claims Several lawsuits, claims and disputes based on various grounds are Lawsuits related to intellectual property rights pending against Metso in various countries, including product liability In December 2011, Metso won a patent infringement lawsuit against lawsuits and claims as well as legal disputes related to Metso’s deliverTerex Corporation, one of its subsidiaries and two of its dealers as ies. However, Metso’s management does not expect to the best of its a New York court aﬃrmed the jury’s earlier verdict that the defenpresent understanding that the outcome of these lawsuits, claims and dants had willfully infringed on Metso’s U.S. patent relating to mobile disputes will have a material adverse eﬀect on Metso in view of the crushing and screening machines. Due to the willfulness of the grounds presented for them, provisions made, insurance coverage in infringement, the court doubled the original damages award to USD force and the extent of Metso’s total business activities. Metso is also a 31.6 million covering the infringing sales from March 2000 through plaintiﬀ in several lawsuits. October 2007. In addition, the defendants will have to pay additional compensation covering infringing sales after October 2007, which will Pending asbestos litigation be accounted for later and also doubled. The ﬁnal compensation for As of December 31, 2011, there had been a total of 1,103 complaints Metso will also include interest. In July 2011, the court issued an order alleging asbestos injuries ﬁled in the United States in which a Metso permanently barring the defendants from marketing their mobile entity is one of the named defendants. Where a given plaintiﬀ has screening machines that were found to infringe upon Metso’s patents. named more than one viable Metso unit as a defendant, the cases are Terex has appealed from the court decision and the lawsuit will concounted by the number of viable Metso defendants. Of these claims, tinue in the appeals court. We will recognize the compensation in the 353 are still pending and 750 cases have been closed. Of the closed ﬁnancial statements only after the ﬁnal outcome of the lawsuit is clear. cases, 190 were by summary judgment, 437 were dismissed, and 123 Metso will continue to be active in protecting its intellectual property were settled. The outcome of the pending cases is not expected to rights globally, with the objective of enhancing fair competition. materially deviate from the outcome of the previous claims. Hence, Metso management’s present belief is that the risk caused by the pending asbestos lawsuits and claims in the United States is not material in view of the extent of Metso’s total business operations. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 99 Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  New accounting standards IFRS 9 cash ﬂows. The standard is applicable to annual reporting periods In November 2009, IASB published IFRS 9 ’Financial instruments: Recogbeginning on or after January 1, 2013. nition and measurement’. The standard represents the ﬁrst phase in the Metso is assessing the impact of the standard to its ﬁnancial statereplacement of IAS 39. It simpliﬁes classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets and ment disclosures. requires them to be measured either at amortized costs or at fair value. In October 2010, IASB published the second part of IFRS 9 ’FinanIFRS 13 cial Liabilities – Classiﬁcation and Measurement’ according to which In May 2011, IASB published IFRS 13 ’Fair Value Measurement’ which the accounting and presentation for ﬁnancial liabilities shall remain deﬁnes fair value, sets out in one standard a framework for measuring unchanged except for those ﬁnancial liabilities for which fair value fair value and sets disclosures requirements about fair value meaoption is applied. The next steps will involve impairment of ﬁnancial surements. It increases consistency and comparability in fair value assets and development of hedge accounting. measurements and related disclosures through a ’fair value hierarchy’. The whole standard, once completed, can now be estimated to The hierarchy categorizes the inputs used in valuation techniques become eﬀective for the ﬁnancial periods beginning on or after Januinto three levels giving the highest priority to quoted prices in active ary 1, 2015. markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to As long as the whole standard is not ﬁnalized Metso cannot assess unobservable inputs. The standard is applicable to annual reporting its impact to Metso’s ﬁnancial statements. periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. Metso is assessing the impact of the standard to its ﬁnancial stateIAS 12, amendment ment disclosures. In December 2010, IASB published ’Deferred Tax: Recovery of underlying assets – Amendment to IAS 12’ providing an exception to the genIAS 1, amendment eral principle on measuring deferred tax assets and tax liabilities. The In June 2011, IASB published an amendment to IAS 1 ’Presentation of amendment concerns investment property and it becomes applicable Financial Statements’. The amendment to the standard continues to on or after January 1, 2012. allow the entity to choose between the ’one or two income statement’ The amendment will not impact Metso’s ﬁnancial statements. presentations but revises the way other comprehensive income is presented. It requires separate subtotals for those elements which may be IFRS 10 ’recycled’ at a future date such as translation diﬀerences on disposal In May 2011, IASB published IFRS 10 ’Consolidated Financial Stateof a subsidiary and for those elements that will not be ’recycled’ such ments’, which deﬁnes the principle of control, which is the basis for investments at fair value through other comprehensive income as consolidation to be used to identify whether an investor controls an deﬁned by IFRS 9. The amendment is eﬀective for annual periods investee and therefore must consolidate it. The standard replaces beginning on or after July 1, 2012. IAS27 and covers the principles for the presentation and preparation of Metso will continue to present a separate income statement and a consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The standard is applicable to annual statement of comprehensive income. reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The standard is not expected to have material impact to Metso’s IAS 19, amendment ﬁnancial statements. In June 2011, IASB published an amendment to IAS 19 ’Employee Beneﬁts’. It requires recognition of changes in the net deﬁned beneﬁt IFRS 11 liability (asset) including immediate recognition of deﬁned beneﬁt In May 2011, IASB published IFRS 11 ’Joint Arrangements’ on how a cost, eliminating the option to defer the recognition of gains and party to a joint arrangement should account for its involvement in losses, known as the ’corridor method’. It requires disaggregation of such an arrangement. The entity has to determine the type of joint the deﬁned beneﬁt cost into three components: service, net interest arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligaand remeasurement component, the last one being recognized under tions and account for those rights and obligations in accordance. The other comprehensive income. Net interest is calculated using high joint arrangement can either be a joint operation or a joint venture. quality bond yield rate. The amendment requires enhanced discloJoint operations arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets sures about deﬁned beneﬁt plans. The amendment is applicable to and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures Apart from the eﬀect of the immediate recognition of past service arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arcost, the amendment will not impact the amount of the deﬁned benrangement and hence equity accounts for its interest. Proportional eﬁt liability (asset) in the ﬁnancial statements because Metso does use consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. The standard is not the ’corridor method’. The calculation of net interest will impact applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after January the beneﬁt cost reported in the income statement if the annual return 1, 2013. calculated on assets has been higher than the discount rate applied to The standard is not expected to have material impact to Metso’s the beneﬁt liability. Had the amendment been applicable in 2011, the ﬁnancial statements. impacts to Metso’s ﬁnancial statements would have been following: proﬁt before tax would have decreased by EUR 3 million and the preIFRS 12 tax amount reported under other comprehensive income would have In May 2011, IASB published IFRS 12 ’Disclosure of Interests in Other increased by EUR 4 million. The recognition of past service cost would Entities’ which requires the disclosure of information that enables have decreased the net liability by EUR 1 million. users of ﬁnancial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks asProvided these standards and amendments receive endorsement sociated with, the preparer’s interests in other entities and the eﬀects by the European Union, Metso will apply them when they become of those interests on its ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and eﬀective. 100 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements  Events after balance sheet date Between the balance sheet date and the date when these ﬁnancial statements were authorized for issue no favorable nor unfavorable event requiring disclosure occurred. Exchange Rates Used Average rates Year-end rates 2010 2011 2010 2011 USD (US dollar) 1.3299 1.3951 1.3362 1.2939 SEK (Swedish krona) 9.5510 9.0038 8.9655 8.9120 GBP (Pound sterling) 0.8585 0.8704 0.8608 0.8353 CAD (Canadian dollar) 1.3773 1.3768 1.3322 1.3215 BRL (Brazilian real) 2.3379 2.3287 2.2177 2.4159 CNY (Chinese yuan) 8.9975 9.0141 8.8220 8.1588 AUD (Australian dollar) 1.4514 1.3412 1.3136 1.2723 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 101 Financial Indicators Financial Indicators 2007– 2011 EUR million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales 6,250 6,400 5,016 5,552 6,646 Net sales change, % 26.1 2.4 –21.6 10.7 19.7 Operating proﬁt 580 637 294 445 572 % of net sales 9.3 10.0 5.9 8.0 8.6 Proﬁt before tax 547 548 222 370 507 % of net sales 8.8 8.6 4.4 6.7 7.6 Proﬁt 384 390 151 258 358 % of net sales 6.1 6.1 3.0 4.6 5.4 Proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company 381 389 150 257 356 Exports from Finland and international operations 5,795 5,957 4,706 5,269 6,281 % of net sales 92.7 93.1 93.8 94.9 94.5 Amortization 56 44 41 58 52 Depreciation 92 94 102 120 120 Depreciation and amortization 148 138 143 178 172 % of net sales 2.4 2.2 2.9 3.2 2.6 EBITA 636 681 334 503 623 % of net sales 10.2 10.6 6.7 9.1 9.4 EBITDA 728 775 437 623 744 % of net sales 11.6 12.1 8.7 11.2 11.2 Financial income and expenses, net 33 89 72 75 65 % of net sales 0.5 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.0 Interest expenses, net 33 71 75 69 75 % of net sales 0.5 1.1 1.5 1.2 1.1 Interest cover (EBITDA) 22.1x 8.7x 6.1x 8.3x 11.4x Gross capital expenditure (excl. business acquisitions) 159 255 117 135 166 % of net sales 2.5 4.0 2.3 2.4 2.5 Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired 55 44 1 21 15 Net capital expenditure (excl. business acquisitions and disposals) 140 238 85 117 156 % of net sales 2.2 3.7 1.7 2.1 2.3 Cash ﬂow from operations 294 137 770 506 466 Free cash ﬂow 198 29 717 435 375 Cash conversion, % 52 7 475 169 105 Research and development 117 134 115 111 124 % of net sales 1.9 2.1 2.3 2.0 1.9 Balance sheet total 5,254 5,511 5,715 6,232 6,618 Equity attributable to shareholders 1,608 1,444 1,783 2,049 2,115 Total equity 1,615 1,453 1,792 2,071 2,136 Interest bearing liabilities 819 1,435 1,576 1,373 1,027 Net interest bearing liabilities 540 1,099 583 310 260 Net working capital (NWC) 375 672 242 247 281 % of net sales 6.0 10.5 4.8 4.5 4.2 Capital employed 2,434 2,888 3,368 3,444 3,164 Return on equity (ROE), % 25.4 26.0 9.8 13.6 17.8 Return on capital employed (ROCE) before tax, % 26.1 23.2 10.0 13.5 18.4 Return on capital employed (ROCE) after tax, % 19.0 17.3 7.7 10.2 13.8 Equity to assets ratio, % 37.7 30.9 35.7 38.1 39.8 Gearing, % 33.4 75.7 32.5 15.0 12.2 Debt to capital, % 33.7 49.7 46.8 39.9 32.5 Orders received 6,965 6,384 4,358 5,944 7,961 Order backlog, December 31 4,341 4,088 3,415 4,023 5,310 Average number of personnel 26,269 28,010 27,813 27,585 29,590 Personnel, December 31 26,837 29,322 27,166 28,593 30,324 Formulas for calculation of ﬁnancial indicators are presented on the following page. 102 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Financial Indicators Formulas for Calculation of Indicators Formulas for calculation of ﬁnancial indicators EBITA: Net working capital (NWC): Operating proﬁt + amortization + goodwill impairment Inventory + trade receivables + other non-interest bearing receivables – trade payables – advances received – other non-interest bearing liabilities EBITDA: Capital employed: Operating proﬁt + depreciation and amortization + goodwill impairment Balance sheet total – non-interest bearing liabilities Return on equity (ROE), %: Free cash ﬂow: Proﬁt Net cash provided by operating activities – capital expenditures on maintenance ×100 investments + proceeds from sale of ﬁxed assets Total equity (average for period) Return on capital employed (ROCE) before tax, %: Cash conversion, %: Proﬁt before tax + interest and other ﬁnancial expenses Free cash ﬂow ×100 ×100 Balance sheet total – non-interest bearing liabilities (average for period) Proﬁt Return on capital employed (ROCE) after tax, %: Debt to capital, %: Proﬁt + interest and other ﬁnancial expenses Interest bearing liabilities ×100 ×100 Balance sheet total – non-interest bearing liabilities (average for period) Total equity + interest bearing liabilities Gearing, %: Interest cover (EBITDA): Net interest bearing liabilities EBITDA ×100 Total equity Financial income and expenses, net Equity to assets ratio, %: Total equity ×100 Balance sheet total – advances received Formulas for calculation of share-related indicators Earnings/share, basic: Eﬀective dividend yield, %: Proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company Dividend per share ×100 Average number of outstanding shares during period Share price on December 31 Earnings/share, diluted: P/E ratio: Proﬁt attributable to shareholders of the company Share price on December 31 Average number of diluted shares during period Earnings per share Free cash ﬂow/share: Average share price: Free cash ﬂow Total value of shares traded in euro Average number of outstanding shares during period Number of shares traded during period Equity/share: Market capitalization: Equity attributable to shareholders of the company Number of outstanding shares x share price at end of period Number of outstanding shares at end of period Dividend/share: Total shareholder return (TSR), %: Dividend distribution Change in share price + dividend paid during period ×100 Number of outstanding shares at end of period Share price at end of previous period Dividend/earnings, %: Dividend per share ×100 Earnings per share www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 103 Parent Company Financial Statements Parent Company Statement of Income, in Accordance with Finnish Accounting Standards, FAS Year ended December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 Net sales Other operating income 0 0 Personnel expenses –13 –14 Depreciation and amortization –1 0 Other operating expenses –15 –18 Operating loss –29 –32 Financial income and expenses, net 212 258 Proﬁt before extraordinary items 183 226 Group contributions 77 143 Proﬁt before appropriations and taxes 260 369 Income taxes for the period 0 0 Change in deferred taxes 5 –16 Proﬁt 265 353 Parent Company Balance Sheet, FAS Assets Shareholders’ equity and liabilities As at December 31, As at December 31, EUR million 2010 2011 EUR million 2010 2011 Non-current assets Shareholders’ equity Intangible assets 1 1 Share capital 241 241 Tangible assets 1 2 Invested non-restricted equity fund 573 573 Investments Other reserves 194 194 Shares in Group companies 2,517 2,465 Retained earnings 759 880 Other investments 339 157 Total shareholders’ equity 1,767 1,888 Total non-current assets 2,858 2,625 Current assets Long-term receivables 26 9 Liabilities Short-term receivables 638 799 Long-term liabilities 986 832 Securities 520 272 Current liabilities 1,327 1,046 Bank and cash 38 61 Total liabilities 2,313 1,878 Total current assets 1,222 1,141 Total assets 4,080 3,766 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 4,080 3,766 104 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Parent Company Financial Statements Parent Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, FAS Invested Share non-restricted Other Retained EUR million capital equity fund reserves earnings Total Balance at December 31, 2009 241 573 194 606 1,614 Dividends –105 –105 Other –7 –7 Proﬁt 265 265 Balance at December 31, 2010 241 573 194 759 1,767 Dividends –232 –232 Other 0 0 Proﬁt 353 353 Balance at December 31, 2011 241 573 194 880 1,888 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 105 Shares and Shareholders Shares and shareholders Shares and share capital shall decide on other matters related to the repurchase of the On December 31, 2011, Metso Corporation’s share capital, Company’s own shares. fully paid up and entered in the trade register, was EUR The repurchase authorization is valid until June 30, 2012, and 240,982,843.80, and the total number of shares 150,348,256. it revokes the repurchase authorization given by the Annual Metso has one share series, and each share entitles its holder General Meeting on March 30, 2010. to one vote at the General Meeting and to an equal amount of dividend. Metso’s shares are registered in the Finnish book-entry Authorizing the Board to decide on the issuance system. of shares as well as the issuance of special rights Under the authorization granted, the Board is entitled to decide Metso’s own shares on the issuing of a maximum of 15,000,000 new shares and on On December 31, 2011, Metso Corporation held a total of 719,060 the conveying of a maximum 10,000,000 own shares held by the own shares, which represent 0.48 percent of all Metso shares company. and votes. During the year, Metso recovered 663 shares from Additionally, the Board is authorized to grant special rights share-based incentive plan participants having terminated their referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the Finnish Companies Act, employment. which carry the right to receive, against payment, new shares of the company or the company’s own shares held by the compaBoard authorizations ny in such a manner that the subscription price is paid by using On March 30, 2011, the Annual General Meeting authorized the the subscriber’s receivables to oﬀset the subscription price. Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase of the company’s The maximum number of shares to be issued is 15,000,000. own shares, the share issue and the granting of special rights. As The maximum number is included in the maximum number of of December 31, 2011, the Board had not exercised the authorizashares noted in the previous paragraph. tions. The new shares may be issued and the own shares held by the Company conveyed either against payment or without payAuthorization to repurchase the Corporation’s own shares ment. The 2011 Annual General Meeting authorized the Board to decide The Board may decide on a share issue without payment also on the repurchase of a maximum of 10,000,000 of the company’s to the company itself. The number of shares to be issued to the own shares. The company’s own shares can be repurchased in company shall not exceed 10,000,000 including the number of deviation from the proportion to the holdings of the shareholders own shares acquired by the company by virtue of the authorizawith the company’s non-restricted equity and acquired through tion to repurchase the company’s own shares. public trading on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd at the market The new shares and the own shares held by the company price at the time of repurchase. may be issued to the company’s shareholders in proportion to The shares can be used to develop Metso’s capital structure their current holding; or by means of a directed issue, waivor to ﬁnance or carry out future acquisitions, investments or ing the pre-emptive subscription rights of the shareholders, if other arrangements related to the company’s business or as part there is a weighty ﬁnancial reason for the company to do so, of the Metso’s incentive program. such as to develop the capital structure of the company or to The company’s repurchased shares can be held by the comﬁnance or carry out future acquisitions, investments or other pany, cancelled or conveyed. The authorization can include also arrangements related to the company’s business or as part of the right to take the Company’s own shares as pledge to secure the company’s incentive program. A directed issue can only the potential receivables of the Company. The Board of Directors be executed without payment if there is an especially weighty Metso share's monthly turnover and Metso's and competitors'* average share price on share price development 2007–2011, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2007–2011 scaled EUR million EUR 1,800 70 160 1,600 60 140 1,400 120 50 1,200 100 1,000 40 80 800 30 60 600 20 400 40 200 10 20 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Monthly turnover Metso’s competitors Average monthly share price Metso OMX portfolio index, scaled *ABB, Andritz, Emerson, FLSmidth, Outotec, Sandvik 106 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Shares and Shareholders ﬁnancial reason for the company to do so, taking the interests of Share-based incentive plans all shareholders into account. The subscription price of new shares issued shall be recorded Option programs in the invested unrestricted equity fund and the consideration There are no option programs in Metso. paid for the conveyance of the company’s own shares shall be recorded in the invested unrestricted equity fund. Share ownership plans The Board of Directors shall decide on other matters related Metso’s share ownership plans are part of the remuneration and to the share issues. commitment program for Metso management. For further inThe share issue authorization is valid until April 30, 2014, and formation, see www.metso.com/investors. The reward shares for it revokes the share issue authorization given by the Annual the plan are acquired in public trading and therefore the plans General Meeting on March 30, 2010. will not have a diluting eﬀect on the share value. Market capitalization and trading Share Ownership Plan for 2009–2011 Metso Corporation’s shares are quoted on the NASDAQ OMX In October 2008, the Board approved a share ownership plan Helsinki (OMXH: MEO1V) since July 1, 1999. Metso’s ADSs (Amerifor the years 2009–2011. The plan has one three-year earnings can Depositary Shares) are traded in the United States on the period and required participants’ personal investment in Metso OTC market under the ticker symbol MXCYY. shares at the beginning of the program. Any possible reward Metso’s share price on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki in 2011 defrom the plan requires continued employment with Metso and creased by 31 percent, from EUR 41.80 to EUR 28.65. At the same reaching the ﬁnancial targets set for the plan. At the end of 2011, time, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki portfolio index, OMX Helsinki 84 people were participating in the plan and the rewards that CAP, decreased by 28 percent. The highest quotation of Metso’s can be paid correspond to a maximum of 354,975 Metso shares. share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki in 2011 was EUR 43.27, and Members of the 2011 Executive Team may receive a maximum of the lowest EUR 19.72. The share price on December 30, 2011 54,600 shares as share rewards. was EUR 28.65 and the average trading price for the year was EUR 31.79. Metso’s market capitalization at year-end, excluding Share Ownership Plan for 2010–2012 own shares held by the company, was EUR 4 287 million. Total In October 2009, the Board approved a similar kind of share shareholder return (TSR) was 28 percent negative in 2011 (73 ownership plan for the years 2010–2012. The plan has one threepositive). year earnings period and required participants’ personal investIn 2011, 206,936,576 Metso shares were traded on the NASment in Metso shares at the beginning of the program. Any DAQ OMX Helsinki, equivalent to a turnover of EUR 6,578 million. possible reward from the plan requires continued employment The average daily trading volume was 817,931 shares, which is 5 with Metso and reaching the ﬁnancial targets set for the plan. At percent less than in 2010. During the year, 140 percent of shares the end of 2011, 88 people were participating in the plan and the were traded (relative turnover in 2010: 145). In addition to the rewards that can be paid correspond to a maximum of 329,600 NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Metso shares were traded on alternative Metso shares. Members of the 2011 Executive Team may receive market places, for example at BOAT, Chi-X Europe and BATS. a maximum of 51,325 shares as share rewards. In 2011, the highest trading price for Metso’s ADSs in the United States was USD 61.45, and the lowest USD 27.00. The Share Ownership Plan for 2011–2013 ADS price on the OTC market at year-end was USD 37.25. Each In September 2010, the Board approved a similar kind of share ADS represents one share. ownership plan for the years 2011–2013. The plan includes one Earnings per share Equity/share and dividend per share EUR EUR 3.0 15 2.5 12 2.0 9 1.5 6 1.0 3 0.5 0.0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Earnings per share Minimum dividend per Dividend per share dividend policy *Board's proposal (at least 50% of EPS) www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 107 Shares and Shareholders three-year earnings period and requires participants’ parties held altogether 143,116 Metso shares, which personal investment in Metso shares at the begincorrespond to 0.10 percent of the paid up share ning of the program. Any possible reward from the capital and votes in Metso. plan requires continued employment with Metso and reaching the ﬁnancial targets set for the plan. At Dividend policy the end of 2011, 72 people were participating in the Metso’s dividend policy is to distribute at least 50 plan and the rewards that can be paid correspond to percent of earnings per share in annual dividends a maximum of around 243,898 Metso shares. Memor in other forms of repatriation of capital to its bers of the Executive Team may receive a maximum shareholders. The Board of Directors proposes to of 77,400 shares as share rewards. the Annual General Meeting to be held on March 29, 2012 that the dividend of EUR 1.70 per share be Long-term Incentive Plan for 2012–2014 distributed for the year ended on December 31, 2011. In December 2011, Metso’s Board decided on a new The proposed dividend of EUR 1.70 (EUR 1.55 share-based incentive plan for the Group’s top in 2010) corresponds to 71 percent of the proﬁt management. The plan includes three performance attributable to shareholders for the year (91 in periods, which are the calendar years 2012, 2013 and 2010), and the eﬀective dividend yield is 5.9 percent 2014. Metso’s Board shall decide on the performance (3.7 in 2010). criteria, targets and participants at the beginning of each performance period. For the performance Shareholders period 2012, the plan is targeted to about 100 people At the end of 2011, Metso had 47,170 shareholders in Metso’s management, and the potential reward of in the book-entry system, the largest of which was the plan for the performance period 2012 is based on Solidium Oy, with 11.1 percent (2010: 10.4) ownthe net sales growth of the services business, return ership. Nominee-registered shares and shares in on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, and earndirect foreign ownership accounted for 48.3 percent ings per share (EPS). (53.8) of the total stock. Finnish institutions, comLinks & The potential rewards to be paid on the basis panies and organizations accounted for 27.7 percent notes of the performance period 2012 will correspond to (23.3) and Finnish private persons for 12.9 percent a maximum total of approximately 450,000 Metso (12.5) of Metso’s shares. Metso is not aware of any 1 More about share shares. Members of the Executive Team may receive shareholder’s agreements regarding the ownership ownership plans www.metso.com/ a maximum of 95,123 shares as share rewards. of Metso shares and voting rights. remuneration More detailed information on the share-based incentive plans is presented in the Notes to the Disclosure of changes in holdings 2 Current list of Metso’s biggest shareholders Financial Statements (Note 22, on pages 83–84). During 2011, we didn’t receive any disclosures of and their holdings changes in holdings in which ownership would www.metso.com/ Holdings of Metso’s Board of Directors have reached, exceeded or decreased below the 5 shareholders and executive management percent limit or the other notiﬁcation thresholds as 3 Up-to-date informaAt year-end, the members of Metso’s Board of set out in the Securities Markets Act. Currently, the tion on Metso’s insiders Directors, CEO Matti Kähkönen (from March 1, 2011), only shareholder exceeding 5 percent ownership in and their holdings Executive Vice President Pasi Laine, and their interest Metso is Solidium Oy with 11.1 percent of the share www.metso.com/ capital and voting rights (December 31, 2011). insiders Market capitalization, on December 31 Total shareholder return (TSR) EUR million % 7,000 200 6,000 150 5,000 100 4,000 50 3,000 0 2,000 1,000 -50 0 -100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 108 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Shares and Shareholders Share capital and share data 2007–2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Share capital, December 31, EUR million 241 241 241 241 241 Number of shares, December 31: Number of outstanding shares 141,487,234 141,623,642 149,938,639 149,629,859 149,629,196 Own shares held by the Parent Company 60,841 60,841 409,617 718,397 719,060 Shares administered by a partnership (MEO1V Incentive Ky) 206,539 70,131 Total number of shares 141,754,614 141,754,614 150,348,256 150,348,256 150,348,256 Average number of outstanding shares 141,460,012 141,595,026 141,477,476 149,682,703 149,629,690 Average number of diluted shares 141,460,012 141,595,026 141,526,284 149,836,864 149,832,989 Trading volume, NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd 350,168,659 359,378,566 321,093,368 217,467,633 206,936,576 Trading volume, NYSE ¹⁾ 6,020,320 % of shares ²⁾ 251.8 253.8 214.1 145.3 140.3 Earnings/share, basic, EUR 2.69 2.75 1.06 1.71 2.38 Earnings/share, diluted, EUR 2.69 2.75 1.06 1.71 2.38 Free cash ﬂow/share, EUR 1.40 0.20 5.07 2.91 2.50 Dividend/share ³⁾, EUR 3.00 0.70 0.70 1.55 1.70 Dividend ³⁾, EUR million 425 99 105 232 254 Dividend/earnings, % ³⁾ 112 25 66 91 71 Eﬀective dividend yield, % ³⁾ 8.0 8.2 2.8 3.7 5.9 P/E ratio 13.88 3.10 23.24 24.44 12.04 Equity/share, EUR 11.36 10.19 11.89 13.69 14.13 Highest share price, EUR 49.95 38.56 24.78 43.23 43.27 Lowest share price, EUR 34.06 7.74 7.03 20.91 19.72 Average share price, EUR 41.43 23.66 13.26 28.81 31.79 Share price, December 31, EUR 37.33 8.52 24.63 41.80 28.65 Market capitalization, December 31 ⁴⁾, EUR million 5,282 1,207 3,693 6,255 4,287 ¹⁾ Trading volume until September 14, 2007. ²⁾ Of the total amount of shares for public trading (For the year 2007 trading in both NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and NYSE, from 2008 onwards only in NASDAQ OMX Helsinki). ³⁾ 2011 proposal by the Board of Directors. ⁴⁾ Excluding own shares held by the Parent Company and shares administered by a partnership. Formulas for calculation of share-related indicators are on page 103. www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 109 Shares and Shareholders Metso´s biggest shareholders on December 31, 2011 % of share Shares and capital and votes voting rights 1 Solidium Oy 16,695,287 11.1 2 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 6,531,943 4.3 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 5,148,682 3.4 4 Nordea Funds 1,847,585 1.2 Nordea Nordenfonden 989,342 0.7 Nordea Pro Finland fund 325,000 0.2 Nordea Nordic fund 266,023 0.2 Nordea Finland Index Fund 129,085 0.1 Nordea Finland special fund 61,065 0.0 Nordea Pro Europe fund 46,579 0.0 Nordea Private banking focus Nordic special fund 19,667 0.0 Nordea Private banking focus Suomi special fund 10,824 0.0 5 The State Pension Fund 1,840,000 1.2 6 Mandatum Life Insurance 1,591,435 1.1 7 The Local Government Pension Institution 1,575,380 1.1 8 OP Funds 1,435,000 1.0 OP-Delta Fund 945,000 0.6 OP-Focus special fund 390,000 0.3 OP-Finland Value fund 100,000 0.1 9 Svenska litteratursällskapet i Finland r.f. 1,167,706 0.8 10 Odin Funds 895,530 0.6 Odin Norden 653,654 0.4 Odin Finland 211,511 0.2 Odin Norden II 24,222 0.0 Odin Finland II 6,143 0.0 10 largest owner groups in total 38,728,548 25.8 Nominee-registered shares *) 69,235,386 46.0 Other shareholders 41,655,682 27.7 Own shares held by the Parent Company 719,060 0.5 In the issuer account 9,580 0.0 Total 150,348,256 100.0 *) Shareholders have an obligation to notify the company of changes in their holdings, when the holdings have reached, exceeded or fallen below 5 percent of Metso’s voting rights or share capital. An up-to-date list of all ﬂagging notiﬁcations made can be found at www.metso.com/ investors. Breakdown by shareholder category on December 31, 2011 Links & notes 1 Up-to-date list of ﬂagging notiﬁcations Nominee-registered and www.metso.com/ﬂagging 5.4 3.6 non-Finnish holders 48.3% (53.7%) 6.3 Solidium Oy 11.1% (10.4%) 12.4 48.3 Private investors 12.9% (12.5%) 12.9 General government 12.4% (10.1%) 11.1 Financial and insurance corporations 6.3% (5.1%) Non-proﬁt institutions 5.4% (5.1%) Finnish institutions, companies and foundations 3.6% (3.1%) 110 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Shares and Shareholders Changes in number of shares and share capital Change in Change in Number number Share capital, share capital, of shares of shares EUR EUR 2001 New shares subscribed with the Metso 1994 options, which were transferred from Valmet Corporation 136,250,545 793,270 231,625,926.50 1,348,559.00 2005 New shares subscribed with the Metso 2000A/B and 2001A/B options 141,654,614 5,404,069 240,812,843.80 9,186,917.30 2006 New shares subscribed with the Metso 2003A options 141,719,614 65,000 240,923,343.80 110,500.00 2007 New shares subscribed with the Metso 2003A options 141,754,614 35,000 240,982,843.80 59,500.00 2008 No changes in number of shares nor in share capital 141,754,614 240,982,843.80 2009 New shares issued as consideration for Tamfelt acquisition 150,348,256 8,593,642 240,982,843.80 2010, No changes in number of shares nor in 2011 share capital 150,348,256 240,982,843.80 Breakdown of share ownership on December 31, 2011 % of Total number % of share shareof shares capital and Number of shares Shareholders holders and votes voting rights 1–100 19,071 40.4 1,001,394 0.7 101–500 19,018 40.3 4,886,344 3.2 501–1,000 4,613 9.8 3,492,355 2.3 1,001–5,000 3,681 7.8 7,625,092 5.1 5,001–10,000 385 0.8 2,816,756 1.9 10,001–50,000 300 0.7 6,148,224 4.1 50,001–100,000 38 0.1 2,685,719 1.8 100,001–500,000 48 0.1 10,906,513 7.3 over 500,001 16 0.0 40,821,833 27.1 Total 47,170 100.0 81,103,290 53.5 Nominee-registered shares 18 69,235,386 46.0 Own shares held by the Parent Company 719,060 0.5 In the issuer account 9,580 0.0 Number of shares issued 150,348,256 100.0 www.metso.com Metso Financial Statements 2011 111 Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report To the Annual General Meeting of Metso Corporation considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of We have audited the accounting records, the ﬁnancial stateﬁnancial statements and report of the Board of Directors that ments, the report of the Board of Directors and the administragive a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that tion of Metso Corporation for the year ended December 31, are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose 2011. The ﬁnancial statements comprise the consolidated inof expressing an opinion on the eﬀectiveness of the company’s come statement, statement of comprehensive income, balance internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the approprisheet, statement of cash ﬂows, statement of changes in equity ateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of and notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, as well as accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluatthe parent company’s income statement, balance sheet, cash ing the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements and the ﬂow statement and notes to the ﬁnancial statements. report of the Board of Directors. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufResponsibility of the Board of Directors ﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. and the President and CEO The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsiOpinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements ble for the preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements that In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true give a true and fair view in accordance with International Finanand fair view of the ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance, cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as and cash ﬂows of the group in accordance with International for the preparation of ﬁnancial statements and the report of the Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the Opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements ﬁnancial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in and the Report of the Board of Directors Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible for the appropriIn our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements and the report of the ate arrangement of the control of the company’s accounts and Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the consoliﬁnances, and the President and CEO shall see to it that the acdated and the parent company’s ﬁnancial performance and counts of the company are in compliance with the law and that ﬁnancial position in accordance with the laws and regulations its ﬁnancial aﬀairs have been arranged in a reliable manner. governing the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The information in Auditor’s Responsibility the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the inforOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the ﬁnancial mation in the ﬁnancial statements. statements, on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Other Opinions Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements We support that the ﬁnancial statements and the consolidated of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance ﬁnancial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice Board of Directors regarding the use of the proﬁt shown in the requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonbalance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Compaable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements and the nies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors report of the Board of Directors are free from material misstateand the President and CEO of the parent company should be ment, and whether the members of the Board of Directors of the discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial period audited by us. parent company and the President and CEO are guilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in damages towards Helsinki, February 13, 2012 the company or whether they have violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit Authorised Public Accountants evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due Johan Kronberg to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor Authorised Public Accountant 112 Metso Financial Statements 2011 www.metso.com Metso's Corporate Governance Corporate Governance We have prepared a separate Corporate Governance Statement for 2011 which complies with the recommendations of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for listed companies. It also covers other central areas of corporate governance. The complete statement is published on our website, at www.metso.com/governance. On the following pages, we present all the key governance information for 2011, including the Board’s nomination and agenda for the year, tasks and duties of the Board committees, as well as Metso’s management structure and remuneration of the Board and the top management. Metso’s governing bodies Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Nomination Board External Audit Board of Directors Internal Control Remuneration and Internal Audit Audit Committee HR Committee Risk Management Group President and CEO Executive Team Business Line Presidents Regulatory framework is publicly available on www.cgﬁnland.ﬁ. Metso The duties of Metso Corporation’s bodies are complies with the Code entirely and has not deviated governed by Finnish legislation and the duties of its from its recommendations. In our decision-making subsidiaries’ bodies by the legislations of their place of and governance, we also comply with other Finnish business. Metso complies with the Finnish Corporate legislation and regulations, our Articles of AssociaGovernance Code (“the Code”) issued by the Securition, the guidelines for insiders published by NASDAQ ties Market Association and which came into eﬀect on OMX Helsinki Ltd (hereinafter the Helsinki Exchange) October 1, 2010, as well as with the corporate governas well as the Finnish Central Chamber of Commerce’s ance principles deﬁned by our Board of Directors; Helsinki Takeover Code. these principles are based on the Finnish Companies The Audit Committee of Metso’s Board of Directors Act and the Finnish Securities Markets Act. The Code has reviewed this Corporate Governance Statement. www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 113 Metso's Corporate Governance Our independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers members EUR 48,000 each. The Nomination Board Oy, has veriﬁed that this statement has been issued furthermore proposes that for each meeting of the and that the statement-related description of the Board of Directors or the committees of the Board of main features of the internal control and risk manDirectors a fee of EUR 700 be paid to the members of agement systems related to the ﬁnancial reporting the Board that reside in the Nordic countries, a fee of process is consistent with our ﬁnancial statements. EUR 1,400 be paid to the members of the Board that We prepare consolidated ﬁnancial statements reside in other European countries and a fee of EUR and interim reports in accordance with the Inter2,800 be paid to the members of the Board that renational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as side outside Europe. As a condition for the annual readopted by EU, the Finnish Securities Markets Act muneration, the members of the Board are obliged as well as the applicable Finnish Financial Supervito use 40 percent of the ﬁxed annual remuneration sion Authority’s standards and Helsinki Exchange’s for purchasing Metso Corporation shares. rules. The Board of Directors’ report of Metso and The Nomination Board notes that a personnel the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements are representative will participate as an external expert prepared in accordance with the Finnish Accountin the Metso Board meetings also in the next Board ing Act and the guidelines and statements of the term within the limitations imposed by Finnish law. Finnish Accounting Board. The new Board of Directors will invite the personnel representative as its external expert in its organizing Governing bodies of Metso meeting after the Annual General Meeting. Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors 2011 The Annual General Meeting was held in Helsinki 2011 The key theme of the Board’s agenda was straon March 30, 2011. A total of 1,464 shareholders tegic development of Metso’s business. The agenda representing about 49.5 percent of the company’s covered developing Metso’s global presence, Metso’s votes participated in it either in person or by power of HR processes, developing the services business, and attorney. All members of the Board, Board candidate regularly monitoring the ﬁnancial development of Ozey K Horton, Jr., the chairman of Metso’s NominaMetso and its diﬀerent businesses. tion Board Kari Järvinen, Metso’s CEO Matti Kähkönen, The Board carried out a self-assessment of its and Metso’s Executive Team as well as the responsible performance by using an external advisor. The auditor representing the audit ﬁrm appointed by the assessment covered, among other things, composiAnnual General Meeting participated in the meeting. tion of the Board, eﬃciency and quality of the Board >> SEE LINK 1 and its Committees’ work, the Board’s strategy work, collaboration between the Board and operative Nomination Board management, quality of information, materials, and Nomination Board ahead of 2012 AGM reporting and control systems provided to and used Metso’s four largest shareholders as of October 3, by the Board. The results of the assessment are used 2011, announced the following representatives for the in developing the Board work. Nomination Board: Kari Järvinen (M.Sc. Engineering, The 2011 Annual General Meeting elected eight MBA, b. 1962), Managing Director, Solidium Oy; Lars members to the Board. Jukka Viinanen was elected Förberg (M.Sc. Econ. & Bus. Adm., b. 1965), Managing as Chairman and Maija-Liisa Friman as Vice ChairPartner of Cevian Capital; Harri Sailas (M.Sc. Econ. & man. The Board members re-elected were Erkki PeBus. Adm., b. 1951), CEO of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension hu-Lehtonen, Mikael von Frenckell, Christer Gardell, Insurance Company; and Matti Vuoria (Master of Yrjö Neuvo and Pia Rudengren. Ozey K. Horton, Jr. Laws, BA, b. 1951), Managing Director, President and was elected as a new member of the Board. Jukka CEO of Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company. Leppänen, the personnel representative, particiThe Nomination Board elected Kari Järvinen as its pated in the meetings as an invited expert. All Board Chairman, and Jukka Viinanen, Chairman of the Board members were independent of the company and of Directors, served as its expert member. independent of Metso’s signiﬁcant shareholders. The The Nomination Board convened four times and Board did not allocate to its members any speciﬁc made one unanimous resolution without convening. operational focus areas to monitor. The Board met 14 All members were present in all meetings. On January times during 2011, and attendance by its members 30, 2012, the Nomination Board provided Metso’s was 98 percent. Board its proposal for the Annual General Meeting to be held on March 29, 2012. The Nomination Board proBoard committees poses that Jukka Viinanen, Mikael von Frenckell, ChrisAudit Committee ter Gardell, Ozey K. Horton, Jr., Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen 2011 In addition to its regulatory duties, among and Pia Rudengren be re-elected and that Eeva Sipilä other things, the Audit Committee discussed Metso’s be elected as a new member. It is proposed to elect ﬁnancing situation and reporting practices. In addiJukka Viinanen as Chairman of the Board of Direction, the committee assessed Metso’s tax issues and tors and Mikael von Frenckell as Vice Chairman of the reviewed the success of business acquisitions made Board of Directors. in recent years, and it monitored the progress of The Nomination Board proposes that the global ERP projects. Additionally, the Audit Commitmembers of the Board of Directors be paid the foltee reviewed the impairment tests performed on lowing annual remuneration: to the Chairman EUR the intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives. As a 100,000; to the Vice Chairman and the Chairman of result of these tests, no impairment was recognized. the Audit Committee EUR 60,000; and to the other The Audit Committee also reviewed Metso’s Corpo114 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Metso's Corporate Governance rate Governance Statement. The Audit Committee did The Metso Executive Forum, discontinued in not use any external advisors. December, did not meet during the year. The Audit Committee comprised Pia Rudengren Metso’s President and CEO was Jorma Eloranta (Chairman), Maija-Liisa Friman and Erkki Pehuuntil his retirement on February 28, 2011, after Lehtonen. All committee members are independent which Matti Kähkönen became the President of the company and of signiﬁcant shareholders. The and CEO. As of March 1, 2011, the Metso Executive Audit Committee convened 5 times, and member Team comprises of Matti Kähkönen (Chairman); attendance was 100 percent. Metso’s CFO Harri Andrew Benko, President, Mining and Construction Nikunen was the secretary of the Audit Commitsegment; Perttu Louhiluoto, President, Automatee. Metso’s CEO and the independent auditor also tion segment; Pasi Laine, President, Pulp, Paper participated in the meetings. and Power segment, and Executive Vice President and Deputy to the CEO; Harri Nikunen, CFO; Merja Remuneration and HR Committee Kamppari, Senior Vice President, HR; and Kalle 2011 The main tasks of the Remuneration and HR Reponen, Senior Vice President, Strategy and M&A. Committee included planning Metso’s new shareOlli Vaartimo and Bertel Langenskiöld, who were based incentive scheme for 2012-2014, monitoring the previously members of the MET, reached their rerealization of the 2011 performance bonus plan and tirement age according to their executive contracts planning of the 2012 plan. The committee used exin autumn 2010 and did not continue in the MET ternal advisors relating to the share-based incentive after March 1, 2011. scheme and has ensured that the advisors were not >> SEE LINK 2 simultaneously advisors to the HR department or the operating management. Compliance with laws and Code of Conduct The Remuneration and HR Committee comprised Jukka Viinanen (Chairman), Christer Gardell, Yrjö NeuControl activities vo and Mikael von Frenckell. Merja Kamppari, Senior 2011 Metso’s Compliance Program continued in 2011 Vice President, HR, was the committee secretary. The with the integration of internal audit and complicommittee convened 7 times during the year. One ance testing into a single package. In terms of control member was absent from one committee meeting. requirements, there was more emphasis on the key business issues. Sustainability and worksite safety Board member meeting participation are currently part of the Metso Compliance Program The Board convened 14 times in 2011. The member requirements. Additionally, the new systems adopted participation rate was 98 percent. The Audit Comby Metso will enable signiﬁcantly more eﬀective mittee convened 5 times, and the member particicontrol procedures, which will be taken into considpation rate was 100 percent. The Remuneration and eration also in the program. HR Committee convened 7 times, and its member participation rate was 96 percent. Monitoring Remuneration 2011 In monitoring, we focused on the management Audit and HR Board Committee Committee of net working capital, cost structure competitiveJukka Viinanen ¹⁾ 13/14 7/7 ness and the functioning of the new ERP systems. Maija-Liisa Friman ²⁾ 13/14 5/5 Mikael von Frenckell ¹⁾ 14/14 7/7 Reporting of suspected ﬁnancial misconduct Christer Gardell ¹⁾ 14/14 6/7 2011 We received 11 reports of suspected ﬁnancial Ozey K. Horton, Jr. ³⁾ 11/11 misconduct via the Whistleblower channel. AddiYrjö Neuvo ¹⁾ 14/14 7/7 tionally, internal audit received four direct contacts. Links & Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen ²⁾ 14/14 5/5 A total of six cases were investigated, two of the notes Pia Rudengren ²⁾ 13/14 5/5 suspicions were classiﬁable as misconduct. There Jukka Leppänen were no cases of misconduct revealed in conjunc1 Annual General (personnel representative) 14/14 tion with internal audits. The cases of misconduct Meeting decisions www.metso.com/agm were reviewed by the Audit Committee in line with ¹⁾ Board member and Remuneration and HR Committee member. our guidelines on reporting misconduct. The cases 2 Current information The Board convened 14 times and the Remuneration and HR about Metso’s manageCommittee 7 times. did not have a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial ment www.metso.com/ ²⁾ Board member and Audit Committee member. The Board results we reported. management convened 14 times and the Audit Committee 5 times. 3 Additional information ³⁾ Elected as a Board member at the AGM on March 30. After the Auditors about Metso’s manageAGM, the Board convened 11 times. ment, p. 118–121 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, Authorized Public Accountants, has been Metso’s auditor since 1999. 4 The auditor’s report, presented on page 112, Management structure In 2011, the principal auditor was Johan Kronberg, covers the Board of Direc2011 The Metso Executive Team met 12 times durwho has been the company’s principal auditor since tors’ report, consolidated ing the year. Among its main tasks were strategic 2005. The Audit Committee decided in autumn to ﬁnancial statements and development of Metso’s business and structure and invite tenders for the auditor; as a result, the Board of the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements monitoring ﬁnancial development. The MET also Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting focused on development of Metso’s global presence, of Shareholders that Ernst & Young Oy be selected 5 Metso’s risk management is presented on pages HR processes, development of the services business, as the auditor. Our auditor was last put out to tender 24–25 and on our website as well as acquisitions and divestments. The Metso in 2004. The fees related to auditing work in 2011 www.metso.com/risks Executive Team also reviewed and updated Metso’s amounted to EUR 2.6 million. 6 Internal Audit’s Charter strategy for the Board review. www.metso.com/audit www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 115 Metso's Corporate Governance Share-based incentive plans Audit fees Long-term Incentive Plan 2012–2014 In December 2011, Metso’s Board decided to estabEUR million 2008 2009 2010 2011 lish a new share-based incentive plan that has three Audit 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.6 performance periods, which are calendar years Tax consulting 1.8 1.7 2.0 2.0 2012, 2013 and 2014. The Board shall decide on the Other services 1.1 0.8 1.0 1.1 performance criteria, targets and participants in the Total 5.6 5.0 5.5 5.7 beginning of each performance period. The plan is targeted to approximately 100 persons in Metso management for the performance period 2012. The Management remuneration potential rewards to be paid on the basis of the performance period 2012 will correspond to a maxiRemuneration of the Board mum total of approximately 450,000 Metso shares. The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuThe Executive Team’s share of the 2012 earnings neration to the members of the Board for one term period can be a maximum of 95,132 shares. of oﬃce at a time. The Annual General Meeting in The potential reward from the performance 2011 decided to keep the fees paid to Board memperiod 2012 is based on the net sales growth of bers unchanged. The annual fees are: the services business, return on capital employed (ROCE, ) before taxes and earnings per share t Chairman of the Board EUR 92,000 (EPS). The potential reward of the plan from the t Vice Chairman of the Board EUR 56,000 performance period 2012 will be paid at the end of t Chairman of the Audit Committee EUR 56,000 an approximately two-year vesting period in 2015, t Other Board members EUR 45,000 partly in company shares and partly in cash. The proportion to be paid in cash is intended to cover In addition, for Board members whose place of taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward domicile is in the Nordic countries, a fee of EUR 600 to the participants. If a participant’s employment or per meeting is paid for each Board and committee service ends for reasons relating to the participant meeting they attend. The meeting fee for members before the reward payment, no reward will be paid. residing elsewhere in Europe is EUR 1,200 and for The reward for each performance period of the plan those residing outside of Europe EUR 2,400. Commay not exceed 120 percent of a participant’s annual pensation for travel expenses and daily allowances is total base salary. paid in accordance with Metso’s travel policy. The Metso shares to be transferred in possible Based on the decision of the Annual General rewards will be obtained in public trading, and Meeting in 2011, 40 percent of the annual fees were therefore the incentive plan will have no diluting used to buy Metso shares from the market. The eﬀect on the share value. shares were acquired within the two weeks following the April 28, 2011 publication of the interim reRemuneration of the President and CEO port. Altogether, 4,308 shares were acquired, which President and CEO until February 28, 2011 is 0.003 percent of Metso’s total share capital. There Former President and CEO Jorma Eloranta retired are no special terms or conditions associated with at the end of February 2011 in accordance with the Links & owning these shares. The number of shares acquired terms of his contract. The amount of the perfornotes in this conjunction for Board members are listed in mance bonus paid to him in 2011 corresponded to the table below. approximately a salary of six months. He is included 1 Current information in Metso’s share ownership plans launched before on management’s ownership 2011 and has a supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt penwww.metso.com/ Board member Number of shares sion plan. His retirement pension is 60 percent of insiders Jukka Viinanen 924 his pensionable compensation during the last four 2 Detailed information Maija-Liisa Friman 562 service years. about Board member Mikael von Frenckell 452 remuneration is Christer Gardell 452 available in the Notes President and CEO from March 1, 2011 onwards Ozey K. Horton, Jr. 452 Matti Kähkönen became Metso’s President and CEO to the Financial Statements, p. 68–70 Yrjö Neuvo 452 on March 1, 2011. The CEO is entitled to participate Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen 452 in Metso’s shortand long-term incentive programs 3 Read more about our share ownership plan: Pia Rudengren 562 according to the respective terms and conditions of note 22 to the Financial Total 4,308 those programs. The terms and conditions are deStatements, p. 83 cided by the Board. The Board assesses the work and 4 More detailed informaperformance of the President and CEO and decides tion about the President and CEO’s and The Board members, none of whom are employees on his remuneration. The remuneration of Matti other Executive Team of Metso, were paid annual remuneration and meetKähkönen is described in more detail in the table on members’ compensaings fees totaling EUR 556,800 during the ﬁnancial the following page. tion and beneﬁts is available in the Notes year that ended December 31, 2011. The Board >> SEE LINK 1 to the Financial Statemembers are not covered by Metso’s bonus plans, ments, p. 68–70 share-based incentive schemes or pension plans. 116 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Metso's Corporate Governance Remuneration paid to the President and CEO, Executive Vice President and other Executive Team members Paid Annual performance Fringe Share-based EUR salary bonus beneﬁts payment Total 2010 President and CEO Jorma Eloranta 550,790 263,752 12,812 827,354 Executive Vice President Olli Vaartimo from Jan 1 to Sep 30, 2010 305,973 143,722 18,234 467,929 Executive Vice President Matti Kähkönen from Oct 1 to Dec 31, 2010 90,315 3,545 93,860 Other Executive Team members 1,364,759 322,783 56,817 1,744,359 Total 2,311,837 730,257 91,408 3,133,502 2011 President and CEO Jorma Eloranta from Jan 1 to Feb 28, 2011 117,680 253,012 2,166 372,858 President and CEO Matti Kähkönen from Mar 1 to Dec 31, 2011 419,357 190,113 12,349 621,819 Executive Vice President Matti Kähkönen from Jan 1 to Feb 28, 2011 84,942 2,363 87,305 Executive Vice President Pasi Laine from Mar 1 to Dec 31, 2011 304,900 200,340 9,500 514,740 Other Executive Team members 1,353,595 857,595 60,915 2,272,105 Total 2,280,474 1,501,060 87,293 3,868,827 In 2012, an estimated bonus of about EUR 217,500 will be paid to President and CEO Matti Kähkönen and an estimated bonus of about EUR 197,500 to Executive Vice President Pasi Laine based on 2011 performance. Metso has subscribed pension plans for senior management and the beneﬁciaries include members of the Metso Executive Team. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, the pension insurance premium payments totaled approximately EUR 3.0 million and EUR 1.8 million, respectively. Employment terms and conditions of President and CEO Matti Kähkönen as of March 1, 2011 Base salary and fringe beneﬁts Total monthly salary EUR 41,100, including salary and fringe beneﬁts (company car and mobile phone). Short-term incentive (annual bonus) Annual bonus can be earned in accordance with terms approved by the Board. The maximum bonus is 60 percent of total annual salary. Long-term incentives According to Metso’s Share Ownership Plans. The annual reward payment cannot exceed the annual total salary, deﬁned as taxable annual gross income without annual bonus and longterm incentives, multiplied by 1.5. In the new plan starting in 2012, the maximum bonus is 120 percent of the total annual salary. Pension Retirement age is 63 years. Kähkönen has a supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan. His total pension is 60 percent of average monthly earnings during the past four full calendar years prior to retirement, adjusted by the pension index. Termination of assignment Notice period for both parties is six months. Severance pay (if the company terminates the agreement) is six months’ notice period compensation plus severance pay corresponding to the last total monthly salary multiplied by 18. www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 117 Board of Directors Board of Directors Dec 31, 2011 Mikael von Frenckell Jukka Viinanen Yrjö Neuvo Christer Gardell Pia Rudengren Ozey K. Horton, Jr. Jukka Leppänen Maija-Liisa Friman Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen 118 www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Board of Directors Jukka Viinanen Maija-Liisa Friman Pia Rudengren Born 1948. Born 1952. Born 1965. Finnish citizen. Finnish citizen. Swedish citizen. Main occupation: Chairman of the Board. Main occupation: Board professional. Main occupation: Board professional. MSc. Chemical Engineering. MSc. Chemical Engineering. MSc. Business Administration and Economics. Independent of the company and Independent of the company and Independent of the company and independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. Board member since 2008. Metso Board member since 2003. Metso Board member since 2009. Chairman of the Board since 2009. Vice Chairman of the Board since 2010. Chairman of the Board’s Audit Committee. Chairman of the Board’s Remuneration Member of the Board’s Audit Committee. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 1,235 and HR Committee. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 2,900 Key work experience: CFO, (member of Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 3,301 Key work experience: President and CEO in management team 1998–2001) Investor AB Key work experience: President and CEO, various companies 1993–2004 (Aspocomp 1990–2001, Executive Vice President, Orion Corporation 2000–2007, various Group Plc, Vattenfall Oy, Gyproc Oy). W Capital Management AB 2001–2005, management positions, Neste Corporation Board professional 2006–. 1980–1999, President and CEO and Vice Chairman of the Board 1997–1999. Christer Gardell Yrjö Neuvo Mikael von Frenckell Born 1960. Born 1943. Born 1947. Swedish citizen. Finnish citizen. Finnish citizen. Main occupation: CEO. Main occupation: Professor. Main occupation: Chairman of the Board. MSc. Business Administration and Ph.D., Cornell University. MSc. Soc. Economics, MBA-program on-going. Independent of the company and Independent of the company and Independent of the company and independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. Metso Board member since 2006. Metso Board member since 2010. Metso Board member since 2006. Member of the Board’s Remuneration and Member of the Board’s Remuneration and Member of the Board’s Remuneration and HR Committee. HR Committee. HR Committee. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 8,225 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 101,125 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 1,125 Key work experience: Chief Technology Key work experience: Various management Key work experience: Founder and Oﬃcer, member of the Group Executive positions, Union Bank of Finland 1990–1995, Managing Partner, Cevian Capital 2001–, Board, Nokia Corporation 1993–2005, various management positions (incl. CEO, AB Custos 1996–2001, Partner at several professorial positions in Sponsor Oy, Ekström Oy). Nordic Capital and McKinsey & Company. diﬀerent universities. Personnel representative Erkki Pehu-Lehtonen Ozey K. Horton, Jr. Jukka Leppänen Born 1950. Born 1951. Born 1949. Finnish citizen. U.S. citizen. Finnish citizen. Main occupation: Main occupation: Board professional, Main occupation: Testing Engineer. MSc. Mechanical Engineering. independent advisor. Personnel representative in Metso Independent of the company and MBA, BSE. Board. Participates in Board meetings as independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. Metso Board member since 2011. an invited expert with no voting rights; Metso Board member since 2010. Independent of the company and term of oﬃce is the same as Board Member of the Board’s Audit Committee. independent of signiﬁcant shareholders. members’ term. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 1,875 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 452 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 520 Key work experience: President and CEO, Key work experience: Various management Key work experience: Metso employee Links & Pöyry Plc 1999–2008, other management positions, McKinsey & Company 1981–2011. since 1976. Shop steward for senior notes positions, Pöyry Plc, Neles-Jamesbury Inc. clerical employees and an industrial and Valmet Paper Machinery Inc. safety delegate. 1 Current information on Metso’s Board of Directors www.metso.com/ management www.metso.com www.metso.com Metso Metso Annual Report Annual Report 2011 2011 119 Executive Team Executive Team Dec 31, 2011 Harri Nikunen Kalle Reponen Matti Kähkönen Perttu Louhiluoto Andrew Benko Merja Kamppari Pasi Laine 120 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Executive Team Matti Kähkönen Andrew Benko Perttu Louhiluoto Born 1956. Born 1949. Born 1964. Finnish citizen. U.S. citizen. Finnish citizen. MSc. Engineering. MSc. Engineering. Master of Laws, MSc. Economics. Main occupation: President and CEO. Main occupation: President, Main occupation: President, Automation. Chairman of the Executive Team since 2011. Mining and Construction. Member of the Executive Team 2009 Member of the Executive Team since 2001. Member of the Executive Team since 2011. and since 2011. Joined the company in 1980. Joined the company in 2001. Joined the company in 2008. Metso shares, Dec 31, 2011: 12,328 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 9,989 Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 2,750 Key experience: President, Metso Minerals Key experience: President, Metso’s Key experience: President, Energy and 2006–2011, Metso Automation 2001–2006. Equipment and Systems(2009–2011), Environmental Technology 2011; Senior Vice and Mining business line (2007–2009); President, EMEA Market Area, Mining and President, Minerals Processing business Construction Technology 2009–2011; Senior line 2001–2006; various top management Vice President, Operational Excellence, Metso positions at Svedala 1993–2001. Corporation 2008–2009; Partner, McKinsey & Company 2000–2008, various positions at McKinsey & Company 1991–1999. Pasi Laine Harri Nikunen Merja Kamppari Born 1963. Born 1955. Born 1958. Finnish citizen. Finnish citizen. Finnish citizen. MSc. Engineering. BA, Finance and Business Administration. MSc. Economics. Main occupation: President, Main occupation: CFO. Main occupation: Senior Vice Pulp, Paper and Power. Member of the Executive Team since 2011. President, Human Resources. Executive Vice President and Deputy to CEO. Joined the company in 1994. Member of the Executive Team since 2011. Member of the Executive Team since 2006. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 4,931 Joined the company in 2009. Joined the company in 1998. Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 2,100 Key experience: Various senior Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 9,437 management positions, Metso 1994–2011; Key experience: Various top management Key experience: President, Paper and various ﬁnance management positions, HR positions, Nokia Networks, and Nokia Fiber Technology 2011; President, Energy Rosenlew Group 1986–1994. Siemens Networks 1994–2009. and Environmental Technology 2008–2011; President, Metso Automation 2006–2008, Metso Automation’s Field Systems business line 2003–2006. Links & notes Kalle Reponen Group Head Oﬃce Born 1965. 1 Current information on President and CEO Investor Relations Metso Executive Team Finnish citizen. Juha Rouhiainen www.metso.com/ Matti Kähkönen MSc. Economics. Metso Shared Services management Communications Main occupation: Senior Vice President, Juha Seppälä Jussi Ollila Strategy and M&A. Treasury Legal Matters Member of the Executive Team since 2008. Pekka Hölttä Aleksanteri Lebedeﬀ Joined the company in 2006. Strategy and Human Resources Metso shares Dec 31, 2011: 4,155 Corporate Development Merja Kamppari Kalle Reponen Key experience: Partner, MCF Corporate CFO Finance 2003–2006; Head of Capital Goods, Indirect Procurement Harri Nikunen Nordea Corporate Finance 2000–2003; Jouni Peltomäki Finance Stakeholder Relations and various positions, Wärtsilä Corporation Reijo Kostiainen 1991–2000. Trade Policy Information Technology Jukka Seppälä Pauli Nuutinen Sustainability and Internal Audit Technology Development Jarmo Kääriäinen Lennart Ohlsson www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 121 Investor information Investor information Investor relations In 2011, we travelled 38 days in Europe, the United States and Asia, frequently with our top management, to meet with investors. During the year, we met over 450 professional investors and analysts, and we participated in 10 investor seminars around the world. In November, we arranged a Capital Markets Day seminar in London, UK. More than 30 analysts and investors from Helsinki, Stockholm, Oslo and London took part in the event. The theme for the event was our new strategy and growth outlook. Metso’s Disclosure Policy outlines the principles of financial communications and lays down our Anu Haapamäki Marja Mäkinen Juha Rouhiainen operational models and practices in various communications situations. The entire Disclosure Policy is available at www.metso.com/investors. Investor relations contact information Investor services on the Internet The investor information included on Metso’s website Juha Rouhiainen Marja Mäkinen Anu Haapamäki contains a share monitor, which is an interactive tool Vice President, Investor Relations Manager IR Coordinator for viewing and analyzing the performance of Metso’s Investor Relations Tel.: +358 20 484 3211 Tel.: +358 20 484 3117 share traded on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki exchange. Tel.: +358 20 484 3253 Email: marja.makinen Email: anu.haapamaki The data in the monitor is updated every 15 minutes. Email: juha.rouhiainen @metso.com @metso.com You can also find monthly updates on Metso’s larg@metso.com est shareholders, the company’s insider register, an archive of presentations and financial reports, as well Investor Relations Providing current information as services, such as consensus estimates on Metso’s metso.ir@metso.com about the company financial performance provided by analysts, a historical Our main task at Metso’s Investor Relations is to price lookup and an investment calculator that enables support the correct valuation of Metso’s share by you to calculate the value of your Metso investment. providing information on matters concerning our In addition, the website contains a financial calendar operations and operating environment, strategy, showing the publication dates of our financial reports, objectives and financial situation. We anticipate that as well as the dates and times of events planned for capital market participants will find this information investors, such as the Annual General Meeting, along valuable when forming a balanced view of Metso with the presentations used at these events. A list of as an investment. In recent years, the dialogue has the banks and brokerage firms that analyze Metso as increased: we regularly gather and analyze market an investment as well as the analysts and their contact information and investor feedback for use by top information is also available. Most recently, we have management and the Board of Directors. Our goal published ir 2.0, a service where we have collected inis to provide correct, adequate and current informaformation about the social media and mobile channels tion regularly and impartially to all market particithrough which you can follow Metso. pants. In our work, we aim for promptness, transparCheck out our Investor Relations services and ency and good service every day. activities on our website: Working closely and interacting • Financial reports and results presentations with our stakeholders • Calendar: investor meetings and seminars, results Investor Relations is responsible for investor compublications munications and for daily contact with investors. We • Annual General Meeting details are responsible for organizing all investor meeting • Metso’s Capital Markets Day presentations requests with our management or with an IR repre• Disclosure Policy sentative. Our investor communications consists of • Contact information for Metso’s Investor Relafinancial reporting, releases, our website as well as tions as well as for analysts monitoring Metso investor meetings and seminars, in which also our • ir 2.0: Metso in social media and mobile solutions top management actively participates. We also ar>> SEE LINK 1 range an annual Capital Markets Day event. In connection with the publication of our financial Silent period results, we always arrange a news conference for During the three-week period prior to publication investors and analysts in English. It is possible to of the annual or interim financial results, we are not participate in these events also by phone or on the in contact with capital market representatives. At Internet, and a webcast is available also for later viewother times, we will be happy to answer the enquiring on our website. ies of analysts and investors by phone, email or at arranged investor meetings. 122 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Investor information For Shareholders Annual General Meeting Read more about AGM-related issues on The 2012 Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Metso Corour website: poration will be held at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 29, 2012, at Helsinki Fair Centre (Messuaukio 1, FI-00520 t Notice of AGM Helsinki, Finland). We published a Notice to the AGM on t Registering for the AGM February 28, 2012; since that time, also the agenda and t Proposal on composition of the Board meeting materials have been available on our website. t Board’s proposal on proﬁt distribution Shareholders who are entered as shareholders in t Proposals on Board’s authorizations Metso’s shareholder register maintained by Euro>> SEE LINK 2 clear Finland Ltd by March 19, 2012, have the right to participate in the AGM. The meeting will be held in Trading of Metso’s shares Finnish, but simultaneous interpretation in English Metso Corporation has one share series. Metso’s will be provided. shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd and are registered in the Finnish book entry register Registration maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. Trading of Shareholders who wish to participate in the meeting Metso’s ADS (American Depositary Shares) in the should notify Metso of their intention to participate United States is carried out on the over-the-counter by March 23, 2012, at the latest. (OTC) market. Each Metso ADS represents one Metso A notice of participation can be submitted at share. The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the www.metso.com/agm, by phone at +358 1080 8300 depository for the Metso ADS. (from Monday to Friday between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. EET), by fax at +358 20 484 3125, or by mail to Credit ratings Metso Corporation, Ritva Tyventö-Saari, PO Box 1220, FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland. Notice of participation Standard & Poor’s must be received before the deadline. In connection August 12, 2010 with the registration, shareholders are required to Corporate credit rating: BBB, outlook: stable provide their name, personal or company identiﬁcaShort-term rating: A-2. Ratings for outstanding tion number, address, telephone number and the bonds and EMTN program: BBB name of a possible assistant, authorized representative or statutory representative. Any proxy docuMoody’s ments should also be sent to the above-mentioned December 22, 2011 address during the registration period. Long-term credit rating: Baa2, outlook positive Shareholders holding nominee-registered shares (raised from stable) and wishing to participate in the AGM can be entered into the temporary shareholder register by no later than Financial publications 10:00 a.m. on March 26, 2012, in order to be able to parWe publish the printed Annual Report for 2011 in Finnticipate in the AGM, if the shareholder has the right to ish and English and the Online Annual Report 2011 in Links & be entered in Metso’s shareholder register on the basis English at www.metso.com/2011. The printed report is notes of the same shares on the AGM’s record date March 19, mailed to those who have ordered it. A pdf version of 2012. Shareholders holding nominee-registered shares the report is also available on our website at 1 www.metso.com/ investors are urged to ask their custodian bank for instructions www.metso.com. on registering in the shareholder register, the issuing of We publish interim reviews in Finnish and English 2 Read more about Metso’s AGM proxy documents and registering for the AGM. on our website. Live webcasts of the related news www.metso.com/agm conferences can be viewed in English on our website. 3 Trading information for Payment of dividends We publish releases in Finnish and English, and Metso’s share: The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that a they are available on our website. www.metso.com/share dividend of EUR 1.70 per share be paid for 2011. The 4 Metso’s share is dividend will be paid to those shareholders who are included in several entered in the Corporation’s shareholder register indices: www.metso.com/ maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record indices date of the dividend payment, April 3, 2012. 5 Order Metso publications and releases: Important dates related to the AGM Publication dates of reviews and reports in 2012 www.metso.com/ subscriptions Record date of AGM participation March 19, 2012 Financial statements review 2011 February 9, 2012 6 Read more about Registration period ends March 23, 2012 Annual Report 2011 week 10, 2012 Metso’s share and Annual General Meeting March 29, 2012 Interim review for January–March April 26, 2012 shareholders, p. 106–111 Dividend ex-date March 30, 2012 Interim review for January–June July 26, 2012 7 How to submit a Record date of dividend payment April 3, 2012 Interim review for January–September October 25, 2012 change of address for shareholders: Date of dividend payment April 12, 2012 www.metso.com/share www.metso.com Metso Annual Report 2011 123 Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish original) To the Management of Metso Corporation t Interviewing senior management of We have been engaged by the Management of Metso Corporation. Metso Corporation to perform a limited assurance t Assessing how Metso Group employees apply engagement on the information on economic, social Metso Corporation’s reporting instructions and and environmental responsibility disclosed in Metso procedures. Corporation’s annual sustainability reporting for the t Visiting Metso Corporation’s Head Oﬃce as well period of January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. The as six production units in South Africa, India, annual sustainability reporting (hereinafter “SustainChina, France, Sweden and Finland. ability Reporting”) consists of sustainability informat Interviewing employees responsible for collection disclosed in Metso Corporation’s printed Annual tion and reporting of the information presented Report 2011 and in sections “Financial Performance” in the Sustainability Reporting at Metso Group and “Sustainability Results” of the Online Annual level and at the diﬀerent production units where Report 2011 on Metso Corporation’s website. our visits took place. The scope of the Sustainability Reporting covers t Inspecting relevant documents and systems for Metso Group. gathering, analysing and aggregating the information presented in the Sustainability Reporting Management’s Responsibility as well as testing on a sample basis. The Management of Metso Corporation is respont Assessing the data consolidation process of sible for preparing the Sustainability Reporting in the information presented in the Sustainability accordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in Reporting at Metso Group level. Metso Corporation’s reporting instructions and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Conclusion Reporting Initiative (version 3.1). Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to bePractitioner’s Responsibility lieve that the Sustainability Reporting has not been Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Sustainability Reporting based on our work perthe Reporting criteria. Our assurance report should formed. Our assurance report has been made in acbe read in conjunction with the inherent limitations cordance with the terms of our engagement. We do of accuracy and completeness for sustainability not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, information. This independent assurance report except to Metso Corporation for our work, for this should not be used on its own as a basis for interreport, or for the conclusions that we have reached. preting Metso Corporation’s performance in relation We conducted our work in accordance with the to its principles of sustainability. International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ’Assurance Engagements Other than Helsinki, 23 February 2012 Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordJohan Kronberg Sirpa Juutinen ance with the Reporting criteria. Authorised Public Accountant Partner In a limited assurance engagement the Sustainability & Climate Change evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: 124 Metso Annual Report 2011 www.metso.com Forward-looking statements It should be noted that certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation, those regarding expectations for general About this report economic development and the market situation, expectations for customer industry proﬁtability and investment willingness, expectations for company Concept, design and production growth, development and proﬁtability and the Miltton Oy realization of synergy beneﬁts and cost savings, and statements preceded by “expects,” “estimates,” “forePhotos casts” or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Metso, These statements are based on current decisions Tomi Parkkonen, and plans and currently known factors. They involve Getty Images risks and uncertainties which may cause the actual results to materially diﬀer from the results currently Paper expected by the company. Galerie Art Silk 300g Such factors include, but are not limited to: Galerie Art Silk 130g Galerie Fine Silk 90g 1 General economic conditions, including ﬂucPrinting tuations in exchange rates and interest levels Libris which inﬂuence the operating environment and proﬁtability of customers and thereby the orders received by the company and their margins The paper, and the pulp used in making the paper, was produced with machines and equipment manu2 The competitive situation, especially signiﬁcant factured by Metso. The report is printed on Galerie Art technological solutions developed by competiSilk and Galerie Fine Silk paper, which are PEFC-certitors ﬁed and meet the environmental criteria for the Swan 3 The company’s own operating conditions, such ecolabel. PEFC certiﬁcation conﬁrms that the forests as the success of production, product develare being sustainably managed. The printing inks and opment and project management and their chemicals used in printing comply with the requirecontinuous development and improvement ments for the Swan ecolabel. The printing ink is plant 4 The success of pending and future acquisitions oil-based, and the other materials used are recyclable and restructuring and eco-friendly. The operations of the Libris Oy printing house are ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certiﬁed. Group Head Oﬃce Metso Corporation Fabianinkatu 9 A, FI-00130 Helsinki PO Box 1220, FI-00101 Helsinki Tel: +358 20 484 100 Fax: +358 20 484 101 www.metso.com Our 30,000 professionals based in over 50 countries deliver sustainability and proﬁtability to customers worldwide. www.metso.com 2011 www.metso.com/  Metso Corporation | Fabianinkatu 9 A, PO Box 1220, FI-00101 Helsinki Tel. +358 20 484 100 Fax +358 20 484 101 | www.metso.com
