Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 2010~2011 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this Report Reporting Information This is the second sustainability report published by Hyundai Engineering, which includes its efforts for sustainable growth and performances in the economic, environmental and social areas. This report will serve as the momentum for the examination of the sustainable management, and Hyundai Engineering hopes this second publication becomes a communication channel for co-development with stakeholders. Reporting Scope and Period This report covers activities and performances of Hyundai Engineering’s sustainable management for two years from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. Reporting and Assurance Standards This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines together with the guidance on ISO 26000 and UNGC. The reliability of the contents was verified through the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting V.3.0 standard by DNV, a third-party assurance institute. For more details about the result, please refer to the third-party verification report. Detailed Information on the Report This report in PDF version is available from the website. For more information or inquiries on this report, please contact: Team CSR Representative, Planning Team, Planning Office E-mail heccsr@hec.co.kr Tel 82-2-2166-3824 Fax 82-2-2646-1503 Website www.hec.co.kr Address Hyundai 41 Tower Bldg., 917-9, Mok 1-dong, Yangcheon-gu, Seoul, Korea Philosophy A blueprint connecting the past, present and future of Hyundai Motor Group Since its establishment Hyundai Motor Group has built a history of success based on challenge and passion. Such entrepreneurship has been reestablished as a systematic management ideology made up of the management philosophy, vision and core values. This will be maintained and developed even further in the future. Core Values To implement our management philosophy and vision, all our members bear these values in mind and consider them standards for behavior and decision making. Management Philosophy This is the essential reason A blueprint connecting why and the purpose for which the past, present and future Hyundai Motor Group exists. It is the spirit that serves as our foundation. Vision These are the business objectives that Hyundai Motor Group should accomplish over the next decade. Our group will achieve them through concrete business strategies and action plans. Hyundai Motor Group Structure Automobiles Steel Construction HYUNDAI MOTOR COMPANY HYUNDAI STEEL HYUNDAI ENGINEERING KIA MOTOR COMPANY HYUNDAI HYSCO HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & HYUNDAI BNGSTEEL CONSTRUCTION HYUNDAI AMCO HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & STEEL INDUSTRIES HYUNDAI ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS ASSOCIATES HYUNDAI CITY CORPORATION Core Concept of Management Philosophy 5 Core Values We will realize the dream of mankind by creating a Core Values new future through ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers. Unlimited Sense of Responsibility We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportuHyundai Motor Group is striving to successfully operate businity for greater challenge, and are confident in achievnesses based on a sense of responsibility to all stakeholders. ing our goals with unwavering passion and ingenious This responsibility drives us even further to provide superior challenge thinking. quality to our customers. We create synergy through a sense of “togetherness” that is fostered by mutual communication and coRealization of Possibilities operation within the company and with our business collaboration Hyundai Motor Group has a distinctive spirit of accepting partners. challenge that rejects complacency and it is never held back We promote customer-driven corporate culture by by the fear of failure. This spirit has come to be written into providing the best quality and impeccable service with our DNA for success and it makes the impossible, possible. all values centered on our customers. Based on our pioneering spirit and responsible entrepreneurcustomer ship, which form the root of our group’s splendid story of expansion, Hyundai Engineering will work together with our We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, asemployees, partner companies and local communities to propire to be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to mote harmonious development and growth. become a respected global corporate citizen. globality Respect for Mankind We believe the future of our organization lies in the The greatest objective and premier value for business Manhearts and capabilities of individual members, and will agement is to practice love for humanity. Hyundai Motor help them develop their potential by creating a corpopeople Group is striving to improve general living standards by prorate culture that respects talent. viding top-quality products and services to more people. In addition, we are working to become a company that contributes to the global community by responding proactively to environmental issues. Automobile Parts Service/Finance Logistics & IT HYUNDAI MOBIS HYUNDAI CAPITAL HYUNDAI GLOVIS HYUNDAI WIA HYUNDAI CARD HYUNDAI ROTEM HYUNDAI DYMOS INNOCEAN HYUNDAI AUTOEVER HYUNDAI POWERTECH HMC INVESTMENT HYUNDAI MNSOFT KEFICO SECURITIES HYUNDAI C&I HYUNDAI PARTECS HYUNDAI COMMERCIAL HYUNDAI CARNES HYUNDAI METIA HAEVICHI HOTEL & HYUNDAI WISCO RESORT JEJU HYUNDAI MSEAT HYUNDAI NGV HYUNDAI IHL HYUNDAI FARMLAND & DEVELOPMENT Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 1 Contents 2010~2011 highlights 2 Employees 48 Great Work Place Introduction 4 A Sustainable Future for All Respect for Talents 50 Capability Enhancement 52 President Message 6 Welfare Benefits 54 Corporate Profile 8 Health and Safety 58 Sustainable Management of Hyundai Engineering 10 Labor-Management Communication 61 Business Portfolio 11 Special Communication & Collaboration 62 Hyundai Engineering in the World 12 Major Projects 14 Local Communities 64 Stakeholder Engagement 15 Co-prosperity Materiality Assessment 16 Introduction to Hyundai Engineering’s Social 66 Stakeholders of Hyundai Engineering 18 Contribution Sustainable Growth for the Future Social Contribution Activities 67 Green Growth & Eco-friendly Engineering 72 Management 20 Eco-friendly Technology 76 Innovative Leadership Green Office 78 Green Management Performances 79 Corporate Governance 22 Special Performances in 82 Risk Management 24 Social Responsibility Activities Ethical Management 26 Creation & Distribution of Economic Value 28 Appendix 84 Special New Growth Engines 30 Summarized Economic Performances 86 Customers 32 Awards and Memberships in Associations 87 Customer Satisfaction Third-party Assurance Statement 88 GRI G3.1 Guidelines & ISO 26000 Index 90 Customer Management 34 Glossary 94 Quality Management 36 Reader’s Opinion 95 New Technologies 38 Special Research & Business 40 Development (R&BD) Vendors 42 Win-win Partnership Co-prosperity with Vendors 44 Special Compliance Program 46 HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 2 2010~2011 highlights 01 02 04 05 03 01 02 03 Joined the Hyundai Motor Group Won the USD 500 Million Export Tower Ranked 47th in the 2012 ENR rankings 2011. 04. 01 2010. 12. 01 2012. 07. 23 With the entry into the Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai Engineering won the ‘USD 500 Million Hyundai Engineering ranked 47th in the top 200 Hyundai Engineering will focus on maximizing Export Tower’ at the ‘47th Trade Day,’ which International Design Firms by ENR (Engineering synergy and diversifying its business portfolio. was held by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy News-Record, US) up 7 levels over the previous and sponsored by the Korea International Trade year and currently top-ranking among the Association. domestic firms. 04 05 Obtained the ‘KEPIC Quality System’ Opened the ‘Hope Creation Center’ for certification Disabled People 2011. 02. 18 2010. 07. 26 Hyundai Engineering obtained the ‘KEPIC (SN) To create jobs for severely disabled people, Quality System’ certification for capability and Hyundai Engineering opened a work site for those quality in the nuclear power plant business from individuals together with the Yangcheon Welfare Korea Electric Association. Center for the Disabled. Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 3 06 08 07 09 10 06 07 08 Won an order for FEED of the Kandym Field Won an Order for the Kenyan Olkaria Won the Grand Prize at the ‘2011 Seoul Gas Plant from Uzbekistan Geothermal Power Plant project amounting Service Award’ 2011. 08. 09 to USD 373 million worth 2011. 10. 31 Hyundai Engineering will implement the FEED 2011. 11. 08 Hyundai Engineering won the Grand Prize in the (Front-End Engineering and Design) project for the Based on unique experience and performance in group sector at the ‘2011 Seoul Service Award’ nation’s largest gas treatment facility in Bukhara, geothermal power plant project among Korean on the recommendation of the Sinmog Welfare Uzbekistan. companies, Hyundai Engineering won an order Center and Yangcheon Welfare Center for the for the Kenyan Olkaria geothermal power plant Disabled. (This award was established to cite project. This project will allow Hyundai Engineering exemplary citizens and organizations for their to further secure a competitive advantage in the commitments to regional development by Seoul power plant market in Kenya. City and Hankook Ilbo in 1989.) 09 10 Joined the UN Global Compact Introduced the Compliance Program 2010. 06. 08 2011. 06. 23 Hyundai Engineering became a member of The Compliance Program (CP) was introduced to UNGC (UN Global Compact), an international enhance the transparent and ethical management organization, for the first time among the system in Hyundai Engineering. domestic engineering companies. A Sustainable Future for All Hyundai Engineering has been committed to creating a better world through continuous changes and innovation for the past 38 years. Based on such performances, Hyundai Engineering is laying the foundation for future growth. Designing and building a world where all people can enjoy the happiness and sustainable growth this is Hyundai Engineering’s promise to next generations. With differentiated capabilities accumulated for the past 38 years, Hyundai Engineering has made great strides. Hyundai Engineering achieved KRW 1.66 trillion in sales in 2011 and leaped up to 47th in the international design firms sector of engineering company rankings released by ENR in 2012. These remarkable performances resulted mainly from efforts and supports of all stakeholders including shareholders, customers, vendors and employees, which eventually proved that Hyundai Engineering has continued to deliver values to the society. With a strong awareness of corporate citizenship, Hyundai Engineering has devoted itself to the development of the society. Hyundai Engineering pursues becoming a futureoriented company that grows together with all executives and employees, communicates with each other on the basis of strong trust, practices sharing management and considers the happiness of next generations as well as current generation. Customers Management Vendors Local Communities Employees c o m m u ni c atio n S gro us wt h ta trust in a b il ity Ha pp in e ss HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 6 President Message “Hyundai Engineering will sustainably grow in harmony with society and the environment by proactively engaging in communication with stakeholders and fulfilling its corporate social responsibility.” Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 7 Our valued stakeholders, Hyundai Engineering will consistently build trust with customers by focusing on developing design and engineering technologies that I would like to extend my sincere gratitude for your unwavering meet customer requirements. support and affection. Hyundai Engineering has been seizing new opportunities for value Hyundai Engineering will pursue win-win partnership with vendors. In creation by leveraging consistent technological development based June 2011, the Compliance Program was introduced to ensure fair on engineering expertise gained through 38 years of experience and competition and transactions. In addition, a variety of programs for challenging spirit as a market pioneer. As a result, Hyundai Engineering co-prosperity and win-win management have been offering to our posted record business performances in 2011 with KRW 1.66 trillion vendors. Hyundai Engineering will continue to maintain and develop in sales and KRW 204.6 billion in ordinary profit. The performances win-win partnership with vendors. were possible thanks to employees who had consistently led changes and innovation with a positive attitude and our stakeholders Hyundai Engineering will provide employees with optimal who had provided us with interest and support. working environment. Healthy corporate culture stems from free communication and communal spirit of all members makes it In 2011, Hyundai Engineering became part of the Hyundai Motor possible to create the best synergetic effect. Hyundai Engineering Group. We are striving to achieve the Hyundai Motor Group’s vision will establish a great workplace where employees are able to of creating a new future to realize human society’s dream by thinking strike a balance between work and personal life as well as freely creatively and pursuing challenges consistently. Our capability, communicate with each other by developing and promoting various combined with that of the Hyundai Motor Group, will maximize our communication programs. synergistic effect, transforming Hyundai Engineering into a global top-tier engineering company. At the same time, we aim to grow into Hyundai Engineering will strive to minimize environmental impact and a sustainable enterprise that fulfills corporate social responsibility become a company with warm heart that shares performances with as a member of society. To this end, we will proactively carry out local communities. Protecting the environment surrounding us and communication with various stakeholders. We promise you the delivering environmental values to local communities are the reasons following commitments to build a better future for all. why we are continuously focusing on developing eco-friendly engineering technologies. In 2011, we received the grand prize in Hyundai Engineering will evolve into a value-added engineering the group sector at the ‘Seoul Service Award’ thanks to voluntary company that leads the world. New orders received in 2011 works and donations that we had conducted. Hyundai Engineering amounted to approximately KRW 4.3 trillion, the largest since the will become a company beloved by local communities for a long foundation, of which 90.1% originated from overseas businesses. time. Securing both growth potential and stability through strengthening the business platform will enable Hyundai Engineering to grow into a With future-forward ideas and proactive challenging spirit, Hyundai world-class engineering company. Engineering will continue to grow and develop to build a promising future. We would like to ask for your keen interest and strong Hyundai Engineering will become a trusted company that provides support. the greatest value to customers. Our technological competitiveness Thank you. accumulated for 38 years and customer-centered management President of Hyundai Engineering Kim, Wee-chul approach have served as the foundation for providing the best value and quality to customers of more than 20 countries in the world. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 8 Corporate Profile Summary Since its foundation in 1974, Hyundai Engineering has implemented various projects in approximately 50 countries, gaining 38 years of experience and developing advanced technology. As attested by its 47th position in the list of Top 200 International Design Firms chosen by Engineering-News Record (ENR) magazine of the United States (US) in 2012, the company enjoys strong global recognition. Sales (as of December 2011) 1.66 Process Plant Power & Energy Plant Infrastructure & Environment 17.2% KRW trillion Company Name Hyundai Engineering Co., Ltd. Establishment February 11, 1974 KRW 1.66 trillion 6.3% Total Assets KRW 1.3 trillion Number of Employees (as of 2011) 2,312 Sales KRW 1.66 trillion (as of December 2011) Employees 2,312 persons (as of December 2011) 76.5% persons Business Process Plant, Power & Energy Plant, Domain Infrastructure & Environment Global Network By providing excellent engineering services in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Latin America, Hyundai Engineering’s reputation as a global company has been enhancing. Hyundai Engineering will continue to expand its market share in the future by pioneering into new markets and responding to local needs. Headquarters ● Business & Marketing Project Office 1970s Taking the First Step 1974 Establishment of the company turkmenistan uzbekistan bulgaria kazakhstan vietnam #2 pakistan uae korea india algeria saudiarabia tunisia oman sri lanka philippines vietnam #1 equatorial guinea thailand malaysia kenya indonesia Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 9 History of HEC Established as a company specialized in engineering business 38 years ago, Hyundai Engineering has been growing into a comprehensive engineering company and now aims for a world-class player. 2000s Aiming for a World Class Player 2001 Established the Technology Research Center 2004 Received the IR52 Jang Young-Shil Award 2007 Received the ‘Civil Structure Award of the Year’ Received the National Environmental Management Award 1990s 2009 Obtained the OHSAS certification Growing into a Comprehensive 2011 Joined the Hyundai Motor Group Engineering Company 2012 R  anked 47th in the top 200 International 1991 Received the ‘Honor of a Steel Design Firms by ENR Tower Industry’ at the 24th Science Day 1994 Obtained the ISO 9001 certification 1980s 1996 Received the Minister Prize at the Technological Self-sufficiency and 2nd Environmental Technology Business Expansion at Award (HAF method) Public Home and Abroad Obtained the ISO 14001 certification Interest 1985 Conducted overseas consulting projects for the first time among Korea’s private enterprises (5th & 6th electricity projects of Nepal, etc.) Organization •Infrastructure & Environment Division / Plant Business Organization Supporting Office •Finance & Economy Office Stability In consideration of its business characteristics, Hyundai Engineering has •General Administration & Management Office been divided into three divisions and six offices. Close enterprise-wide •Planning Office cooperation is carried out to achieve the economic feasibility and stability of projects, and to promote the public interest. Organization Role •Finance & Economy Office •Development and application •General Administration & Management Office of eco-friendly technologies •Plant Business Supporting Office •Tax payment and wage payment •Planning Office •Win-win activities with vendors Economic •CM Planning Office •Establishment of social responsible Feasibility •Business Sites activity plans and implementation Role of PR activities •Management of budget and financial risks Organization •Personnel and general affairs, and •Each business division (Process Plant, Power & response to legal affairs Energy Plant, Infrastructure & Environment) •Process control and quality management, •Business & Marketing Office and HSE control •Planning Office / Finance & Economy Office •Training and expansion of ethical management •CM Planning Office •Non-financial risk management at business sites Role •Business development and project implementation •Market survey and marketing activity at home and abroad and contracts •Establishment of mid to long term business plans and goals HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 10 Sustainable Management of Hyundai Engineering VISION 2020 The ‘VISION 2020’ of Hyundai Engineering represents the commitment to completing a sustainability management system in cooperation with a diverse range of stakeholders including employees, customers and vendors, and to practicing sustainability activities, beyond the accomplishment of financial performances. Mission To be a global leading engineering company that creates higher value by implementing all processes including project planning to maintenance based on original intellectual properties To be a company that contributes to the welfare of mankind and fulfills social responsibilities by practicing management activities for transparency, ethics, environment, co-prosperity and sharing. Vision Global Premier Engineering Partner •Operating businesses on the world stage •Providing high value-added engineering •A reliable company that puts top priority on services including FEED/PMC and basic creating customer value design •A company that grandly competes with com petitors in technology and quality •A partner for green growth Core Competency Developer Competency PM/CM, RM Global Partnership Core Technology •Business planning and consulting •Integrated project management •Alliances with license owners and •Original technologies (licenses and topcapacity for developing business •Advanced risk management to advanced engineering vendors tier engineering technologies such as •Global financing capacity preemptively perceive internal and •Localization by cooperating with outFEED/PMC and basic design) external risk factors and respond standing construction companies and •Core technologies for new businesses to them outsourcing vendors in each region •Partnership with global vendors Growth Strategy SOCIAL ASPECT ORGANIZATIONAL ASPECT Holding in respect by fulfilling social Establishing a horizontal responsibilities organization with talents and a Growth transparent and healthy corporate Strategy of culture with autonomy and Hyundai communication Engineering ECONOMIC ASPECT BUSINESS ASPECT Providing high value-added Pursuing the goal of becoming the engineering services including world’s top engineering company FEED and PMC, etc. that conducts EP & CM Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 11 Business Portfolio Business Structure (in 2011) Sales Growth (in 2011) 4 27 Portfolio Categories 34.4 % PROCESS PLANT POWER & ENERGY PLANT Hyundai Engineering has completed more than 400 process plant projects The EPC service of Hyundai Engineering encompasses the overall scope in the domestic and overseas markets including the desulfurization plant in of power and energy plant projects including consultation, feasibility study, Turkmenistan, polypropylene plant in Vietnam, gas processing plant of South basic and detailed design, procurement, construction, supervision, and test Pars field development phase 2&3 and 4&5 in Iran, Hyundai Petrochemical’s & commissioning. As a leader in combined cycle power plant sector, Hyundai Complex No.1 and 2, and new construction and expansion of Hyundai Oil Engineering is expanding its reach to diesel power plant, nuclear power Refinery’s oil refinery. These remarkable performances were mainly attributable plant, geothermal power plant and new and renewable energy plant sectors. to the commitment to providing quality engineering, procurement, and The advanced engineering technology will contribute to the development of construction (EPC) services to customers around the world based on core the power generation and energy industries in the future. design technology and high-caliber manpower. Hyundai Engineering will strive to maximize customer value by offering efficiency and quality secured from the environmental management system as well as cutting-edge technology. Oil and Gas Fertilizer Petrochemicals Combined Cycle Thermal Cogeneration Treatment Plants and General Power Power Chemicals Oil Terminal Oil Refinery Offshore LNG Transmission & Nuclear Geothermal Diesel Plants Facilities Facilities Substation Power Power Power INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT INDUSTRIAL PLANT With the mission of ‘implementing human-oriented infrastructure and With comprehensive engineering capabilities encompassing feasibility environmental plant projects’, Hyundai Engineering has developed, study, design, procurement, construction to test & commissioning, Hyundai commercialized, and applied a ‘total solution’ including technologies on Engineering has implemented a variety of industrial plant projects related to water purification, wastewater treatment and waste treatment to a variety of steel, metal, cement, shipyard, environment facilities, and food & beverage projects in the water and environmental plant sectors. In addition, Hyundai since the establishment. Key projects include Hyundai Hysco’s cold rolled Engineering is taking part in eco-friendly water resource development carbon steel sheet plant in Dangjin, Cibinong cement plant in Indonesia, projects to cope with deepening water shortage and climate change and Hyundai Samho Heavy Industries’ Yeongam shipyard, BOSCH’s technology to restore the river ecosystem. Moreover, the cutting-edge technology and center in Yongin, Jang Bogo Station in the Antarctic, Hyundai Elevator’s resource has allowed Hyundai Engineering to proactively join SOC projects high-speed test tower and the photovoltaic plant in Bulgaria. for a range of infrastructure such as road and bridge construction. Among new growth engines, Hyundai Engineering developed the technology for the bi-modal tram, a new transportation mode, and is focusing on green transportation including eco-friendly railway technology. Road Structure New Water and Green Technology Steel and Non-ferrous Cement, Food & (Port, Airport) Transportation Sewage Business Metal Beverage, Industrial and Railway Plants Urban Planning Geological Development Waste Treatment and Complex Feature/ of Water and Water Quality Automobile Shipyard Development Underground Resources Control Plants Water HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 12 Hyundai Engineering in the World EuROPE KENYA qATAR · Compressor Station GREECE · Olkaria I Additional (140MW) Geothermal Power · Ras Laffan C Power & Water · Meghnaghat 450MW Combined Cycle Power · Crude & Vacuum Distillation Unit Plant SAuDI ARAbIA Plant bulGARIA · Olkaria 4 (140MW) Geothermal Power Plant · Jubail Polysilicon Plant · Haripur 365MW Combined Cycle Power Plant ·C  herveniakovo 4MW & Palauzovo 5MW PV Plant · AAC Ethyleneamine Plant INDIA MIDDlE EAST ROMANIA uAE · Hiranandani LNG Terminal (FEED) IRAq · Petrobrazi Generation Power Plant · Rolling Mill 1200MW Combined Cycle Power · HPCL Hydrogen Generation Plant · Al-Mussaib Thermal Power Station Plant · Mangalore Barge Mounted 240MW Combined ANTARCTIC · Al-Qudus 4x125MW Gas Turbine Power Plant · Jebel Ali L II Power Station Cycle Power Plant ANTARCTIC · Rumaila 5x292MW Gas Turbine Power Plant · GroupⅢ Base Oil Production Facilities · Pune 2500MW Combined Cycle Power Plant · Antarctic Sejong Science Station · Taza 292MW Gas Turbine Power Plant JORDAN · GMR 200MW Diesel Power Plant · J ang Bogo Antarctic Research Station IRAN · Wastewater Treatment Plant At WADI ES SIR MONGOlIA · South Pars Field Development Phase 2&3 AfRICA · Dalanzadgad Cogeneration Plant · South Pars Field Development Phase 4&5 CENTRAl ASIA MADAGASCAR NEPAl KuwAIT TuRKMENISTAN · Ambatovy 120MW CFPP Cogeneration · Sunsari Morang Irrigation · KNPC New Oil Pier · Turkmenbashi Oil Refinery AlGERIA · Chameliya Hydropower Plant · Shuaiba North Combined Cycle Cogeneration · Gas Desulfurization Plant · Bir-el-M’sana (BMS) Field Development · Kanti Rajapath Road Improvement Power Plant uZbEKISTAN · Arzew Refinery Plant PAKISTAN lIbYA · UGCC Utility & Offsite EquATORIAl GuINEA · MCR DHDS Plant · Misurata Thermal Power Plant · Kandym Fields Gas Processing Plant (FEED) ·W  ater Supply and Sewage Treatment Plant · UCH-II 400MW Combined Cycle Power Plant · Tripoli West 1400MW Thermal Power Plant AZERbAIJAN in Evinayong, Ebibeyin and Mongomo · Century Paper Mill 26MW Cogeneration Power OMAN · Water Supply & Sanitation System NIGERIA Plant · A’seeb STP & Ancillary Work · Alaoji Addon Combined Cycle Power Plant ASIA · Pirkoh Gas Compression Facilities · Musandam Oil & Gas plant (MGP) TuNISIA bANGlADESH · Small Dams · Phosphoric Acid Plant · Ashuganj 225MW Combined Cycle Power Plant · GEPCO 132kV Substation Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 13 Total New Orders (in 2011) Order Backlog (in 2011) KRW 4.3 trillion KRW 6.8 trillion Global Premier Engineering Partner Hyundai Engineering achieved new orders of KRW 4.3 trillion in 2011, a record high since the establishment. Order backlog as of the end of December 2011 amounted to KRW 6.8 trillion, which guarantees stable projects for the next three years. Years of experience and technological capability solidifies the position as a global engineering leader that is capable of delivering engineering, procurement, and construction management (EP&CM) services. PROCESS PLANT Algeria, Bangladesh, Chile, China, Colombia, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran, Korea, Kuwait, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Vietnam POWER & ENERGY PLANT Bangladesh, Barbados, Brazil, Colombia, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Korea, Kenya, Madagascar, Mongolia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Romania, Thailand, UAE, Vietnam INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT Azerbaijan, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jordan, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Sri Lanka INDUSTRIAL PLANT Antarctic, Bulgaria, Indonesia, UAE KOREA THAIlAND OCEANIA New Orders (as of 2011) · HDO Lube Base Oil Plant · SIPCO 160MW Combined Cycle Cogeneration fIJI (KRW in billions) · HDO #2 HOU (EPC) Power Plant · Fiji-Ba & Sigatoka Bridge · HDO #2 HOU (FEED / PMC / LLI Procurement · Electrical Power and Steam (114MW) NORTH AMERICA Contract) · MOC Aromatics Recovery Unit MExICO · 4th Polyethylene Plant SRI lANKA · Sempra Baja LNG Terminal · MMA/PMMA Plant Expansion · Polonarua Water Supply Plant · MMA/PMMA Plant TAIwAN lATIN AMERICA · KCC Polysilicon Plant · Lube Base Oil Plant bARbADOS Total · KCC Silicone Plant 1&2 vIETNAM · Bardados 60MW Diesel Power Plant · Hyundai Petrochemical Complex 1&2 · Ba Ria 60MW Add-on Combined bRAZIl 4,298.4 billion · Hyundai Oil Refinery Phase 1&2 Cycle Power Plant · Porto Velho 340MW Combined Cycle Power Plant · Bosch Yongin Research Center · PVTEX PET Plant CHIlE · HMC Aero-acoustic Wind Tunnel Bldg. · Dung Quat Polypropylene Plant · Nueva Ventanas 260MW Thermal Power Plant · Wartsila-Hyundai 50 DF-Ship Engine Factory MAlAYSIA COlOMbIA · Jeju Diesel Power Plant Unit 1&2 · Melawa Diesel Power Plant · Bello Sewage Treatment Plant · Yeoug Wol 900MW Combined Cycle Power Plant · Plant Rejuvenation and Revamp 2 · Colombia Diesel Unit (HDT) 426.5 (9.9%) · Yong Duk 40MW Wind Power Plant · Gas Processing Plant 2&3 · Termotasajero II 160MW CFPP · Yong Hung 1740MW No. 5 & 6 Thermal Power PHIlIPPINES HONDuRAS 3,871.9 (90.1%) Plant · Northern Panay 138kV Transmission & Substation · Honduras 13.8kV & 34.5kV Distribution Overseas Domestic CHINA INDONESIA NICARAGuA · Pingdingshan / Shaanxi / Chisui Urea Plant · Suban 1&2 Gas Processing Facilities · Nicaragua 138kV Substation · Coloane B Combined Cycle Power Plant · Sumpal Gas Processing Facilities · MEB / DEB Add-on Combined Cycle Power Plant · Cibinong Cement Mill Plant · Darajat Geothermal Power Plant Station 1,2 HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 14 Major Projects HEC’s Major Projects Hyundai Engineering is not only focusing on achieving new orders in existing overseas markets including the Middle East, but continuously developing new profitable markets such as Equatorial Guinea, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Gas Desulfurization Plant Project in Arzew Refinery Project in Algeria PVTEX PET Project in Vietnam Turkmenistan Ordered by SONATRACH (National Oil Corporation Ordered by P  VTEX (National Fiber Corporation of Ordered by Turkmengas (National Oil Corporation) of Algeria) Vietnam) Location Mari Yoloten in Turkmenistan Location Arzew in Algeria Location Hai Phong in Vietnam Amount USD 1,290 MIL Amount  SD 402 MIL U Amount U  SD 251 MIL (HEC’s share: USD 201 MIL) (HEC’s share: USD 187 MIL) (HEC’s share: USD 1,160 MIL) period F rom February 2009 to April 2012 period F rom July 2009 to August 2011 period From January 2010 to February 2012 (38 months) (25 months) (37 months) Project Construction of new polyester Project Construction of new polyester Project Oil refinery expansion and construction production facilities (500 tons/day) production facilities (500 tons/day) of high-octane gasoline facilities and UT/OS and UT/OS (30 thousand barrels/day) Ochang CIGS Thin Film Solar Cell Plant PTT Chem EPS 120MW Project in Thailand QUDUS Gas Turbine Power Plant Project in Project in Korea Iraq Ordered by PTT Global Chemical Public Company Ordered by Hyundai Avancis Co., Ltd. Location Rayong in Thailand Ordered by Ministry of Electricity, Republic of Iraq Location Chungcheongbuk-do in Korea Amount USD 110 MIL (HEC’s share: USD 77 MIL) Location Al-Qudus (north of Baghdad) in Iraq Amount  RW 33.6 BIL K Period From August 2008 to October 2011 Amount  SD 219 MIL U (HEC’s share: KRW 33.6 BIL) (38 months) (HEC’s share: USD 219 MIL) Period From May 2011 to June 2012 Project Construction of a power plant to supply Period From April 2011 to October 2012 (13 months) electricity and steam to existing chemical (18 months) Project Construction of a power plant to supply plants Project Construction of a new gas turbine electricity and steam to power plant with the production existing chemical plants capacity of 500MW Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 15 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication Channel The stakeholders of Hyundai Engineering are defined into six groups of employees, customers, vendors, local communities, shareholders and investors, and the government, media and associations. Hyundai Engineering will continue to engage in diverse activities to facilitate communication and build positive synergistic relationship with stakeholders. Management Customers Vendors Definition Definition Companies and individuals holding Project owners and partners HEC’s shares Communication Channel Customers Communication Channel Customer satisfaction survey and General shareholders’ meeting, customer center on the website Employees disclosure, and analyst meetings Major Issues Local Major Issues Improvement of technical skills Communities Maximization of shareholder value and quality and enhancement of corporate Management Commitments of Hyundai (Shareholders competitiveness Engineering & Investors) Commitments of Hyundai Reinforcement of competitiveness in Engineering technology and quality, and Government, Media, Preparation of new growth engines and continuous customer satisfaction Associations pursuit of growth and stability at the management same time Page 20p~31p Page 32p~41p Vendors Employees Local Communities Government, Media, Associations Definition Definition Definition Definition Equipment suppliers and design/ Executives and employees of Local residents and governments Government, media, associations and construction partners, etc. Hyundai Engineering around business sites subsidiary organizations Communication Channel Communication Channel Communication Channel Communication Channel E-Procurement, purchasing Junior Committee, communication with Company-wide social contribution Public hearing, press release, and management system and the President (E-Mail To President within activities in which all employees response to survey discussion meetings the intranet) participate, and environmental effects Major Issues evaluation Major Issues Major Issues Participation in policy-making and Fair trade and synergy creation by Work environment improvement, fair Major Issues prevention of law violations and mutual cooperation evaluation and reward Voluntary works, environmental corruption protection activities, donations and Commitments of Hyundai Commitments of Hyundai Commitments of Hyundai sisterhood relationships Engineering Engineering Engineering Establishment of compliance Enhancement of global capabilities, Commitments of Hyundai Observance of the laws and regulations, programs and enhancement of operation of various welfare programs, Engineering and establishment of anti-corruption business partner support programs work-life balance, accident-free sites, Systematic social contribution activities, corporate cultures establishment of a healthy laboreco-friendly management, and management culture minimization of environmental effects Page 46p~47p Page 42p~47p Page 48p~63p Page 64p~83p Page 79p~83p HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 16 Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Process The materiality assessment has been conducted to discover the major tasks for Hyundai Engineering’s sustainability management and to set up content that reflects stakeholders’ interests. The assessment included 3 steps of issue check, collection of stakeholders’ opinions and determination of key issues. The results were as follows: Step1.Issue Check Step2. Collection of Stakeholders’ Opinions ㆍ1-1 R  eview of global standards ㆍ2-1 Employee survey (Intranet) (GRI G3.1 Guidelines, ISO 26000, etc.) ㆍ2-2 External stakeholder survey (E-mail) ㆍ1-2 Benchmarking (Engineering and ㆍ2-3 Interviews construction industries, etc.) (Stakeholders representing each group) ㆍ1-3 Media research (Search of various media articles) Key Issues Selection Materiality Test Step 1. Issue Check establishment of a healthy corporate culture and the formation of consensus on sustainability were important for Hyundai Engineering’s 1-1 Review of Global Standards sustainability management. Hyundai Engineering identified major issues based on international sustainability standards such as the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and ISO 2-2 External Stakeholder Survey 26000, simultaneously classifying and analyzing Hyundai Engineering’s A survey targeting external stakeholders, excluding employees, was activities and performances by each issue. carried out through e-mail. The respondents thought that the market dominance and growth potential would significantly affect sustainability 1-2 Benchmarking management of Hyundai Engineering. Hyundai Engineering discovered the major issues related to its industry by benchmarking competitors in the engineering industry Employee survey External stakeholder survey and advanced construction companies of excellent sustainability (Response rate: 44.6%) (Response rate: 15.1%) management. Hyundai Engineering’s activities and performances 2,505 were compared with and analyzed by each issue. 1,492 1,116 1-3 Media research Media research has been conducted to analyze various articles related 225 to Hyundai Engineering, which were released through the media between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011. Participants Sample size Participants Sample size Step 2. Collection of Stakeholders’ Opinions 2-3 Interview 2-1 Employee Survey Hyundai Engineering classified all stakeholders into 6 groups and A survey targeting employees, who are internal stakeholders, interviewed representative stakeholders from each group. was carried out through the intranet. The survey showed that the * 6 Groups: shareholders and investors, customers, vendors, employees, local communities, and the government/media/associations Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 17 Step3. Determination Key Issues of ㆍ3-1 Materiality assessment matrix (Importance of internal and external stakeholders) n ㆍ3-2 Determination of key l u sio c issues and setup on w ,C Step 3. Determination of Key Issues of contents iev Re 3-1 Materiality Assessment Matrix The following materiality assessment matrix shows Hyundai Engineering’s priorities during the reporting period. The horizontal axis and vertical axis shows internal stakeholders’ interest and external stakeholders’ interest, respectively. Major issues comprehended through step 1 and step 2 were arranged by the priorities and their interest, of which items with great interest were selected as key issues. Co-prosperity with vendors Service quality improvement and process innovation Win-win laborEco-friendly design Safety management and management technology accident-free sites relations Technology and product development Project operation risk management External stakeholders' interest Financial risk management Development of core capabilities Response to major risks of each country New businesses reflecting Employee welfare benefits climate change creation of opportunities Prevention of human Global supply chain management rights abuses Employee Grievance Contribution to the regional economy Promotion of sustainability resolution management by the top decisionEco-friendly business making body Local engagement Operation effects Diversification of businesses and profit sources evaluation Social contribution and Protection of areas with investments at sites Analysis and weak biological diversity diagnosis of and recovery HSE policy and strategy/ corruption risks and Establishment of the incentive Enhancement of the ecoactions system Improvement of eco-efficiency friendly management system Reduction of GHG emissions Response to climate change Improvement of the transparency and efficiency of corporate governance Enhancement of compliance Environmental education for next generations Internal stakeholders' interest 3-2 Determination of Key Issues and Setup of Contents Key issues identified through the materiality assessment matrix should be appreciated and solved for Hyundai Engineering’s sustainability management. Thereby, activities and performances related to key issues were disclosed through this sustainability report. Classification Key Issues Page Contents Management Risk control 24~25 Risk management Customers Service quality improvement and process innovation 32~41 CRM and quality management Win-win labor-management relations and employee Employee welfare benefits and laborEmployees 61~63 welfare benefits management communication Vendors Co-prosperity with vendors 42~47 Selection of and support for vendors Contribution to regional economy 66~71 Social contribution activities Local Eco-friendly business and enhancement ecofriendly Green engineering and eco-friendly Communities management system 72~81 technologies Sustainable Growth for the Future Hyundai Engineering has put listening to stakeholders’ interest and opinions at the top priority of its management activities. Stakeholders’ opinions will be used as the most important compass for Hyundai Engineering’s sustainability management. Management Innovative Customers Leadership Customer 20p Satisfaction 32p Vendors Win-win Local Communities Partnership Co-prosperity 42p 64p Employees Great Work Place 48p HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 20 Management Innovative Leadership Corporate Governance 22 Risk Management 24 Ethical Management 26 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value 28 Special New Growth Engines 30 Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 21 Disclosure on Management Approach Management The business management of Hyundai Engineering is based on the principles of ‘sound corporate governance’, Principle ‘strict risk management’, and ‘transparent ethical management’. Hyundai Engineering aims to share value with stakeholders by securing growth potential and stability, and maximizing economic value through the reinforcement of the management platform. Moreover, Hyundai Engineering will consistently diversify businesses and overseas markets by identifying new growth engines for the future. Instead of being complacent, Hyundai Engineering will continuously pursue sustainable development. Key Classification Unit 2010 2011 Performance Corporate BOD meeting Number 5 8 Governance Attendance rate (Other non-standing directors) % 57.9 56.5 Identification of core risks 10 Risk Management item Identification of project risks 51 Ethical Management Number of ethical management trainees person 1,364 1,700 Creation of Sales 1,237.2 1,662.9 KRW in billions Economic Value Ordinary income 166.3 204.6 Distribution of R&D investments 2,271 2,264 KRW in millions Economic Value Investments in local communities 475 667 Number of new orders from new growth engine projects 42 65 New Growth businesses Engines Proportion of new orders from new growth engine % 1.2 22.8 businesses Interview The sustainability management strategy must be reflected in the business strategy in order for Hyundai Engineering to maintain its business performance and achieve further development. For instance, Hyundai Engineering needs to contribute to the local community, in addition to entering into and reaping success in overseas markets. This will strengthen the leadership in the global market. Moreover, Hyundai Engineering should build trust with stakeholders such as project owners and employees, and the government by disclosing information on pending issues in a transparent manner. Lastly, stakeholders’ ideas on such issues should be reflected in an integrated manner to come up with changes to make improvements. Hye-jin Kim(Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai Engineering & Construction) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 22 Corporate Governance 1 Number of Board Attendance Rate of Other Non-standing Meetings (in 2011) Directors (in 2011) 8 times 56.5 % Board of Directors (BOD) Audit System Hyundai Engineering promotes the One auditor is appointed in the general transparency of the BOD in order to establish meeting to regularly monitor the financial and sound corporate governance and deliver more accounting status of Hyundai Engineering in values to stakeholders. order to improve the transparency of the BOD. The auditor can present opinions at the BOD Composition of the BOD meeting and make a request for reporting The BOD consists of three inside directors on the overall management. The auditor also including the president and two other nonhas the supervision right on the execution of standing directors. The chairmanship of the directors’ duties. Board is assumed by the president, whose appointment is voted upon by the BOD. As Operation of the BOD competent persons who are able to make Hyundai Engineering currently does not have decisions on whole range of management a subcommittee that deliberates and decides activities, directors are elected by a majority on the mandates of the BOD. In principle, a BOD Meetings and Attendance Rate vote of shareholders and more than a regular BOD meeting is held once a quarter. quarter of total issued shares at the general However, in the case of a material issue, it shareholders’ meeting. could be held through the notification of the Year Number of Meetings agenda and reason. A decision in the board 2010 5 (regular 4, extraordinary 1) is made by majority participation and votes. In 2011 8 (regular 4, extraordinary 4) Board of Directors Attendance Rate of Other Non-standing Directors (as of March 14, 2012) Classification Name Position Kim, Wee-chul President 57.9% 56.5% Inside Directors Kim, Ok-chul Head of the Power & Energy Plant Division Choi, Min-tak Head of the Finance and Economy Office Other Non-standing Chung, Soo-hyun President of Hyundai Engineering & Construction (HDEC) Directors Kim, Jong-ho Head of the Plant Business Division of HDEC Auditor Kang, Soon-moon Head of the Business Management Office of HDEC 2010 2011 Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 23 the case of a tie vote, the chairman holds the The Key Agenda for Sustainability Share Ownership Structure decision-making right. A director is also able to Management by the BOD As of December 2011, the number of issued join a voting of the BOD via video conference. shares was 4.0 million, of which 72.5% is Major Agenda for owned by Hyundai Engineering & Construction Classification Sustainability Management BOD with Expertise and 7.4% by Employee Stock Ownership Establishment of an internal Other non-standing directors with experience 2010 job welfare fund Association. The executives and employees and expertise on the construction industry Appointment of an executive are committed to making Hyundai Engineering 2011 regarding the adoption of the are participating in the BOD of Hyundai a blue-chip company loved and trusted by Compliance Program. Engineering. Advisory committees can be customers and shareholders based on a solid organized to deal with special issues of the Evaluation and Remuneration corporate governance system. proposed agenda, but there is no advisory The remuneration limit of directors is committee currently. determined by a majority vote of the Share Ownership Structure (as of the end of December 2011) shareholders at the general meeting. Key Agenda of 2010 / 2011 Retirement pay is paid within the remuneration 13.8% In 2010 and 2011, the key agenda of the BOD limit and a total of KRW 4.0 billion was were: 1) establishment of local subsidiaries determined at the general shareholders’ 7.4% and branch offices to facilitate entry into meeting in 2011.The payment of remuneration 4,043,000 shares 6.3% overseas markets, and 2) approval regarding is disclosed through Data Analysis, Retrieval sustainable management. Meanwhile, in and Transfer System (DART) every quarter. 72.5% regards to sustainability management issues, the key agenda in 2010 and 2011 were the Remuneration of the BOD Members (2011, KRW in millions) establishment of an internal job welfare fund Hyundai Engineering & Korea Development Bank Number of Total Average Payment Construction and the appointment of an executive regarding Classification Members Payment per Member Employee Stock Ownership Others the adoption of the Compliance Program, Standing Association 7 2,874 411 respectively. Directors Auditor 1 13 13 Sub Total 8 2,887 424 * The BOD members changed to 3 inside directors, 2 other non-standing directors and an auditor as of July 12, 2011. Synergy Effect from the Acquisition by Hyundai Motor Group With becoming part of Hyundai Motor Group as a momentum, Hyundai Engineering expects to grow Steel into a hub of new growth engines by harnessing the synergy effect created with the group. Hyundai Engineering will pursue new businesses Finance Logistics and secure competitiveness and advanced technology by cooperating with affiliates in the construction, technology, and financial industries. Automobile By doing so, Hyundai Engineering will serve as a Railroad/Heavy Automobile Equipment Parts beachhead of Hyundai Motor Group in emerging markets in the new and renewable energy, water IT and environment, and resource development sectors. Construction HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 24 Risk Management 2 Identification of Core Risks (in 2011) Identification of Project Risks (in 2011) 10 Risks 6 52 Stages Risks Risk Management System supporting groups manage and report on the With an awareness of the importance of risk in their respective areas. Their risks are risk management, Hyundai Engineering comprehensively managed by the Planning established a company-wide risk management Office in turn. system in link with the risk management system of Hyundai Motor Group. Financial Risk Considering numerous foreign currency Integrated Risk Management System transactions arising from overseas projects, To efficiently manage potential risks such Hyundai Engineering manages the fluctuation as uncertain global economy, increased risks related to exchange rates and raw and diversified demand of stakeholders materials prices. Risk Management Organization and climate change, Hyundai Engineering determines the priority of risk factors and •Foreign Exchange Risk President (as the CRO) operates comprehensive and integrated risk The foreign currency settlement of each management system. project usually takes about two to three years. In consequence, it is sometimes difficult to Risk Management Organization define the point of settlement or expenditure Planning Office Hyundai Engineering operates an integrated of recurring transactions regarding project risk management system to rapidly cope with progress after the conclusion of a contract. Business Budget & Estimate risks. The president is also serving as the Focused on the unpredictability of the Marketing Team Division Team financial market, Hyundai Engineering strives Chief Risk Management Officer (CRO), and risk managers of each business division and to minimize foreign exchange risk to prevent Overseas Quality Human Supporting Business Management Resources negative impact on the financial results. Office Team Team Team Integrated Risk Management System Outsourcing & Legal & General Procurement Contract Strategic Risk Operational Risk Affairs Team Team Team Advance Follow-up Preemptive management Environmental detection management and Financial Risk and preparation internalization of Business Planning Risk of potential of a controlling capabilities Analysis Team Team risks system Legal Risk Ethical Risk Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 25 •Information Disclosure Environmental Risk Operational Risk Management Process Hyundai Engineering provides executives To respond to ever-intensifying environmental and employees with information on internal issues, treatments of climate change, energy and Project Development Business Stage Bidding Stage and external circumstances and situations of water are reflected in Research and Business Stage competitors every week. Development (R&BD). Hyundai Engineering will Business Preliminary Deliberation Information Review Deliberation continue to manage environmental risks and MeetingReview Operation Risk utilize them as business opportunities. Meeting Hyundai Engineering endeavors to Contract Stage& Initial Implementation Contract Implementation minimize risk that may occur during project Selection of Core Risks Stage Stage Stage implementation processes by identifying and Potential risks that may emanate from Deliberation on the Deliberation on the Deliberation on the deliberating potential risk for each project uncertain management conditions should Contract Budget Implementation phase in advance. Moreover, the risk is be preemptively managed. To this end, converted into monetary terms, of which Hyundai Engineering selected core risks and Liquidation Stage the cost for the risk deliberation process prepared manuals to cope with each risk. The Deliberation on the could be executed and managed. The strict selected core risks are regularly evaluated Liquidation risk management results in flawless project and monitored by early warning system, thus implementation as well as outstanding financial impacts from risks are efficiently managed and performances. minimized at Hyundai Engineering. Core Risks Individual Accidents 1 Increase in Raw Material Prices 3 Damage of Corporate Image on Ethical Management 5 Risks from Entry into New Businesses or Markets 7 Defect in the Construction Quality 9 Expansion of Exchange Fluctuations 2 Intensification of Competition 4 Failure of the Optimization of Business Plans 6 Failure of Securing Manpower 8 Violation of Regulations and Restriction 10 Project Risk Management To systematically manage risks in each project, Hyundai Engineering strives to detect potential risks and conducts weekly risk assessment by each project. 5 Risks 10 Risks 13 Risks 10 Risks 10 Risks 4 Risks Test & Project Management Engineering Procurement Transportation Construction Commissioning Potential risk management in all processes by weekly risk check and assessment Project quality improvement and meeting the construction period * Kinds and the number of risks are different by each project. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 26 Ethical Management 3 Training Session for Ethical Number of Trainees (in 2011) Management (in 2011) * excluded site staff 20 Hours per employee 1,700 Employees Ethical Management System Ethical Management Guideline Introduction of the Code of Ethics The Ethical Management Guideline helps Since the stipulation of the internal Code of employees in correctly understanding and Ethics in January 2009, Hyundai Engineering implementing ethical management. The has been striving in cooperation with practical guideline provides assistance in employees to settle ethical management as resolving ethical issues that arise during part of the corporate culture. business operation and a base for decisionmaking. Code of Ethics Ethical Management Organization We carry out business with honesty, integrity, and responsibility, and establish a corporate culture of The organization for ethical management mutual respect and trust. was reformed to fully ingrain ethical We strive to increase corporate value and maximize management to the company and establish shareholder interests by promoting the transparency a system to monitor the implementation of and efficiency of business management. ethical management programs. The ethical We put top priority on customer satisfaction, and management secretariat was formed under Ethical Management Organization Chart provide quality products and services that the the president to carry out the overall operation customer demands. of ethical management. The corporate President We make fair and transparent transactions with ethics committee was also built up to pursue vendors, and strengthen relationships with them in collaboration with each business division. pursuit of co-prosperity. It has five sub-divisions to encourage the Corporate Ethics Ethical Management Committee Secretariat We respect our competitors, relevant regulations implementation of ethical management and business practices and pursue fair and free activities. competition. Fair Trade Subcommittee We strive to achieve sustainable development as Oath of Ethical Management Customer Satisfaction an eco-friendly company, and contribute to the Subcommittee Hyundai Engineering mandates employees preservation of planet earth and the prosperity of Environment & Safety to make an oath to comply with the Code of humankind. Subcommittee Ethics in order to raise awareness of ethical We fulfill corporate social responsibility by complying Social Contribution management and facilitate its implementation. Subcommittee with the law and contributing to the pubic interests of HR & Education the nation and society. Subcommittee Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 27 Ethical Management Roadmap deliberated under a rigorous and fair procedure Especially, to establish and maintain a win-win by the Ethics Committee to determine the relationship with vendors, any receipt of money •Establishing and practicing the disciplinary measures. From the second half of or valuables and unnecessary entertainment is ethical management system while 2016 meeting the global standard level 2012, the construction sector of Hyundai Motor prohibited. Meanwhile, transparent transaction Global Standard •Securing transparency and Group including Hyundai Engineering plans to is being implemented by reflecting reasonable Level independence in the process of decision-making operate an integrated cyber audit system. procurement prices and open bidding. •Strategic implementation of ethical management Cyber Audit Office http://www.hec.co.kr/html/company/ Incentive System management/ethics_manage_03_01.asp •Inducing the voluntary participation To encourage voluntary compliance with 2014~2015 of individuals and units in ethical Expansion & management activities Expansion of Ethical Management the Code of Ethics, Hyundai Engineering Enhancement •Establishing and enhancing Stage Co-prosperity Activities provides incentives to selected employees internal control systems Hyundai Engineering strives to share the who exemplify ethical management every half •Reforming and activating ethical ethical management system with investors, year. The incentive system inspires them to management organization •Reinforcing 3C, basic guidelines to customers, and vendors in order to form implement the ethical management proactively practice ethical management 2012~2013 •Activating communication for a transparent, fair and ethical business and voluntarily. Internalization Stage ethical management relationship. •Improving and activating internal whistle-blowing •Establishing and operating Ethical Management Training evaluation and monitoring systems •Proclaiming ethical management Training Hours Number of 2009~2011 Program Year •Establishing a code of ethics per Employee Trainees Introduction •Introducing the infrastructure of Stage ethical management Beyond Ethical Management, Practice of 2010 16 1,364 Sustainability Management Sexual Harassment Prevention Education 2011 20 1,700 ※ Excluded site staff Ethical Management Activities Ethical Management Training Hyundai Engineering mandates ever y Improvement of the Ethical Management System In 2012, Hyundai Engineering conducted an internal diagnosis of the level of company-wide employee to receive ethics training to raise ethical management, which represented that core platform (3C) of implementation and systematic understanding on the Code of Ethics and operation turned out to be insufficient. As a result, Hyundai Engineering is currently engaged in establish a continuous ethical management projects to reestablish the organization on ethical management and reinforce the implementation system. The course strengthens compliance platform. The efforts are expected to contribute to the development of a corporate culture that with the code during work processes puts emphasis on ethical management. and business operation. In addition, the curriculum is consistently improved for higher Core Platform to Practice Ethical Tasks for the Improvement of the effectiveness. Management (3C) Ethical Management System •Code of conduct (norms and guidelines) •Constitution and operation of a reCyber Audit (Hotline) System •Compliance check organization sponsible organization (check and monitoring) •Amendment of the code of conduct, A cyber audit (hotline) system is operated to •Consensus by education norms and guidelines provide counseling and receive reports on (sympathy development) •Establishment and implementation of unfair implementation of tasks, unreasonable the ethical management system •Ethical management communication requests, and illegal actions of employees. •Activation of monitoring Personal information of the informant is strictly •Establishment and operation of the treated as confidential in an undisclosed evaluation and check system manner. The reported complaints are internally HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 28 Creation & Distribution of Economic Values 4 Ordinary Income Margin (in 2011) Credit Ratings (in 2011) 12.3 % A+ Continuous Growth and Profit achieves both qualitative and quantitative Creation growth. Sales and Profits Hyundai Engineering has realized sustainable Stable Financial Structure growth for the recent 2 years. Despite Current Ratio and Debt-to-Equity Ratio tough economic conditions, The sales have Hyundai Engineering steadily maintains the increased to KRW 1.2 trillion in 2010 and proportion of cash and cash equivalent assets KRW 1.66 trillion in 2011 after surpassing by continuous sales growth and efficient financial KRW 1.0 trillion in 2009. These remarkable management, and demonstrates the zeroperformances were mainly attributable to borrowing operation since 2008. Current ratio in relentless efforts for developing overseas 2011 was 145.5%, an increase over the previous markets and expanding business areas by all year, and debt-to-equity ratio was 152.9%, a employees armed with a challenging spirit. decrease year-on-year. Hyundai Engineering Ordinary income and net income have also has focused on maintaining sound cash flows in grown stably. In particular, ordinary income each business sector and maximizing profitability increased 23% over the previous year to KRW instead of pursuing impellent sizable growth, 204.6 billion in 2011, exceeding the industry which has contributed to securing stable financial average. In this way, Hyundai Engineering structure. is evolving as a sustainable company that Sales Profits Current Ratio and Debt-to-Equity Ratio (KRW in millions) (KRW in millions) Domestic Overseas Ordinary income Net income Current ratio Debt-to-Equity ratio 1,662,886 204,589 202.5% p 158,221 p 1,237,178 4 %u 0 %u 152.9% 34. 166,306 23. 1,329,576 140.0% 145.5% 131,294 p 925,293 %u 20.5 311,885 333,310 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 29 Credit Ratings Employees Distribution of Hyundai Engineering’s Economic Values in 2011 Hyundai Engineering’s credit rating increased A variety of welfare benefit programs are being to ‘A+’ in 2011 from ‘A’ in 2010, thanks to operated to allow employees to harmonize continuous growth and a stable financial their work and personal lives and to be structure. filled with pride in the company. In addition, systematic educational programs are provided to improve their capabilities. Personnel expenditures in 2011 were KRW 197.8 billion, up 16.2% over the previous year, due to an increase in the number of employees. Local Communities Hyundai Engineering is conducting various Shareholders & Investors (Dividends) social contribution activities such as donations Credit Rating Certification (left: Korea Investors Service, right: Korea Ratings Corporation) to philanthropic organizations, investments in regional infrastructure and cultural supports to KRW 2.0 billion Distribution of Economic Values grow together with local communities. Total Shareholders and Investors amounts to be invested in local communities Customers (R&D Investments) Hyundai Engineering is continuously in 2011 increased 40% over the previous developing new business opportunities and focusing on efficient management activities to year to KRW 670 million. Hyundai Engineering aims to promote strategic social contribution KRW 2.3 billion maximize shareholder value. Total dividends activities that can highlight the characteristics Vendors YOY paid to shareholders in 2011 were KRW 2.0 of the engineering industry. (Operating Expenses) 32.5% billion. Customer Government As a member of corporate citizens, Hyundai KRW 1.1 trillion *KRW 527.0 billion for raw materials and KRW 538.7 To provide customers with premier products Engineering is loyally conducting its obligation billion for outsourcing and services, Hyundai Engineering is always to the state through the earnest payment of committed to investing in R&D activities. Total corporate tax. In 2011, the corporate tax was Employees (Personnel Expenditures) YOY R&D investments in 2011 were KRW 2.3 KRW 46.4 billion, up 32.4% over the previous 16.2% billion. year, due to profit increases and net gains on financial income. KRW 197.8 billion Vendors *including wages, retirement benefits and welfare benefits Win-win cooperation with vendors is being Indirect Economic Effect Local Communities YOY promoted through fair procurement and Hyundai Engineering contributes to the (Investments in Local Communities) 40% outsourcing contracts. Hyundai Engineering creation of jobs indirectly through its business complies with the system and policies to operations. According to the employment input select vendors and the processes are regularly table by the Bank of Korea, the employment KRW 667.0 million evaluated and monitored. Operating costs in inducement effects of Hyundai Engineering was *including Love Volunteer Group and personnel expenditures 2011 increased 32.8% over the previous year 4,733 persons in 2011. to KRW 1.1 trillion, mainly due to sales growth. Government (Corporate Tax) *Employment inducement coefficients: 1.42 people per YOY KRW100millioninsales(ConstructionIndustry,2009 32.4% EmploymentInputTable) KRW 46.4 billion New Growth Engines 12 Key New Growth Engines In 2011, Hyundai Engineering designated 12 new growth engine businesses and Special Syngas Technology HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 The Syngas technology sector is expected to continue to lead the increase of 30 strived to secure their global competitiveness by preemptively coming up with demand. Therefore, new orders will be continuously placed from the Middle technologies and capabilities required in each business as well as identifying the East and Asian countries including China, and African and Central Asian nations development trend of the engineering industry. The performances contributed with fluent gas resources are planning for new projects. Hyundai Engineering to paving the way for the solidification of the position in existing markets and will proactively participate in such projects by signing a strategic alliance development of new promising markets. with overseas firms equipped with track records in the sector and joining investment projects of public corporations in cooperation with domestic trading companies. Coal Gasification Steel & Demand for energy that utilizes coal as a source is expected to rise due to the Syngas Technology Non-ferrous depletion and price hike of traditional resources. Therefore, Hyundai Engineering Metals Coal Offshore is pursuing the business of coal gasification through proactive sales activities Gasification Wind Power to project owners and licensors. The major markets for this sector are Asian countries and Australia that are rich in coal reserves. It is forecasted to expand LNG Liquefaction New in the future to include African and Latin American nations. Transportation 12 New Growth Engines LNG Liquefaction Offshore Water & New orders are predicted to be placed consistently in the LNG Liquefaction Facilities Environment sector given the increased consumption of natural gas that is recognized as eco-friendly fuel. The exceptional benefit of the sector is that it overcomes the Geothermal Small Modular Power Reactor Design geopolitical limits posed by the pipeline supply. While the area is monopolized Nuclear Solar Power Plant by key players in overseas countries, Hyundai Engineering is striving to sign Power Design strategic alliances with new licensors and joining mid-sized plant projects in collaboration with domestic trading companies and energy companies to enter the market. Offshore Facilities The offshore facilities sector is a core area of the engineering business that accounts for 30% of the EPC plant business precluding oil exploration and development. Hyundai Engineering is securing experience and a track record through strategic alliances with existing players. Moreover, Hyundai Engineering is fortifying internal capabilities by securing relevant technology and analyzing related examples. Geothermal Power The geothermal power plant project received in Olkaria, Kenya in 2011 has enabled Hyundai Engineering to secure global competitiveness and unleashed the business expansion in this sector. The number of projects in the geothermal power plant sector is on the rise centered on Europe and Africa, and market volume is also expected to consistently grow as some countries are planning to build new geothermal power plants. Solar Power Demand for solar power will be continuously grow, as it is predicted to account for around 2,000GW of power generation around the world by 2020. Although Korean companies are latecomers compared to those from advanced countries, Hyundai Engineering will secure the leading position by identifying pending technology-related issues and its solutions, and nurturing engineering experts in the sector. Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 31 Nuclear Power Plant Design Steel & Non-ferrous Metals The market for nuclear power plant engineering is expected to be contracted Hyundai Engineering has been pursuing steel and non-ferrous metal plant in the short-term due to concerns on the risk caused by the nuclear meltdown projects. This business is expected to create synergetic effects within Hyundai in Japan. However, Hyundai Engineering will continue to focus on securing Motor Group by tapping into years of experience and technology from the stability by technological agreements with leading overseas companies and construction business. hiring engineering experts equipped with years of experience. By doing so, Hyundai Engineering will lay the foundation for EPC services in the overseas nuclear power plant market as well as prepare for potential demand in the long-term. Small Modular Reactor (SMR) Design Hyundai Engineering has been pursuing the SMR design business by developing high-temperature gas related technology and acquiring the standard engineering license. Water & Environment The water and environment business sector is predicted to enjoy consistent demand due to water scarcity around the world. The sector includes water supply and sewage projects, water treatment utilizing membranes, and desalination utilizing reverse osmosis membrane. The area holds great business potential with expectations on the surge in market size led by Africa and the Middle East. Hyundai Engineering has been mobilizing all efforts to win overseas water and environment plant projects by leveraging on HANT and HSC, its proprietary technologies. New Transportation Hyundai Engineering is engaged in futuristic new transportation projects in line with government-led projects. In particular, advanced countries have been leading research and development on an eco-friendly surface-type new transportation system, which is expected to experience gradual market growth. Offshore Wind Power The offshore wind power market has been continuously growing thanks to national policies related to new and renewable energy worldwide. Hyundai Engineering plans to enter the EP/EPC market by taking the initiative position in the basic design sector to gain external recognition. Collaboration and technological alliance with companies equipped with advanced technology will be concluded to improve the technological capability in this sector. Major New Orders in the New Growth Engine Business Sector in 2011 (as of 2011) Business Division Project Name Date Amount (KRW in billions) Kandym Fields Gas Processing Plant Project (FEED), Uzbekistan August 2011 252.2 Process Plant CIGS Solar Cell Plant of Hyundai Heavy Industries, Korea April 2011 33.6 (including Industrial Plant) Photovoltaic Power Plant, Bulgaria November 2011 131.9 Power & Energy Plant Olkaria Units 1 & 4 Geothermal Power Plant, Kenya October 2011 428.8 Water Supply & Sewerage System Project, City Of Anisok, Equatorial Guinea January 2011 57.1 Infrastructure & Water Supply & Sewerage System Project, City Of Evinayong, Equatorial Guinea May 2011 36.9 Environment Water Supply & Sewerage System Project, Kurdakhani, Absheron Peninsula, Azerbaijan December 2011 14.3 HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 32 Customers Customer Satisfaction Customer Management 34 Quality Management 36 New Technologies 38 Special 40 Research & Business Development (R&BD) Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 33 Disclosure on Management Approach Management The activities for customer satisfaction are based on the three pillars of ‘quality management’, ‘new technology Principle development’, and ‘customer relationship management’. Hyundai Engineering strives to maximize customer value by providing world-class quality competitiveness achieved through continuous innovation. Also, new technology is developed to create new growth engines with high added value, offering services demanded by the customer in a timely manner. Hyundai Engineering makes efforts to proactively achieve customer satisfaction, going beyond resolving customer complaints. The internalization of customer satisfaction culture and the establishment of an integrated customer management system are also being promoted to improve customer value. Key Performance Classification Unit 2010 2011 Quality ISO 9001/KS Q ISO 9001 Certification Certified Certified Management KEPIC Certification Certified New KRW in R&D investments 2.27 2.26 Technologies billions Customer Customer Satisfaction Point 67.5 73.6 Relationship Management Awareness % 82.0 86.6 Interview Hyundai Engineering should maximize the internal synergistic effect by trusting one another through a high level of ethical management. Companies’ efforts to voluntarily comply with ethics are no longer an option, but a must for survival. We hear many examples where companies with solid business results collapse due to the loss of confidence from the market and society caused by a weak sense of ethics and unethical actions including book rigging. Hyundai Engineering needs to learn a lesson from such cases to strengthen the platform for sustainable growth. In addition, Hyundai Engineering should also base business operations on communication with and trust from the local community, due to the characteristics of the engineering industry. Therefore, I believe a customer service representative should be designated for each local project site to develop customer relationship management programs, building trust with the local residents through volunteering activities that are globalized and localized at the same time. Han-bok Ju(Team Manager, Electric and Electronics System Team, Hyundai Corporation) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 34 Customer Management 1 Customer Satisfaction (in 2011) Awareness (in 2011) 73.6 points 86.6 % Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management Process Customer Satisfaction Management System Establishment of Customer With the recognition that customer satisfaction Satisfaction Plans is the foundation for sustainable management, Hyundai Engineering is committed to resolving complaints and satisfying customers. The Occurrence of culture of customer satisfaction has been Customer Request / Complaint ingrained in the daily business operation of employees, and customer value has been improved through integrated customer management. Communication with Customers The customer satisfaction center plays a role as a main channel to receive various opinions Website Customer Official Private from customers and respond to them. And Message Complaints Receipt Receipt Board Office complaints received via the website and the telephone services are designated with staff members who take charge to identify the cause and completely resolve them. Establishment and Implementation Writing Customer Requests of Corrective Measures Totaling and Analysis Response and Measure Monitoring Reporting Results •Customer Satisfaction Survey •Review of Customer Satisfaction Records •Internal Quality Inspection Innovative 20 20 Customer Leadership InnovativeLeadership CustomerSatisfaction Satisfaction 32 32 Win-win Partnership Win-win 42 Partnership 42 Great Great Work Place 48 48 Work Place Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 35 Protection of Customer Information provided through the internal web magazine or in the customer satisfaction survey in 2011, Hyundai Engineering is committed to preventing intranet. Under the belief that small changes showing an improvement in all processes over information leakage by strictly protecting make big strides, Hyundai Engineering is 2009. However, the level of satisfaction on customer and project-related information raising awareness and changing actions sales operations and engineering quality was through the security process including the related to customer satisfaction. weaker than the overall satisfaction, which was Digital Rights Management (DRM). Under the in turn, lower than the level of expectation. To general supervisor for information security, Customer Satisfaction Survey make enhancements, Hyundai Engineering supervisors for the security of documents, Hyundai Engineering conducts an objective plans to strengthen the engineering quality facilities, telecommunication, and computer survey on customer satisfaction annually through engineering standardization, increase system are designated for a systematic through an external survey company. The the number of experts, and reinforce activities prevention. During 2010 and 2011, there results are used to identify issues that need in sales operation. has not been a single case of the leakage of improvement and follow up on the findings. confidential customer or company information. In 2009, the results revealed that not only the overall satisfaction but also the satisfaction for Customer Satisfaction Activities each process decreased compared to the A company-wide campaign focused on previous year. Therefore, a task force team reforming the awareness on customer dedicated to improving customer satisfaction satisfaction has been implemented to was established. It carried out activities such as strengthen the involvement of every employee. inculcating the culture of customer-first in the Information on various activities aimed organization, analyzing the cause of complaint at satisfying customers including simple in depth, and developing resolutions. procedures such as answering phone calls is As a result, Hyundai Engineering scored 73.6 Action Plans for Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction and Awareness Awareness (%) Satisfaction (points) Find the touch Provide what the customer wants, point in terms of not what we could offer 87.0 86.6 customer viewpoint 81.0 81.0 82.0 Inspect current Investigate the gap between the 79.0 78.0 level of each customer expectation and the actual touch point offering and consider the causes 74.8 73.6 73.9 71.4 Reorganize the Eliminate the unnecessary tasks touch point / seand actualize the requirements 70.1 lect action plans 61.1 67.5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 “I” am the one Myself, as a leader of customer to do it. satisfaction * There was no customer satisfaction survey in 2010. Increase of customer value HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 36 Quality Management 2 Global Quality Management Standard Nuclear Quality Certification Assurance Certification ISO 9001 KEPIC For the Best Quality for each business including engineering, Quality Management (QM) System procurement, and construction under the Hyundai Engineering is committed to principles. In the case of nuclear projects, the implementing quality management in order to relevant team, and employees are mandated satisfy customers. The Quality Management to comply with nuclear project quality Team under the Plant Business Supporting guarantee principle. Office is dedicated to providing internal training on quality assurance, certifying and managing Key Quality Management Activities quality for EPC, and the quality control Operation of Quality Management System system. Key principles of quality management Among quality management systems, the are ‘creation of customer’s future values by Project Quality Rating System enables consistent quality improvement’, ‘maximization Hyundai Engineering to quantitatively measure of the competitiveness in technology and the level of quality of every project. In addition, quality’, and ‘maximization of business Hyundai Engineering undertakes regular efficiency through intelligence management quality audit, quality trend analysis, and review and process innovation’. Hyundai Engineering by management to offer service with optimal implements quality assurance activities quality. Quality Management Principles Hyundai Engineering has been striving to guarantee the reliability of projects that it implements based on years of experience and technological capability in the engineering and construction businesses. It implements an efficient quality management system that puts priority on customer satisfaction. The company will comply with the following principles to provide better products and services to customers. 1. Creation of customer’s future values by consistent quality improvement 2. Maximization of the competitiveness in EPCM technology and quality 3. Maximization of business efficiency through intelligence management and process innovation Every organization under Hyundai Engineering shall establish a quantifiable quality goal based on the principles and spare no efforts to achieve it. The company shall provide sufficient support for the accomplishment. Every employee shall understand the principles and carry out their daily tasks following the quality management system. The principles and the Project Quality Rating System shall be regularly monitored and continuously improved. President of Hyundai Engineering Kim, Wee-chul Innovative InnovativeLeadership Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction 32 32 Win-win Partnership Win-win 42 Partnership 42 Great Great Work Place 48 48 Work Place Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 37 Hyundai Engineering’s Quality Management System Process in advance, strengthening quality-related risk management, training workers and Quality Management System (QMS) inspecting quality. Hyundai Engineering also Documentation operates cutting-edge IT systems including a Process Understanding/ Management construction and quality management system QMS Documentation Management Record HCQM and a pipe welding management Management system WIT to increase transparency in data Management Consistent Responsibility Improvement management and efficiency in construction Promotion Management Will Division of Works quality management. Goal Management QMS Planning Quality Policy Establishment Communication Review Resource Measurement, Analysis & Quality Certification Management Improvement CommuniISO 9001/ KS Q ISO 9001 cation Customer Customer Human Internal Customer A company-wide quality management system Resources Inspection Management that abides by the requirements of ISO Resource Base Structure Monitoring & Measurement Data Analysis Improvement 9001/ KS Q ISO 9001 is implemented within Procurement Hyundai Engineering. Also, all areas of the Inadequate Working Product Rectification engineering business including construction Environment Prevention Management sites have acquired and currently maintain ISO Product 9001 certification. Realization Since the obtainment of ISO 9001 certification Procurement (when necessary) from German TUV in 1994, the quality Demand Satisfaction Order Customer Construction Project management system of Hyundai Engineering Engineering or Management Planning (when necessary) Conduct Development Process Results has been rebuilt twice according to the Supervision (when necessary) amended international standards. In addition, the annual ISO certification inspection has been contributing to stronger quality Knowledge Management (KM) interface management between areas, teams management. The knowledge management system is and vendors. Moreover, the 3D Modeling Review operated to maintain the excellence in quality and review and verification of expert groups also and allow every employee to share knowledge. contribute to reinforcing quality in engineering. Employees can share information on trial and error and resolutions for improvement Quality Management in Procurement gained through project implementation on Hyundai Engineering has adopted an the ‘Lessons Learned’ page of the intranet. advanced equipment and material inspection This process contributes to strengthening the method. Low-quality equipment and materials efficiency in execution of similar projects and are subject to a special management their quality. system. By using the TOPICS, a system ISO 9001/KS Q ISO 9001 Certification & IQNet Certification Furthermore, the overall information and for collaborated equipments and material experience from project implementation is inspection, Hyundai Engineering establishes KEPIC Certification compiled in the ‘project report’, which other quality information database, shares the In 2011, Hyundai Engineering acquired employees can refer to as know-how. information with relevant teams and enhances QAP-1, a qualification for quality guarantee, the efficiency in inspection. from KEPIC to secure the stability and reliability Quality Management in Engineering of power generation facilities. The certification Project Space, a project collaboration system Quality Management in Construction serves as a foundation for making inroads into developed internally, helps increase the transAt the initial stage of preparing a project site, new nuclear power markets where demand parency of and standardization of engineering an on-site quality management system is has recently been surging. works. It allows the real-time monitoring established to achieve zero flaws in quality. of engineering results, raising the efficiency in This system contributes to securing quality HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 38 New Technologies 3 R&D Investments (in 2011) Registration of Intellectual Property Rights (in 2011) KRW 2.3 billion 333 items Technology Development System Technology Development Vision Operation of a real-time global Hyundai Engineering has been consistently A real-time global management information management and knowledge system is being operated. developing applied technology to expand the information system EP&CM business and fortify technological capability, contributing to improved customer satisfaction and service quality. Establishment of The intelligent integrated engineering To achieve a virtuous circle among the intelligent integrated business solutions are being established Vision engineering to provide customer-oriented quality R&D visions of ‘creation of high valuebusiness management. added businesses’, ‘operation of a real-time solutions global management information system’, and ‘establishment of intelligent integrated Creation of high High value-added new growth engine value-added businesses are created by the development engineering business solutions’, Hyundai businesses Engineering established strategies to of core technologies. strengthen technological competitiveness and the ensuing action plans. R&D Vision & Technological Competitiveness Enhancement Strategy 1. Creation of high value-added businesses through the development of core technology Technology Development System Hyundai Engineering has been reinforcing R&BD management activities to identify areas to develop core technology H y u n d a i E n g i n e e r i n g ’s a p p r o a c h t o and build new business, maximizing corporate future value. By playing a central role in technological development for government-led projects and leveraging on cooperation among the industry, academia, and research institutes, technological development is divided into Hyundai Engineering is contributing to the development of not only the company but also the national industry. in-company development, implementation of national projects and industry-university 2. Establishment of intelligent integrated engineering business solutions to maximize customer collaboration. Technology development satisfaction in quality projects are selected by first reviewing the A technology roadmap for each business area congruous with the mid-term business strategy was established to develop technology in a systematic manner, improving EP&CM capabilities. Hyundai Engineering has also been plan by each approach, and assessing the continuously improving its standard, procedure, and system for the business process to execute projects and build feasibility and prospect of commercialization. management system that meets the global standard. The convergence between commercial solutions required by ITB The chosen projects are systematically and in-company solution has been fortified to enhance customer satisfaction in quality. managed through regular monitoring on 3. Operation of a real-time global management information system and knowledge-based progress during development. Upon the management system completion, the level of success is evaluated The management information system of Hyundai Engineering provides information required in making strategic and through post-review and assessment of actual tactical decisions on a real-time basis by function, organization, and level. It is also equipped with analysis management application. Moreover, database for the newlyfunctions with strengthened predictability. All types of information relevant to technology, experience, and past projects developed technologies are built to encourage are compiled and shared as assets, which allows consistent business innovation and technological improvement. the field application by employees. Innovative InnovativeLeadership Leadership 20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction 32 32 Win-win Partnership Win-win 42 Partnership 42 Great Great Work Place 48 48 Work Place Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 39 Technology Development Process Current Status of Intellectual Property Considering the importance of knowledge in In-company Implementation of Industry-University Development National Projects Collaboration the engineering industry, Hyundai Engineering has made utmost efforts to secure patents Review of Technology Development Plans and intellectual properties. During the reporting period, Hyundai Engineering has applied for Selection of Technology Development Tasks a total of 34 patents. As of the end of 2011, Hyundai Engineering holds 333 industrial property and 106 patents including one patent Inspection for Application in the US. Technology Development Activities Technology Development Performances Technology development and market research Performances have been consistently implemented for the Hyundai Engineering has attained success in achievement of market dominance in the technological development in various areas. future and the maximization of customer In particular, technologies that are eco-friendly satisfaction. Hyundai Engineering is especially and beneficial for social development are contributing to the development of the being materialized by Hyundai Engineering. domestic engineering industry by cooperating Some examples include eco-friendly trackwith vendors under technology development type pavement for bimodal tram and 50kW agreements and with the academic sectors. pure-oxygen combustion power system. Government-led R&D Projects Possession of Intellectual Property Rights in 2011 By continuously participating in government-led (in 2011) R&D projects, Hyundai Engineering has been Type Patent Utility Model Program Trade Mark Design Total leading the development of technologies Application 34 34 pivotal for the development of the Korean Registration 106 4 218 2 3 333 engineering industry and promoting Korea’s technological prowess to global customers. Technology Development in Active (2010~2011) R&D Expenses Category Development Task Period (Unit: KRW in millions, %) Non-power cooling system for photovoltaic module 2010.07~2011.08 R&D Expenses R&D Expenses to Sales 50kW power generation technologies to use pure oxygen combustion 2008.04~2012.03 system Technology Advanced river-road disaster prevention technologies 2008.06~2013.06 2,271 2,264 Technologies for the storage, transport and usage of natural gases by 0.18% 0.14% 2007.10~2010.09 NGH Study of unit process improvement of HSC 2010.04~2011.12 Slab structure applied to bimodal tram track vehicles 2010.08~2011.08 Infrastructure Eco-friendly track-type pavement for bimodal tram 2010.02~2011.12 High-tech water purification system to lake or pond 2008.01~2010.06 2010 2011 * Sales were drawn up by K-IFRS. Research & Business Development (R&BD) R&BD of Hyundai Engineering R&BD Special HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 Recycle Chemical Cleaning MDV2 Treated Water 40 Hyundai Engineering has developed human-oriented technologies through Line Mixer(PreRaw Water Chlorination, Coagulant) IeveI S/W R&BD in the fields of environment and process plant. In the environmental Suction Pump sector, technologies such as the Hyundai Advanced Nutrients Treatment (HANT) MDV1 and a variety of eco-friendly technologies have been developed and applied to MDV3 environmental projects. In the process plant sector, Hyundai Engineering has Backwashing Pump developed Gas-To-Liquid (GTL) process which is to manufacture FT synthetic petroleum out of natural gas. Other examples include Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), a process to localize liquefied natural gas plants, and Methanol-To-Olefin Backwashing Tank Chemical Pump (MTO) process that produces light olefin from methanol and DME. Chemical Tank MDV4 Hyundai Engineering has applied its own exclusively developed technologies Drain Blower and advanced engineering technologies. Through the technologies, Hyundai Engineering is striving to go beyond customer satisfaction and make sure all of global citizens live in a convenient and eco-friendly world. Hyundai Advanced Nutrients Treatment with Sulfur (HANS) This progress is composed of Membrane Bio-Reactor (MBR) vessel and Sulfur R&BD in the Environmental Business Denitrification Reactor (SDR) vessel. It adopts an advanced treatment technology Hyundai Advanced Nutrients Treatment (HANT) that simultaneously eliminates 1) phosphorus through a filtration function of a HANT is a high technology of biological nitrogen sewage and waste treatment, filtering material packed in the latter part of SDR progress as well as 2) nitrogen which is composed of a submerged-type hollow fiber membrane inside the through a sulfur-based denitrification response by removing organic matters and reactor and aerobic vessels made up of anoxia/anaerobic/aerobic/deaerobic SS from MBR vessel, improving nitrification and injecting a coagulation agent vessel. This is also a state-of-the-art technology that guarantees excellent water into MBR dispose water. treatment quality. HANS is excellent in removing organic matters and nitrogen by efficiently This is a next generation high technology that can recycle the entire dispose arranging the bio reactor vessel in the order of MBR progress and SDR progress. water into heavy water by eliminating solon bacillus as well as floating materials. Moreover, it eliminates nitrogen and phosphorus without settling pond and There is no need to establish a separate facility such as sand filtration facility, internal and external return, which simplifies the treatment process. active carbon absorption facility or disinfection facility. Dispose Water Vessel CLOSED Back Wash Pump Raw Water Back Wash Filtration Cellar OPEN Water Fine Screen Dispose Water Sulfur Denitrification Vessel (SDR Vessel) Suction Pump Screen Back Wash Chemical Tank Pump Internal Return Pump Raw Water Chemical Pump Membrane Membrane Ventilator Transportation Pump Line Mixer Ventilator Inflowing Pump Inhalation Raw Water Deaerobic Surplus Sludge Pump Anoxic Tank Anaerobic Tank Aerobic Tank Tank MBR Vessel Filtration Tank Regulation Tank Ventilator Hyundai Advanced Natural Drinking Water Treatment II (HANTII) Hyundai Sludge Composter (HSC) HANTII is an advanced sewage and waste treatment technology using HANT HSC is a technology to compost and reduce an amount of sludge. HSC controls submerged membrane bioreactor. This simple clean water treatment facility the percentage of water content in sludge. This technology also decomposes controls the filtering function with membrane’s momentary and average fluctuation halogenated hydrocarbons under aerobic conditions after mixing the sludge in differential pressure by installing a submerged hollow fiber membrane in the with returned refined products. membrane filtering vessel. Also, the facility backwashes the pollutants attached Application of HSC makes it possible to bring about effects to suppress to the membrane during inhalation and filtration into air water, and exchanges expansion of stench and hygienic insects, improve public hygiene and prevent ion after carrying out pre-chlorine treatment, cohesion and filtration from the secondary pollution. In addition, the technology produces highly applicable membrane filtering vessel. decomposed manure (compost) which can be used as a fertilizer and cover HANTII restrains the increase of differential pressure and prolongs the life span of landfills, thereby reducing 80% of treated sewage sludge. membrane by actively managing the external environmental change (materials Return Hopper influential to the differential pressure of membrane). In addition, the air (scrubbing Store the Raw Material Storage Hopper Post-Ripening Vessel air) is used only in the back washing process, which reduces electrical power Dryer Decomposing Vessel Product Packaging cost. It is easy to establish an unmanned automatic integrated management system through remote control and supervision. Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 41 R&BD in the Process Plant Sector Gas-To-Liquid (GTL) Hyundai Engineering has been developing Gas-To-Liquid (GTL) process, which manufactures synthetic petroleum out of natural gas. GTL converts natural gas into synthetic gas and mixes and improves light synthetic petroleum and heavy synthetic petroleum created by Fischer-Tropsch (FT) reaction ultimately in order to produce GTL synthetic petroleum. Use of GTL process allows natural gas to be transportable and convertible into lucrative liquid, which makes it easy to store natural gas and ensures safety. GTL Process Natural Gas Synthetic Gas (CO/H2) Synthetic Oil Light Hydrocarbon Product (Light Synthetic Oil) FischerLPG Natural Gas Tropsch Product GTL Naphtha Natural Gas Conversion Conversion Upgrading GTL Fuel Oxgen (reforming) (FT response) (GTL Synthetic Oil) Synthesis Gas Heavy Hydrocarbon Product (Heavy Synthetic Oil) Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) & Methanol-To-Olefin (MTO) Hyundai Engineering has sought to localize liquefied natural gas plants and developed a technology to produce MTO Process light olefin from methanol. In particular, the LNG process is recognized as a new growth engine business that MTO : Methanol / DME any Korean engineering company or builder have not received orders until now. Hyundai Engineering is aiming to successfully localize this process to maximize customer value and take a lead in the industry. Natural Gas Hydrate (NGH) is a technology to press out natural gas with high density, store and transport it and (Methanol) 2CH3OH ensure safe use of the gas. To pursue business opportunities by making small and medium-sized gas fields more lucrative, Hyundai Engineering has completed the construction of NGH manufacturing facilities and basic design of a pilot plan for commercialization of NGH. H2O LNG Process Natural Gas Synthetic Gas (CO/H2) Synthetic Oil (DME) CH3OCH3 MTO Light Hydrocarbon Product (Light Synthetic Oil) DTO H2O Olefins (CH2)N Acid Gas Dehydration & Heavies Liquefaction Separation (n=2,3) Removal Mercury Removal Plant Removal Sulphur Refrigeration C2H4 C3H6 Recovery LNG (There is no project (Ethylene) (Propylene) Storage Storage conducted by Korea’s engineering and construction companies.) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 42 Vendors Win-win Partnership Co-prosperity with Vendors 44 Special Compliance Program 46 Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 43 Disclosure on Management Approach Management Hyundai Engineering has set up and conducted a system and regulations in the selection of vendors, which ensures Principle a relationship of trust from them. Moreover, to select vendors in an impartial manner, registration and procedures are implemented transparently and the process of an open bid has consistently expanded. On top of that, Hyundai Engineering operates a low-price deliberation system to prevent excessively low bidding for construction orders. Through this system, Hyundai Engineering helps vendors deliver better operational performance, enhance construction quality and keep the scheduled construction period and eventually pursues mutual success. Hyundai Engineering will continue to nurture and support vendors as well as establish transparent relationships with them. This effort will help Hyundai Engineering take the lead in fair trade and win-win cooperation with vendors. Key Performance Classification Unit 2010 2011 Number of Outsourcing 742 940 Vendors Purchase 994 1,528 Companies Premier Vendor Design 9 6 Certification Construction 6 4 Interview Hyundai Engineering’s strong effort for mutual success with its vendors is highly commendable. Vendors will still need tangible support and cooperation from Hyundai Engineering for their sustainable growth. In particular, they need optimized technologies for each business sector provided from Hyundai Engineering through partnership and consulting service. I truly believe jointly obtaining patents and developing new technologies will greatly contribute to growth of vendors as well as expansion of Hyundai Engineering’s business in the long term. Woo-il Choi (CEO of Yuki Corporation) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 44 Co-prosperity with Vendors 1 Number of Vendors (in 2011) Premier Vendors (in 2011) 2,468 companies 10 companies Co-prosperity with Vendors equipment suppliers, subcontractors Selection and Registration of Vendors and other vendors at Outsourcing and Hyundai Engineering has set up and Procurement Team or have these companies conducted a system and regulations in register themselves. the selection of vendors, which ensures a After the application and registration, Hyundai relationship of trust from them. Engineering starts evaluating the potential To select vendors in an impartial manner, vendors according to the evaluation form. registration and procedures are implemented Companies that pass document screening are transparently and the process of an open given due diligence and evaluated for quality bid has consistently expanded. On top of and environment. This layered evaluation that, a low-price deliberation system is being enables Hyundai Engineering to fairly select operated to prevent extremely low bidding vendors that are competitive in quality and for construction orders. Through this system, also eco-friendly. Hyundai Engineering helps vendors deliver Hyundai Engineering implements an electronic better operational performance, enhance procurement system when carrying out all construction quality and keep the scheduled tasks ranging from bidding, contract, and construction period and eventually pursues establishment to warranty. The system has mutual success. enabled Hyundai Engineering to simplify the Registration Process of Vendors Hyundai Engineering receives application and way the tasks are performed. Importantly, this registration of companies including construction, procurement system reduces inconvenience Step1. PQ of each business engineering outsourcing companies and tools and equipment providers once a year on in the process of bidding, contracting, application for establishment and receipt November. Such companies are prospective of warranty, and contract delay in case of Step2.Bidding vendors for the domestic and overseas process plants, power & energy plants, infrastructure & companies located in local areas. Participation in environmental plants in turnkey base projects. Evaluation and Monitoring of Vendors Step3. estimates for actual purchase In addition, Hyundai Engineering posts ‘Vendor Registration’ at the homepage every March Hyundai Engineering regularly evaluates and monitors its vendors to constantly maintain top to provide a recommendation template for quality and boost the competitiveness in terms Step4.Vendor Registration registration. Teams operating the business register of eco-friendliness. Vendors are required to be evaluated through InnovativeLeadership Innovative 20 20 Customer Leadership Satisfaction Satisfaction Customer 32 32 Win-win Win-winPartnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place 48 48 Work Place Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 45 ERP system once every quarter to maintain a president of Hyundai Engineering attends previous three years, thereby maximizing qualification of a supplier. This evaluation also this meeting in person and listens to voices its ties with the best performers and puts vendors under obligations to consistently of vendors, thereby forming an enduring encouraging the other vendors to improve control quality of their products and services, relationship. their competitiveness. and environmental issues. Vendors can also use Hyundai Engineering’s Vendors in the construction sector are website to raise their complaints, of which Status of Premier Vendors evaluated by construction site supervisors, helpful and useful opinions related to (Unit: Companies) administrators, project control manager, procurement are appreciated and applied to Status of Premier Vendors 2009 2010 2011 mechanical managers, construction managers the business. Design 8 9 6 and HSE managers in the following fields: Construction 2 6 4 resource management, quality control, Fostering and Supporting Vendors effective communication, construction Vendor Training site management and safety control. HSE A variety of training and educational opportunities managers focus on whether preventive is provided to the vendors to enable them to measures are in place to prevent safety strengthen capability and pursue the best quality. incidents during their evaluation. They also In addition, the vendors receive training on quality evaluate compliance with environmental issues on a regular basis to enhance quality of laws and installation and maintenance of their products. Moreover, Hyundai Engineering environmental protection facilities for the sake also collaborates with them to develop of local residents’ healthy life. technologies in various fields including IT. Win-win management through educational supports 3D CAD Modeler Training Course Vendors in 2011 Recognition of Premier Vendors (Unit: Companies) Hyundai Engineering annually evaluates Classification Number of Vendors vendors and rewards the best performers with Construction 359 benefits. Such benefits include certifications Outsourcing and priorities in bidding participation. They Design 581 also receive a priority in optional contracts. In Machinery 491 addition, Hyundai Engineering allocates them Electricity 282 a quota of contracts based on the average Purchase Instrumentation 314 number of contracts with vendors for the Plumbing 426 Transportation 15 Total 2,468 Communication with Vendors Communication Channels Hyundai Engineering has made a variety of communication channels available to encourage vendors to express their opinions. The annual meeting is an opportunity to listen to challenges of vendors and their proposals, and build networks among them. The meeting also gives vendors time to directly express difficulties and inform Hyundai Engineering of areas where improvement is needed, which helps to mutually search for solutions. The 2012 Premier Vendors Awards Compliance Program Hyundai Engineering’s Compliance Program (CP) Special Changes in awareness of fair competition has moved up the introduction of CP Organization HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 46 voluntary risk management system and increased tangible and intangible President burdens such as fines, compensations and law suits resulted from violations as well as loss of corporate image. Moreover, internal and external credibility is one CP Manager of various stakeholders and customers’ concerns and minimizing legal penalties levied by such violations is one of the engineering industry’s biggest issues. Head of Finance & Economy Office Hyundai Engineering introduced an internal compliance program called CP in June, 2011. The program is intended to encourage Hyundai Engineering to voluntarily comply with laws related to fair trade. Introduction of CP has allowed CP Executive Team CP Council Hyundai Engineering to engage in a variety of activities such as declaration of Director: Head of Finance Team CP Manager and Working Staff of voluntary compliance and introduction of training programs in order to advocate Staff: IR/Disclosure Manager Each Division/Office fair and honest trade practices. Code of Conduct for the Compliance Program I thoroughly understand the rules of voluntary compliance with fair trade and do my best not to violate fair trade laws. Incentive to Early Prevent Law Prevention I will strive to treat vendors in a fair and a more transparent manner with a Violations of Law Violations strong sense of vocation as a CP manager in doing my duties. Necessity of I will impose restrictions on myself if I violate fair trade laws, thereby increasing Compliance Program awareness of the laws, being alerted to and preventing recurrence of violation. I contribute to the joint growth of Hyundai Engineering and vendors and to the Law-abiding Presentation creation of forward-looking values for happiness of humanity by strictly comSpirit of Clear Behavior plying with fair trade laws. Criteria Hyundai Engineering Personnel in July, 2011 Prevention of Law Violations CP Organization Hyundai Engineering is implementing a supervisory system to effectively operate the Compliance Program. The supervisor is an elected position. He or she is first recommended by the president and appointed as supervisor by the vote in the Board of Directors. The supervisor is in charge of operating CP and setting up plans for the program. Hyundai Engineering also established CP Council under direct control of the supervisor. The council assists the supervisor to perform his or her duties. The organization also ensures fair trade laws related to works of each team, amends internal regulations in accordance with changes of supervisory regulations and conducts a pre-screening process of daily works. Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 47 CP Activities Such training focuses on critical information about fair trade-related laws and Declaration of Voluntary Compliance information that the employees should be aware of to do their jobs. These To create an environment where all employees follow laws related to fair employees are also trained on major changes to voluntary compliance trade and proactively engage in CP, Hyundai Engineering declared voluntary regulations and issues resulted from revisions of fair trade-related laws. compliance under the name of the president in July, 2011. The intention for voluntary compliance came in the form of a declaration which was distributed Status of Completion of CP Educations to employees. It was also posted on the homepage for external stakeholders. Please visit the website (http://www.hec.co.kr/html/company/cp/about_cp01. Number of asp) for CP declaration. Name of Education Time Participants Group education subcontract transaction More than 2 hours 99 employees Distribution of the CP Handbook systems Hyundai Engineering published and distributed a handbook that details Online education fair transaction systems More than 3 hours All employees guidelines for laws related to fair trade. The handbook was written in light of organizational and operational features of the company. And all revisions of Restriction on Fair Trade Law Violation and Document Control related laws and regulations are rapidly included in the handbook. Hyundai Engineering has made it a rule to impose restriction against any personnel who violate fair trade-related laws while conducting their duties. Contents of the CP Handbook Penalty against a violator of fair trade laws by a compliance review is commensurate with level of the violation and is based on personnel policy and Classification Contents rule of employment. Understanding the Compliance CP introduction, operation guidelines, There were no alleged fair trade-related violations or wrongdoing between Program components, etc. 2010 and 2011. Details of the fair trade system, unfair In addition, important documents concerning voluntary compliance are Cautions by Each Business transactions with vendors and affiliates, classified and under the CP supervisor’s control. Such documents include the matters to be attended for bidding, etc. president’s declaration of voluntary compliance, the appointment and dismissal Checklist on fair trade laws, checklist on letter of the CP supervisor, the CP handbook and the confirmation letter of cases related to violations of subcontract handbook distribution. Checklist laws, regulations on legal terms by subcontract laws Please visit the website (http://www.hec.co.kr/html/company/cp/about_cp01. President’s asp) for full text of the CP manual. strong will to introduce CP Monitoring of CP Observation Establishment Designation and of the CP supervisor reviews and confirms compliance with such laws, employees’ operation of the documentation CP manager advice and issues from whistle blowing system. Results of the review and system confirmation are reported to the Board of Directors more than once every quarter. Hyundai Engineering also aims to effectively operate CP by implementing a HEC CP Voluntary Publication and whistle blowing system. This system prohibits disclosure or leakage of whistle restraint on distribution of CP blowers’ personal information to a third party. On top of that, whistle blowers violations handbook are assured that they are not put at a HR-related disadvantage as a result of their reports. Training on CP Establishment Operation of of the monitoring employee training Hyundai Engineering provides training on laws related to fair trade for all system programs employees with higher violation risks. If necessary, online training is offered frequently. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 48 Employees Great Work Place Respect for Talents 50 Capability Enhancement 52 Welfare Benefits 54 Health and Safety 58 Labor-Management Communication 61 Special Communication & Collaboration 62 Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 49 Disclosure on Management Approach Management Hyundai Engineering’s management philosophy gives a priority to growing talents. To that end, a well-organized Principle HR system has been built based on ‘H-Type Personnel’. Under the banner of respect for the talent, Hyundai Engineering is striving to create an organizational culture that goes beyond protection of basic rights and improves quality of personnel’s life. Moreover, with the presence of reasonable HR criteria applied to all personnel, Hyundai Engineering has evaluated personnel’s performance transparently, thereby seeking to generate talents. A reasonable labor-management relationship has been built through the expansion of communication channels, improvement of working condition and cooperation to resolve difficulties. Key Performance Classification Unit 2010 2011 Regular employees 1,585 1,788 persons Respecting Talents Regular female employees 138 159 Average service years of regular employees years 10.4 8.9 Training hours per employee hours 89 147 Nurturing Talents KRW in Training expenses per employee 1,268 1,221 thousands Return-to-work rate Male 98.0 100.0 Maternity Protection after maternity leave Female 83.3 85.7 % LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate) 0.03 0.03 Health & Safety HEC’s Domestic Conversion Accident Rate 0.17 0.05 Interview At Hyundai Engineering, management of talents should come before anything. Communication and mutual understanding should be top priority for us to march with a sense of unity toward the company’s common goals. Moreover, continuous efforts to expand the mutual understanding are a prerequisite to boost personnel’s pride and loyalty to this organization. I believe effective communication and opportunities for understanding dialogues for better working relationships within the organization will increase unity, which is in the best interest of the company’s reputation. Yoon-hwan Kim (General Manager, Process Plant Business Support Team, Process Plant Division) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 50 Respect for Talents 1 Number of Board Average Service Years of Meetings (in 2011) Regular Employees (in 2011) 2,312 persons 8.9 years Hyundai Engineering’s HR System physical disability as well as complies with the H-type Personnel Model forced work prohibition of International Labor Hyundai Engineering recognizes employees as Organization (ILO) and the Labor Standard its most valuable asset. The H-type personnel Act. Also, there is no discrimination in hiring model of Hyundai Engineering refers to employees for reasons of disability, gender, and employees who possess expertise and extensive cultural difference. knowledge together with sensitivity, humanity, In addition, Hyundai Engineering strictly forbids pride, challenging spirit and global mindset. All of child labor according to the labor principles of employees at Hyundai Engineering make all-out the UN Global Compact (UNGC) when hiring efforts to be H-type personnel who can create new and experienced employees. Hyundai high performances by acquiring in-depth expertise Engineering prohibits child labor and forced labor and global competencies. Hyundai Engineering in all business sites in compliance with Child will do its best for its talents who have challenging Labor Prohibition Agreement and Agreement spirit and creativity to excel and move the world. on Forced Work Abolishment of ILO.There has been no violation at Hyundai Engineering until HR Management Policy now. Fair HR management system of Hyundai H-type Personnel Model Engineering contributes to the activation of organization and enhancement of transparency. Personnel Management System Performance Passion Hyundai Engineering prohibits discrimination (Performance (Passion, Driving Force, Creation) Responsibility) based on gender, age, religion, education and Cultivation of H-type Human Resources Reasonable management setting value on individual Generalist H Global Talent refinement and desire Rapid promotion of competent employees (Integrated Ability, (Language, Presentation/ Various Knowledge) Writing, Communication) Cultivation of experts by efficient career management Professionalism Pride Provision of opportunities for overseas service (Expertise, Specialist) (Pride, Company Loyalty) InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 51 Respecting Diversity, Securing Talent The number of Hyundai Engineering’s employees stood at 2,312 as of the end of 2011. Regular employees numbered 1,788, accounting for 77.3%. Female regular employees numbered 159, representing 8.9% of the total regular personnel. Given the characteristics of the engineering industry with lots of works done at overseas worksites, the number of female employees is small compared to the general service industry. Nonetheless, more female employees are expected to join Hyundai Engineering in the future, as the business boundary between women and men disappears. Upon being hired by Hyundai Engineering, domestic college graduates are paid 158% of the legal minimum wage. There is no difference in basic pay by gender. Hyundai Engineering has recruited interns annually since 2010, with bonus points awarded to those who intend to apply for regular positions. Human Resource Status Category Unit 2009 2010 2011 Regular employees 1,473 1,585 1,788* Total Irregular employees 315 410 524* Interns persons 34 55 Social Minority Disabled regular employees 7 14 15 Foreigner Foreign employees in domestic workplaces 9 34 45 Starting wage for new employees compared to the 156 159 159 legal minimum % Employee Transfer** 2.5 6.6 3.7 Average Service Year** years 11.5 10.4 8.9 * T he number of regular employees included 49 executives, and the number of irregular employees also included 192 local employees. (The figures are not included in the disclosure information.) ** As of regular employees. The average service years decreased due to hiring of new employees on a large scale. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 52 Capability Enhancement 2 Training Session per Training Expenses per Employee (in 2011) Employee (in 2011) 147 hours KRW 1.2 million Employee Training common knowledge expansion program Human Resources Development (HRD) for core value, leadership and newcomer Strategies induction, specialty job training program Hyundai Engineering has selected ‘Creative for Project Manager (PM), Lead Engineer Culture and Global Talent HRD Excellence’ as (LE) and Engineering Manager (EM), global a policy to nurture talents under the strategic competitiveness program to support intensive HRD to enhance global competitiveness. To English education and second foreign achieve this, human resources development language education including Spanish, French is being executed by three strategies: and Thai, and self-improvement program establishment of organizational culture for supported by the Cyber Training Center. creative learning, globality, and building of an Hyundai Engineering builds a customerHRD system that fortifies job expertise. friendly education/training system by checking the parts requiring supplementation and Employee training system areas to improve in education/training through The employee training system of Hyundai quarterly training performance analysis and Engineering consists of four programs: regular questionnaire survey. InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 53 Employee training system Global SelfCommon Knowledge Specialty Job Training Program Competitiveness improvement Expansion Program Program Program Program Core Value / Organization New In-company Common Overseas Global Contents Management Capability / Employee Domestic Training Specialty Self-instruction Empowerment Training Competitiveness Philosophy Leadership Training Job Training Subjects All Trainee All Executives and Employees All Employees Subjects of Each Program of Each Seekers / Subjects Seekers Employees Program Knowledge for Executives, New Executive Executives Overseas Training to Acquire Specialty Engineering Technologies HMG HMG HMG Internet Internet VISION Customer Satisfaction Ethical Management(Sexual Harassment) General •English On-the-job Training for Construction Engineers Manager •General •Second In-company Education by Each Engineering Sector Management On-the-job Training by Each Sector Foreign Language Leadership Pipeline Program InnoBiz School Deputy •Qualification EM Training for Process Plant Business Employees with Careers Acquisition of Specialty General •IT Telephone Legal Educations Manager Maintenance of Architecture Qualification Trainings for Promoted Staff •English Value Build-up Program Process Management SelfQuality Management •Spanish improvement at Manager •Vietnamese Weekend Korea Power Learning Institute HSE •Arabic •Foreign Assistant Languages 1:1 Native Manager English Lecture •Acquisition of Specialty HMG Basic TOEIC Qualifications Staff New Employee Orientation HMG Integrated training program of Hyundai Motor Group Employee Training Performances Classification Unit 2009 2010 2011 In-company 13 21 34 Number of training courses courses Outside 1,014 447 377 Training session per employee hours 40 89 147 Training expenses per employee KRW in thousands 913 1,268 1,221 Employee Performance Evaluation Fair Employee Performance Evaluation Hyundai Engineering has established reasonable HR standards for all employees. For fair Performance Evaluation Criteria evaluation and suitable reward according to performance, Hyundai Engineering has developed a performance evaluation system based on Management by Objectives (MBO). Evaluation Core Common Strategic Capability Perspective is divided into personal ability evaluation and performance evaluation, and according to the evaluation results, promotion, pay raise, and year-end bonus levels are decided. Leadership Capability Capability Performance Job Summary of Employee Performance Evaluation Diagnosis Evaluation Perspective Job Capability Classification Contents Specialty HRD Capability Perspective Target of regular All employees except for non-standing employees performance evaluation MBO-type evaluation (individual target setup, intermediate inspection and yearEvaluation method end evaluation) Fair Performance Evaluation and Target setup (beginning of the year), intermediate inspection (July), evaluation Adequate Compensation Evaluation period (November) •Independent target setup and evaluatee’s participation in evaluation processes Activities for fair •Secrecy about previous evaluation results at each phase evaluation •Evaluator’s tendency adjustment •Monitoring of different evaluation results by evaluators HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 54 Welfare Benefits 3 Retirement Pension Number of Employees who Returned to Reserve (in 2011) Work after Maternity Leave (in 2011) KRW 91.7 billion 73 persons Welfare Benefits for Employees accidents during business trips which are Rich Life, Stable Life, Dynamic Life not covered by the legally required four major Considering the characteristics of the social insurance policies. engineering industry with lots of works done Welfare card system allows employees to at overseas worksites, Hyundai Engineering enjoy leisure activities, and a variety of welfare prioritizes the welfare benefits of employees benefit programs including school tuition and their families. To guarantee a better quality assistance for employees’ children also help of life of employees, Hyundai Engineering them lead a rich and varied life. analyzes employee needs and actively collects Hyundai Engineering set up a physical fitness their opinions to put various welfare policies center for employees’ health enhancement into practice. and rest at its head office building. A cafeteria For instance, Hyundai Engineering has and a service lounge were also installed to subscribed to liability insurance to guarantee enhance employees’ job productivity and compensation for employees in case of satisfaction. Locker room Shower room Physical fitness center InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 55 Saxophone club Completion Ceremony of Korean School for Foreign Employees Major Employee Welfare Programs Classification Details Operation of in-company clubs, biweekly Family Day (on-time leave), Leisure activities resort stay support, and payment of summer vacation bonus Childbirth and maternity protection Maternity leave and supports for day-care expenses (0~16 years old) Housing and life style Housing loan at low interest rate by raising social welfare funds Supports for comprehensive medical testing and expenses for Medical care and health outpatient and hospital treatment Supports for children's educational expenses, qualification benefits, Educations and tuition fees Legal welfare benefits Maternity leave Selective welfare benefits Welfare card, supports for personal pension Operation of cafeteria and commuting buses, gifts at the foundation Others day and traditional holidays Support for Retirees Support for Foreign Workers in Korea Hyundai Engineering operates a retirement Hyundai Engineering offers convenience in pension program to make it easy for living and business environment for its foreign employees to receive severance pay upon employees residing in Korea so that they can retirement. The retirement pension is in a perform their duties in a stable manner. form of Defined Benefit (DB) and KRW 91.7 Accommodations and various necessary billion was accumulated at the end of 2011. conditions for everyday life are provided to The retirement pension is managed by the foreign workers. And a guidebook “Guide to Group-affiliated company, HMC Investment Korea and HEC” is offered to support them Securities, and retirement pension asset to adapt to Korea and Hyundai Engineering. management is carried out by Korea’s ten Hyundai Engineering also helps foreign leading financial institutions. workers adapt easily to workplace in Korea by providing important in-company news in English. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 56 Summer Vacation Camp for Children of Employees On the homepage “Window to Globe” in two-week leave and round-trip tickets are the Intranet, information can be exchanged provided to them after works at construction between foreigners and Koreans. Other sites for 4 months. supports include Korean language education Hyundai Engineering encourages all twice a week and the operation of Korean employees to spend time with their family Culture Club (KCC) for Korean culturemembers by leaving the office on time every experiencing activities.. second and fourth Wednesdays of the month designated as Family Day. Likewise, with the Work & Life Balance system of autonomous attire implemented Harmony between Work and Life every Wednesday, employees can come to The company-wide “Work & Life Balance” work in casual, comfortable clothes. campaign pursues the unity of employee value In addition, Hyundai Engineering offers and company value through harmonizing work programs wherein employees can participate and life. together with their families such as vacation Hyundai Engineering has various leave camp for employees’ children to help them systems including commemorative holidays spend quality time with their families. Through and leave based on the number of years of the Hyundai Motor Group’s reservation service so that employees and their families website for various performances dubbed “Clip can spend time together. Hyundai Engineering Service,” Hyundai Engineering offers various also takes into account employees who types of musicals, concerts, and exhibits at are newly assigned, return or transfer to at low prices so that employees can go to those construction sites so that they can spend events with their families. more time with their families. For instance, InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 57 Idea Contest for Work & Life Balance improvement. Hyundai Engineering endeavors Hyundai Engineering searches for realistic to improve female employees’ working ideas for its employees’ work and life balance environment through the adoption of the and reflects them on corporate management. spouse’s child birth leave system (paid two The Junior Committee publicly invites novel days’ leave), etc. There are no disadvantages ideas from employees themselves through the to employment, pay, and career path due to W&LB Idea Contest. the use of leave of absence for child rearing In the 2010 W&LB Idea Contest in particular, and maternity leave. 76 different ideas were generated including Among employees who applied for leave due ‘3 Section Expert & Total’ intensive consulting to child birth, 49 were male and 6 were female, program for quality of life improvement, for a total of 55 in 2010. Among employees together with the establishment of an expert returning to work and working for one year or advisor system. more following maternity leave, 49 were male Hyundai Engineering selected 7 excellent and 4 were female, for a total of 53. ideas and awarded their proponents by In 2011, a total of 74 employees applied for offering gift certificates. As for executing maternity leave, of which 67 were male and 7 excellent ideas, they are put into practice were female. Among them, 67 male employees following sufficient review by the relevant team and 6 female employees returned to workplace and management. after the leave and are currently working. The ratio of returning to work after the use of Maternity Protection Activities maternity leave is steadily rising. In the female Hyundai Engineering carries out diverse employees’ lounge, Hyundai Engineering maternity protection activities to implement have improved female employees’ welfare by government policies on the low birth issue installing facilities for breastfeeding. and for female employees’ working condition Award Winner at 2010 Work & Life Balance Idea Contest Award Contest Sector Title Grand Prize Happy Working Life Establishment of the Advisory Committee System Change of office chairs to care for employees' back Improvement of Work Proposal of chair change for correct sitting posture Centralization Level Package box for new superintendent at construction sites Participation Prize 3 Section Expert & Total’ intensive consulting program for quality Happy Working Life of life improvement Cultural lecture together with family Leisure with Family No.1 refinement Status of Use of Maternity Leave Classification Unit 2010 2011 Number of employees who used maternity leave 55 74 Number of employees who returned to work after maternity leave persons 53 73 Number of employees who worked for 12 months and 53 N/A more after the return HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 58 Health and Safety 4 LTIR (in 2011) HEC’s Domestic Conversion Accident Rate (in 2011) 0.03 % * LTIR(Lost Time Injury Rate) 0.05 % HEC’s Health and Safety Consolidation offers data required for bid documents among Hyundai Engineering established a policy the data at portal sites for easy reference as for health and safety at the global level after well as monthly onsite reports of overseas EP/ declaring year 2012 as the first year for EPC sites. In addition, Hyundai Engineering achieving zero accidents, specifying matters systematically manages health and safety to be put into practice. and training-related statistics and activities Under the management policy of Health, contents to draw up Pre-Qualification (PQ) bid Safety, and Environment (HSE), the HSE documents so that Hyundai Engineering can Innovation Team of the General Administration effectively assist in health and safety activity& Management Office establishes plans on related work. Likewise, Hyundai Engineering health and safety and systematically reinforces has secured the required matters in drawing inspection and preventive activities. up PQ bid data including English system Efforts for HSE include the enhancement of document establishment and English teaching health and safety competencies, onsite health plan production of HSE. and safety activities, and company-wide health and safety campaigns and training. To support Pursuit of Accident-Free Worksites HSE Management Goals in 2011 major sites, Hyundai Engineering strategically Hyundai Engineering pursues accident-free reinforces head office personnel. HSE system workplaces including the head office by instilling at overseas sites is being managed to meet safety awareness among employees. Zero Fatal local needs. Risk evaluation data are collected through Accidents the HSE Innovation Team regularly in relation Safety Management Policy to activities that can lead to onsite accidents. To e x p a n d o r g a n i z a t i o n a l r o l e a n d Hyundai Engineering actually takes actions to Accident Rate HSE Domestic: 0.20% accountability with regard to HSE system, prevent accident-causing factors in advance so Management Overseas: 0.04% Goals in 2011 Hyundai Engineering has developed guidelines that accidents do not occur. Hyundai Engineering including HSE assessment tool at domestic has established the response flow to cope with and overseas sites and instructions on reward an emergency by situation and has defined the PQ Point +2 points and punishment regarding safety. appropriate action guide and reporting system on On the company intranet, Hyundai Engineering various potential accident risks including political InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 59 upheaval, terrorism, fire, high-pressure gas, Multi-Safety Inspection New employees learn about basic health and environmental pollution, damage from storm & Hyundai Engineering is committed to creating safety laws and regulations and wearing of flood, etc. safe work environments for employees safety gears at construction sites. For site and vendors through conducting strict inmanagers and supervisors, leadership and Compliance with International Standards company safety inspection and independent management related training programs are The HSE Innovation Team checks the third-party assurance provider’s safety offered to encourage employees to comply conformance and efficient implementation inspections. The safety inspection is being with safety regulations. of the HSE management system. Based on regularly carried out every week and every In addition, Hyundai Engineering posts safety OHSAS18001 certification on international month. In particular, the monthly safety environmental cases on the intranet to instill health, safety, and management system, inspection is implemented jointly by labor and safety awareness among all employees. Hyundai Engineering pursues not only management. During periods such as long enhancing employee safety but also reflecting weekend due to holidays, or in case of weak environmental, labor, and health & safety natural environment, Hyundai Engineering standards as special contract clauses in an conducts special safety inspection and agreement upon the selection of vendors. drastically prevents accidents that may occur Hyundai Engineering is improving the internal through negligence. In addition, Hyundai HSE system aimed at acquiring KOSHA18001 Engineering builds trust on onsite safety with certification in 2013 and is currently building a the clients and the local residents through computerized system including risk evaluation safety inspections by the Ministry of Labor, Onsite safety training by onsite specialist work classification. local governments, and other agencies. Installation of Safety Facilities and Wearing of Safety Gears To fundamentally prevent accidents in all construction sites, Hyundai Engineering installs safety facilities and encourages employees to wear full personal safety gear. It is obligatory for Onsite safety activities all construction sites to install safety bars, safety railings and fall prevention nets, which are regularly OHSAS18001 Certification inspected. All sites also prevent unauthorized personnel from approaching structures or Fortification of Onsite Safety equipment having risk factors by posting or Management attaching safety signs. Hyundai Engineering Regular Safety Meetings makes it compulsory for all onsite workers to wear By making regular onsite HSE meeting safety helmets and safety gears. If they do not compulsory, Hyundai Engineering checks wear safety gears, Hyundai Engineering takes potential accidents in advance, takes quick actions such as warning or disciplinary action or action, and performs monitoring. If any prohibition on accessing the site. urgent problem or issue occurs with regard to employees’ health and safety, the site Onsite Safety Training supervisor concerned and other relevant A variety of safety training programs are personnel convene a meeting to take quick provided to employees at sites to help them action. realize the importance of health and safety and voluntarily put safety activities into practice. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 60 Safety Management Performance install onsite emergency spaces; thus, simple Hyundai Engineering’s various efforts for safety care can be taken when an employee figures are evident in various and meaningful results. in an accident or has a disease. If diagnosis at The Yeosu HDPE Production Facility project was a hospital is needed, the employee is quickly awarded the certification of two-fold of accidentbrought to the hospital and assisted not to free man hours (910,000 hours as of January experience any inconvenience due to the 2, 2012) by KOSHA on January 12, 2012. The language barrier. certification of two-fold of accident-free man Certification of two-fold of accident-free man hours HDPE Plant in Yeosu hours is meaningful since Hyundai Engineering Improvement of Head Office Employees’ has realized such accomplishment in line with Sanitation KOSHA’s certification criteria for the first time, Various sanitation improvement activities are and because it is difficult to realize accident-free carried out by Hyundai Engineering including sites on a long-term basis in the plant industry, cyclical environment measurement so that its considering the shorter construction period employees can concentrate on their work in compared to general building construction sites. a pleasant office, the space where they stay In 2010, the SIPCO Combined Cycle Power the longest in a day. Hyundai Engineering Plant project in Thailand received the certification measures the office environment such as fine Achievement of two million accident-free man hours – SIPCO of two million accident-free man hours from the dust, carbon monoxide, noise, and brightness Site in Thailand client. under the relevant laws and immediately executes improvement for parts requiring Safety Data at Sites improvement as a result of the environment (Unit: %) measurement. Through cyclical sanitation Classification 2009 2010 2011 inspection at the head office cafeteria and LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate) 0.01 0.03 0.03 vending machines, Hyundai Engineering HEC’s Domestic Conversion 0.23 0.17 0.05 prevents diseases that may occur such as Accident Rate food poisoning and other sanitary issues Conversion Accident Rate beforehand. With the establishment of the HSE of employees ( Av e r a g e i n t h e d o m e s t i c 0.50 0.41 0.40 Hyundai Engineering Health Protection corner construction industry) equipped with tonometry and CPR gadget as well as basic health devices such as first aid Enhancement of Employees’ Health kits and thermometers at the service lounge Physical Checkup for Employees on the second floor of the head office building, Hyundai Engineering offers general physical employees can easily use the corner for health checkups to its employees and their spouses checkup or in emergency. each year. When an epidemic hits, Hyundai Engineering Employee Health Education and strives to minimize the possibility of infection of Anti-Smoking Program Anti-Smoking Program together with Hospitals other employees through immediate diagnosis Hyundai Engineering enhances the health and and isolation action if there is an employee safety awareness of employees by providing health Nicotine dependence survey (Survey of showing symptoms of the disease in question. and safety education regarding CPR, emergency necessity of using pharmacotherapy) For an employee on a long-term overseas treatment, and emergency evacuation. For active business trip, Hyundai Engineering supports no-smoking treatment for those who want to Consultation with doctors and receipt of medicine (Check and consultation of smoking conditions him/her with physical checkup and vaccination quit smoking, Hyundai Engineering helps them and withdrawal symptoms) before leaving for a foreign country. Through succeed by offering professional counseling from Total 5 visits for 12 weeks (once every two weeks) pre-education on various diseases that a linked hospital near the head office and medicinal may develop in the business trip destination therapy. including malaria, employees are fully preparing Smoking cessation (Identification by urine test) for infectious diseases. The construction sites InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership 42 42 Great Work Great Place48 WorkPlace 48 Co-prosperity 64 Co-prosperity64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 61 Labor-Management Communication 5 Number of Labor-Management Employee Satisfaction Level Council Members (in 2011) 6 persons 73.6 points for the improvement of working conditions and in-company labor welfare fund, installation of grievance handling. These processes contributed physical fitness center and introduction of new to establishing a reasonable labor-management systems to support employees’ leisure and relationship at Hyundai Engineering. cultural activities such as welfare card and incompany club memberships. Key Win-win Growth Activities of Concerning employees’ grievances, the Labor-Management Council Hyundai Engineering handles them through The main duties of labor-management council negotiations and consultations. As for major encompasses many matters and issues issues that may affect the company and ranging from productivity improvement, employees, Hyundai Engineering handles performance results distribution, and them by collecting employees’ opinions or employee grievance handling to various requirements in advance and proposing systems’ improvement related to HR, labor them during the preliminary or regular and health & safety, and working conditions meeting. In addition, Hyundai Engineering has Win-win Growth between Labor and such as wage and safety instructions. promoted a variety of events to strengthen Management In particular, the labor-management council the unity among employees and business Expansion of Labor-Management is focusing on improving employees’ quality teams and their loyalty to the company. The Communication of life by cooperating with the management events included team-based rallies, sharing The labor-management council was established in for pay negotiation, performance distribution, and communication campaign and social 2001 for the protection of interests of employees, system improvement consultation of HR/ contribution activities. handling of their grievances and enhancement labor management, welfare enhancement of their welfare. The council elected 5 members and grievance handling. Pay negotiation and from 3 business divisions and 1 support office, performance distribution are decided at the with one chairperson internally and externally regular meeting attended by the same number representing all employees elected. Therefore, of members from labor and management total 6 members make up the labor-management after analyzing operating performances and council. collecting employees’ opinions. Hyundai Engineering has been expanding the HR/Labor management is discussed to labor-management communication channels improve major issues by organically combining to instill awareness of companionship and the institutional and personal systems for enhance mutual understanding. At the same common goal achievement between labor and time, they have cooperated with each other management. Major issues included raising Presentation meeting for the introduction of annual wage system Communication & Collaboration Communicative Organizational Culture Special HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 Hyundai Engineering makes immense efforts to create good ideas and foster a dynamic communication culture within the company by 62 vitalizing communications between the management and employees. Junior Committee The Junior Committee was founded to collect creative ideas of junior managers and plain employees and reflect them on business management as well as foster vertical and horizontal communication between management and employees. The Junior Committee carries out various activities including campaigns and seminars to identify and share ideas for company development for a term of two years. Hope Day of the Junior Committee The 22nd Junior Committee distributed beverages and vitamin supplements on November 24, 2011 to help ensure an exciting, joyful company life for employees. Employees said, “Although it was a cold morning since a cold wave watch was issued, we felt good to start the day in a good mood thanks to a sweet gift. We want to cheer the newly launched Junior Committee members.” The touching gesture of Junior Committee members in the winter with its persistently severe cold has helped employees regain vitality. Communication Channel Hyundai Engineering shares its vision, mission and strategies through various communication channels including webzine, company newsletter, Message from the President and regular morning meeting. The communication channels contribute to smoothly connecting the management and employees. Lunch Box Day with President Launched on September 7, 2011, Lunch Box Day with the president is a venue for social gathering wherein Hyundai Engineering’s president has lunch and communicates with employees during lunch break. The president Wee-chul Kim talks with representatives by randomly selected position about various topics every second and fourth Wednesdays of the month. Various topics such as personal matters of the president as well as questions about works are discussed in a familiar way. Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 63 The president Wee-chul Kim, who has been stressing communication between seniors and subordinates within the organization, emphasizes that free and active communication is the base for making Great Work Place (GWP). As such, Hyundai Engineering strives to establish a dynamic communication culture in various aspects. Moreover, Hyundai Engineering has held a monthly event sponsored by the president since last July, which contributes to stirring up the morale of employees. Other events including Throwing a Red Bean Sherbet Party, Presenting Books to Bookworm Employees, and Having Lunch with Married Female Employees just before the traditional holidays have been held. Harmony between Employees Club Membership Employees of Hyundai Engineering are involved in various in-company clubs for marathon, tennis, football, mountain climbing, ski, saxophone playing and yoga as well as baseball. A total of 14 in-company clubs are being operated as of June 2011, in which 1,404 employees are actively participating. In particular, the in-company baseball team Hyundai Griffins which was founded in 2010 by employees who like baseball contributes to solidify their amicability and colleagueship. Team members receive lessons regularly from a coach of “Mr. Kim’s Baseball Class” in a simple playing field next to the Mok-dong Stadium twice a month. Hyundai Engineering makes all-out efforts so that employees’ clubs can be registered as regular ones and be eligible to receive subsidies, etc. Employees take a rest amid their busy work schedules to share friendship and enhance work efficiency through a variety of club activities. Hyun-En Club Hyundai Engineering regards retired employees as its family members. By organizing an OB meeting of Hyundai Engineering, dubbed “Hyun-En Club,” Hyundai Engineering provides a venue where seniors and juniors can share friendship and cooperate with one another by keeping the retirees up to date with recent corporate news and trends. By inviting Hyun-En Club members to various cultural activities and events, members get to strengthen their commitment to Hyundai Engineering by mingling and getting to know past and current employees. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 64 Local Communities Coprosperity Introduction to Hyundai Engineering’s Social 66 Contribution Social Contribution Activities 67 Green Growth & Eco-friendly Engineering 72 Eco-friendly Technology 76 Green Office 78 Green Management Performances 79 Special 82 Performances in Social Responsibility Activities Innovative Leadership 20 Customer Satisfaction 32 Win-win Partnership 42 Great Work Place 48 Co-prosperity 64 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 65 Disclosure on Management Approach Management Hyundai Engineering is committed to fulfilling its obligations and responsibilities as a corporate citizen to build Principle a bigger future together with local communities neighboring business sites. To this end, Hyundai Engineering endeavors to share the vision and corporate value with local communities and promotes eco-friendly management to minimize environmental impacts with the awareness of corporate role for green growth. Hyundai Engineering will continue to search for social contribution areas reflecting the industry’s features and linking them with its growth strategies. Hyundai Engineering will do utmost efforts to grow into a green company through eco-friendly engineering performance and green technology development for the materialization of a low carbon society. Key Performance Classification Unit 2010 2011 Social Investments in social contribution activities KRW in millions 475 667 Contribution Participants in social contribution activities persons 583 2,164 Recycling of IT equipment units 200 280 Green Growth Violation of environmental law at home and abroad cases 0 0 GHG emissions* tCO2 eq 6,041.5 635,333.3 * Use of resources and emissions of wastes and greenhouse gases in 2011 sharply increased compared to the previous year, which was mainly attributable to the expansion of the business and sales growth. Interview Hyundai Engineering carries out a variety of activities across the local welfare and culture & arts sectors. I admire the consolidation of Hyundai Engineering’s competencies through continual social contribution activities for various underprivileged people beyond tentative year-end sharing events or typical social contribution. I wish Hyundai Engineering will engage in more professional, systematic social contribution activities by deducing the growth results and performing evaluation in line with continual assistance. At the same time, I expect your social contribution activities to be objectively evaluated by thoroughly reviewing the practices and results. Ji-young Kim (Director of Global Vision) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 66 Introduction to Hyundai Engineering’s Social Contribution 1 Social Contribution System Hyundai Engineering’s Social Contribution System Guided by its social responsibility mission of “We grow together with our customers, employees, and vendors and strive to enhance mankind’s happiness and fulfill our social responsibilities by practicing management activities for transparency, ethics, environment, co-prosperity and sharing.,” Hyundai Engineering stresses its role in mankind’s happiness enhancement and social responsibility. With “Happy Energy Contributor” as the social contribution vision, Hyundai Engineering makes a comfortable environment with technology and a happy world with sharing and contribution. All members of Hyundai Engineering fulfill its social responsibility based on three action principles: “Sustainable Sharing, Happy Mutual Cooperation, and Practical Participation.” HEC’s Social Contribution System Mission “We grow together with our customers, employees, and vendors and strive to enhance mankind’s Practice Principles happiness and fulfill our social responsibilities by Sustainable SharHappy Mutual practicing management activities ing Cooperation for transparency, ethics, environWe will stand closely We will build happy ment, co-prosperity and sharing.,” to our neighbors for local community a long time. with our neighbors. Practical Participation All of our employees ‘Happy Energy will participate and Contributor’ sweat along with our Making a comfortable world with neighbors. technology and a happy world with sharing and contribution Social Contribution Organization Hyundai Engineering launched the group “Volunteers of Love” through employees’ voluntary participation in 2003 and began volunteer service. In 2009, the “Social Contribution Team” was newly set up to fulfill its social responsibility. Social contribution will become a core function of Hyundai Engineering’s business operation in the future. HEC’s Social Contribution Team Director Social Contribution Team Volunteers of Love Planning Branch Voluntary Work Branch Global/Environmental Branch Culture/PR Branch InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 67 Social Contribution Activities 2 Job Creation for the Joint Establishment of Disabled through Workplace a Children’s Center in Cambodia of Hope (in 2011) 24 persons New Hope School Hyundai Engineering’s Five Key Social Contribution Projects Hyundai Engineering has been proactively engaged in activities for sharing and fulfilling corporate social responsibility to build a tomorrow where everyone’s dream can be realized. ‘Cultural Events’ for Children from Low-income and Multicultural Families On the foundation day of February 11 every year, Hyundai Engineering holds a culture-sharing event including watching movies and having dinner for children of low-income and multicultural families and the disabled who are living in Yancheon-gu where the headquarters is located. Hyundai Engineering has also been providing various supports such as sponsoring the ‘Charity Fundraiser for Children from Low-income and Multicultural Families’. ‘Workplace of Hope’ to Create Jobs for the Disabled Hyundai Engineering established a corporate-associated job rehabilitation facility ‘Workplace of Hope’ through an agreement with the Yangcheongu District Office to create jobs for the disabled. The ‘Workplace of Hope’ provides disabled youth with job training as well as manufactures home appliances. Status of ‘Workplace of Hope’ Classification Unit 2010 2011 Support Fund KRW in millions 26 30 Number of Workers persons 18 24 * T he Workplace of Hope opened in July 2010, and plans to expand the number of workers up to 40. The number of disabled technical trainee reaches 20~30 persons. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 68 Number of Social Contribution Participants in Social Programs (in 2011) Contribution Activities (in 2011) 35 programs 2,164 employees Delivering ‘Briquette of Love’ Hyundai Engineering annually delivers briquettes to the underprivileged such as those from low-income families and the solitary elderly suffering from the so-called ‘briquette shortage’, spreading warmth and compassion in the society. Sharing Love and Compassion through ‘Songpyeon of Love’ and ‘Kimchi-making’ Hyundai Engineering delivers songpyeon (traditional Korean rice cake) made by employees and holiday gifts to the marginalized people including the solitary elderly who stay alone during the Korean full moon festival. Employees also make and provide them with Kimchi to take in winter season. Establishment of the ‘New Hope School’, a Children’s Center, in Cambodia Changeuri, a village in Cambodia, is afflicted with extremely poor sanitary and living conditions. Most of the children are deprived of the opportunity to go to school. Instead, they are victimized from drug addiction or humantrafficking. Hyundai Engineering and Global Vision, the global volunteering organization, have collaborated to build a school that consists of two wooden buildings and one additional building for restrooms which was named the ‘New Hope School’. Children learn mathematics and language, and are provided with meals. The interest and participation in charity work have brought significant changes to the children and their families for whom having dreams and wishing for a better future used to be a luxury. Cultureand Art-Sharing Activities Hyundai Engineering delivers warmth and love to the world by joining activities for sharing in the fields of culture and art. Sharing Happiness with the Disabled Executives and employees of Hyundai Engineering go on a spring picnic, experience farming and run a marathon together with the physicallychallenged and financially-stricken individuals on the Day for the Disabled every year, thereby spreading warm compassion and happiness to them. Sharing Compassion with the Lonely Elderly Hyundai Engineering serves lunch to around 100 elderly with low income or who live in solitude in Yangcheon-gu on every second Thursday of the month. Particularly in May, the month of family in Korea, a party is thrown under the theme ‘filial duty’ for the seniors. The event allows Hyundai Engineering to share compassion and care. InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 69 Sharing Joy with Children Hyundai Engineering has been running the ‘Home Camp’ for children from low-income and single-parent families. For the two days in the camp, the participants are given the chance to contemplate their future career and how to shape their own future. Furthermore, Hyundai Engineering invites children from low-income families and mentally-challenged children living in Yangcheon-gu to the ‘Flying with Dreams’ event on every Children’s Day. They are able to enjoy cultural activities together and share happiness. Sharing in Education and Scholarship Voluntary activities to build a better educational environment include book donation, provision of scholarship, operation of after-school programs and training on Korean language for foreign employees. Private Education and After-School Tutoring Teenagers from families with financial hardship who cannot afford private education or tutors are selected and tutored by employees. When such students are admitted to college, Hyundai Engineering grants them scholarship including admission fee. In addition, employees teach seniors in middle schools English once a week and seek to help them nourish emotional health through the ‘Tailored Education and Education Mentoring for Emotional Health’ project which are offered by the Guro Complex Social Welfare Hall. Book Donation Hyundai Engineering donates books taken from executives and employees to Seongbuk Welfare Center for the Blind, Mokdong Welfare Center’s Book Café and Beautiful Store, which is Korea’s philanthropic institution, with the purpose of donating revenues and contributions earned by reuse and recycling of products to underprivileged people. Importantly, books donated to Seongbuk Welfare Center are converted by volunteers to braille books, recording tapes and Digital Accessible Information System(DAISY) books before being available to such readers. Global Social Contribution Activities Hyundai Engineering carries out various volunteer service activities and cultural exchange activities, centered on local communities where medical and environmental improvement is required. Volunteer Service Activities at Overseas Sites More than 80 projects in 26 countries other than Korea are implemented by Hyundai Engineering, with overseas sales revenue for more than 80% of its total sales. Hyundai Engineering is systematically doing its very best to achieve Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) centered on construction sites abroad under the supervision of the head office’s Social Contribution Team. Onsite employees search for means to contribute to local communities voluntarily, with the active support of the head office. What each site of Hyundai Engineering focuses on is fostering children including support for elementary education, which is in line with what the engineering industry does “Making future dreams come true.” HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 70 Cap-Knitting Campaign to Save Newborn Babies Supports for Overseas Sites For infants and toddlers in underdeveloped countries in Africa and Asia and who suffer from hypothermia, Hyundai Engineering donates woolen Country Details caps made through its Cap-Knitting Campaign to Save Newborn •Providing desks, chairs, stationery, sporting goods and Babies. As of January 2011, 754 employees of Hyundai Engineering sponsorships to schools and orphanages in Momongo every year since 2009 (KRW 28 million in 2009 and KRW have delivered 4,101 caps. Equatorial Guinea 58 million in 2010) •Donated Friendship Park to Momongo City in December 13, 2010, which became a national tourist attraction Sharing Activities to Improve the Residential Environment Hyundai Engineering carries out sharing activities such as residential •Donated KRW 7 million to a welfare center for disabled Turkmenistan improvement activities in surrounding areas of workplaces and building children in Yoloten and held a charity bazaar •Supported orphanages in Kuala Lumpur since the start of Homes of Love to make a more beautiful, comfortable world. Malaysia construction in cooperation with local project owner •Evacuated 70 victims around the site to safe zone and Habitat for Love Vietnam provided relief when the typhoon Ketsana came, providing By signing an agreement with Habitat Korea to provide people living in a damage repair equipments and donated USD 6 thousand poor residential environment with decent houses, Hyundai Engineering continues to offer the Building Homes of Love volunteer service each year. Participation in Happy Move of the Hyundai Motor Group The “Happy Move” is a global youth volunteer service group of Hyundai Happy House Motor Group that is engaging in social contribution activities. They are Hyundai Engineering is operating Happy House, an activity designed very active in conducting social contribution activities at every corner to give hope to disabled people and social subsidy beneficiaries by of the world with challenging spirit and passion. Hyundai Engineering’s improving their living environment. employees put social responsibility into practice as global citizens in many places in the world together with their colleagues at the Hyundai Motor Group members with open mind and broad vision. InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Satisfaction Customer 32 32Win-win Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Partnership Great 42 42 Great Work Work Place 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 71 Quantitative Performances of Social Contribution Investment Investments in Social Contribution Hyundai Engineering made social contribution worth KRW 1.1 billion including activities of the Volunteers of Love and labor costs during the sustainability reporting period. Social Contribution Engagement All employees of Hyundai Engineering participate in social contribution. Through the mileage system of social contribution activities, all employees must accumulate 12 mileage points annually from January 2011. The social contribution results can be registered on the social contribution management system, which can be accessed on the company intranet; thus showing the individual social contribution activity mileage in each field. As of the end of 2011, Hyundai Engineering operated 35 programs, representing a 40% increase compared to 2010. Actually, 2,164 employees were involved in social contribution activities at the end of 2011. Status of Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Programs (units) Participants in Social Contribution Activities (persons) 35 2,164 25 Senior Citizen Center Environment Improvement Activities 10 583 Hyundai Engineering provides pleasant resting spaces to the elderly 255 who may be alienated from society through the remodeling of 7 old 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 and worn-out senior citizen centers in Yangcheon-gu particularly * Individual activities were counted as one unit, and the number of duplicated participants wallpapering and laying of linoleum on the floor. was excluded. Investments in Social Donation Activities Contribution Activities Hyundai Engineering is fostering a dynamic voluntary donation culture Total investments (KRW in millions) Investments by Sector (2010-2011) by donating items such as old clothes, luncheon boxes, and books and delivering warm heart and love to the underprivileged. 667 475 Main Donation Activities Old clothes donated by employees are delivered to facilities for people 223 with severe disabilities and to the Beautiful Store. In November 2011, Hyundai Engineering made a KRW 16.5 million donation to the Korean Organ Donor Program for chronic kidney failure patients. With the donation, one unit of hemodialyzer was bought and 2009 2010 2011 installed in Rapa’s Home in Jeju to help the treatment of chronic kidney failure patients who are not financially well-off. Social Welfare (63.1%) In addition to monetary donation, Hyundai Engineering participates Others (Blood Donation, Pledge of Organ Donation, etc.) (13.9%) in the “Dining Table of Love”, a meal distribution volunteer service for Global Society (10.3%) patients from 9:00 to 14:00. The volunteer service has been provided Local Community (6.6%) by some 10 employee volunteers every third Saturday of the month Culture & Art (2.6%) since November 2011. Education (2.6%) Book Donation (0.4%) Environment (0.2%) HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 72 Green Growth & Eco-friendly Engineering 3 Certification of Environmental Minimization of Ecosystem Management System Impacts ISO 14001 Environmental Impacts Evaluation Green Growth System HSE Management System Hyundai Engineering has set the HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) policy to cherish human lives and bequeath clean environment to descendants. Under the policy, Hyundai Engineering manages HSE activities systematically and efficiently at the company-wide level. Based on efficient HSE Environmental Management management system, Hyundai Engineering System Certification is emerging as a leading global green growth company, and institutionalizing the HSE system by applying the PDCA (Plan→ Do→ Pre-Environmental Assessment to Check→ Act) process to all businesses. Minimize Ecosystem Impacts Hyundai Engineering complies with the Environmental Impact Assessment ISO14001 international standard for By performing comprehensive environmental environmental management system, having impact assessment prior to implementing acquired the relevant certification. a project, Hyundai Engineering minimizes impacts on the ecosystem during the HSE Organization System construction process. The environmental Hyundai Engineering has an organic impact assessment covers the natural, living, organization system for HSE management in and social & economic environment fields. which all business teams allocate roles and Concerning endangered species found exchange effects. HSE Innovation Team at the through research, Hyundai Engineering Plant Business Supporting Office takes the protects trees by transplanting them lead in establishing company-wide HSE goals and prepares alternative habitats in case and managing onsite HSE activities. Each of animals. Considering the ecological business division such as the Infrastructure environment of the fauna and flora identified & Environmental Division takes charge of by research, Hyundai Engineering minimizes implementing and monitoring HSE activities the impacts of construction on the ecosystem at each site and supporting development and through design change and protective device HSE Policy and System adoption of new technologies. preparation. InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 73 Environmental Effect Evaluation Process HSE Management System Category Evaluation Factors 1. HSE Policy Establishment ▶ 2. Environment & Risk Evaluation ▶ Natural Weather, Geography & Geological 3. Target & Plan Setup Environment Feature, Fauna and Flora Land Use, Air Quality, Water Quality, Plan Living •HSE policy setup •Identification of stakeholders’ needs Soil, Waste, Noise, Vibration, Environment •Identification of environmental •Target and promotion plan setup Recreation, Landscape aspect and setup of risk evaluation •Identification of legal requirements Social and Population, Housing, Transportation, Economical Cultural Property Environment 4. Practice & Operation Deduction of Environmental Effect Reduction Plans •Resources (human, infrastructure) •Communication, documentation, Do Continuous Improvement •Environmental technology development document management •Organization, responsibility, authorization •Policy, process, operation by plans Selection of Alternatives and Evaluation •Training, awareness on environmental •Preparation for and response to management emergency Selection of Optimal Plans 5. Inspection Management of Designated Endangered •Monitoring and measurement •Evaluation on observance of Species Check •Inspection of affairs requirements Hyundai Engineering discovered that •Internal deliberation, performance endangered species live within some evaluation domestic construction sites including Ansan River, Shingil River, and Anyang Cheon Water System. To minimize impacts on the ecological 6. Review & Action environment, Hyundai Engineering took proper measures for the protection of ecological Action •Rectification & Prevention •Report on HSE management system. Meanwhile, a lot of overseas sites do performances and review by the management not exert significant influences on ecological system as those are mainly located in desert where protected species are uninhabitable. Still, Hyundai Engineering identifies and manages protected animals and plants under the laws of the countries concerned. Status of Legally Protected Species Slogan in Sites of Korea HSE Globalization enhancement Project Major Appearance Species Revision of Basic 113 species including mole, Plan for River raccoon, water deer, weasel, Maintenance of cat, large egret, little egret, Ansan-si (Ansan heron, spot bill duck and River, Singil River) teal, etc. Basic Plan for 3 species including cat and Water System of striped field mouse, etc. Anyang River HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 74 Solar Power Plant in Bulgaria Hyundai Engineering won the 48.9MW Photovoltaic Power Plant Construction project in Bulgaria implemented by the China Group’s subsidiary Astronergy Solar Korea. This project paved the way for the entry into the market in Bulgaria for the first time. Based on this, Hyundai Engineering is seeking opportunities to jointly participate in more solar power plant projects with overseas companies having track record in this business and plans to nurture engineers with high capability in the solar power generation field. Hyundai Engineering is committed to growing as a global advanced new and renewable Expansion of New and Renewable Energy Business – Solar Power Plant energy player by proactively developing more opportunities in that field. Olkaria Geothermal Power Plant Units 1 and 4 in Kenya Hyundai Engineering signed a turnkey base contract including engineering, procurement, construction, and test & commissioning for Olkaria Geothermal Power Plant Units 1 and 4 facilities in Kenya worth USD 373 million in November 2011. This project is implemented by KENGEN (Kenya Electricity Generating Company Limited), which is in charge of power supply in Kenya, Africa, to solve the serious local power shortage problem. Hyundai Engineering has simultaneously won Development of a Park in Equatorial Guinea two projects of Olkaria I Additional Units 4 & 5 (Two 70MW units) and Olkaria IV Units 1 & 2 (Two Green Engineering Project 70MW units). These projects will be completed Eco-friendly EPC projects begin from efficient in 2014. resources use at the construction stage. As the only company in Korea with a track Hyundai Engineering strives to protect record in geothermal power plant project ecosystem diversity and minimizes impacts including Darajat Geothermal Power Plant in on the environment in all EPC sectors of Indonesia, Hyundai Engineering is known for its the construction stage for energy efficiency technology and competencies in the geothermal improvement and environmental pollution power generation field dominated by advanced reduction. countries including Japan, US, and Europe. InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 75 Water and Sewerage Facilities and Park to its outstanding technological prowess. The continually makes all-out efforts to minimize civil Construction Projects in Equatorial Guinea construction of Daesan Plant of Hyundai Oilbank petitions through the installation of appropriate There has been an urgent need for clean had been conducted by Hyundai Engineering in preventive facilities, low-noise equipment, and drinking water in Equatorial Guinea, as 2005. construction methods. most people in that country suffered from disadvantage in water quality and thousands of Winning Facilities Installation Projects for Environmental Monitoring for the Vietnam people once had died of waterborne diseases. Domestic Marine Wind Power and Sewer Hai Phong PVTEX Site Hyundai Engineering entered that country to Sludge Recycling System The PVTEX site located in Hai Phong, supply them clean drinking water and create Marine wind power EPC business is expected Vietnam uses lots of emulsion in view of the new business opportunities. to be vitalized in the future. Hyundai Engineering plant’s features. Concerning all processes of Hyundai Engineering won the water and laid the foundation for this business by winning discharging wastewater at the site, wastewater sewerage connecting pipes installation project the marine wind power authorization and is collected into a wastewater treatment plant including a sewerage project in Mongomo in permission and basic design project in the through underground facilities. Pollution arising 2008. Hyundai Engineering is expanding the eastern part of Jeju Island. Hyundai Engineering from pollutants discharge is prevented through business areas to Anisok, Evinayong, and also won a facilities installation project for the water treatment system of the plant within Ebibeyin, etc. At the end of 2011, Hyundai recycling sewer sludge in Pohang City, thanks to the industrial complex after primary treatment. Engineering won the park construction order the excellent sewer sludge utilization technology. During the project period, Hyundai Engineering based on EPC turnkey project mode in performed onsite measurement of water Mikomesseng, and is now implementing the Management of Environmental Impacts quality, air quality, and noise/vibration level three construction of floor fountain, picnic garden, at the Sites times. As a result of environmental monitoring, futsal area and playground on an approximately Hyundai Engineering carefully identifies the legal satisfactory results were obtained within 12,800 square meters site to enhance the local standards and strictly complies with them, such standard value levels in all measurement items; residents’ health and welfare. as operation of scattering dust control facilities therefore minimizing the negative impacts on the and observance of noise level in everyday life, environment. Polluted Soil and Underground Water when carrying out construction in response to Purification Project for Hyundai OilBank’s the Environmental Act consolidation and to deal Yeosu P2 Project Site – Water Pollution Daesan Plant in advance with the increase in environmental Prevention Hyundai Engineering took its first step into the civil petitions. In addition to the legal standards, Yeosu P2 Project site of Hyundai Engineering soil purification EPC field by winning the soil Hyundai Engineering identifies the local has been discharging water with lowered pH pollution and underground water purification residents’ demands by holding meetings with level since the installation of devices to control project ordered by Hyundai Oilbank, due largely them before commencing construction and the water pH level. PVTEX Site in Vietnam HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 76 Eco-friendly Technology 4 Generation of Electricity by Reduction of Dust Scattering by Using Waste Heat Green Pavement System Technology for Eco-Friendly Track HRSG 10 more than % Cutting-edge Eco-Friendly Technology applied to some 40 projects. In particular, Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) the Add-on CCPP project increases power Hyundai Engineering applies the HRSG output by about 50% in the existing power method that drives steam turbines with steam plant without the additional injection of fuel produced by using the remaining heat in by additionally installing HRSG and steam the gas discharged from gas turbines in the turbines in a currently operated gas turbine construction of steam power plant. Through power plant. HRSG application, Hyundai Engineering maximizes energy use efficiency by using Membrane-Coupled Bio Gas Technology waste heat. The water recycling technology is a series of The Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP), water treatment processes of drawing highGas Turbine (GT) Cogeneration, and Add-on purity everyday life water and industrial water CCPP projects have used the HRSG method. by removing the solid matters and dissolved In fact, HRSG has been applied or is being materials of sewage or wastewater. L-II Combined Cycle Power Plant with HRSG in Jebel Ali, UAE InnovativeLeadership Innovative 20 20 Customer Leadership Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 77 Hyundai Engineering has acquired environmental new technology certification by developing membrane-coupled bio gas technology, which treats wastewater to discharged water quality level in the residential area while producing bio gas using wastewater coming out of leftover food, together with Hyundai E&C and Environmental Corporation of Incheon. Photovoltaic Module Cooling System Without Power Hyundai Engineering has developed a nopower, air-cooling mode for photovoltaic module cooling technology, which addresses the drawbacks of the existing water-cooling technology and improves power generation efficiency by up to 15% (temperature: 10%, deterioration: 5%). The developed system has Membrane-coupled Bio Gas Production System neither restriction in use area nor cooling water leak because it does not use water. Moreover, there is no reduction of incremental portion of efficiency due to facilities maintenance expense, since the system does not need power and it applies a heat pipe principle. In addition, the system can minimize failures during the life cycle of the system (more than 20 years) because there is no part operated by power in its purely mechanical structure. Acquisition of Green Technology Certification –Green Pavement System 2010 to activate private sector investment and develop green technology. Firms Technology for Eco-Friendly Track acquiring green technology certification receive benefits such as preferential Hyundai Engineering acquired green technology certification for its pavement treatment in government goods procurement qualification screening, additional system technology for eco-friendly track at the end of 2011. points in bids, prepayment increase, preferential screening of patent application, The technology involves installing green space in the central part of the and preferential handling in terms of participation in national R&D projects. track with which the wheels on both sides of the bimodal tram do not come As a kind of new transport system, the bimodal tram system consists of green into contact. The technology is a cutting-edge eco-friendly technology with pavement track, bimodal tram car, operation & management system, and stations. outstanding environmental improvement effect including more than 5% reduction Hyundai Engineering currently has 7 related intellectual property rights in Korea of temperature and more than 10% of scattering dust reduction compared to and abroad. the existing asphalt pavement. The green technology certification verifies that the government officially acknowledges the technology that minimizes greenhouse gas emission and pollutants discharge. The certification has been introduced in HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 78 Green Office 5 Carbon Reduction Campaign of Recycling of IT Devices (in 2011) Hyundai Engineering Green HEC 280 units Making an Eco-Friendly Office Campaign to make it a habit to use mugs and Hyundai Engineering implements various turn off multi-outlet power switch. energy saving policies and campaigns to realize a green office. These efforts will help Recycling of IT Devices upon Their employees cultivate green awareness and Replacement make a habit of saving energy, and finally allow Hyundai Engineering recycles worn-out IT Hyundai Engineering to evolve as a leading devices that cannot be repaired through IT company in green growth. device recycling companies. In addition, Hyundai Engineering donates worn-out PCs Green HEC (Hyundai Engineering that can still be used to people who are Company) Campaign alienated from information and communication Hyundai Engineering’s Junior Committee services. (JC) wages a Green HEC campaign and endeavors to instill eco-friendliness awareness IT Equipment Recycling Status among employees through various activities. (Unit) Green HEC is a new motto selected by the Year Donation Recycling Total 21st-term JC to lead the initiative in reducing 2009 100 200 300 carbon emissions in everyday life by saving 2010 200 200 energy and efficiently using it as members of a 2011 280 280 company that puts green energy into practice. In 2011, the 21st JC started the Green HEC Green Office Activity Activity Details Free and simple business dress code in summer season for energy saving CoolBiz •More relax and casual business dress code without tie and suit jacket Video Video conference with overseas business sites Conference •Active communication and reduction of GHG emissions caused by business trips Commuter Operation of commuter buses Bus Operation •Provision of convenience to employees and decrease of vehicle use InnovativeLeadership Innovative Leadership20 20 Customer Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Win-winPartnership 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 79 Green Management Performances 6 Direct GHG Emissions at Sites (in 2011) Number of Environmental Law Violations at Home and Abroad (in 2011) 18,376.2 tCO2₂eq None Status of Green Management situation. The data collected from each site Scope of Data Gathering and business division are converted for the Hyundai Engineering has collected purpose of comparison with annual sales environmental data related to the main EPC revenue when necessary. projects that it has implemented. Engineering projects are mostly implemented over Use of Raw Materials and Energy several years, and there are differences in Major raw materials used by Hyundai construction modes depending on the local Engineering are ready-mixed concretes, Collected Data by Business Division Classification Country Year TONE Turkmenistan 2010~2011 PVTEX Vietnam 2009~2011 UONE UAE Process Plant* MGP Oman 2011 Yeosu P2 MMA** Korea Ochang Thin-film Solar Cell Plant SIPCO 2009~2010 Thailand Power & Energy TEPS 2009~2011 Plant*** UCH-II Pakistan QUDUS Iraq AWASE 2011 Infrastructure & MOHC Equatorial Guinea Environment ENAS-2 Ulsan Gangdong Sanha District Korea * In the case of ARZEW and MONE sites, data are not available because the consortium partner is in charge of local construction progress and data control. ** Electricity and water at the Yeosu P2 MMA site cannot be measured because the project client supplies electricity and water. *** In the case of AMBATOBY, MBTL, and NPTL sites, data are not available because the consortium partner is in charge of local construction progress and data control. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 80 aggregates and moulds. To minimize site, through which wastewater is discharged environmental destruction in accordance with after pH is adjusted. the development of replacement moulds and recycled aggregates, Hyundai Engineering is Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions steadily increasing the use of replacement raw The sources of GHG emissions of Hyundai materials. Engineering are divided into direct fuel consumption Gasoline and diesel are used as main energy to operate construction sites’ equipment and sources and electricity is used as indirect generators and indirect fuel consumption by energy at the construction sites. As for head receiving power generated from power plants office buildings, electric energy use ratio is using fossil fuels. Hyundai Engineering continuously higher than other energy sources. Therefore, focuses on reducing GHG emissions in the Hyundai Engineering consistently carries out operation stage through applying GHG emissions electric energy saving campaigns. reduction technology. Water Use and Wastewater Discharge Atmospheric Pollutants Emissions The construction sites of Hyundai Engineering Hyundai Engineering does not discharge use water at the construction stage and the ozone layer destroying materials including test & commissioning of completed process CFC and HCFC due to the characteristics of plants and power plants. The wastewater the engineering industry. As for atmospheric is legally treated according to standards. pollutants, Hyundai Engineering does not In particular, devices to reduce pH upon wield significant impacts on the atmospheric discharged water were installed at Yeosu P2 environment, although a minimal amount of Collected Environmental Data by Business Division Classification Unit 2010 2011 2011 Inflow Steel bar Ton 4,673 13,956 Ready-mixed concrete ㎥ 38,491 119,282 Cement Ton 29,692 62,331 Sand 20,054 47,311 ㎥ Raw Material Aggregate 55,847 150,219 Ascon 10,029 Wood 3,862 65,699 Ton Concrete 26,377 11,738 Others (mould) 16,575 49,768 Gasoline 1,800,009 25,848,732 Diesel 19,406,904 233,550,220 Energy Kerosene MJ 4,489,600 LPG 417,746 7,393,570 Electricity 82,609,200 11,801,517,336 Surface water wetland, river, 105,123 20,709 lake, sea Water supply 11,998 45,954 Water Ton Underground water 3,000 4,766,793 Directly collected rainwater 236 158 InnovativeLeadership Innovative 20 20 Customer Leadership Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 81 Nox is discharged in the test & commissioning Transport of Products and Raw Materials Environmental Investment Expenses process. At Hyundai Engineering, there was no Environmental investment expenses include discharge of harmful materials that seriously environmental management costs for Waste Discharge affect the environment in relation to the waste processing and cleaning as well as Hyundai Engineering strives to control waste transport of manpower and raw materials. corrective expense and penalties according to volume by establishing a waste recycling Furthermore, there was no civil petition on environmental pollutants and harmful materials policy overseas as well according to the waste noise related to transport during the reporting discharge or leak. Concerning the projects processing policy implemented in Korea. period. Meanwhile, there were 18 cases of implemented by Hyundai Engineering, there During the sustainability report period, the transport accidents during the reporting period are neither overseas leaks pursuant to the wastes defined in I, II, III, and VIII of the Annex at the process plant division. To prevent such Basel Convention nor violation of domestic to the Basel Convention were not generated; accident from recurring, Hyundai Engineering and international laws and regulations. neither was there significant hazardous is focusing on further enhancing HSE Therefore, the environmental investment materials discharge. management. expenses were entirely used for environmental management. Environmental Data Transportation Status of Process Plant Division Environmental Investments at Sites in 2011 In 2011, overall resources consumption, (KRW in billions) waste discharge and GHG emissions sharply increased compared to the previous year Classification 2009 2010 2011 Environmental Site Investments mainly due to the expansion of project volume. Total 28,347Ton 97,112Ton 129,763Ton transportation /131 cases /526 cases /156 cases Power & TEPS, Thailand 1.99 Energy Plant Accidents in 3 cases 15 cases transportation PVTEX, Vietnam 0.09 UONE, UAE 0.19 Process Plant P2, MMA, Korea 0.96 Ochang Thin-film Solar Cell Plant, 0.11 Korea Classification Unit 2010 2011 Ulsan Gangdong Outflow Infrastructure Sanha District, 4.75 & Environment Scope 1 tCO₂eq 1,468.8 18,376.2 Korea GHG Scope 2 ㎥ 4,572.7 616,957.1 Waste water Discharge 3,500 2,886,611 Entrusted treatment 1,855 39,151 Ton Wastes Self-treatment 138 Recycling 432 37,671 * Although Hyundai Engineering consumed 1,400N㎥ of gas for welding at the UAE UONE site, it was not included in the GHG emissions since calculation was impossible. * Data gathering scope: Based on the sites, where data gathering is possible (see page 79) Performances in Social Responsibility Activities Awarded the 2011 Seoul City Volunteer Service Prize Special Hyundai Engineering received the Grand Prize at the “2011 Seoul City Volunteer Membership to UNGC HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 Hyundai Engineering became the first Korean engineering company to be a 82 Awards” from Seoul City in October 2011. All executives and employees of member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), an international agreement body, Hyundai Engineering have been committed to conducting social contribution in June 2011. activities such as delivery of goods and donations to the disabled and lowUNGC is an international agreement made by former UN Secretary-General Kofi income families and afterschool classes for underprivileged children and Annan to support corporate social responsibility and promote the fulfillment of adolescents. Their sincere efforts and activities were highly recognized by Seoul such responsibility. UNGC consists of 10 principles in 4 sectors: human rights, City, which resulted in receiving the best volunteer service prize. labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This award has been given by Seoul City and Hankook Ilbo since 1989 to model Hyundai Engineering strives to comply with UNGC throughout management citizens and organizations who have voluntarily contributed to the development activities and reports the status of compliance with the 10 top principles of local society. Seoul City selected the prize winners through strict screening by through the sustainability report. The company has secured public confidence the Voluntary Service Deliberation Committee targeting citizens and organizations for sustainability management activities internally and externally through recommended by autonomous counties since July. Hyundai Engineering was membership to UNGC. Hyundai Engineering will do its best to establish the recommended both by the Shinmok General Welfare Center and Yangcheon systematic foundation of CSR activities. General Welfare Center for Disabled People. UNGC’s 10 Principles Category Principle GRI Page 1. W  e support and respect the protection internationally HR1 HR2 HR3 HR4 HR5 26~27, 44~49, Human Rights proclaimed human rights. HR6 HR7 HR8 HR9 51, 61 2. We make sure that we are not complicit rights abuses. HR1 HR2 HR8 44~47 3. W  e uphold the freedom of association and to HR5 LA4 LA5 61 collective bargaining. 4. We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. HR7 51 Labor 5. We effectively abolish child labor. HR6 51 6. We eliminate discrimination in respect HR4 LA2 LA10 LA13 LA14 22~23, 51, 53 employment and occupation. 7. We support a precautionary approach to 4.11 24~25 environmental challenges. EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 EN10 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment EN13 EN14 EN18 EN21 72~81 environmental responsibility. EN22 EN26 EN27 EN30 9. We encourage the development and EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 EN10 72~81 diffusion environmentally friendly technologies. EN18 EN26 EN27 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-corruption SO2 SO3 SO4 26~27, 47 including extortion and bribery. InnovativeLeadership Innovative 20 20 Customer Leadership Customer Satisfaction 32 32Win-win Satisfaction Partnership Win-win 42 42 Great Partnership Great Work Work 48 48 Co-prosperity Place Place Co-prosperity6464 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 83 Contained in the Performance Casebook of Awarded Employees of Merit for the Four-River Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Restoration Project UNGC Korea Network has published the casebook containing each company’s With regard to government-led Four-River Restoration Project, employees of performances of MDGs since 2011. MDGs are goals that all mankind have hyundai Engineering were awarded a prize by the Busan Regional Construction agreed to achieve by the year 2012 in order to eradicate extreme poverty and Management Administration in November 2011. hunger and secure sustainable development in the international community. Employees of the Infrastructure & Environmental Division actively participated in The casebook contains global social contribution activities of 22 Korean comthe Nakdong River Restoration Project (Zones 21 and 26) and newly devised panies including hyundai Motor Company and it was promoted at Rio +20 UN the Riverbed Cleaning Work (Dredging Work) design book. Their efforts and Conference on Sustainable Development and Corporate Sustainability Forum. It performances laid the foundation for working designs of the Four-River Restoraalso contains hyundai Engineering’s voluntary supports for the improvement of tion Project, and they were recognized for the contribution to the restoration of living environment and education services at its overseas business sites. Nakdong River. hyundai Engineering is striving to preserve the beautiful national territory by actively engaging in making ecological rivers through the design and environmental impact evaluation of the Four-River Restoration Project. Appendix Nothing is more important than a passion to make the future dream into a reality. With great passion for the future, Hyundai Engineering will continue to advance toward the world and stand tall. Summarized Awards and Economic Memberships Performances in Associations 86p 87p Reader’s Opinion Third-party 95p Assurance Statement 88p GRI G3.1 Glossary Guidelines & 94p ISO 26000 Index 90p HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 86 Summarized Economic Performances Summarized Financial Position (Unit: KRW, Consolidated) Classification 2010 2011 Current assets 1,036,441,924,884 1,157,364,414,577 Non-current assets 106,670,920,509 174,972,496,463 Total assets 1,143,112,845,393 1,332,336,911,040 Current liabilities 740,316,621,791 795,318,606,066 Non-current liabilities 24,948,411,048 10,215,330,507 Total liabilities 765,265,032,839 805,533,936,573 Capital stock 20,215,000,000 20,215,000,000 Other paid-in capital 2,227,597,908 2,227,597,908 Other equities 1,071,436,571 1,155,317,169 Retained earnings 354,236,861,856 503,108,082,819 Non-controlling interest 96,916,219 96,976,571 Total equity 377,847,812,554 526,802,974,467 Total liabilities and equity 1,143,112,845,393 1,332,336,911,040 Summarized Income Statements (Unit: KRW, Consolidated) Classification 2010 2011 Sales 1,237,177,835,897 1,662,886,050,958 Cost of sales 991,394,325,903 1,409,942,516,688 Gross income 245,783,509,994 252,943,534,270 Selling and administrative expenses 59,395,212,342 59,977,592,450 Other operating income 33,520,333,301 52,030,665,337 Other operating expenses 60,738,146,073 52,536,098,703 Operating income 159,170,484,880 192,460,508,454 Gain (loss) on equity method investment (431,816,332) Finance income 14,416,058,937 15,015,082,585 Finance costs 6,848,603,139 2,886,217,623 Net income before income tax 166,306,124,346 204,589,373,416 Income tax expenses 35,012,224,268 46,368,569,197 Net income 131,293,900,078 158,220,804,219 Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 87 Awards and Memberships in Associations Awards (2010~2011) Category Awards Date Institution 1 Grand Prize at ‘2011 Seoul Volunteer Service Award’ (Group Sector) 2011.10.28 Government Public Design Support 2 Grand Prix at ‘2010/2011 International Public Design Award’ (Traffic Safety Sector) 2011.10.25 Foundation 3 Employment & Labor Minister Prize at 2010 Korea Communication Award 2010.12.09 Corporate Magazine Association Korea International Trade 4 USD 500 Million Export Tower at 47th Trade Day 2010.11.30 Association Korea Standards Association 5 No.1 in Korean Sustainability Index (Engineering Sector) 2010.11.16 KDI School of Public Policy & Management 6 Platinum Pipe Awards at Intergraph 2010 User Conference 2010.09.04 Intergraph Achievement Plaque for the completion of Dung Quat polypropylene production 7 2010.08.25 Vietnam Government facilities, Vietnamese first petrochemical plant 8 Tin Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit at 44th Taxpayer’s Day 2010.03.03 Government Association Membership Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korea Project Management Association Korea River Association Environmental Affairs Evaluation Conference Korea Water & Wastewater Association The Korea Railway Association Korea Disaster Prevention Association Korea Desalination Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Association of Surveying & Mapping Korea Facilities Maintenance Association Korea Fire Safety Association Korea International Communication Korea Fire Facility Association Construction Association of Korea Contractors Association Korea Construction Consulting Korea Electrical Construction Association Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Engineers Association International Construction Association of Korea Korea Radioactive Waste Society Korea Wind Energy Industry Conference Korea Industrial Technology Association Korean Foundation for Quality Seoul Chamber of Commerce & Industry Korea Association of Traffic Impact Assessment Korea Gas Union The Federation of Korean Industries Korea Electric Engineers Association Korea Construction Engineers Association HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 88 Third-party Assurance Statement INTRODUCTION Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out assurance engagement on Hyundai Engineering Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘Hyundai Engineering’) 2010, 2011 Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the Hyundai Engineering’s Sustainability Report. Hyundai Engineering is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of Hyundai Engineering only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. SCOPE OF ASSURANCE This Assurance Engagement covered data from calendar year 2010~2011. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with Hyundai Engineering included the verification of: • Sustainability policy, goals, initiatives, practices and performance for calendar year 2010~2011, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. • Health & Safety, Social and Environmental data management systems, and associated processes and tools for collecting, analysing, aggregating and reporting quantitative and qualitative information provided in the Report. • Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. (Limited to Head office and project sites) • Review of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) and Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement are reflected in the Report. • The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness are adopted, and the reliability of the information within the Report for calendar year 2010~2011 was verified to a moderate level assurance. Hyundai Engineering’s reporting boundaries include all operations over which HYUNDAI ENGINEERING’s management exercises significant control. LIMITATIONS The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of HYUNDAI ENGINEERING’ suppliers, contractors and any thirdparties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performances including financial data were cross-checked at head-office with internal documents and the financial statements audited by another 3rd party. The assurance statement on the financial statements issued by another 3rd Party is also provided in the Report. STATEMENT OF COMPETENCE AND INDEPENDENCE DNV provides sustainability risk management services through specialists worldwide. This engagement was undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team of suitably qualified and experienced sustainability professionals. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any information presented in the Report. DNV did not provide any services to HYUNDAI ENGINEERING in2010~2012 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. VERIFICATION METHODOLOGY This Assurance Engagement was carried out from June 2012, and in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; • Visited Hyundai Engineering’s Head office in Seoul of Korea; • Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by Hyundai Engineering • Reviewed the mechanisms implemented by Hyundai Engineering to promote and oversee its sustainability-related policies as described in the Report; • Reviewed a selection of internal communication and external media reports relating to Hyundai Engineering’s sustainability management approach, performance and adherence to its policies; • Analysed sustainability data management systems, assessing specific data and information reported: The assessment of reliability of data and information was Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 89 based on explicit assertions regarding sustainability performance on material issues and included a review of their completeness and accuracy. It included a review of the methods, practices and tools used in the collection, aggregation, analysis, internal quality control and reporting of the data and information. DNV’s assessment also included; high-level trend analysis; the identification and significant changes in performance from the previous reporting; a review of data traceability; and record checks at different stages in the data flows. CONCLUSIONS In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of Hyundai Engineering’ s sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2010, 2011. Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following: Inclusivity and Responsiveness: HYUNDAI ENGINEERING has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustainability issues via survey. 6 main stakeholder groups (employees, customers, partners, community, shareholders/investors, government/media/association) are identified with the reason of being selected and the communication processes for respective groups in the Report. Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the survey are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of HYUNDAI ENGINEERING’ sustainability management approach. The Report provides insight into the organization’s relationships with its key stakeholders and how and to what extent the organization understands, takes into account and responds to their needs. Materiality: The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are most significant to HYUNDAI ENGINEERING’s activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. The material issues were identified and prioritised based upon the stakeholders’ opinion sought by survey. However HYUNDAI ENGINEERING needs to make full use of identified engagement measures with the stakeholders in order to reflect their concerns and expectations into the sustainable management. Reliability: No material errors have been detected for data and information verified. Information in the Report is presented so as to allow comparison of year-on-year performance. Completeness: Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by HYUNDAI ENGINEERING, we conclude that the Report does not omit information that would significantly influence stakeholders’ decisions. More efforts to improve reporting on the performance from overseas project need to be made. Neutrality: In general the Report provides a fair and balanced representation of HYUNDAI ENGINEERING’s approach and performance in 2010~2011. OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to HYUNDAI ENGINEERING management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. • To establish key processes for issuing the sustainability report, and documented procedures specifying R&R for KPI of sustainability. • To establish data management system linked with Intranet and/or ERP system for the Report to ensure its accuracy and reliability. • To actively reflect stakeholders’ opinions collected from the engagement activities as defined in the report • To actively collect and reflect outside stakeholders’ opinions with the regularly meeting or forum. • To expand sustainability management to subcontractors. • To consider developing consistent data collection process from overseas project. Young Keun Kim Lead Verifier Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn 29 June 2012 Country Manager HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 90 GRI G3.1 Guideline & ISO 26000 Index ●Reported ◐ artially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Indicator Description ISO 26000 Page Status Remarks Profile Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from most senior decision-maker in organization 6.2 6-7 ● 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6.2 15, 24-25 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of organization 6.2 8-9 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12-4 ● 2.3 Operational structure 9 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters About this Report ● 2.5 Location of overseas branch offices and sites 8-9 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 23 ● 2.7 Markets served 12-13 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 8-9 ● 2.9 Significant changes during reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2-3, 23 ● 2.1 0 Awards received in reporting period 87 ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this Report ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About this Report ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this Report ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About this Report ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 16-17 ● 3.6 Boundaries of report About this Report ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of report About this Report ● 3.8 Basis for reporting on comparability from period to period and/or between organizations N/A Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations for data, including 3.9 N/A performance index Explanation of the effects of & reasons for any re-statements of information 3.10 provided in earlier reports N/A 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods applied in the report N/A 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 90-93 ● 3.13 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurances for the report 7.5.3 88-89 ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance of organization 6.2 22-23 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 22-23 ● Number of members of highest governance body that are independent and/or non4.3 executive members 22-23 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions 4.4 to highest governance body 22-23, 61-63 ● Compensation for members of highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives 22-23 ● Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 avoided 22-23 ● Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance body 22-23 ● 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 10 ● Procedures of highest governance body for management of economic, 4.9 environmental, and social performances 22-23 ● 4.10 Processes for evaluating highest governance body’s own performance 22-23 ● Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 organization 24-25 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 initiatives 82 ● 4.13 Membership in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 87 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 15 ● 4.15 Bases for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 15 ◐ Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 and stakeholder group 15-17 ● 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and responses to them 15-17 ● Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 91 Indicator Description ISO 26000 Page Status Remarks Economic Disclosure on Management Approach 21 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.36.8.7, 6.8.9 28-29 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for organization’s activities due to EC2 6.5.5 25, 38-41, 72-81 ● climate change EC3 Coverage of organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 55 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from governments N/A Range of ratios of standard entry-level wages compared to local minimum wage at EC5 6.4.4, 6.8 51 ● significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EC6 6.6.6, 6.86.8.5, 6.8.7 42-47 ◐ locations of operation Process of hiring local workers preferably and percentages of locally-hired high-ranking EC7 6.8, 6.8, 56.8.7 51, 55-56 ◐ managers Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, EC8 29, 71 ● public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 29 ● 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach 65, 72-73 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5, 6.5.4 72-81 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 72-81 ◐ EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 72-81 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 72-81 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 72-81 ◐ Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives or services more 72-81 ◐ widely used EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 72-81 ◐ EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 72-81 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 72-81 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and EN11 6.5, 6.5.6 N/A areas of high biodiversity managed by us Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity EN12 N/A biological diversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 73 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk and the government and living in 73 ● the areas affected by our business activities EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5, 6.5.5 72-81 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 72-81 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 72-81 ◐ EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5, 6.5.3 N/A EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 72-81 ◐ EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72-81 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated wastes deemed hazardous under EN24 N/A the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII Annex of Basel Convention Name of water bodies significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of EN25 water and runoff protection states, protection levels and biological diversity value of related 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 N/A habitats Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 72-81 ● impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 N/A Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 6.5 72-81 ● noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials EN29 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 72-81 ● used for the organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 72-81 ● HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 92 GRI G3.1 Guideline & ISO 26000 Index ●Reported ◐ artially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Indicator Description ISO 26000 Page Status Remarks Labor Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.4, 6.3.10 49 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4, 6.4.3 51 ◐ LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 51 ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 time employees 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 52-61 ● 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 61 ● 6.4.5, 6.3.10 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 61 ◐ Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health LA6 and safety committees 6.4, 6.4.6 58-61 ● Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of LA7 work-related fatalities 57 ● Education, training, prevention, and risk-control programs to assist workforce 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3 LA8 members, their families, or community members family members and local residents 58-60, 67-70 ● deal with serious diseases 6.8.4, 6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with labor unions 6.4, 6.4.6 61 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4, 6.4.7 53 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning for continued employability and LA11 managing career endings 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 53 ● Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews 6.4, 6.4.7 53 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category by 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, LA13 indicators of diversity 22-23 ● 6.4.3 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 51 ● 6.4.3, 6.4.4 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 57 ◐ Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.3 43, 49 ● Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 44-47 ◐ Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, HR2 human rights 44-47 ◐ 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including percentage of employees 6.3, 6.3.5 27 ● trained 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination, and actions taken 51 ● 6.3.10, 6.4.3 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk 6.3.5, 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 61 ◐ 6.4.3, 6.4.5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, HR6 measures taken 51 ● 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labor, and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, HR7 measures taken 51 ● 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures HR8 concerning human rights relevant to operations 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 N/A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples, and 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, HR9 actions taken ● 6.3.8, 6.6.7 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 reviews and/or impact assessments ● Number of complaints related human rights that are filed, dealt with, and resolved HR11 through the official complaint registration channel 26-27, 44-47 ● Your Partner, Hyundai Engineering 93 Indicator Description ISO 26000 Page Status Remarks Society Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.6, 6.8 65 ● Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, SO1 assessments, and development programs 66-71 ● 6.8.7, 6.6.7 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 6.6, 6.6.3 26-27 ● Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and SO3 procedures 27, 47 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption N/A SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 6.6, 6.6.4 N/A Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 related institutions, by country 6.8.3 N/A Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly practices, SO7 and outcomes 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 46-47 ● Monetary value of significant fines, and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 46-47 ● 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 66-81 ● 6.8.7, 6.6.7 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, SO10 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 66-81 ● 6.8.7, 6.6.7 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2, 6.6, 6.7 33 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4 N/A procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, 6.7.5 58-60 ● by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 products and services subject to such information requirements 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 N/A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling 6.7.6, 6.7.9 34-39 ● Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, PR5 customer satisfaction 34-39 ● 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 34-39 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications 34-39 ● Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy PR8 and losses of customer data 6.7, 6.7.7 34-39 ● Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations 28-29, 34-39, PR9 concerning provision of products and services 6.7, 6.7.6 ● 46-47 ​Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) CRE1 Building energy intensity 28, 51, 80-81 ◐ CRE2 Building water intensity 28, 51, 80-81 ◐ CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 28, 51, 80-81 ◐ Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment CRE4 activity 28, 51, 80-81 ◐ Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or CRE5 intended land use according to applicable legal designations ◐ Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally CRE6 recognized health and safety management system 59 ● Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by CRE7 development, broken down by project ● Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for new CRE8 construction, management, occupation, and redevelopment 37 ● *H yundai Engineering’s sustainability report meets all requirements of Level A+ at the level of reporting indicators in the GRI G3.1 guidelines. Also, a third-party verifier and the application level checking of GRI have confirmed that this report is appropriate for A+ in the application levels of the G3.1 guidelines. HEC Sustainability Report 2010~2011 94 Glossary Sustainability Management A verification standard that enhances the reliability of sustainability reports developed by AA1000 (Assurance Standard) AccountAbility, an English non-profit organization related to sustainability management A comprehensive analysis of major issues deduced through stakeholder communication and internal Materiality Test issues relevant to sustainability management according to importance priorities of internal/external issues GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) An organization established by UNEP in 1997 to develop the guideline of ‘Sustainability Report’ A voluntary UN affiliated organization which the former secretary of UN, Kofi Annan, used to induce the world economic leaders to participate. The agreement is consisted of total 10 principles which UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) regulates organizational responsibilities on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption sectors. A policy to primarily evaluate the environmental impacts of various development businesses. Includes Environmental Impact Assessment review, analysis, and evaluation procedures to minimize environmental destruction and maximize the potential of environmentally healthy and sustainable development SOx : Sulphur Oxides Sulfur or the sulfuric compounds emitted into the air produced in the process of combustion, production and treatment NOx : Nitrogen Oxides Nitrogen Oxides emitted into the air during combustion, production and treatment processes A type of gas causing greenhouse effect. The 6 greenhouse gases assigned by the WRI/WBCSD GHG (Greenhouse Gases) are carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous Oxide (N2O), Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Hydrofluorocarbon (HFCs), Sulfur hexa-fluoride(SF6) A concept including new energy sources like hydrogen, fuel cells, coal liquefaction gas, solar heat, New renewable Energy sunlight, bio-energy, wind power, hydropower, geothermy and bio gas Engineering Business EPC (Engineering, Procurement & Construction) Turnkey base project encompassing all processes including design, purchase and construction A byproduct produced in the refining process to treat impurities in metals of minerals, or other metal working and burning process. Prevents oxidation of the metal surface by floating up to the surface of Slag molten metal. The produced slag is divided as blast furnace slag and steel slag. It is used as cement raw materials, concrete, pavement materials, sources of phosphate fertilizer An Abbreviation of Asphalt Concrete, a mixture of asphalt and aggregates (sand and pebbles) or Ascon pavement filler (mineral filler) heated or mixed at room temperature HSE An abbreviation of Environment, Safety and Environment Refers to Environmental Management System, requirements for consistent environmental ISO 14001 improvements set by International Organization of Standardization(ISO) A minimum requirement standard to liberally prevent industrial accidents for an organization through OHSAS 18001 health and safety management system by finding out the risk factors and consistently managing them Perforated Line Reader’s Opinion Hyundai Engineering would like to hear the valuable opinion of all stakeholders in order to further improve future Social Responsibility Reports. Please fill out the following questionnaire and send it to e-mail or telephone and fax numbers below. Tel 82-2-2166-3824 Fax 82-2-2646-1503 e-mail heccsr@hec.co.kr 1. What is your profession? ① Customer ② Vendor ③ Local Community ④ Government ⑤ NGO ⑥ Employee ⑦ Other ( ) 2. Through what channel did you get this report? ① HEC Website ② Newspaper/Magazine ③ Seminar/Lecture ④ Employee ⑤ Other ( ) 3. What are your major areas of interest in this report? ① Introduction ② Management ③ Customers ④ Vendors ⑤ Employees ⑥ Local Communities 4. If there is any section that requires supplementing or improving, which section is it? ① Introduction ② Management ③ Customers ④ Vendors ⑤ Employees ⑥ Local Communities 5. How would you rate this report on the following aspect? Moderately Very Much Yes Disagree Totally Disagree Agree Contents are easy to understand. Report structure is clear. It provides enough and valuable information about material issues Contents are reliable. Design is good and helps understand the contents. 6. After reading the Report, have your thoughts on Hyundai Engineering changed? ① It changed for the better ② It did not change ③ It changed for the worse 7. Please share your ideas or thoughts if there are material issues to be presented. This report was printed on environment-friendly paper using soy ink. Hyundai 41 Tower Bldg., 917-9, Mok 1-dong, Yangcheon-gu, Seoul 158-723, Korea Tel. 82-2-2166-8114 http://www.hec.co.kr HEC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WEB PAGE
