corporate responsibility report 2011 Creating a sustainable firm of the future Your business technologists. Powering progress Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Contents Foreword by the Chairman & CEO 02 Key highlights of the year 2011 03 Business profile 05 IT Sector — Challenges & Opportunities 07 Responsible Citizenship 60 A sustainable response to turbulent times Corporate citizenship forms part of Atos’ identity and what we do around the world Vision & Strategy 11 Environmental Commitment 66 Embedding sustainability into our strategy Remaining true to our environmental commitments Stakeholder Dialogue 15 Helping to build the Firm of the Future 76 Opening a diaologue to create a more sustainable Powering progress to transform to the Firm of the Future environment for our employees, partners and the community as a whole Corporate Governance 84 Our approach to sustainable management Our Sustainable Journey 25 Leadership in IT for sustainability Information about the report 89 Building a Great Place to Work 37 Locations & Contacts 98 Unlocking the creative potential of our workforce A+ for the Corporate Responsibility Report A+ is the highest level of qualification from the Global Reporting Initiative, requiring entire management disclosure on sustainability performance standards and assurance by a third external party. Your business technologists. Powering progress I am pleased to report that Atos has been awarded an A+ rating in accordance Foreword by with the GRI standards for the second time in a row. Indeed, in 2011, Atos has continued to build extensively on the very solid foundations laid in the previous years. the Chairman Since last year, the sustainability agenda has moved forward. The economic crisis has forced our clients to rethink their business models and reconsider & CEO their actions. By embracing sustainability as part of a company’s core business, clients are able to overcome this perfect storm of economic, social and environmental turbulence. Embedding sustainability in the heart of a company has proven to make sound economic sense. In 2011 we acquired Siemens IT Solutions and Services. The partnership formed has positioned Atos as a European leader of a truly global scale and had an impact on our workforce, our identity, our business strategy and our portfolio. In the field of sustainability, this has provided both challenges and new opportunities. Challenges to internally align the two parts of the company in the field of sustainability strategy; and opportunities since our sustainability portfolio has grown with a vast amount of sustainable solutions to offer to clients. Internally, Atos further deployed its worldwide Wellbeing@work program supported by an international community of Atos young talents and designed to attract the best engineers and create the best working environment in line with our ambition to become one of the best companies to work for. Here the major priorities have concerned remote working (already benefiting to 1/4 of Atos employees), recognition programs, training and e-learning tools, induction programs for our 9.000 fresh recruited engineers, and smart workplace through the implementation of the Atos campus concept. Early 2012, Atos has been recognized by the Great Place to Work institute as the third best employer in Poland and all the major Atos geographies will candidate to enter this best workplace list in 2012. Furthermore, the Zero emailTM Program that I launched and further intensified in 2011 contributes to this by positively transforming our way of working. Regarding our environmental strategy, the three main points of focus were further reducing our environmental impact, launching carbon neutral hosting services and strengthening stakeholder dialogue in order to finetune our sustainability program and focus on areas that truly matter. I am very happy to announce that we have succeeded in all three of these points. We have also been working hard to strengthen our stakeholder dialogue: our first sustainability stakeholder meeting took place in London in November 2011. For Atos, 2011 was the year in which the next step was made in transforming to the Firm of the Future. I am proud to present this report, which demonstrates that our actions provide the best evidence of our commitment. Thierry Breton Chairman and CEO Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 1 Global reporting standards Wellbeing@work and Great Stakeholder Dialogue Key recognition In May 2010, Atos published its first Corporate Place to Work challenge In early 2010, Atos launched its Wellbeing@work To kick off the development of a structured program, an initial stakeholder dialogue highlights Responsibility report in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines initiative, demonstrating that its employees remain its first priority. This program took place in November 2011 at our Olympic Technology Center in London. A selected of the year and was rated Level B+ by the GRI. The following Corporate Responsibility continued in 2011 with major Atos geographies entering the Great Place to Work international group of partners, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and 2011 report, published in May 2011, was rated A+ by the GRI, recognizing Atos’ leadership challenge, and was deemed one of the key points for a successful integration of suppliers took part in our discussions to create a clear stakeholder governance and position in the field Siemens IT Solutions and action plan for 2012. At this of sustainability. Services. The program meeting we invited our underpins the company’s guests to challenge our Integration of Siemens ongoing transformation to Corporate Responsibility IT Solutions and Services become a fully integrated strategy and activities and The integration of Siemens and global company, and to share their best practices. IT Solutions and Services recognized as a great place to Through open discussions brings new possibilities for work. we shared expectations and Atos in the field of ideas in order to engage sustainability. With an Helsinki Data Center in a mutually beneficial expanded portfolio and Atos opened a data center in collaboration. Following this a new position as leaders Helsinki, located in the meeting, our stakeholders in the European market, former electricity station of took part in the Atos has fully adopted Helsingin Energia. This data establishment of this report sustainability as one of center will use cooling through a detailed its key offerings. produced by Helsingin questionnaire. Energia with heat pumps, Firm of the Future cold sea water and surplus Toward a Zero email With the integration of thermal energy from energy CompanyTM Siemens IT Solutions and generation. The waste heat In early 2011, Atos Services, we have set produced by computers is announced its ambition to ourselves the challenge to transported to the district be a Zero email CompanyTM adapt our transition to the network with an exchanger within three years as the Firm of the Future. While in order to heat up buildings company believes that the aiming to be a Zero email and hot tap water in Helsinki. volume of emails we send CompanyTM within 3 years, The heat produced by the and receive is unsustainable we have started to design the new data center is used to for the business and work-life future workplace provide heating for more balance. We are adopting environment. than 4,500 new households. innovative social business We have embedded solutions to bridge the ‘social sustainability as the most Sustainability Performance business gap’ and provide important catalyst in this Management partnership a more personal, immediate process, and aim to lead with SAP and cost effective means by example in the field of In November 2011, Atos to manage and share sustainability. announced that it would rely information. On January 1 on the Sustainability 2012, a Global Program Performance Management Director was appointed for (SuPM) application as the Zero email™ Program. delivered by SAP. The The program has received a solution will help Atos lot of international attention gather data from across the in the press. company regarding its sustainability performance, providing insight into how well the company is faring against those goals. 2 Your business technologists. Powering progress 2011 main Key Performance Indicators New Business Development FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Atos Carbon Neutral Data Centers Carbon audit total savings ---K EUR 600 K€ 537 + EN6 Societal and Well Being solutions Services in Health sector revenue ------* M€ 41,82 + AO5 Energy management services revenue ------* M€ 91,78 + AO5 Investments in social research and development Responsible IT systems ---€ 2,368,920 € 2,764,840 + EC8 New Environmental Commitment FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Atos Global Corporate Footprint (in Kg Carbon Footprint Management CO2e) 142,592,245 122,589,332 * 309,314,589 = EN16 Reduction of DCs energy Reduction of energy consumption in Data Centers compsumtion by outsourcing business ---2,000 MWh 7.291 MWh + EN6 Fleet car carbon emission Average of footprint emissions in 145 gr CO2/ 133 gr CO2/ 131.6 grCO2/ optimization company´s fleet cars km km * km + EN17 Travel Rationalization, Number of hours of Remote use of Remote Working Working tool usage (OCS) ------* 103,891 hours + EN7 % of expanditure coverage of 3rd Sustainability supplier screening party assessment 35% 37% * 41% + HR2 New Social Responsibility FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Atos Employees recruitment People entering the company 4,500 6,686 * 8,891 + EC7 Rate of employees leaving the Attrition company 13% 17% * 11.74% + LA2 Training of employees Average hours of training 19,72 34,56 * 29.12 = LA10 eLearning users ---8,294 * 14,725 + LA10 Women in TOP management Diversity in management positions ---65 * 108 + LA13 Absenteeism Global rate average 2,7% 2,07% * 3.05% = LA7 Number of people participating Employees satisfaction in satisfaction surveys ------17,156 + AO2 Responses satisfaction average rate ------58% + AO2 * This indicator relates to the new scope of Atos. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 Business profile Expanded to 74,000 employees in 48 countries with the acquisition of Siemens IT Solutions KEY ACHIEVEMENTS and Services. Annual revenues of EUR 8.5 billion on a pro-forma basis. Awarded an A+ by the GRI for its sustainability reporting. Atos is a leading information technology and expertise in Corporate Responsibility services company generating annual and Sustainability Solutions. revenues of EUR 8.5 billion (pro-forma 2011) and employing around 74,000 people in Sustainability as part of the Group’s 48 countries worldwide. Atos’ mission is to business strategy advance the performance of its clients by Atos has actively implemented sustainable offering innovative solutions that deliver best practices throughout its own measurable business value. Atos ensures organization and positions sustainability at sustainability in the management of all its the core of its business strategy. The Group activities and the Group is committed to considers that, as a leading IT services minimizing its impact on the environment, company, it has a key role to play in looking after the well-being of its people influencing the ICT market towards more and ensuring profitability. Serving a global sustainable and environmentally-friendly client base, it delivers Hi-Tech Transactional behaviors. Services (HTTS), Consulting and Technology Services, Systems Integration and Managed The Group pursues financial profitability Services. without compromising on its ethical, social or environmental stance: it aims to provide Our expertise covers a wide range of practical solutions that deliver lasting specialties and we are always seeking new business benefits. In 2010, Atos proved its opportunities and innovations. Critical to commitment by joining the United Nations doing business well are our brand values Global Compact, and by participating in the Accountability, Trust, Operational internationally recognized Global Reporting Competitiveness, Service to Clients, Initiative (GRI), providing hard facts to Innovation, Social Wellbeing and Excellence. support its claims. In 2011, Atos was awarded an A+ by the GRI for its sustainability Global Strategic partnership between reporting. Atos also entered the FTSE4Good Atos and Siemens and the ASPI Eurozone® sustainability On December 15 2010, Atos Origin and indexes. Siemens announced one of the largest deals in the European IT Services industry which Drawing on its own experience, Atos has created the new Atos: a European IT accompanies its clients on their champion. Through this strategic alliance, transformation towards sustainability and which included the acquisition by Atos of helps them optimize their environmental Siemens IT Solutions and Services, Atos has efficiency through innovative and strengthened its expertise in many areas sustainable IT solutions. including Cloud Computing Services, Managed Services, Systems Integration and HTTS, and has benefited from Siemens IT Solutions and Services know-how 4 Your business technologists. Powering progress Breakdown by Service Line (in EUR million) 7% 2011 2011 2010 PF 12m Statutory CS ER* 20 % Managed Services 3,952 2,892 2,842 Systems Integration 2,241 1,771 1,806 HTTS & Specialized Businesses 1,726 1,562 1,533 Consulting & Technology Services 593 588 608 Group 8,511 6,812 6,790 * Constant scope and exchange rates 26 % 47 % Breakdown by Global Business Unit (in EUR million) 2011 2011 2010 PF 12m Statutory CS ER 7% 4% Germany 1,703 1,100 1,054 5% United Kingdom & Ireland 1,461 1,195 1,146 6% France 1,000 991 1,021 20 % Benelux 1,026 942 1,006 6% Atos Worldline 913 913 903 Central & Eastern Europe 526 311 283 11 % North America 498 304 276 North & South West Europe 415 224 241 17 % Iberia 343 314 315 12 % Other BUs 626 519 545 12 % Group 8,511 6,812 6,790 * Constant scope and exchange rates Breakdown by Market (in EUR million) 15 % 7% 2011 2011 2010 PF 12m Statutory CS ER Manufacturing, Retail & Services 2,855 2,130 1,,982 20 % Public, Health & Transport 2,154 1,779 1, 800 Financial Services 1,674 1,408 1 ,434 Telecoms, Media & Technology 1,250 959 989 Energy & Utilities 579 537 584 Group 8,511 6,812 6 ,790 * Constant scope and exchange rates 25 % 33% Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 5 IT Sector Challenges & Opportunities A sustainable response to turbulent times The Scientific Community was launched in 2009 to highlight the importance of a proactive KEY ACHIEVEMENTS approach and the need to identify and anticipate game changing technologies. Composed of 90+ members, all possessing different skills and backgrounds (from science to technology), its aim is to help Atos anticipate and craft its vision regarding upcoming technology disruptions and the new challenges facing our industry. In 2011, the Atos Scientific Community published Journey 2014, a document expressing our vision on the developments in the IT sector in recent and future years. Journey 2014 is available on www.atos.net. Cloud Computing, Big Data and Social Networks are the three most revolutionary developments which provide both challenges and opportunities in the field of sustainability. Atos has aligned its business strategy with these developments to cater for our clients in these fields. Our clients are facing unprecedented levels breadth and depth of our world-class business A decade of change of volatility; a ‘perfect storm’ of economic, technologists and our applied solutions. social and environmental turbulence. Sustainable business, put simply, is operating The current economic crisis has made it within the limits of the one planet we have. necessary for companies to rethink their Many of Atos’ clients are already strategies. At the same time, with the metamorphosing their culture, strategy and emergence of mobile internet and Social operations to become fit-for-purpose for the Networks, clients expect higher service levels world we now operate in by incorporating and the availability of different, more direct economic, social and environmental factors ways of communication. With an increased in day-to-day and strategic business decisions. focus on reducing their carbon footprint, our For Atos, sustainability is an important catalyst clients are looking for ways to innovate and in redesigning for resilience. Hence, improve while spending less money. Whilst sustainability is not niche; rather, it is core such volatility provides pressing challenges, to successful business transformation. it also opens up immense opportunities for innovating new ways of creating value whilst Just as important as ensuring our clients optimizing operations. successfully transform into Firms of the Future, is ensuring Atos itself ‘walks its own The concept of ‘redesigning for resilience’ has talk’, in successfully metamorphosing to a evolved in response to this decade of creative Firm of The Future. Through our Scientific destruction and construction, where prevailing Community – a network of some 90 members, business paradigms are questioned and representing a mix of all skills and successful organizations transform. Key to backgrounds, and coming from wherever we redesigning for resilience is IT-enabled operate – Atos anticipates and crafts its vision transformation. Atos aims to be the trusted regarding upcoming technology disruptions business technologist partner of choice to help and the new challenges faced by the industry. our clients become Firms of the Future, with In 2011, the Scientific Community launched its sustainable business embedded into the Journey 2014 document, expressing our organizational DNA. Core to our approach is views on the developments within IT and the a deep understanding of our clients’ priority solutions we offer to cater for our clients. challenges and opportunities, aligned to a rich Atos has classified the drivers of change in the completely new application fields that Sustainable approaches fast-changing IT services market into key extend the existing range of usage of IT. to market trends trends that are reshaping the industry. These The most important trends in this area are in technology trends can be classified into technology Social Network Revolution, Mobile enablers and new application areas. Computing & Internet of Things, Green IT, and Technology enabling trends shape, improve IT/OT Convergence. and influence the way how classical IT is provided and consumed. Among them are With the further proliferation of IT, partly into Cloud Computing, Globalization and completely new areas, data privacy and Industrialization of IT, Big Data, as well as security issues have become increasingly Pervasion of IT and Business Process important. Solving those security topics Outsourcing (BPO). is a prerequisite for the adoption of most of the The other category of trends opens up trends described here. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 7 For Atos, Cloud Services refer to any service Cloud Computing: data privacy and security, Cloud Computing: delivered to clients over the Internet on handling of regulatory compliance, a new way of operating a pay-per-use basis. Cloud Services are a guaranteed service levels, migration and continuum of existing services, classified integration of existing applications and data. in four functional layers: Business Process-as-a-Service (BPaaS): Atos’ Cloud constitutes a unique and e.g. helpdesk, CRM, and card management comprehensive set of services, positioning Software-as-a-Service (SaaS): e.g. ERP Atos as European leader in Cloud Computing applications, SalesForce.com and Microsoft targeting mainly Private Cloud. The recent Office 365 strategic alliance of Atos, EMC Corporation Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS): middleware and VMware for open Cloud Computing is an including database and transaction illustration of an innovative partnership to processing platforms, on-demand further Atos’ ambition to become a leader in development environments this field. Atos plans to create a new Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS): company, Canopy, providing a wide range of processing, storage and networking Cloud Solutions and services designed to on-demand. speed the delivery and help customers quickly take advantage of the benefits of Depending on the domain where the Cloud Computing. Based on best-of-breed services are offered, one can distinguish technology from global Cloud Computing different types of Cloud Services: industry leaders EMC and VMware, the new Public Cloud: Services are offered to an offerings will include an open Cloud platform extremely large set of customers on a that enables customers to easily and flexibly shared infrastructure, highly standardized, choose, access and deploy Cloud-based e.g. Amazon elastic compute services. services for their enterprise IT needs. The Private Cloud: Services are offered only to a new strategic Cloud offerings will be based single client or to a controlled set of clients on open standards so clients can always (Community Cloud) based on a Cloud choose their preferred technology, whether environment, security, service levels and to run the solution offor on-premise and customization can be better addressed. how to mix private, public and hybrid Cloud Hybrid Cloud: Usually, even a single client Solutions to best meet their business needs. will have a mixture of multiple public Cloud, private Cloud and legacy systems, The shift to Cloud Computing offers great requiring orchestration. opportunities in the field of sustainability too. It dramatically reduces the need for server Cloud Computing offers a number of benefits capacity for clients and enables people to to the customer: lower costs for work, no matter when or where, which infrastructure and application services, reduces the need for travel and increases dramatically reduced CAPEX, higher employee flexibility. Homeworking is flexibility (pay per use), standardization and becoming easier and the improved improved agility of services. On the other accessibility of information contributes hand, a number of challenges need to be to a healthier work-life balance. addressed to build trust and confidence in Today’s practice in business intelligence Atos’ overall goal is to exploit the value that Sustainable solutions systems is to analyze structured data lies within the data and to become a for Big Data coming from the information systems of “data-driven company”, i.e. make use of the an enterprise to better understand information extracted from the data to take performance and underpin business meaningful business decisions. This may be decisions. While even the data within an in the area of operational and strategic enterprise grows tremendously, the amount planning or to set directions when targeting of global data is exploding even more. new products and services to customers. According to IDC estimations, global data Some companies of the new economy, like amounted to 1.8 ZettaBytes (i.e. 1.8 trillion Google, are demonstrating this successfully, Gigabytes) in 2011, and it is more than and are already defining and introducing doubling every two years. IT storage and Big Data methods. This disruptive way of processing technology is also growing, but working is quickly adopted by software at a far slower pace, so that new ways and and IT services providers, launching methods are required to deal with the offerings for their customers. growing data. 8 Your business technologists. Powering progress There are a couple of underlying information workers who deal with this data 1.8 Zettabytes. In 2011, global data technologies that are required to process and analyze Big Data, like data mining, analytics, predictive analytics, text analytics. In order to in a multitude of changing team settings, workflows and business processes. This pushes a growing demand for managing data amounted to 1,8 trillion cope with the huge amount of data in a short and information in the enterprise effectively, Gigabytes. time, in-memory computing techniques and and for improving collaboration. optimized hardware / software bundles (so-called appliances) are used. This also Big Data poses a challenge in the field of allows for real-time reactions on frequent sustainability because more server space is and recent data, e.g. for process automation. continuously needed to store this data. Atos Mastering these solutions will be a invests in server virtualization and carbon prerequisite to address the full value of neutral server parks. An example is our Big Data. carbon neutral server park in Helsinki, in which the heat generated by all servers is A related area to the Big Data trend is the used to provide energy to a part of the city. In information flood in the enterprise itself. The addition, Atos is committed to ensuring from amount of digital information in companies its side that every Olympic Games will be the doubles every 18-24 months, and, at the same greenest ever, by using 10% less physical time, more and more value is generated by servers at every Olympic Games. In a world where public and workplace ways to facilitate communication, interaction From Social Computing environments are blending but formally and derive new sources of value. to Social Business remain separate, Atos Social Business solutions are set to bridge the gap between Atos is in an ideal position to help its clients the two with secure offerings that will determine which products to use with the facilitate people engaging with people. optimum level of security and hassle-free access and its offerings around Social Social Computing is about using computers Computing will enable its clients to fully to help connect people in the working exploit this new phenomenon. environment. However it can also analyze social behavior which is useful for customer The use of Social Networks and references and business intelligence. Atos communities makes it easier to share efforts has identified a need to develop a portfolio of in the field of sustainability with a broad social business solutions looking at handling range of Stakeholders such as partners, changing customer behavior. The benefits clients, suppliers, etc. As such, it enables an of this may lie in enhancing efficiency in increase in Stakeholder Dialogue and internal processes but also to create value, transparency of strategy and operations. In say, in product development, by leveraging times in which doing more for less seems key the potential of Social Networks and to corporate success, and where companies communities. Many of our clients have are increasingly expected to share their already started using Social Networks, (brand) message with others, the proper use primarily for marketing purposes, but we are of Social Networks and communities can be now seeing a move towards other business a strategic pillar for informing people (both processes, product development, peer-tointernally and externally). Social media can peer, employee-to-employee and towards be an important tool to share the the partner ecosystem and the whole supply sustainability agenda of companies and chain. In customer services we are also request feedback on their sustainability starting to see proliferation of blogs and the strategy. use of Twitter, etc. From a business perspective, this new reality poses a fundamental challenge: letting go in a connected world. This means letting go of old business models and mentalities and exploring and embracing new ways of interacting with customers, and making sense of their changed behavior. Using social platforms will be a key objective for companies coping with changing customer and employee relations in order to figure out Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 9 Vision & Strategy Embedding sustainability into our strategy The acquisition of Siemens IT Solutions and Services has positioned Atos as a European KEY ACHIEVEMENTS leader of a truly global scale. In order to adapt and implement its strategic goals, Atos pursued three programs, TOP², eXpand and Wellbeing@work. Our 2011 sustainability strategy led to a solid foundation for our Firm of the Future vision, further reductions in our environmental impacts with the launch of carbon neutral hosting services, substantial advancement of Wellbeing@work for our employees, active social engagement and the strengthening of our Stakeholders’ Dialogue. The economic crisis has led our clients to Foundation IT. This encompasses our role IT as enabler for change fundamentally and permanently change as a trusted partner for our clients to deliver the way they do business. We are entering cost-effective IT services that support a decade of change which is likely to be their operations continuously. Our strategy both fast paced and fundamental across all for growth is to decrease the Total Cost areas and which will impact on the rules of Ownership of our solutions, through of business, the environment, technology, the use of offshore sites, further social expectations, and the global socioindustrialization, the application of Lean economic balance. techniques, the virtualization of servers A new IT era is beginning: the era of business and the migration to the Cloud technology, the age of connectivity, environment. ecosystems and communities with ever Business-enabling IT. Our role here is to greater transparency and accountability. provide IT solutions that help our clients to Progressive organizations are beginning to innovate, go to market quicker, enter new understand that business does not have to markets and support them to transform to be about profit at the expense of others or of become sustainable Firms of the Future. the environment. Companies are finding that We do this by reinforcing differentiation, they need to reinvent their business models innovation, verticalization, our industry to prepare for the post-economic crisis world. expertise and rolling out our High Tech Atos operates in a market where significant Transactional Services (HTTS) wherever economic, financial and sociological changes we can. collide. The need for innovation and transformation extends the role of IT to that of accelerator for change. This new IT revolution – which includes Smart Mobility, Internet, Social Networks, Big Data, and Cloud Computing – has opened new opportunities for Atos. Overall, Atos anticipates that market demand is two-fold, based on different drivers in terms of expectations and solutions: Atos aims to achieve by 2013 a revenue of an overall client strategy to mostly address Strategic responses approximately between EUR 9 to 10 billion large enterprises and organizations with a profitability of between 7 to 8%, (including to better address large increasing by 50% the Earning Per Share opportunities for the creation of our global (EPS) compared to 2010. Strategic Sales Engagements (SSE) team), but to be very selective when it comes To reach this, we will roll out our Strategy to mid-market enterprises, and Business 3 based on four components: an overall regional strategy to consolidate our European leadership position, to Consumer; an overall go-to-market strategy, which consists in developing five groups of main streams of action: leveraging scale, culture and intimacy, while selected industries (our markets, driven TOP2, eXpand and developing in fast-growing economies, with globally), providing them with a Wellbeing@work. (where needed) establishing partnerships; comprehensive portfolio and set Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 of services, structured along four global to achieve “best-in-class” sales practices by service lines. Cloud Computing is of utmost 2013 and support Atos’ ambition with importance in our go-to-market strategy; revenue growth as of 2013. The program is the leverage of our Siemens partnership, entirely focused on increasing order entry by with a joint go-to-market strategy, a joint addressing what we sell, how we sell and Research & Development program, a joint how we support sales. In order to achieve portfolio, etc. this, 10 initiatives have been launched, ranging from portfolio positioning and In order to also deal with the current product-market strategy to sales economic crisis and leverage Atos’ new performance management and talent leadership position in the European market, management. Atos pursues three main streams of action: TOP², eXpand, and Wellbeing@work. Internally, our core strategy focuses on the TOP² mainly focuses on cost optimization, following main points: lean management and offshore data Using the merger with Siemens IT Solutions centers in order to align our two former and Services to establish Atos as an companies (Atos Origin and Siemens IT IT leader Solutions and Services) and make them Choosing the best location/relocation for operate as efficiently as possible. activities (offshore, nearshore, “province” The Wellbeing@work initiative was shore, etc.), with a collaborative approach launched in 2010 by Thierry Breton, with Advancing wellbeing at work and the ambition to attract the best talents, contributing to the improvement of encourage personal development, increase working conditions managerial commitment and motivation Reducing the risks of loss or disclosure of among staff, as well as enhance integration data/intellectual property/confidentiality with our ‘One Company’ philosophy. (technical problem, fraud, trickery, The eXpand program was launched in employee corruption, etc.). September 2011 with the mission Atos’ sustainability vision and strategy Many organizations are already linking Atos’ ambition is focuses on ensuring our own culture, sustainability with operational excellence to be recognized as operations and client solutions transform and actively seeking opportunities for cost a European Leader in IT towards those of a Firm of The Future – to savings and increased efficiency. This has led be business-fit for purpose for the world to pressure on the IT industry to develop for Sustainability we now live in. This transformation technologies that support both profit and incorporates two sides of the same coin: sustainability by controlling costs, improving operational excellence & value creation. performance and cutting environmental Through our operations and work ethic we impact, something which is only likely to seek to exceed international regulations increase. where possible, whilst driving sustainability into the heart of our We believe that bringing together people, operations and improving the wellbeing of technology and business is the way forward. our stakeholder community. Through our Every day we power sustainable progress solutions and client engagement we seek for our clients and partners, the wider to push the boundaries through community and ourselves. It is our unique innovative, yet tried and tested, solutions approach as business technologists that 15% to help our clients on their IT-enabled transformation journey to become Firms of The Future. makes this possible. In 2009, it was estimated that better use of saving of C02 emissions by ICT could actually save up to 15% of CO2 2020 could be achieved Over the next ten years, the successful emissions by 2020, which translates into by better use of ICT. businesses will be those that embrace 600 billion euros in energy cost savings (The sustainability. Today, the focus of the Climate Group). sustainable agenda has shifted towards responsible growth and a business strategy Besides, living in a world where new for the long-term. This new approach technologies will further dominate the way recognizes sustainable business as good we work will mean that the years ahead are economics which means that likely to be a pivotal point in terms of what sustainability needs to become part of a we understand to be the ‘workplace’ today. company’s core business, embedded in its The top working talents’ demands are processes, running through its culture and changing. More flexible options such as job directing every activity. sharing, childcare and a boom in individual 12 Your business technologists. Powering progress entrepreneurship will be partnered with a clients become more sustainable. Atos wants lower reliance on geographic location, to become ‘best-in-class’, not only for its own increased collaboration and a higher level operations but also in the way it serves its of technical competence across the board. clients. By embedding sustainability in our own company as part of our DNA, we Atos’ ambition is to be recognized as a automatically ensure that it is similarly European IT champion with global reach, embedded in all the propositions we make to providing innovative IT solutions to help its our clients. In 2011, the main challenge has been to Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is Corporate Responsibility integrate former Siemens IT Solutions based on three tactical axes: at the core of new Atos’ people and practices in the Atos Corporate business and processes Responsibility Program bringing together a 1. Consolidate and increase positions in higher spectrum of best practices and recognized sustainable rankings such as initiatives that strengthen our global GRI, Great Place to Work and sustainability ambition to be recognized as a global ratings such as DJSI, FTSE4Good. sustainability player. 2. Embed sustainability in the company’s DNA through Corporate Values, By making sustainability part of our business Operational Excellence, Social and transformation process, Atos believes Responsibility and Business Development. that we can future-proof our organization, 3. Strengthen Stakeholder Dialogue in order create new opportunities, encourage to endorse strategic challenges for the innovation and ensure competitive company as well as key performance advantage. This implies implementing indicators that will measure and publicly actions to reduce carbon emissions, energy report the advancements of the Atos and waste that form a natural and effective Sustainability Program. part of our strategy: from sustainable business models that are collaborative, open, Atos’ Corporate Responsibility program is resilient and flexible to sustainable overseen by Atos’ Executive Vice President operational excellence ensuring cost General Secretary, Philippe Mareine, reduction, compliance and value creation reporting directly to the Chief Executive through new ways of working and smart Officer, Thierry Breton. innovations. All Corporate Responsibility strategic decisions, investments and partnerships are presented and discussed on a regular basis at the Atos Executive Committee level. Progressive organizations understand that business does not have to be about profit at the expense of others or of the environment and society at large. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 Stakeholder Dialogue Opening a dialogue to create a more sustainable environment for our employees, partners and the community as a whole The Kick off Stakeholder Dialogue meeting took place in November 2011 in London. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Stakeholder survey provides valuable insights for improvement. Partnership with SAP drives transparent reporting for Atos and our clients. Client engagements highlight growing importance of embedding sustainability in all business processes. Employee dialogue and idea generation are encouraged. 2011 material assessment enriching corporate challenges and relevant indicators to better manage and communicate our stakeholders’ expectations. Our Strengthening Stakeholder Employees Dialogue Clients Shareholders STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Societal Suppliers/ Organizations Partners e.g. charities, NGOs Governments and normalization institutes To ensure our Corporate Responsibility Take into account stakeholders’ strategy meets the expectations of our expectations and respond in a timely valuable stakeholders (employees, clients, manner partners, suppliers and shareholders) and Identify, develop and track innovative to accelerate our progress, regular meetings value propositions, exploiting emerging and discussions are organized to share our technologies and markets and target views and discuss the different activities of business value beyond mere technology the company. The aim is to work together benefits and by doing so create a more sustainable Understand and anticipate legislation, environment for ourselves, our partners and social and environmental issues in order to the community as a whole. capitalize and incorporate these into our Firm of the Future transformation concept Over the last few years our engagement Structure and update regularly our with stakeholders took place randomly Corporate Responsibility commitments and through many different, and often local, and achievements. initiatives. The launch of the new Atos in July 2011 stressed the importance of a strong and structured Stakeholder Dialogue to: Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 To kick off the development of a structured discussions we shared expectations and First Stakeholder Dialogue program, an initial Stakeholder Dialogue ideas in order to engage in a mutually meeting in London meeting took place in November 2011 at our beneficial collaboration. Olympic technology center in London. A selected international group of partners, The meeting was successful in helping to NGOs and suppliers took part in our establish the baseline for an organized and discussions to create a clear stakeholder constructive Stakeholder Dialogue program governance and action plan for 2012. At this for 2012. full day working session we invited our guests to challenge our Corporate Responsibility strategy and activities and to share their best practices. Through open Atos organizes regular meetings with Esther Dyson: Author, entrepreneur and Clients clients to share our sustainability vision spaceflight cadet; on A New Design for Living and activities and discuss where we can in the Digital Age. cooperate to have greater impact together. Janine Benyus: Author, innovation In October 2011, the Atos Ascent event took consultant, co-founder Biomimicry Guild; place where 200 of our top clients were on The Firm of the Future: Business Inspired invited for a two-day workshop in Berlin. by Nature. Ascent 2011 was dedicated to organizations’ Morten T. Hansen: Professor at INSEAD and power to make a difference – to shape the at the University of California, Berkeley; on “New Reality” that has emerged in business. Great Stars: How Companies Succeed in a Together we build a vision for the future that Disruptive World. can be used to shape our guests’ business ecosystem, redefine the architecture of that Furthermore, Atos participated as official ecosystem and consider the impact each partner of Les Ateliers de la Terre (Planet business has on the people and places Workshops), an international event that took around it. Charles Dehelly, Senior Executive place in Evian, France in October 2011 and Vice President, Global Operations, presented is an international platform for combatting our IT sustainability offerings at this client climate change. meeting. Sustainability and the working environment were key topics at this event and other speakers included: Faith Popcorn: Futurist, author and CEO of BrainReserve; on Predictions for the New Reality. Kjell A. Nordström: Economist and author; on the 2020 Workplace TESTIMONIAL When Sustainability Goes Mainstream Planet Workshops “Sooner rather than later, someone — a of and an appreciation for one’s effect on the environment increasingly is proving to be where good ethics meet customer or a government agency — is going good for the bottom line. There’s a direct good business to want to know what you’re doing to correlation between good environmental comply with, support or advance your practices and sound overall management. company’s efforts to become more Good corporate citizenship can help There’s a spot where good ethics meet environmentally responsible. This demand companies build the skills and good business. And Atos, as a world will not stem merely from an altruistic infrastructures they need to cope in leading IT company, can—and should— desire to behave responsibly (although turbulent times (resilience), as well as be sitting at the nexus. that’s a fine reason); rather, corporate improve efficiency. sustainability has become a cost of doing Eric Bazin, Co-founder business. Global regulations that put limits The Planet Workshops, as a think-and-do of Planet Workshops on toxic chemicals and emissions now tank, support Atos in implementing reach from the manufacturing floor into the sustainability issues and opportunities into data center. And having an understanding its DNA and learns from Atos Sustainable 16 Your business technologists. Powering progress vision and behavior as a way to merge they’re tracking systems for monitoring business and sustainability. IT is at the plant emissions, using databases to analyze crossroads of business efficiency, ecology material use or implementing operational friendship and social (corporate and controls, they need IT to do it. Atos has an external) benefits. Using more efficient advantage as the company has already cooling systems, or simply sealing holes in made environmentally sound practices a your data center’s floor, can reduce energy priority. The Planet Workshops have the consumption and, ultimately, greenhouse firm belief that IT innovation and especially gas emissions. Your company benefits by Cloud Computing is a tremendous step lowering its energy costs, and the planet towards environmental issues and social benefits too. Atos has foreseen that IT’s gains too. Building a common knowledge contribution to corporate sustainability and processes to foster this belief is an doesn’t stop at the data center door. New exciting shared challenge.” and anticipated environmental regulations are prompting companies to reexamine everything from their business processes to their product lines. Companies are beginning to pay more attention not only to what goes into their products but how those products are made. And whether In 2011 Atos conducted Customer The goal is to systematically optimize client Customer Satisfaction [PR5] Satisfaction surveys at country level, and satisfaction and subsequently increase client for its major clients such as Siemens. The retention and renewal rates. annual, strategic measurement of the Under the governance of the eXpand satisfaction of our customers is very program, more than 500 CxOs, representing important to Atos. It gives, among others, an approximately 80% of Atos’ external revenue insight into the perception of our customers will be interviewed in personal meetings and an opportunity to define specific in 2012. The process is supported by Atos’ measures. The goal is to improve our Executive Committee members, who will services and retain our customers. themselves conduct a significant share of the interviews. To measure results, Atos is using Both in Atos Origin and Siemens IT Solutions its own solution that has been successfully and Services, Customer Satisfaction sold to the external market. Management was considered an important The planning of actions based on the client pillar in managing client relationships and feedbacks is a mandatory key element ensuring customer retention. Today, Atos of the new, optimized Account Planning aims to enable a multi-dimensional view on systematic. customers by consistently approaching 3 levels of Client Satisfaction practices (strategic, tactical and operational) and ensuring action is effectively taken to improve satisfaction. In 2011, approximately 200 interviews were conducted with the top level management of our clients by mostly country-specific strategic surveys. To ensure full comparability and to increase efficiency, the different approaches were aligned during the integration phase. Early 2012 a worldwide program was launched to globally drive a harmonized Strategic Customer Satisfaction Management approach based on 12 key questions, measuring degrees of satisfaction and importance on a 10 level scale. It allows client satisfaction to be measured comparably at CxO level in all countries and to define efficient actions at the client, global business unit and corporate levels. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 Customer Satisfaction Average [PR5] — on a scale from 1 to 5 APAC France Germany IMEA BENELUX SAM IBERIA UK/IR Worldline CEE N&SWE 0 1 2 3 4 5 Atos aims to work closely with partners and application to help achieve its sustainability Partners & suppliers suppliers to help accelerate sustainable goals. The solution will help Atos gather data progress. The Stakeholder Workshop in from across the company regarding its London in November 2011 was the first step sustainability performance, providing insight to build a closer relationship and start into how well the company is faring against defining joint activities that will support both those goals. Atos also offers services for parties to progress on sustainability Sustainability Solutions from SAP to objectives. Partners and suppliers included customers worldwide. An extensive pilot is Ecovadis, SAP, United Nations Volunteers, now taking place. We plan to go live with the members of the International Paralympic application in Q4 2012, rolling out reporting Committee, AOS Studley., O2 France, ISS to sites across 48 countries. This project will World, Planet Workshops, The Carbon strengthen a key ethos of Atos’ corporate Neutral Company, Green Grid, CA responsibility program: to be an example to, Technologies, Carbon Disclosure Project, and and enabler of, innovative sustainability the GRI. This will be further developed and solutions by showing how companies can implemented in 2012. use IT to accelerate the results of sustainability programs. A partnership with SAP to accelerate our SAP awarded the Dutch organization the sustainability strategy Special Expertise Partner for Sustainability, In November 2011, Atos announced that recognizing Atos for its knowledge and it would rely on the SAP® Business Objects’ expertise of SAP solutions for sustainable Sustainability Performance Management business. Employees are one of our key stakeholders and employees, both on a global and local Employees [LA 12] and play a vital role in developing and level and provides easy access to top implementing our sustainability strategy. management. In 2011, we organized Open and transparent dialogue is key to Roadshows in all our major locations, where ensure that our strategy and activities are top management visited local sites to understood and embraced, and there is provide information on the way ahead and room for discussion and sharing ideas in employees had the opportunity to ask order to progress. This was particularly the questions and share their views. As part of case in 2011 where there was a clear focus the Wellbeing@work program, an initiative on a smooth integration of the former Atos developed by Atos to listen to employees Origin and Siemens IT Solutions and and to exchange opinions and ideas about Services. the company is the CEO breakfast event, Atos organizes regular meetings and where employees and new recruits can ask communications between management questions directly to their CEO or 18 Your business technologists. Powering progress 30,000 management team. In addition, a lot of informal occasions take place within Atos which give the possibility for management There are many local initiatives to engage employees and encourage them to make a difference. In Atos Netherlands a people were asked to to meet employees at local social events, Sustainability Week encouraged employees participate in Great Place cocktail evenings, New Years’ greetings and to reduce paper waste and energy usage, to Work surveys in 2011. many more occasions. stimulate a healthy work/life balance and benefit from free shoulder/neck massages at More formally, the European Work Council their office locations. Plans are underway for (EWC) is well established and allows Atos 2012 to establish a local sustainability management to share strategy, changes and council in which 10 young talents take part to concerns with employees’ representatives at develop new and innovative ways to reduce European level. Several face-to-face meetings our impact on the environment. Furthermore took place during 2011. CSR activities are part there are several global guidelines such as of the topics discussed on a regular basis and clean desk policy, “think before you print” continuous communication has been and email etiquette to help reduce waste. maintained between top management and EWC throughout the year. Great Place to Work Atos values personal development and independent survey ensures an open dialogue between manager As part of the Wellbeing@work and employee through the Atos transformation program, Atos has the Performance Management process. ambition to enter the Great Place to Work Objective-setting, mid-year review and challenge for all countries. The aim is to be annual appraisals are conducted through an recognized as a best place to work, as well as open face-to-face discussion between the to measure the impact of the Wellbeing@ appraiser and the employee. Employees are work initiatives on our employees and expected to share their thoughts and ideas determine the areas that need further on how to further their ambitions and improvement. In 2011 several countries aspirations in order to make the discussion entered the challenge and more will follow as productive as possible, and to express in 2012 (see Chapter ‘Building a great place to their opinions on the decisions made work’ for more details). concerning themselves. They are also Atos APAC was awarded 2nd prize in Asia. encouraged to establish an individual development plan and to communicate Best Employer Brand Awards 2011. it to their manager [LA12]. Atos was awarded the trophy ‘Objectif mieux vivre en Entreprise’ in December 2011. This Employee awareness of Atos trophy was awarded in recognition of Atos’ Sustainability program Wellbeing@work program which was In 2011 Atos increased awareness amongst its credited for anticipating and transforming sales force through dedicated sales training change into a competitive advantage, placing of the sustainability solutions portfolio. its people at the heart of the transformation More than 150 sales managers attended of the company and using innovative 5 webinars. Employees are informed on technologies for new ways of working. Other a regular basis via the intranet portal Source. key elements recognized in respect of this Furthermore an e-learning module, rolled program were the firm focus on employee out in the UK and the Netherlands in 2010, recognition and the stimulation of social has been finalized and is ready for global dialogue by engaging the new generation of launch early 2012. employees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 Atos’ Corporate Responsibility report 2010, its views on future developments in several Shareholders & investors including full details on Atos Origin’s areas. The Firm of the Future brochure activities, commitment and achievements, highlights our approach to a sustainable, was presented and distributed to the Board open and collaborative way of working of Directors and to the Group’s shareholders necessary to thrive in a fast changing world. at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) that was held in May 2011. Materiality assessment: Identifying The Report was made available primarily challenges, establishing priorities, online on the Group’s corporate website measuring performance for easy access and review by the Group’s In 2011, the Group assessed for the second stakeholders. The report was also easily time a formal materiality process of social accessible for investors (both in pdf and and environmental key performance online versions) directly from the Investors’ indicators in order to review and endorse section of the company’s website. essential challenges that the market and In 2011, Atos conducted briefings with main stakeholders consider are essential analysts in order to explain the Group’s for Atos to manage and communicate in Corporate Responsibility strategy, its Corporate Responsibility report. commitment and 2010 achievements. Stakeholder survey Sharing our vision to raise awareness As part of the process, a questionnaire was Atos communicates regularly with its sent to a selected group of stakeholders to stakeholders in order to raise awareness share the challenges, and match them with about sustainability challenges and their expectations and order of importance. opportunities and how Atos responds to them. The Atos Scientific Community has The key findings from the shakeholder been established to help anticipate and craft questionnaire included:: its vision regarding upcoming technology 75% agreed Atos has progressed regarding disruptions and the new challenges facing Corporate Responsibility, and additionally, the industry. As already mentioned, in 2011 25% strongly agreed with this statement. Atos created Vision 2014 in which it shares Environmental and social criteria are Materiality process for social and environmental key performance indicators Materiality process Stakeholders’ expectations ICT sector challenges Atos business strategy International standards and regulations Sustainability best practices Challenges and relevant indicators 20 Your business technologists. Powering progress considered as the first two essential criteria manage as best as possible benches, to evaluate Atos’ Corporate Responsibility turnover and Wellbeing@work. (CR) program. According to the Furthermore, two social challenges stakeholders, the most relevant criterion and two business development challenges to evaluate Atos’ CR organization and were considered important regarding implication is the existence of a Corporate Atos’ activity: Social Responsibility (CSR) office. The encouraging a policy of diversity (women, inclusion of innovative IT solutions disabled, nationalities, etc.); regarding CR in the customers’ approach local employment creation, education is the second main criteria identified. and culture development in communities Engagement on quantitative objectives was where the company operates; seen as relevant criterion to evaluate Atos’ developing partnerships with expert CR strategy. players to enable development of new IT The implementation of a CR strategy solutions; 100% enables a company essentially to gain a competitive advantage and innovation. The other main benefits that follow from taking on the leadership on IT for sustainability. of stakeholders surveyed this were identified by stakeholders as the 12 challenges for Atos Corporate believe Atos has made improvement of the risk management, the Responsibility program gain in stakeholders’ trust and business advances with its Corporate development. A total of twelve challenges across four main Responsibility Program. Customers are unanimously identified as categories were identified and prioritized the main stakeholders for Atos, followed according to their impacts on stakeholders closely by employees. Investors and and their likelihood to happen. partners are also considered as important In comparison with the previous stakeholders regarding Atos’ activity, but to assessments, two challenges were a lesser extent. highlighted: According to the sample of stakeholders questioned, the main key challenges of First position: Manage as best as possible the Atos are, by order of importance, to: merger with Siemens IT Solutions and contribute to the customers’ greenhouse Services, and establish Atos as a leader. gas (GHG) emissions decrease; improve the energy efficiency and Entering the list: Improve productivity at the cooling system of data centers; work and promote a new way of working participate in the well-being of the society based on collaborative technologies and (health, educational, transport systems, which is consistent with Atos’ ambition to be “smart cities”, etc.); a Zero email CompanyTM by 2013. Materiality analysis High 5 3 2 1 SEVERITY (combined impact and Likelihood) 10 8 7 6 4 LIKELIHOOD Critical Medium High 12 11 9 Medium Low High Medium Low IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 Key Corporate Responsibility — business challenges description 1 Manage as best as possible the merger with Siemens IT Solutions and Services, and establish Atos as an IT leader Choose the best location/relocation for activities (offshore, nearshore, «province» shore, etc.), 2 with a collaborative approach Manage as best as possible absenteeism, turnover, Wellbeing@work, 3 and contribute to the improvement of work conditions Reduce the risks of loss or disclosure of data/intellectual property/confidentiality 4 (technical problem, fraud, trickery, employees corruption, etc.) Reduce the environmental impacts of datacenters, facilities, offices and transportations 5 to strive for carbon neutrality Be an attractive company for talented candidates and encourage a policy of diversity (women, disabled, 6 nationalities, etc.) 7 Improve the financial transactions system securization Ensure the positioning regarding Cloud Computing, 8 and further develop innovative services/products such as Social Networks Contribute to the development of emerging countries (know-how, TIC, etc.) 9 and support them in these changes (trainings, etc.) 10 Participate to the well-being of the society (health, educational, transport systems, «smart cities», etc.) 11 Contribute to the customers’ GHG emissions decrease Improve productivity at work and promote a new way of working based on collaborative technologies 12 (Zero emailTM Program) Relevant Key Performance Indicators 2011 Link Atos Challenges Categories Relevant KPIs with GRI Top management commitment with employees AO12 Manage as best as possible the merger with Social Siemens IT Solutions and Services, and responsibility and establish Atos as an IT leader people wellbeing Atos culture and values awareness AO13 Choose the best location/relocation for actiSocial vities (offshore, nearshore, province shore, responsibility and Organizational workforce per headcount LA1 etc...), with a collaborative approach people wellbeing Number of employees by geographical localisation LA1 Number and percentage of employees having left the company LA2 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, LA5 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Absenteism rate LA7 Manage as best as possible absenteeism, Social Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in turnover, Wellbeing@work, and contribute responsibility and place to assist workforce members, their families, or community memLA8 to the improvement of work conditions people wellbeing bers regarding serious diseases Number of trainings hours per employee & per year LA10 Percentage of employees beneficiating from annual performance review LA12 Percentage of people in inter-contracts AO1 Results of surveys measuring employee satisfaction AO2 22 Your business technologists. Powering progress Link Atos Challenges Categories Relevant KPIs with GRI Number of consumers complaints regarding loss of private data PR8 Reduce the risks of loss or disclosure of data/ intellectual property/confidentiality (techGovernance, ethics Number of penalties for loss of private customer data SO8 nical problem, fraud, trickery, employees and compliance corruption, etc…) % of target group trained in Code of Ethics SO3 Gas & Fuel consumption for datacenters EN3 Energy consumption for datacenters EN3, EN4 EN5, EN6, Energy saved due to energy efficiency EN7, EN18 Environmental Reduce the environmental impacts of commitment and Number of initiatives/projects to improve energy efficiency and the datacenters, facilities, offices and transportaEN6 operational cooling system of datacenters tion to strive for carbon neutrality excellence Direct & indirect GHG emissions EN16 Cooling fluids (HFC, HCFC) emissions EN19 Office paper used EN1 List of advantages for permanent employees LA3 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement LA4 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the contiLA11 Be an attractive company for talented nued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Social candidates and encourage a policy of Diversity indicators: percentage of disabled people, of women in the manageresponsibility and LA13 AO6 diversity (women, disabled, nationalities, ment, etc in recruitment proccess, promotions and overall working life people wellbeing etc.) Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. LA14 Number of people recruted locally EC7 Ratio between the local minimum salary and the company salary EC5 % of security incidents for financial payment systems platforms with AO3 Improve the financial transactions system Governance, ethics associated root cause analysis securisation and compliance % of employees attending security awareness trainings AO3 Number of initiatives regarding Cloud Computing development AO4 Ensure the positioning regarding Cloud Business Computing, and further develop innovative Customer satisfaction survey PR5 Development services/products such social Networks Financial assistance from governments EC4 Funding for social communities EC1 Percentage of local employees EC7 Contribute to the development of emerging Social Number of IT projects/initiatives implemented for local communities EC8 countries (know-how, TIC, etc…) and support responsibility and them in these changes (trainings, etc…) people wellbeing Number of sustainable projects with clients AO7 Percentage of spend with local suppliers EC6 Responsible supplier screening HR2 Number of initiatives/projects related to improvements of health system AO5 Participate to the wellbeing of the society Business (Health, educational, transport systems, Number of initiatives/projects related to improvements of educational system AO5 Development «smart cities», etc.) Number of initiatives/projects related to green transport development AO5 Number of initatives/projects related to a decrease of customers' GHG emissions EN26 AO7 Contribute to the customers’ GHG emisBusiness sions decrease Development GHG emissions reduction obtained at customer company level EN26 AO7 Number of initiatives to improve work conditions AO9 Improve productivity at work and promote Social responsibility a new way of working based on collaboraand people tive technologies (Zero emailTM Program) wellbeing Number of initiatives linked to collaborative technologies AO11 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 Our Sustainable Journey Leadership in IT for sustainability Atos’ ambition is to be recognized as a world leader in providing innovative IT solutions to KEY ACHIEVEMENTS help its clients become more sustainable. Atos wants to become ‘best in class’, not only for its own operations but also in the way it serves its clients. By embedding sustainability in our own company as part of the Group’s DNA, we automatically ensure that it is similarly embedded in all the propositions we make to our clients. Our Mission: the pursuit of financial profitability with a conscious environmental and social impact. The Group has established five high level the development of new ways of working, Five high level commitments to drive the whole Corporate collaborative tools and high-trust commitments Responsibility program that serve as focal workplace cultures. goals to guide international approach, implementations and advancements of the To reduce global corporate footprint and company worldwide. establish green policies that will foster operational performance. To improve corporate performance and public reporting in accordance with To support our clients on their journey international best practices and operate towards environmental excellence, with in compliance with sustainable sector innovating solutions and a differentiator standards, anticipating new European portfolio. regulations. To continuously undertake proactive To invest in and develop the Wellbeing@ dialogue with our main stakeholders to work of our people and the contribution to understand and give response to their local communities. Be a responsible expectations. employer. In this respect, Atos is totally committed to the strategic goal of becoming a “great place to work” through By placing sustainability at the core of our International sustainable rating Indexes. Achievements 2011 corporate strategy, Atos has been able to In 2011, Atos entered two new market build on a sound foundation and expand investor ratings’ lists, the FTSE4GOOD and its activities and achievements in this area, the ASPI Eurozone® indices in recognition many of which have already been of our leading environmental and social highlighted throughout this Report. practices. Significant achievements so far include: ASPI Eurozone® index is composed of the 120 top-rated companies in the Eurozone, Global Reporting standards recognition. based on a corporate responsibility In May 2011, Atos published its second ‘best-in-class’ approach. Corporate Responsibility report in line with FTSE4Good ESG Ratings have been the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) designed to objectively measure the ESG guidelines and was rated Level A+ by the (Environmental, Social and Governance) GRI. In addition, Atos has been supporting risk and performance of companies GRI as Organizational Stakeholder since worldwide. Supersector-relative ratings 2009 to show full commitment with across six ESG themes track over 2,300 recognized best sustainability reporting public companies, making FTSE4Good ESG practices in the market. Ratings a valuable tool for investors who wish to incorporate ESG factors into their Member of the UN strategic business club. investment decision making processes, or In July 2011, Atos confirmed its adherence as a framework for corporate engagement to the United Nations’ Global Compact, thus and stewardship. demonstrating once again its commitment to operating under universally recognized Carbon Disclosure Project. In 2011 and for responsible business principles. the 4th year, Atos has reported its Corporate Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 25 Footprint to Carbon Disclosure Project of the German Sustainable Building following GHG international protocol. Council rating the ecological, economic, sociocultural, functional, technical, process Green Grid Forum. Since 2008, Atos has and site quality of the building. been a member of the Green Grid IT sector association contributing to high tech The first international IT Group offering research studies, such as the Data Centers Carbon Neutral hosting services. In 2010, Energy Efficiency published in 2011. Atos decided to offset all of its data centers’ carbon emissions. The project selected is a Atos Campus in Bezons, Worldwide collaboration with SAP on wind power project located in India. The Intelligent Sustainability solutions. Group engaged with the Carbon-Neutral France: first office building in In 2011, Atos launched the implementation Company at the beginning of 2011. We have France to obtain a triple set of of Atos SAP Sustainability Performance now extended this offsetting policy to the environmental certifications. Management application to help achieve ex-Siemens data centers so that the full the Group sustainability goals. This Atos scope is covered: more information on project’s strength enables the key ethos of this is provided in the Chapter Atos Campus in Essen, Atos’ Corporate Responsibility program: to “Environmental Commitment’ of this Germany receives the be an exemplar and enabler of innovative report. Silver Certificate of the sustainability solutions by showing how German Sustainable companies can use IT to accelerate the Ethics in business. In line with its Building Council. results of sustainability programs. commitment to the UN Global Compact, in December 2011 Atos published its Group First Stakeholder Dialogue workshop in Code of Ethics, distributed it to all new London. As already mentioned, in 2011, employees worldwide and launched a Atos held its first Stakeholders Workshop related training program. with 15 partners participating. The aim of this workshop was to establish a dialogue Toward a Zero email CompanyTM. In early and discussion on Atos’ sustainability 2011, Atos announced its ambition to strategy, the impact on the wider become a Zero email CompanyTM within community and how to engage three years as the company believes that stakeholders, in order to improve and the volume of emails that we send and expand joint activities and strength receive is unsustainable for business. We valuable collaborations. are adopting innovative social business solutions to bridge the ‘social business gap’ Global Diversity Program. In 2011, the and provide a more personal, immediate Group defined a global Diversity and and cost effective means to manage and Equality Program aiming to address share information. significant targets for the company and develop an implementation plan globally. First IT Challenge contest. In 2011, Atos launched the first edition of the Atos IT Challenge. The objective of this contest is to promote and encourage innovation in an open environment amongst ‘best-in-class’ Universities and students as well as support young innovators in taking their ideas forward. The topic of the challenge is Smart Mobility, and the winning idea will be selected in May 2012. A new headquarters meeting high-quality environmental standards. The new Atos Campus in Bezons, France is the first office building in France to obtain the triple certification HQE Construction (High Environmental Quality for building), THPE (Very High Energy Performance), and HQE for Operation. Our campus in Pune, India, has a Gold standard ranking for the buildings and Platinum for its interior. The new Atos Campus in Essen, Germany. The Campus received the Silver Certificate 26 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY Contributing to Atos is committed to helping the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and Results Book Online The Results Book for the compiled results to be available online a greener Olympic the Organizing Committees to deploy at the end of the Games instead on a Games technological solutions to shrink the Games’ dedicated CD. CD is available on demand. carbon footprint. London 2012 should be the “most green and sustainable” games to date, Online Services Atos is providing an On and information technology will play its full line Volunteer Registration service, part. At Atos, we build on our experience in Accreditation service, and Sport Beijing and Vancouver to deliver a registration service. This is allowing sustainable Games in real time at London efficient registration, without paperwork. 2012: Device Consolidation Atos is providing a myInfo+ Instead of dedicated desktops, solution to enable the use of Games users will be able to access the system network CGS applications from the Admin from their PCs and Laptops. network. This will allow using one PC instead of two in previous Games. Remote CIS Now available at broadcasters’ premises everywhere in the world. Number of Servers Optimised Architecture, e.g. virtualisation, On Demand Printing All reports will now centralization of applications, be available on line via the Info+ system, in consolidation and resilience reduction. the same format as the reports that are traditionally distributed in paper format. Atos’ Corporate Responsibility program mission is developed Our domains of action in 4 different domains of actions: Governance Business Social development Responsibility Environment Governance, Ethics & Social Responsibility Environmental Business Compliance and Corporate Commitment Development to implement corporate Citizenship to consolidate green to accompany our governance best to launch a Wellbeing@ initiatives aimed at clients on their journey practices, ensure work ambition aiming measuring, monitoring toward sustainability compliance with to improve the and reducing the and bring about international employees’ working Group’s impact on the IT-enabled regulations and environment and the environment (carbon, transformation and guarantee the respect of company social impact energy efficiency, behavioral change ethics in business and in the community. renewable energy, solutions in our clients’ in the relationships waste, purchasing, approach and attitudes with the Group’s travel…). towards sustainability. Stakeholders. Atos Corporate Responsibility Program follows the principles of the ISO 26000 international standard. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 27 Objectives and challenges Accelerate our progress 2011 2012 2015 (2011-2015) Consolidate global reporting performance worldwide At Atos, we strive to accelerate our progress ‘Best-in-class’ Move up positions in investors ratings in the coming years, focusing on being International standards Contribute to Great Place to Work certification ‘best-in-class’ and on the three P’s (People, and IT sector practices. Planet, Profit). This graph shows our main Strengthen Stakeholders Dialogue objectives for 2015. Reinforce corporate social engagement People Strengthen university relations Wellbeing@work Endorse corporate diversity policy Assure employees awareness Reduce 45% of corporate footprint by 2015 Planet Environmental Assure 100% renewable energy sourcing for DCs by 2015 operational ISO 14001 certification in all DCs and main sites performance Implement green policies worldwide Leverage Zero carbon data centers differentiator Profit Promote international partnership with SAP Innovative solutions Markets and sales force mobilisation Zero emailTM, Firm of the Future, Green IT, Smart City, etc. In 2011, Atos decided to implement a Global concerning sustainability and corporate Future challenges going Reporting Tool, SAP Sustainability responsibility. forward Performance Management. This solution helps Atos gather data from across the In 2011, the Group defined a global Diversity company regarding its sustainability and Equality Program aiming to address performance, providing insight into how well significant targets for the company and the company is faring against those goals. develop a global implementation plan. With this SuPM solution, Atos will be able to more quickly, and cost-effectively collect Workshops were held in order to address the relevant information, compile disclosures company status and best practices in and create reports that help ensure its multinational companies in order to operations to be in line with Corporate harmonize several existing initiatives responsibility objectives. Atos plans to go live and set a global framework compliant with with the application in 2012, rolling out international human rights and labor reporting to sites across 48 countries. standards. The policy is available and a communication plan will be designed to Our Sustainability Policies increase general awareness of employees. During 2011, Atos consolidated the implementation of a number of global policies and launched new programs A screenshot of the SuPM tool 28 Your business technologists. Powering progress Reducing the environmental Smart Travel policy transportation and disposal of waste are impact of our activities Atos travel policy establishes procedures for properly managed and recycled to minimize employees who travel on behalf of Atos for the impact on environment and mitigate business purposes. The policy is mandatory risks for health and safety of communities. In and applies to all employees of Atos across comparaison to previous years, the amount the world. All travel bookings must be made of waste collected has decreased via contracted Travel Agents, applying the significantly because Atos has decided to travel policy in the booking process. enter into leasing contracts for IT equipment. The implementation of Office For example, the amount of WEEE collected Communicator System on desktops (unified in France dropped from 159 tons in 2010 to messaging) reduces the need to travel and 63 tons in 2011. limits the number of kilometers traveled. Not only does this have positive environmental As a result, the responsibility for waste consequences, but it also contributes to less management now lies with the supplier. To pressure on employees to travel and ensure the waste chain is correctly managed, improves productivity. Atos requests its vendors to sign its Sustainable Supplier Charter. As from 2012, Car Fleet policy suppliers will have to provide evidence As from January 2010, cars with emissions about the end of life cycle of their equipment. above 120g CO2 /km are no longer permitted as part of Atos’ car fleet, and leasing terms for Reinforce our dialogue with Atos cars which have a carbon emission above Suppliers [HR2] 120g CO2/km cannot be renewed or Dialogue with suppliers is essential to extended. The average of CO2 emission per establish and develop a trust relationship km is continually decreasing as from 2007. In between both parties. It is of course a lever to 2011, the average is 131.6g CO2/km. The mitigate the risk on the supply chain but it is integration of the fleet cars coming from also a simple way to mobilize our partners on Siemens Services and IT solutions was not important topics such as sustainable aligned to the 120g CO2 limit. This explains a development and associated challenges. slow-down in the decrease in 2011. The extension of the policy to the entire Atos car Control and limit the risk of the supply fleet should fix this break in trend. chain is part of Atos’ CSR programme. To limit the risk on our supply chain, we The Atos’ fleet is composed of 6,512 cars. 85% make sure our suppliers comply with best of the fleet is located in the Netherlands, practices. In this respect, we have set up a United Kingdom and Belgium. For these specific procedure. three countries, the fleet average CO2 is about First, we attach to our contracts the Atos’ 120g CO /km 2 130g CO2/km which is lower than the global average. In fact, in 2011, three countries were actually below the 130g level. and these were sustainable supplier charter and ask to our suppliers to comply with principles set out. cars with emissions above The Czech Republic, the Netherlands and Secondly, we assess the sustainable 120g CO2/km are no longer Belgium. performance of a large part of our portfolio of permitted as part of Atos’ car For those cars where the leasing contract suppliers. To conduct the assessment, we are fleet. expires between 2015 and 2017, the average supported by Ecovadis, which operates a in this pool is less than 115g CO2/km. As a collaborative platform, allowing Atos to result, we can anticipate the uninterrupted assess the environmental and social The amount of WEEE (Waste decline will continue as car lease contracts performance of its suppliers on a global basis. Electrical and Electronic are renewed until 2014. As from this year, all Ecovadis combines technology and Equipment) collected in cars should comply with fleet policy Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) requirement. expertise to deliver simple and reliable France dropped from 159 tons suppliers scorecards, covering 150 in 2010 to 63 tons in 2011. Waste management policy purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. Atos gives particular attention to WEEE This company is part of our ecosystem since considered as potentially hazardous. Indeed, 2008 and helps Atos to mitigate eventual these waste have a high ecological footprint risks in our supply chain. due to large amounts of water, metals, and energies used during the design, Thirdly, when the score is 4 or below (scale manufacture, transport, usage and recycling from 1 the lowest to 10 the best), a corrective of components. Atos’ Global Waste action plan is elaborated jointly with the Management Policy states that all waste have purchaser and the supplier to design a way to be managed in full compliance with to improve the performance. This point is regulations. In this respect, the policy aims at crucial because it allows both securing our ensuring that the collection, storage, portfolio and making it more reliable. In Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 addition, we improve the quality of the The Atos Sustainable Supplier Charter is relationship with our vendors, and reinforce attached to all major contracts. It complies the potential of business with them. Finally with the UN Global Compact principles and the Ecovadis assessment is a good encourages suppliers to implement best opportunity to develop this dialogue with practices (environment, social, ethic, supply our suppliers and help them to implement chain). On their side, all purchasers have best practices. signed the purchasing code of ethics, and As a result, Ecovadis ratings help us reduce commit to abide to its rules and principles. risks, drive performance and eco-innovation in our supply chain. Approximately 100 Sustainable development weighs 10% evaluations are conducted each year and in the decision making process purchasers have 24/7 online access to the In the process of measuring the effectiveness Ecovadis Platform to review the suppliers’ of the supplier through the QCLDM evaluations details. The value of the portfolio performance metric (Quality, Cost, Logistics, assessed until 2011 represents 41% of ex Atos Development and Management), we have Origin spends (against 38% in 2010 and 35% added Sustainability (S). Sustainability is an in 2009). increasing business requirement that we need to understand from stakeholders and Since 2008, we have selected 350 suppliers, translate to suppliers. As a result, business of whom 275 were scored by Ecovadis, 15 are requirements include Sustainability. still in the evaluation process and 60 were rejected. Facilities and Hardware remain Sustainability is part of the bonus categories in which most suppliers were scorecard of purchasers assessed. As from 2010, Sustainability has been integrated into the bonus scorecard of all In 2011, the average score is 4.67. We have Global Category purchasers and country observed that 48% of our suppliers are purchasing managers. This incentive scored at 5 or above, against 56% in 2010. This ensures that sustainability is clearly decline in the average score of the portfolio is addressed in the daily job of suppliers. related to the integration of smaller companies often less involved in Corporate Expenditures and trends in 2011: Social Responsibility initiatives, and to the towards a more globalized company. will of strengthening the integration of [EC6] purchasing categories with a risk potentially In 2011, the total amount of expenditure for higher. the new Atos is 2.9 billion € (1.75 billion € for Atos Origin and 1.15 billion for Siemens IT Among 275 suppliers scored, 21% have been solutions and Services). 80% of purchases evaluated more than once. Among them, are spent with Atos 4.5% of the portfolio of 34% have improved their global score which suppliers. On average, 66.5% of former Atos is positive but not satisfactory. Nearly 50% Origin spend scope (against 72% in 2010) of have a score of 5 or above. In 2012, a specific our suppliers are locally based [EC6]. action plan will be designed to reinforce the purchaser involvement in the performance progress of the suppliers they manage. Promoting best practices with the Sustainable Supplier Charter TESTIMONIAL transformations of the company. Atos has Sustainable Supply Despite not being a manufacturing company, but a services provider, Atos has always been a trusted partner for EcoVadis, Chain realized that a Sustainable Supply Chain pushing us to develop innovative solutions A key component of the was a key component of the value they for Sustainable Supply Chain management. bring to their customers. Since the outset of Going forward we are looking to re-inforce value Atos brings its the EcoVadis program in 2008, Atos has this partnerhship, for example by leveraging customers implemented a very robust Sustainable Atos’ expertise in “Green IT” to help the Procurement program, which I view as one suppliers registered on EcoVadis platform to of the most advanced in the IT services improve their practices in this key area. Pierre-François Thaler, space. This is particulary impressive as this Managing Director, co-founder of Ecovadis. was implemented during a period of major 30 Your business technologists. Powering progress In 2011, Atos obtained a number of Atos wins Computer Weekly best CIO Awards and recognitions certification and awards as recognition for its blog award Corporate Responsibility achievements. In November 2011, Atos won the Some examples are listed below: prestigious best CIO blog award at the 2011 Computer Weekly Social Media Awards in Atos receives four prestigious London. technological awards The award, which recognizes the best During SAPPHIRE NOW 2011 that took blogs written by and for CIOs and IT place in Madrid , Atos scooped four awards directors relating to the latest insights from which recognize the breadth of Atos SAP senior management across the industry, expertise combined with its knowledge of was won against some very stiff the business and industrial customers. The competition. This is a great result, awards recognize the company’s ability to especially after being the runner-up in last deliver on time and on budget projects for year’s awards. business transformation and technology According to Computer Weekly, “In just two providing high added value to our years, the Atos CIO Blog has grown to customers. provide a voice for 100 people in a CIO focused Consulting team. In the last year, iPad app award the original UK based Atos Origin CIO blog The ‘SAP Mobility Showcase Award for SAP has expanded to become the rebranded, Partners’ award was presented to Atos in global blogging platform for the Atos recognition of its enterprise mobility 74,000 people strong business, supporting applications that demonstrate ‘the art of four sub-blogs for CIOs UK, NL, US and the possible’ in mobilizing business Scientific Community.” processes and the mobile experience. Atos demonstrated rapid time to value and the Atos receives 2011 ICT Quality Award ability to effectively address the In September 2011, Atos received the 2011 requirements of the business while ICT Quality Award for best practices in the minimizing complexity. Atos built the iPad provision of ICT services, which is awarded app based on SAP’s premium solution for annually by the Spanish Quality Association Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S), a (AEC). The Award, which was presented domain in which Atos is a recognized during the 2011 CSTIC Conference, is global leader. The app provides security considered to be the most prestigious prize officers a very user-friendly access to in Spain in the area of quality in the critical data and procedures in case a Information and Communication calamity strike their plant. Information on Technology (ICT) sector. With this award, the quantity and location of hazardous the AEC singled out the “Kanban Software” goods are displayed on the iPad. The app project implemented by Atos. Kanban gets all of its information in several Software was set up two years ago, as one of languages from SAP via Sybase. Atos initiatives focused on promoting continuous improvement in the delivery Pegasus project for Sabena processes of the integration systems The company also took home the Gold SAP service line. The project was aimed at the Quality Award at an EMEA level with its study and application of agile-Lean customer Sabena Technics practices in software life cycle processes, «Implementation of new applications». and it currently forms part of the Consulting Sabena technics, a French group of aircraft Portfolio in the IT Delivery COE, managed maintenance, which employs over 3,000 globally from Atos Spain. The AEC’s ICT employees across 17 sites, was recognized Quality Award seeks to publically recognize for its innovative project ‘Pegasus’ on the those companies or institutions which have convergence of major business functions of successfully used a quality strategy in ICT, or the group (equipment repair, logistics, and have decisively contributed to the creation integrated services preventive or implementation of good practices in the maintenance). The project deployed on the field of ICT, in order to improve sites of Bordeaux, Brussels and Miami, was competitiveness. implemented jointly by J & M Consulting, SOA People, Atos and SAP France. Atos has Atos named best IT company in the been involved in the technical realization of Netherlands very specific business functions, including In June 2011 Leading Dutch management the management of repair of landing gear as magazine, Management Team, named Atos well as preventive maintenance of the best IT company in the Netherlands for equipment and interface with EDI the fourth consecutive year following the SPEC2000. results of its annual survey, in which senior executives in the Netherlands are asked to Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 rate the quality of their IT service providers. according to Management Team. “Atos Origin was ranked in the top 10 in 8 of “It’s a great compliment to all our the 10 categories for outsourcing, security, employees for us to be named the best IT web, consultancy, custom software, services provider in the Netherlands for the professional services, workplace solutions fourth consecutive year especially in this and management & maintenance. Which is highly competitive market and in difficult why it is ranked number one IT services economic circumstances,” said Rob Pols, provider for the fourth consecutive year. CEO of Atos Netherlands. “There is a Atos Origin provides end-to-end IT services growing need for IT services providers to from consulting through to systems differentiate themselves through integration, hi-tech transactional services sustainable enterprise. Atos provides and managed services and scored high in services that help customers grow all these areas. Sustainability is at the core responsibly, now and in the future“. of their corporate strategy and 659 executives recognize Atos Origin as a world Atos APAC Received 2nd place in ASIA’s Best leader in providing innovative IT solutions Employer Brand Awards 2011. to help clients become more sustainable,” KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW Local sourcing as a % of total spend per country in 2011 [EC6] 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% AD AT BE CA CH CN DE ES FR GB GR HK IN JP LU MA MY NL PH PL PT SG TR TW US Average fleet CO2 Emission (g CO2/Km) [EN7] Energy saving initiatives in business travel 200 156 154 150 145 133 131,6 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 32 Your business technologists. Powering progress KPIs for supplier monitoring Office paper used (in tons) [EN1] (in line with Ecovadis assessments) [HR2] Germany UK/IR IMEA CEE France IBERIA NAM N&SWE BENELUX APAC LATAM WORLDLINE 17 % 23 % Recycled or FSC/PSC Other paper paper used (tons) (tons) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 26 % 9% Expenditure coverage of Ecovadis assessment [HR2] 14 % 23 % 2009 35 % 2010 37 % 2011 41 % % of suppliers Formal code of business ethics 26 Monitoring CO2 emissions 14 Number of suppliers assessed by Ecovadis [HR2] ISO 14001 certified (at least one operational site) 23 Global Compact Signatory 9 2009 100 Formal sustainable procurement policy 23 2010 80 No reporting on Health & Safety indicators 17 2011 170 Evolution of local sourcing [EC6] 25.6% 2011 Austria 25.81% 2010 Singapore 40.1% 64.78% Hong Kong 43.4 % 47.36% Malaysia 47% 71.38% Poland 55% 87.46% Belgium 55% 72.88% Germany Netherlands 62.8% 66.29% Luxembourg 66.90% 82.97% France 67.1 % 74.52% China 69.9% 93.36% Switzerland 70.8% 68.82% Spain 72.4% 85.01% United Kingdom 75.6% 77.50% India 77.8% 75.94% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Building a Great Place to Work Unlocking the creative potential of our workforce We welcomed over 8,800 new employees in 2011 [EC7]. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Integration of Siemens IT Solutions and Services and Atos Origin to create one Atos. Launch of the new Atos brand in July 2011, welcoming 74,000 business technologists. Rebranding of campus sites and offices completed in 6 months, creating a new Atos working environment that stimulates collaboration and productivity. 3,500 new recruits have taken part in introduction days and 1,754 have attended local CEO lunch or breakfast sessions [A012]. 9 countries took part in the Great Place to Work survey in 2011, with 14 more to follow in 2012 [A02]. Recognition and Reward programs recognized over 2,800 employees for outstanding or inspiring behavior and achievements. Remote Working program offered more flexibility to around 20,000 employees — 3,400 teleworkers with a formal contract to work at home and about 16,000 who work informally as teleworkers from a variety of locations. More than 5,000 e-learning modules are available and over 14,700 employees have successfully completed a training module. 3,000 employees received help and advice to create a better work/life balance. Zero emailTM initiative launched to explore new and innovative ways of working together and drastically reduce email overload. “We get the finest from our employees when they get the best from their company.” Thierry Breton, Chairman and CEO of Atos With the launch of the new Atos in July a detailed booklet explaining the vision, Powering progress 2011, we formulated a clear vision with ambition, organizational structure and key to transform to the Firm sustainability at the center: “At Atos we focus areas of the new company. In addition, of the Future strive to transform to a sustainable Firm of a wide range of communication actions and the Future. We believe that bringing together materials were available as from the launch people, technology and business is the way date and the following months to ensure forward. Our 74,000 business technologists employees were informed and felt proud to power progress every day, for our clients, be part of this new venture. ourselves and the wider community.” As such the internal transformation program The Wellbeing@work initiative underpins Wellbeing@work (launched in 2010) stepped our ongoing transformation to become a up its activities to support and accelerate the more integrated and global company. It transformation to One Atos and to be creates greater trust and transparency, recognized as one of the best companies to engenders a strong feeling of pride in work for. people’s jobs and builds an environment where people really enjoy working with each Since the launch of the program, many other to achieve the best results a true Firm initiatives have been developed and of the Future! implemented covering the future workplace, enabling new levels of collaboration and a flexible way of working, implementing efficiency through lean management processes and supporting tools, addressing change management and leadership skills, as well as covering training, talent management, recognition and reward. In 2011 there was a clear focus on enabling a smooth integration. We welcomed over 30,000 Siemens IT Solutions and Services employees and together we embarked on the integration and transformation journey. On July 4th, employees and management across 48 countries celebrated together the launch of the new Atos. Employees received Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Our business technologists are our greatest More than 150 employees from all Atos Building blocks asset. Talented, experienced and dedicated regions are actively involved in the for transformation professionals who take pride in their work. Wellbeing@work community to implement Wellbeing@work aims to create the right the challenge of the transformation. environment for personal development Dedicated country leaders, local operational and to attract and nurture talent. We also teams, local CEOs, global project leaders, aim to apply new technologies and ways of global top management contribute to working that enable collaboration across identify best practices design new initiatives borders and business units, building and customize action plans to ensure communities, and help to achieve a healthy flexibility and local efficiency. work/life balance. The aim is to build a great place to work together, a solid foundation for a sustainable Firm of the Future. 1,754 people participated in breakfast with the CEO or local management in 2011. 3,560 new joiners participated in Welcome Days in 2011. To deliver on this, these 8 focus areas form Skills and Competencies: Developing the building blocks for transformation: new ways of learning, career paths and knowledge communities through a Human Working Organization: Enabling the Capital Framework development of international collaborative working communities and increasing Communication and Social Link: health@work Reinforcing the Atos identity and strengthening a sense of belonging Leadership for Excellence: Defining and implementing a management style Corporate Social Responsibility: consistent with our employee’s Establishing a charter of values and expectations while leveraging principles for Corporate Social technological change Responsibility Working Conditions: Improving the Program Management: Driving the overall working environment through an Wellbeing@work program and monitoring innovative Atos Campus and leveraging the the Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey. benefits of Zero emailTM Recognize and Reward: Setting up a global framework to engage our employees through structured recognition and rewards 36 Your business technologists. Powering progress Program governance is ensured through Challenge the program with innovative Transparent a Steering Committee which drives the ideas, especially as regards disruptive and structured governance program. This consists of the Group technology Executive Vice President General Secretary, Act as ambassadors for the initiatives in Group Executive Vice President Human their respective countries. Resources, and the Group Executive Vice President Talents & Communication In 2011 the Council held two-day quarterly sponsorship. Input and the impetus for meetings for all members. Countries and change comes from many different groups Global Business Units also organize local such as the Scientific Community, the GOLD meetings. More general employee and Junior Talents programs, the leaders of participation is encouraged through Atos’ the various focus areas and the Wellbeing@ internal online platform, FISH (Fresh Ideas work Council. Results and improvements are Start Here). Ideas already developed via reviewed during quarterly Group Executive this forum include the opening of day-care Committee and monthly Group Strategic centers, initiatives to reduce the use of emails program committee meetings. internally, Remote Working facilities, and initiatives to reduce office paper and for Wellbeing@work Council greener transport. The Wellbeing@work Council, composed of 35 young employees from all the countries where we operate, is charged with imagining new working methods, defining the company’s professional links and relationships of the future and anticipating our clients’ future expectations. Mainly drawn from the Y generation, and across all GBUs, their role is to: Generate new ideas and models of working to move Atos into the future Support in the design, development and roll out of the different initiatives locally “The Council is a great way to help achieve progressive change and it’s good that it has the full backing of the company from the top downwards!” Jonathan Astbury, Chairman Wellbeing@work Council 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 Working Organization Enabling the development of international [LA4, LA5, LA7, LA8] collaborative working communities and improving Health@work Implementing new working organizations across 8 GBUs have already filled out the within the company creates a more convivial questionnaire with 82% of people having and innovative working environment. And, good overall work life balance scores. by facilitating the development of virtual communities, providing easier access to Health@work collaborative tools and the development of The Health@work initiative aims to Remote Working, employees can achieve a maximize the energy and personal resilience better balance between their work and of our workforce by taking care of both personal life. Health@work is another key psychological and physical health. This objective and it is vital that Atos employees initiative uses best practices from inside the are properly supported and that we maximize organization and external, to see how these our personal resilience to cope with change. can help and encourage all GBUs to invest in the program. The long-term absenteeism Improving the work/life balance (>6 weeks) percentage in the whole of Atos In response to a desire by employees for over 2011 was 3.05%. [LA7] greater flexibility, Atos has been looking Atos also has a program in place for closely at options to achieve greater work/life education, training, counseling, prevention, balance. To support employees in this area, a and risk-control to assist workforce members, web-based tool (www.atoswellbeing.com) their families, or community members has been developed to help improve regarding serious diseases. [LA8] personal resilience and work/life balance. Launched in October 2011, 3,000 employees 20,000 Collective bargaining agreements and minimum notice periods Atos thinks that job security contributes to the increase the effectiveness of our collaboration such as Office Communicator (OCS)/Live Meeting. In 2011 specific focus was given to the employees were offered more psychological health of its workforce. international deployment of Remote Working flexibility in 2011 due to Atos’ Therefore, we follow local and international technologies. Remote Working program. regulations concerning minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational By the end of 2011 there were changes [LA5]. Also, 73% of employees are 54,000 active users of OCS covered by collective bargaining agreements As a result, in an increasing number of [LA4]. countries, Atos employees can now work formally at home for certain days of the Collaborative and virtual communities week. Whether working at home or at Atos is now a truly global company and to customer sites, Remote Working requires operate effectively we need to take advantage putting more trust in employees and a of new tools and collaborative technologies change in management to focus on “output” that allow us to be more effective and efficient, rather than “presence”. The result is higher such as Remote Working. Atos is also making productivity, more-valued and satisfied the change from a multi-regional to a global employees and a more successful and based model with greater off-shoring and competitive company. By making these near-shoring, a change which requires changes to our own operations, we can increased interaction between people who demonstrate the benefits of Remote Working. are geographically distant. Not only that, but Atos’ Remote Working program offered more on a local basis, traffic is getting worse every flexibility to around 20,000 employees day and we are increasingly spending in 2011: 3,400 teleworkers with a formal valuable hours, either commuting to work or contract to work at home and about traveling to meetings/client sites across the 16,000 who work informally as teleworkers nation or travelling abroad. Cutting down on from a variety of locations. such commuting can increase employee satisfaction and there are new tools that can 38 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY Implementation Starting in 2011, Atos appointed in every region in the Netherlands Health Case company doctors. The HCM monitors decisions to ensure that the right actions are of Health Case Managers (HCM) to actively assist lineperformed and, where necessary, will Management managers, coordinate the company doctors intervene to correct the course of action. reduces absenteeism and support employees in getting back to work following sickness absence. The HCM The Results by almost 50% initiates the correct and pro-active The results of the HCM approach on interventions that need to be put in place by absenteeism have been shown to be the line manager and ensures managers successful. Many employees who were sick stay in communication with employees. for an extended period of time are now They liaise with the company doctors and experiencing full or partial recovery. ensure the case is kept on track. Applicable work is presently a suitable way In addition, the HCM helps organize and of ending a potential long-term absence. keep up-to-date all mandatory documents There is greater expectation that recently required by law. Where employees cannot reported sick employees will not stay ill that do their own job, the HCM will help find long. HCM procedures have helped ensure applicable employment (internally or that absence-files do not become problemexternally of Atos NL). Last but not least, the files. In 2011, it resulted in a decrease of HCM liaises with the UWV (a public long-term absenteeism (.> 6 weeks) of about controlling and implementing body) and the 2.5% to about 1.5%. Long term absenteeism [LA7] Evolution of long term absenteeism (>6 weeks) in the Netherlands after the implementation of HCM 3% 2010 2011 2012 2,5% 2% 1,5% 0% JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 TESTIMONIAL “The Remote Working facilities at Atos in the “My work entails meeting up with Remote Working Netherlands, such as VPN, OCS and several collaboration tools (AO Wiki and Livelink) customers, working with the extended teams that support the customers and What people say are helping me to decrease my travel time, backend activities such as preparing stay away from traffic jams and spend my reports/commercial models etc. Being given time more effectively on my job. While not the opportunity to participate in the Remote physically meeting them, I am still able to Working program has given me the personal remain in contact with my colleagues and space and much needed time to focus on collaborate with them. Furthermore, by important activities while maintaining the being less dependent on office hours, I can interaction with colleagues that is necessary be with my family at moments that are to keep up to date with what is happening in important for them and still be effective in the organization. Most importantly, I can be my job.” with customers whenever they need us!” Peter Bas Oosthoek , So Boon Lee, Competence Manager, Contract Manager for Standard Chartered the Netherlands Bank account, Singapore “The successful enablement and implementation of true Remote Working consists of more than just tools and a white paper, it is a mindset! People are only willing to change when they can clearly understand what’s in it for them.” Andrew Kinder, Chief Psychologist for Atos Healthcare. Leadership for excellence Defining and implementing a management style that anticipates the needs of the next generation workforce Today’s fast changing world and business Best Practice on the Path to excellence environment has brought with it a number of To deliver the Leadership for Excellence factors that are changing the way leadership program we have established two work is both perceived and practiced. In response streams, organizational change and personal Atos aims to implement a new management change, together with a number of substyle that meets our employees’ expectations streams: and anticipates the needs of Generation Y. Organizational Change: To support this The launch of the new Atos in 2011, together area, a community of 350 Change Agents with the development of a new set of was created from November 2011 to corporate values, has created an opportune facilitate and monitor change. The Change moment to implement this type of Agents Community acts as local fundamental change across the whole ambassadors for the new brand, promotes organization. the new organization and its vision and values, helps to prevent and /or detect local Overall, the aim is to see a change come difficulties or crises in the integration about through evolution that will improve process and helps overcome these issues. and enhance management skills in areas Of 44 identified issues, 9 were captured as according to the Atos values of specifications for future improvement of Accountability, Trust, Social Wellbeing, processes and tools in the mid-term, 33 Operational Competitiveness, Service to were solved combining local and global Client, Innovation and – in summary – expertise and resources, and 2 will be Excellence. closed end of March 2012 at a technical 40 Your business technologists. Powering progress integration milestone. At the same time, we The success of the Leadership for Excellence will launch a series of Atos Mindset program will be monitored through the Great Workshops. These will be aimed at talents Place to Work employee surveys that are and new managers, as part of their being rolled out on a country-by-country induction programs, and also at basis. management teams, to bring our strategy and values into actual practice and behaviors. They will build engagement around the new vision, create a common culture, strengthen skills and enable the cascading of the new vision and values, all into actions for our clients and our people . Personal Change: This is based on developing our company values and employs a web-based Learning platform with Management Learning Paths. It will be supported by onsite training and individual coaching sessions that will be implemented and promoted in 2012. “Leadership for Excellence is an evolution of traditional management practices to meet the needs of the new world context and employees’ expectations”. Christiane Richter , Senior Project Manager and Service Group Manager Talent development designed especially for this group (eLearning, Talent development is of premium eBooks, courses during meetings) to boost importance for Atos. We think every their learning experience. Membership of the employee should be expected to develop JG is for 18 months and an alumni network and grow as much as they possibly can. That enables members to keep sharing is the reason why we have put in place a information and knowledge with previous series of programs designed to help our Juniors Group members during their career employees reach their potential. Once with Atos. The Juniors Group consists of 50 identified, High Potentials will receive young talents – of which 34 joined in 2011 – additional training and development and is active in all our countries. 76 opportunities to support them in their professional development, as well as helping them continue to perform and deliver results. talents participated in the There are programs designed to give Atos Gold Program and 50 in the Talents the training and support they need Juniors Group in 2011. to go from being excellent to extraordinary professionals. Juniors Group Juniors Group (JG) is the first stage of development on an international level. It is a self-contained group of young, dynamic people from all over the Atos universe. Being a member of the Juniors Group is a great learning experience involving meetings with senior management and colleagues in the JG group, working in projects (JG members to come up with own project ideas that add value to the company), and working in JG functions (for example recruitment, organization of meetings or as a speaker for this group). A dedicated curriculum has been Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 41 TESTIMONIAL “Being a member of the Juniors Group has participation in projects, contribute to the The Juniors Group enabled me to enhance my knowledge of delivery of tangible solutions. By An invaluable learning the global organization, and provided the undertaking the various internal functions, experience opportunity to network with senior my personal competencies and crossmanagers and highly motivated and functional experience has been developed talented colleagues. I have been able upon. A truly invaluable and rewarding Lars Meinel, A participant to add real value by gaining an insight into experience!” in the Juniors Group current issues and consequently, via the Global Talent Development Program anytime and on any device to add value to a (GOLD) business or an individual. Over 75 innovative We also have entirely redesigned our ideas were submitted, of which 15 will go International Talent Management Program through to the final. which is now delivered in cooperation with HEC Paris, one of Europe’s leading business The three finalists will be announced in April schools. 2012, and the overall winner at an awards The theme for the first ceremony in May 2012. Finalist prize winners Atos IT Challenge is The prestigious Global Organizational will be awarded an Atos Diploma Leadership Development (GOLD) program demonstrating outstanding achievement smart mobility. enables High Potentials to become more and the chance to apply for highly soughteffective leaders of people. Nominated by after internships at Atos. Each member of the management every year, members of the overall winning team will also win a trip to Talent Group learn to manage and embrace the London 2012 Olympic Games. organizational change, are encouraged to manage and drive their own development in the workplace and to inspire the development of others. Throughout the program, participants explore Atos’ business strategy; work on a project proposed at the beginning of the program as integral to our strategy, and focus on solutions to the challenges of global profitable growth that Atos faces. Truly multinational and multidisciplinary, in 2011, 76 talents participated in the GOLD Program, from business or support units in 21 countries. IT Challenge – looking for the talents of the future. Launched in 2011, the IT Challenge is a competition looking for the IT talents of the future from 25 universities based in the UK, France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and India. As business technologists who power progress, in 2011 Atos encouraged the next generation to start coding, drafting, sketching and mocking up smart mobility apps in teams of between two and five people. The contest aims to foster and encourage innovation and will take place every two years to coincide with the Winter and Summer Olympic Games. The theme for the first Atos IT Challenge is smart mobility and it sets out to find a new, innovative and useful technology that can be used anywhere, 42 Your business technologists. Powering progress In 2011, a global initiative to develop a new Have employment practices which ensure Equality and Diversity equality and diversity policy was launched. that individuals or members of a particular [LA14, EC5] Its objective is to not only develop an group have equal opportunities and are not international policy according to recognized discriminated against because of their human rights and labor standards, but also to attributes have a proactive role in promoting rights, equal opportunities and career evolution for Promote appropriate standards of conduct minority groups within Atos. Atos seeks to: Promptly resolve issues when they occur Create a working environment which is and resolve complaints in a fair and timely free from discrimination and harassment manner. and where each person is treated with courtesy, dignity and respect Some results of the Great Place to Work survey Atos Average Often True / Atos best Question Almost always score true People here are treated fairly regardless of their age. 65% 86% Atos Brazil 2011 People here are treated fairly regardless of their race or ethnicity. 85% 93% Atos Brazil 2011 People here are treated fairly regardless of their gender. 79% 91% Atos Brazil 2011 People here are treated fairly regardless of their sexual orientation. 83% 92% Atos Canada 2011 People here are treated fairly regardless of their physical or mental disabilities. 74% 94% Atos Canada 20111 * Results are based on a 1 to 5 scale (whereby 1 is untrue and 5 is often true). The percentage in the survey only shows scores 4 and 5 (Often True and Almost Always true), but does not include the neutral opinions. 20% 16,471 employees took part in recent results from the Great Place to Work survey and opportunities and the company was seen as appreciating diversity. Atos Brazil is currently rated our equality and diversity approach as ranked in the top 20% of above. In 2012, the initiative will be further Atos Worldline Belgium benchmarks developed with a clear focus on nationality, salaries of all employees externally (specific companies in the country gender and disability. to the IT sector) and also internally, as a great place to work. compared to the minimum and maximum Atos Germany launched a pilot in 2011 which of their range. This “percentage in range” (PIR) aims to reduce the gap between men and is taken into account when increases are women’s employment conditions, promoting given. This comparison safeguards a sense the “mixed team – higher performance” of equity between employees within the philosophy, adopting new ways of flexible same level. [EC5] working and creating awareness, and developing greater confidence in the female population within our sector. Atos Finland started a diversity survey in order to understand their people profile across each of the diversity strands and how aware employees are of diversity and equal opportunities. According to the survey results, Finnish employees are aware of the equal opportunity and diversity Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 43 Working conditions Defining and implementing a management style that anticipates the needs of the next generation work force The Working Conditions initiative aims to across the Atos. Other related areas cover create a physical workplace that stimulates Zero email™ and the BYO (Bring Your Own) optimal performance and wellbeing, and Devices program. oversees the development of best practices and the roll-out of the Atos Campus pack CASE STUDY One of the key building blocks to create a Atos Wiki, Livemeeting) and the future Zero emailTM great place to work is our Zero emailTM Enterprise Social Network involving A new way ambition. We believe that email is on the solutions such as Business Wall, Instant of working way out as the best way to run a company Messaging, Web conferencing, Micro Blog, etc. and do business. Take for instance email, the volume we send and receive is The future is clearly collaboration unsustainable for business. With an technologies and it is encouraging to see the estimated 20 hours a week spent on steady increase in the use of tools such as email alone, it is fast polluting our working OCS and the setting up of social community environments and also encroaching into platforms to share and keep track of ideas our personal lives. With our Zero emailTM on subjects from innovation and Lean program we are taking action to reverse this Management through to sales. Initial trend. And we are ambitious: we aim to be feedback is that these types of tools reduce a Zero emailTM Company within 3 years email by between 10-20% immediately. (end of 2013). Our aim is to eradicate all emails between Atos employees by using improved communication applications as well as new collaboration and social media tools. For example, by using Office Communicator (OCS) instead of email for quick questions to or chats with colleagues, or by using Livemeeting to instantly organize online meetings and sharing documents. By applying new ways of working using innovative technologies to bridge the “social business gap” we can achieve better communication, team working and social networking, and will be able to manage and share information much more effectively. The current drive is to change people’s mindset and to persuade them to collaborate more with alternative tools (OCS, Creating better working conditions is more than simply an aspiration and will lead to much greater employee satisfaction and help build a truly great place to work. 44 Your business technologists. Powering progress Inauguration of the Campus in Pune, India Building a Great Place to Work — the Pack enables us to reinvent ourselves as a Atos Campus top employer so that our talented employees Having an inspiring and innovative Campus will feel that Atos is a Great Place to Work. is a way of reinventing ourselves as a top Globally, there are 45,500 employees employer so that our talented employees working in an environment that is over 80% will feel that Atos is a Great Place to work. compliant with this Atos Campus Pack. Designed with mobility and flexible working Another 12,315 are working in an methods as the key themes, the physical environment which is over 50% compliant layout of the Campus is mostly open plan with the Atos Campus Pack. with hot-desking or desk sharing. Fewer fixed walls means more working, social and By the end of 2011, our new Atos Campus in meeting spaces so that we integrate some Pune, India, implemented nearly 90% of the aspects of our social and working lives. Campus Pack ideas. The Pune Campus will be the headquarters for Atos business The new Atos Campus in Bezons, France, is technologists in India and will play a strategic specifically designed to cater for our existing role in the Company’s operations, allowing it workforce and for Generation Y, the to become a key global delivery center and generation who have grown up in a high-tech the innovation hub for Atos. The campus will world and are now entering the workforce in also be home to the new Atos Future Center, large numbers. These new headquarters are where technology innovations from the also the first office building in France to Scientific Community will be developed and obtain the triple certification HQE showcased. It has been awarded the Gold Construction (High Environmental Quality Certification for Green Building and a for building), THPE (Very High Energy Platinum Certification for the interior Performance), and HQE for Operation. fixtures. The Atos Campus Pack [A09] Many of the new initiatives incorporated into the Atos Campus in Bezons, France were used in 2011 to create a template for how we work in other Atos offices and sites throughout the world. This template, known as the Atos Campus Pack, aims to improve the overall office environment by rolling out a set of best practices across all Atos offices and sites throughout the world. The Campus Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 45 Recognize and reward A global framework to engage our employees through structured recognition and rewards One of the most important building blocks of internal customers). Wellbeing@work is focused on recognizing and rewarding employees, while Accolade will be implemented in all GBUs by encouraging the development of their September 2012. Targets have been set and abilities by providing the possibilities and more than 6,000 Accolades are expected to supporting tools. Recognition is an area that be delivered. We are also working on a is regularly mentioned in employee surveys web-based solution that will facilitate the that needs more management attention. It is whole process. It will make Accolade particularly important in a company like user-friendly for all. Atos where our 74,000 highly skilled professionals are our most important asset. Employee Stock Ownership Plan (Sprint) — Placing people at the heart Accolade — rewarding achievement of our development As a company, we recognize that public and ‘Best-in-class’ businesses place their people official awards are extremely important for at the heart of their development. Sprint 2011, motivation. The Atos Accolade program the latest Atos Employee Stock Ownership enables managers to give public recognition Plan, does this by enabling our people to to employees who have done something invest in Atos stock on preferential terms special. This global program makes it and share in the value that Atos creates. possible for a manager above a certain level Launched in 14 countries to over 55,000 to publicly recognize and reward key employees, the plan has helped to unite individual or team achievements. At the employees from Atos Origin and Siemens IT same time it recognizes positive behavior Solutions and Services in the new Atos and and attitudes that reflect our values. engage them in a common vision. Participation rates have been high: in 2011 Accolade has been implemented in 6 over 2,500 employees subscribed, due to countries and business units, UK/Ireland, a plan design that offers a discount on the North America, Iberia, Asia Pacific, Major share price and in most participating 2,820 Events and IMEA and in 2011 there were 2,820 rewards issued to employees. In 2012 we aim to implement this award program in countries the plan provides a minimum investment return guarantee, leveraged profit calculation and protection from stock Accolades were awarded all remaining countries by the end of the market volatility. to Atos employees in 2011. year. 2011 Success Stories In Spain over 300 Accolade nominations We have also developed a new global team were received and 64 employees were award, the Atos Success Story award which awarded the gold, silver or bronze prize. The recognizes the success of a team with our gold winner will receive a diploma and clients. One award is made for each of our enjoys a special ceremony with all members five key markets and is given directly to each of the local executive committee. team by our Chairman and CEO at a ceremony in front of their peers where all We are determined to collectively focus team participants receive a diploma and much more on our external clients. They are a gift. key to our success and need to be at the center of our attention. This why we have differentiated two kind of Accolade: my clients (award dedicated to external clients) and my Colleagues (award dedicated to “Let’s keep up the great achievement and keep our team spirit going so we can repeat our success again and again!” Joe Cheng, Managing Director, Atos Taiwan, winner of the Success Story Award 46 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY Local Technical In 2010, Atos Netherlands decided to create a recognition program for employees who on one, two or three winners each year, who are then appointed for a period of three Recognition showed extraordinary technology skills and years, they receive a financial bonus and are Award celebrates exemplary behavior towards their peers allowed to visit a relevant industry technological and Atos clients. This Technical Recognition Program was set up with executive conference each year. In 2011, three winners were selected for their excellent expertise sponsorship from the Dutch Management performance within Atos: Martin Koot for Team and organized by a Jury with his outstanding work in datacenter representation from all service lines. architecture, customer focus and Candidates for the title of “Distinguished operational troubleshooting, Pieter Joost Member of Technical Staff” are judged on van de Sande for his contribution to the technology skills, visibility inside and open source community and Mischa van outside of Atos, communication skills and Oijen for his contribution to the Zero emailTM representative behavior. The jury decides and Wellbeing@work program. Atos Worldline Belgium has an additional work ambition and the eXpand program, The way to reward employees, via the Customer President’s Club recognizes how winning First Award. Nominees are congratulated new business and signing new contracts during company meetings with all employees continue to be key for our long-term success present and receive a symbolic gift. and the sustainability of our growth. It is awarded biyearly based on the highest Order Atos Netherlands organizes yearly Sales Entry or the highest account growth in nine Awards which celebrate successful deals different categories. Winners will become and projects. Nominees present their deal President’s Club members for one year, and or project and the sales and management are invited to an Atos Group Management community select the winners. Presentation Meeting. They are also invited for lunch with skills, persuasion, passion and client Thierry Breton and they will join a trip with involvement are key ingredients to improve their partners (in H1 2011, the trip was to your chances. Singapore; in H2 2011, the winners were invited to Lapland). In addition, President’s The President’s Club initiative was launched Club members have the opportunity to visit last year as an acknowledgment of the the Green Data Center opened in Helsinki in crucial role Sales plays in ensuring our H2 2011. company success. Part of the Wellbeing@ Developing new ways of learning, Skills and Competencies career paths and knowledge communities through a Human Capital Framework Our ability to deliver value to clients is based Developing Skills & Competencies on the individual and collective skills of our [LA10, LA11] people. At the same time, our employees At Atos we understand ambition – and we face increasingly complex and changing know that developing talents is key for the demands in connection with a wide scope of future of our company. The Atos University technologies. To this end, we need to ensure and other Learning & Development that our workforce competencies are programs are here to help every employee adapted and fulfill these demands every day. reach its potential. We also promote on the job learning experience, a very effective way It is therefore a top priority for Atos to ensure for our engineers to develop the specific that our people have the right blend of skills skills and competencies they need to move and experience to meet the needs of our ahead in their careers.[LA10]. clients through enhanced development and With 28 hours of learning per employee on employability. average throughout the year, Atos has kept Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 47 up a solid people development effort in 2011, Potentials through a customized Executive despite the focus on the Siemens MBA, has accelerated its pace with two partnership, the merger process the intakes of 40 participants per year as from organization was involved in, and the context 2011 onwards. of economic crisis. Atos e-learning libraries cover a very wide The main objectives of Atos’ corporate range of topics, including English language, IT, learning in 2011 were: project management, personal development, 1. To integrate Atos Origin and Siemens IT leadership, and custom contents on the Solutions and Services people company’s offerings, tools and processes. development practices into one state-ofNearly 15,000 employees already benefited the-art global framework shaped to support from this new approach, providing them with the company’s growth ambition; the knowledge and skills required to meet the 2. To pursue the Atos University programs, needs of our clients today and in the future, supporting the company strategy while extending the Wellbeing@work in the execution since four years, by developing same time. the roles that are critical for success; 3. To support the company cultural In the near future, Atos also looks at how new transformations such as the Zero emailTM ways of working enable the organization to ambition or Wellbeing@work with enhance learning experiences through the appropriate change management programs. use of social media. The Zero emailTM ambition program, and our Enterprise Social The achievements made have been Network project in particular, drive social substantial on all dimensions, thanks to an innovation within our company, unveiling effective and fruitful cooperation between new ways of learning, from informal the HR Learning & Development teams and interaction with peer experts and 1,200 the different stakeholders involved in the initiatives, from the business side or other parts of the HR organization. communities. Soon, all our employees will live those changes and benefit from them. were trained in Atos The new company learning framework has MySkills University in 2011, through its been defined and implemented straight MySkills is the global central repository international programs. away, with a 60% completion rate at the end for all skills of all Atos personnel. This Skills of 2011. The framework is based on a new & Competencies system aims to enhance the Learning & Development policy, and consists storage of our capabilities (skills) in a revised, of global processes and tools including the expanded framework. This will enable us to essential “myLearning” portal, which will better match requests to availability, create stand as a single point of access to all more professional networking between learning opportunities for all Atos employees and enable the company to have employees, and a powerful Learning an instant overview of competences by management organization extended by an service line, geography and skill level. external partner for administration and As a part of this, the Skills & Competencies external training management. Catalogue will support our initiatives and efforts to become a more integrated and Atos University, the company’s corporate global company. This will be used for: university, trained nearly 1,200 people in 2011 Operational Resource Management through its international programs. Critical Workforce Management populations were involved in dedicated Bid Support. training programs, such as Global Sourcing for sales, Distributed Delivery for senior MySkills has been implemented in 2011 and project managers, HR Business Partner for to date more than half of all our employees HR managers, or the Lean Academy to keep have entered their skills in the system while on building a wide competence center to former Siemens IT Solutions and Services deploy Lean inside out across Atos staff could only access the system by the end businesses. of the year. The aim is for 90% of all Furthermore, the Gold program supported employees to have completed their skills by by HEC Paris, to develop the company High the end of 2012. “We’re creating an environment in which people can be successful and in which their contribution benefits the company as a whole!” Ron Hofland, Head of Global Workforce Management 48 Your business technologists. Powering progress Communication Reinforcing the Atos identity and strengthening and social link a sense of belonging. On July 4 and 5, 2011, we launched our new to our clients and our colleagues for the Atos brand and invited our 74,000 business outcome. technologists to join us in our journey Trust — We believe in trust and team spirit towards One Atos. Our brand vision is based and we value them highly. This means we on uniting people, technology and business always act with transparency and integrity, to power sustainable progress. We want to be demonstrating mutual respect. We We take ownership from recognized for helping clients picture the encourage open and honest feedback. future they want to create, and bringing Operational Competitiveness — We A to Z experience and talent to their projects so they can write their history. Creating Firms of the Future, that are well-placed to succeed, wholeheartedly believe in operational competitiveness. We strive daily to add value and achieve excellence. We do so ethical and sustainable and giving all the by being agile, lean and proactive, people involved a sense of accomplishment continuously looking for ways to do things is what we most want to achieve. We aim to better, faster, cheaper and stronger. do this through our philosophy of business Service to Clients — We believe in being technologists, through our brand values of service to clients. Together, we work to and through excellent communication understand their businesses. We anticipate and Social Networks. their needs and expectations in order to develop a mutual, long-term partnership. IT was yesterday – today there are Proactive, we respond quickly, provide business technologists! solutions and seek feedback. We foster a At Atos we think that a dynamic and can-do attitude and a healthy team spirit. changing business environment requires a Innovation — We believe in innovation. unique type of professional – one that It keeps us sharp, positive, creative and doesn’t presume to know the answers. A enthusiastic. A cut above the rest. professional who really listens and comes up We welcome fresh ideas and inventive with innovative answers to our clients’ solutions. These means we continue business challenges, working with them to to evolve, to improve and meet new “My induction gave me create the Firm of the Future. Our employees challenges. a head start on building up aren’t just techies or techies that lack business understanding. They are business Social wellbeing — We believe in social wellbeing, in taking responsibility to my internal contact technologists, constantly searching for the sustainably improve life conditions for the practical innovations and business trends wider community. We respect and support network so today, I feel that make our clients more competitive and each other as individuals, always aware of confident in navigating drive their business transformation. We the impact of our actions on others. We understand that successful change needs want to create an environment that allows my way through the a human touch. So we listen carefully all of us to reach our potential and organization.” to understand our clients’ challenges. objectives. Excellence — Bottom line, we believe in Sangeeta Dewan, New Business Sales Corporate values based on excellence excellence. We maintain the highest Executive, UK Sales Occupational Health Our brand values are the core of our brand standards in everything we do, focus on and the compass for our behavior. If we all results, act with ambition. It attracts the best live by these values, we act as One Atos to our people to us. Being the best gives us the clients, customers, colleagues and competitive edge both for ourselves as shareholders. The communication activities individuals and as a company. aim to show best practices and examples that demonstrate our values. As such internal Welcoming new Employees [EC5, EC7, communications in 2011 focused on building A012, A013] awareness of the new brand vision and our As part of the Wellbeing@work initiative, company values, and prepared a campaign great attention is given to making sure that to show our business technologists at work. our new recruits feel part of an integrated This campaign, called “Over To You” will be group in their first days with the company. launched in January 2012. We reassure and inform them and promote Accountability — We believe in their social integration within the company. accountability. Our clients ask us questions Wellbeing@work has defined a Welcome and we answer them – period. We take Pack with different actions that are currently ownership from A to Z. We deliver what we being deployed across Atos in order to say we will, not passing responsibility onto ensure that: others. We hold ourselves accountable New joiners are welcomed and feel Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 49 expected and they are provided with a In most cases a new employee was assigned proper work environment with the a Buddy to help during the first months with necessary tools and information so as to be practical questions and feel at home quickly. operational as quickly as possible Each new employee receives a personal Their introduction, objectives and training welcome email from our CEO, which needs are planned includes a link to the e-welcome book with Their social integration within the all the relevant information for a new recruit company is organized. [A013]. Since the deployment in 2011, 3,560 new recruits have taken part in introduction days. «We attach special importance to understand employees’ perceptions & expectations to better focus our efforts to become a Great Place To Work.» Eric Martos, Group Wellbeing@work Program Manager. Atos strives to mainly recruit locally. On we aim to further deploy our enterprise average, 92% of Atos´ recruitment is local social media strategy. (national employees) and the percentage of Fresh Ideas Start Here (FISH) – Atos’ local employee is 94%. Also, average, 95% of collaborative idea management our managers are national employees [EC7]. program/platform sharing ideas Also, Atos offers new employees solid globally and locally contracts. Only 2% of the Atos employees are FISH encourages the collaborative sharing of on temporary contracts, the other 98% have ideas to make Atos more efficient and permanent contracts [LA1]. In all the innovative and build excellence amongst the countries where the Group operates, Atos is Atos community. Employees can propose above the local minimum wage when ideas for peer review, as well as submit their considering in local policies [EC5]. comments and feedback on other people’s 721 Also, equality between men and women is deemed very important at Atos. On average, the female/male ratio in an annual basic ideas. Ideas with the most positive votes from the FISH community are examined in detail by management to see how they can be ideas were posted from salary is 0.78, which means that women on taken forward. In 2011, 721 ideas were posted 23 countries in our idea average receive 22% less salary than the men from 23 countries, of which 44 were in our organization given the heterogeneous specifically related to sustainability management platform, representation of females along the improvements. in 2011. hierarchical pyramid [LA14]. Atos is working In 2012, FISH will continue and be re-boosted on improving this. with a more simple process and easy-to-use 44 One of the key elements of the Welcome Pack are the lunch and breakfast meetings structure. The new structure will consist of three main sections, in line with the Group’s core initiatives (TOP², eXpand, Wellbeing@ of these ideas specifically for new employees with the local CEO to work), and specific initiatives / challenges related to sustainability have open discussions on the company’s (customer co-innovation, GBU/SBU improvements. strategy and activities. Since the program challenges, Sustainability, etc.). was introduced in 2011, 1,754 new recruits have enjoyed these sessions with their local Keeping our eye on the future – The CEO. [A012] Scientific Community The Scientific Community was launched in Building collaborative communities 2009 to highlight the importance of a Through the Wellbeing@work program we proactive approach and the need to identify have also launched a number of initiatives and anticipate game changing technologies. to create an environment in which it is easy Composed of 90+ members, all possessing to connect with colleagues , work together different skills and backgrounds (from and have fun together. Our Facebook pages science to technology), its aim is to help Atos now have over 3,000 friends and LinkedIn anticipate and craft its vision regarding 44,000 connections. Through the enterprise upcoming technology disruptions and the Social Network Yammer more than 14,000 new challenges facing our industry. employees connect on a daily basis to discuss projects and share activities. In 2012 50 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY Inspiring technology for the London 2012 Paralympic Games 20 As Worldwide IT Partner of the International London 2012 Paralympic Games IT Paralympic Committee (IPC) and under the Adapting to Paralympic requirements direction of the Organizing Committee, Atos Atos adapts and provides all the Games sports is responsible for leading the consortium of application needed for the Paralympic technology partners to design, build and Games and ensures the same quality level 21 venues operate the massive, mission-critical IT infrastructure and solutions that will support the Paralympic Games. For us, the for this unique event as for the Olympics. Atos works following the motto “Two Games — Same Excellence”. Paralympic Games are true examples of human achievement, powered by The IT for the Paralympic Games is built 4,200 athletes technology. As business technologists who have been making it all possible for the last two decades, we’re thrilled to be part of it. on two main systems: The Information Diffusion System that relays results and athlete information to Atos began its active involvement with the athletes and media during the Paralympic Paralympic Movement in 2002. Atos has Games. It is based on the system used been the IT Partner of the 2002, 2004, 2006 in the Olympic Games and has been and 2008 Paralympic Games. In January modified to meet the specific Paralympic 2008, Atos became the official Worldwide requirements. Information Technology Partner of the IPC. The Games Management System that Atos has been a strong believer in this provides staff information management, international movement empowering accreditation, transportation and people and helping them achieve goals they accommodation schedules, medical might not have otherwise believed they encounters reports, sports qualifications could attain. and protocol information. Most systems The Paralympic Games provide a stage for are the same as those being used in the all athletes with a disability to demonstrate Olympic Games while some of them have their strong spirit of meeting challenges as been modified to meet Paralympic well as inspire and excite the world with requirements. their performances. Atos involvement Atos is further contributing to the reflects the recognition of the spirit, values Paralympic movement by designing and and dignity of the disabled athletes and the building the site www.paralympic.org that Paralympic movement. Atos hopes the aims to be the world’s leading source Paralympic Games can further promote of information about the Paralympic such a spirit and attract other companies Movement, its athletes and its sports. and individuals to support the Paralympic Movement as well. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 51 When it comes to creating a Great Place to Taking the First Steps Earning the right to be Work, we need to have a clear view on where By the end of 2011, the first surveys had been a Great Place to Work [A02] we are now, what we need to improve and conducted in Belgium (AWL), Brazil, Canada, where we can excel. In order to measure and Finland, Germany, India, Spain, the US and benchmark the quality of our working the UK targeting some 30,000 employees. environment to the best references across The Brazil survey has now been audited and the world, Atos has engaged the renowned Atos is currently ranked in the top 20% of and independent Great Place To Work companies in the country. The aim now Institute. is to improve the rating in 2012 so that in subsequent surveys it enters the top 10% and so officially qualifies as a “Great Place to Work”. TESTIMONIAL “Although it was a risky challenge to launch Considering the ratings and the analysis of Finding strengths the survey under the difficult economic the percentages of the ratings, we see that Employee commitment situation, we feel comfortable with the 42% of the answers are concentrated on 3. to Atos results. This means that if we implement some Analyzing the results we cannot ignore the specific actions for improvement we could current social/economic context. Taking this move some of the answers to 4 or even 5, Maria José Rodríguez Seco, into account, we can conclude that there are being optimistic. People Development HR some strengths that becomes values of our Now, the conclusion will be analyzed and an company: team working, flexibility, action plan will be designed. confidence (people are given responsibilities Although the final score is not satisfactory and have a certain independence to do the and there are some main topics we need to job) remains in time. On the other hand, improve, it is good to hear that the majority there are some other values such as of our employees would like to work in Atos credibility or communication on which we for a long time and they are committed to have to work hard to improve and we need the organization. Our improvement plan will to be focused on those which are not so keep this spirit.” linked to the consequences of the crisis. CASE STUDY The Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey their continuous communication with our Atos Brazil launched in Brazil in 2010, was the staff. Some voluntary and nominated a Great Place departure point for our initiatives to managers were chosen to review survey to Work measure and improve the Wellbeing@work results and design an action plan for of our employees worldwide. In 2011 Brazil improvement. This year employees will was the first out of 10 countries to reach the contribute in an interactive way, by giving top 20% of best companies to work for in their opinion regarding the actions we are Brazil. Following the result of the survey, planning. Brazil has addressed several improvement areas. These include training (create and This is a process of continuous implement a training program in the region, improvement, the actions are not always using the global frameworks and quick to implement, but it is necessary to infrastructure), benefits (health plan initiate and pursue the best for our improvement, harmonization of benefits), employees. Atos has the ambition to be recognition (Accolade implementation), as among the 100 Great Places to Work in 2012. well as the launch of the survey in Argentina, extending their ambition to be We are currently extending the surveys one of the best companies to work for in throughout our organization, including new Latin America. countries such as the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, France, Denmark, A key factor for our success in 2011 was the Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Italy. involvement of our management team in At least 20 countries will compete covering defining the actions to be taken as well as more than 70% of Atos employees. 52 Your business technologists. Powering progress KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW Management diversity ratio — Males/ Females split [LA13] 14,61 % 85,39 % Female Male Average number of days of training days per employee Employees participating in risk benefit per region [LA10] arrangements per contract type [LA3] 2010 Permanent full 10 2011 & Part-time *Constant scope Rest 100 % Temporary 97 of Europe and Rest of the 94 Contracts World GBUs cannot be compared due to merge 87 8 85 80 % 79 67 6 60 % 4 40 % 2 20 % 0 0% an Fra nc E ria NA M Death Disability Health y Be ne e CE AP AC LA Benefits benefits Care rm Nethe lux Ibe IM EA Co TA rpo M rla nd s rate Ge UK /IR GR OU Wo rld P lin e Total workforce by Region (as on 12/31/2011) [LA1] Male/ Female split per job function [LA13] 12,000 Male Female 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 rm an Fra ync Co mm Au dit B Ne enel the ux rla e Custo me un ica tio UK Wo /IR rld nd s rR ela tio n lin CE Ee Hu Fin ns Ma Ib jor eria Ev en ma nR a nc e Ge N& ts SW AP IM AC EA E Le eso ga lA urc es LA M Wo TAM NA Ma na ffa irs rld Co grid rpo rat Pu ge me nt e Se rvi rch asi ng ce De liv ery Te ch nic S ys tem s al A dv ice Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 53 Total employees breakdown per contract type [LA1] Temporary Permanent 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Employees turnover by gender and age* [LA2] * GPI definition of turnover >= 50 30 > 50 6.92% < 30 Male 17.27% 18.23% 7.88% Female 9.96% 16.4% % of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews [LA12] Atos Group received formal appraisal in 2011 Yes 53.32% 46.68% No Female 10,265 8,987 19,252 Male 27,353 25,965 53,318 51.30% 48.70% Ex-Atos Origin received formal appraisal in 2011 30.64% 69.36% Female 3,970 8,987 12 957 Male 9,891 25,965 35,856 27.59% 72.41% Ratio Female/Male average annual basic salary* [LA14] * 1 : salary equality, <1 : male > female, >1: male < female 1,03 Audit 0,72 Communication 0,73 Customer Relations 0,90 Education & Training 0,76 Facility Management 0,70 Finance 0,81 Human Resources ICT Support & Administration 0,75 Legal Affairs 0,79 Management 0,81 Management and Office Support 1,46 Medical Services 0,67 Policy, Planning & Research 1,01 Purchasing 0,66 Quality 0,80 Risk Management 0,81 Service Delivery Systems Development and Mainte0,72 nance 0,84 Technical Advice & Consultancy 0,78 0 1 54 Your business technologists. Powering progress Responsible Citizenship Corporate citizenship forms part of Atos’ identity and what we do around the world 4,446 employees engaged in 265 social and charity initiatives. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Atos supports 40 volunteers working to support the London Olympic Games. As a leading international IT services Atos contributes to communities Social engagement and provider, we understand that our activities worldwide and enhances their innovation and IT services in general are fully integrated wellbeing and prosperity [EC1, EC8] into people’s day to day lives and can Through global and local projects and contribute to creating long-term value initiatives. These mainly involve businesses to society at large. Corporate Citizenship is and employees in local community projects, not simply a badge that we wear because help for communities in need, humanitarian it’s fashionable; it has always been part of relief and medical research. In the last few “who we are” and “what our employees do” years, many of our employees around the around the world. At Atos, we recognize the world have been committed to reaching out teambuilding and motivational to their communities, through voluntary opportunities afforded to our people by work IT support, donations schemes, helping them to participate in communitypartnerships with humanitarian related initiatives. organizations and financial support. Atos supports social and In 2011, 4,446 employees took part in 265 environmental initiatives, programs worldwide. The initiatives ranged underpinned by two clear drivers: from social engagement through free IT Our commitment to contribute to society teaching and projects, to sporting activities at large through social business that help raise funds for charities. Atos aims innovations that will immediately benefit to apply its core skills and competencies for people or planet. This is also supported by free to help charities and NGO’s to improve our stakeholders and together we are and progress. In addition we support looking at joint initiatives – through the fundraising activities for a wide range of stakeholder engagement program – charities, whereby sport is a recurring theme to accelerate sustainable progress. to build bridges, improve health and Our commitment to improve wellbeing, wellbeing, and encourage team spirit. both at work and in the wider community 4,446 in which we operate. Ensure a safe and healthy environment, an environment for personal growth and development, a good employees engaged work/life balance and enable people to in 265 community create a bridge between personal and projects around the world. professional values and passions. CASE STUDY Since 2004 our volunteer program has can make the most of this once in a lifetime The Olympic supported Atos’ commitment to inspire and chance and bring their very best to the role. Volunteer Program engage employees. With the London In line with the spirit of the Olympic Games’ Olympic Games in 2012, the program will movement, this program is volunteer-based. allow employees to experience sport and IT The performance of each volunteer at its highest levels and explore contributes to the Olympic success of opportunities that exist outside competition. thousands of athletes, millions of spectators, The Atos Olympic Volunteer Program is and billions of viewers! incredibly exciting as it has allowed us to identify a dedicated offering of roles which will guarantee some employees will have the chance to play a part in the greatest sporting event on earth. With the support of our Olympic team on the ground, they will receive all the help they need to ensure they 56 Your business technologists. Powering progress 1.1 million baht Atos Spain supports AGENT-DYSL with the development of an intelligent system for More than 1 million Thai baht was raised for Atos Thailand workers hurt by the recent distributed to more reading assistance for school age children flood crisis in Bangkok. In 2011, Thailand, than 70 employees with dyslexia to improve their reading. along with other Southeast Asian countries, who experienced flood The Intelligent System builds and maintains experienced catastrophic flooding resulting individual profiles through observation of from an unusually high amount of rainwater damage in Thailand. each child while reading collected during the monsoon season. While the text on the display area of the system and the Atos Thailand offices were located in a by the recognition of reading errors. These section of Bangkok that remained dry, many individual profiles are used to decide how to employees living in the outer areas of the change the display of text, so that the reading city were affected, with some experiencing ability of each child improves. In addition to extensive damage to their homes and “listening to children read,” the AGENT-DYSL property. The Atos Thailand Human system can “see” the children as they read. Resources department and the Emergency Using image analysis techniques, the system Response Committee launched a charity can evaluate the emotional and physical drive in October to raise money for those development, and dynamically adapt the who experienced damage. Atos Thailand presentation of the document accordingly. raised 235,000 baht, due to employee This system has been conducted in four donations and matching contributions by languages, English, Danish, Greek and Atos Thailand CEO Mathew Taylor and the Spanish and is currently being validated local company. Meanwhile, other Asia-Pacific in different educational institutions. countries generously raised 290,000 baht. Along with the 600,000 baht supported The Atos Cycling Tour, organized by the by Atos Headquarters, the amount raised Dutch organization and established in 2005, totaled more than 1.1 million baht. This was raised EUR 14,500 for the Children Cancer then distributed to the more than Fund. The team, consisting of 50 cycling 70 employees who experienced flood colleagues from the Netherlands, Germany, damage. In addition, Atos Thailand offered Belgium , France, UK and even Singapore, interest-free 60,000 baht loans to those who started their journey in Paris where they reported damages, to be paid back over the were welcomed by our Corporate course of 12 months. Also, for those whose Management team to wish them a safe trip. homes were uninhabitable during the crisis, From there they cycled 470 kilometers in 2 Atos Thailand offered support in the form days, to arrive at our offices on the High Tech of free accommodation in local apartments Campus in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. and hotels. Preparations for the 2012 Atos Tour have already started. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 57 Atos Germany supports Startsocial, both In terms of social engagement, Atos France financially and by encouraging social supports “Energie Jeune”, an organization engagement of its employees via a committed to preventing young people volunteer program. Startsocial, whose from dropping out of education. The aim of patron is the German Federal Chancellor the program is to apply Atos’ knowledge to Angela Merkel, organizes an annual help young college students with their competition, which provides 100 social studies. By creating awareness amongst the projects and a three month coaching period. students on the opportunities a good Jurors assisting in two project selection education can bring, they get more involved phases and coaches engaging with “their” in their studies. Atos employees volunteer project are volunteers. The seven most their time and skills and the first feedback valued projects at the end of the has been very positive, both from our competition receive additional financial employees and the students. At present we support. In 2011, ten jurors and three have 10 employees engaged in this initiative coaches during the 2011 competition were and for 2012 we aim to increase the number Atos employees. and widen the initiative throughout the country. Employees at Atos India are very engaged in social initiatives such as the Tree In 2011, and for the first time as Worldwide Plantation event in 2011 where volunteer Partner of the International Paralympic employees plant saplings that can be fruit Committee (IPC), Atos Group supported bearing or have medicinal value etc. to help Sport Development Initiatives through a poor farmer’s achieve their targets and earn Corporate Donation. Marketing material of their livelihood. This was a remarkable the Atos University (2,926 items such as experience to remember for all employees. shirts, bags, trousers, caps, etc.) will go These activities are conducted in rural foremost to athletes with a disability via the areas, and Atos contributes a considerable involved National Paralympics Committees amount to the welfare of the children‘s (NPCs) and countries and volunteers in education in that village. charge of coaching, refereeing and national classification of athletes. Another remarkable project in India in 2011 100 was the Turtle Walk — about 40 employees from different business units at Chennai gathered near the Neelankarai beach on the One of the projects that have benefitted from the material was the IPC Youth Workshop which took place in February in Atos’ team walked 100 km shores of the Bay of Bengal, at midnight, to Rwanda. This was an exciting initiative to in 24 hours to raise funds walk for 6 kilometers along the coast and train participants to develop and implement for Oxfam Australia. collect the eggs of Olive Ridley turtles. a Paralympic Youth Sport Program in their own countries. In Atos Australia a team of employees In total, Atos has spent more than €540,000 walked the 100 km Oxfam walk to raise on funding for social communities in 2011. funds for the Oxfam organization. Oxfam This amount includes donations to charity Australia is part of a global movement of and social communities plus the dedicated people working hard to fight commercial initiatives as defined in the poverty and injustice. Team Atos (the London Benchmark Group (a reference walkers and their supporters) hold model used for Atos to report on the Social fundraising activities all through the year to Contribution) [EC1]. Atos´ Community assist in the fundraising target. All Investment in 2011 amounts to more than employees support the fundraising efforts €2.7M [EC8]. through personal donations and attendance A total amount of €8,292,550 was received at fundraising events. The company in financial assistance from governments in matches the employee fundraising efforts 2011 [EC4]. dollar for dollar. The team walked the 100 km in around 24 hours. 58 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY Atos supports a sustainable Jatropha then buys, giving the farmers an additional BERL — sustainable enterprise in Malawi, which was initiated in source of annual revenue. The nuts are bio-diesel production 2008 by PostNL, (formerly TNT Post), and Bio ground in a factory set up and managed by program in Malawi Energy Resources Ltd (BERL) who are both BERL, and produce oil that provides a partners of the World Food Program. renewable fuel that can be mixed with traditional diesel. Fight hunger and boost the local economy BERL is responsible for the full The aim of BERL is to build a sustainable administration of these processes and, until local business model to fight hunger and recently, used a simple registration system as boost the Malawian economy. The well as paper administration for this. BERL fundamentals of this model will give needed a better overview of the status of Malawian smallholder farmers a sustainable different business processes, such as cash crop in addition to their food crops. The preparations for a new a season and planting farmers plant about 600 Jatropha trees as a work, checking the land eligibility, and barrier around their land, avoiding quality checks (GPS evaluation) on existing competition with their food production. The parcels. Jatropha trees take up extra CO2 from the atmosphere and produce nuts that BERL At Atos we believe that Information for citizenship” course. Social business innovations Technology is the engine of sustainable to benefit society and our progress for companies, organizations Towards a sustainable health lifecycle planet at large and society at large. system Atos has long-term experience in providing We are always looking for innovative and IT services to the healthcare sector, including rewarding projects where we can leverage with AtosHealthcare in the UK, a division of new technologies for our client in a Atos, that combines the Company’s expertise responsible way and which act as a major in consulting, technology and healthcare to lever to enable societal changes and create improve the way care is delivered. We progress. believe that through the use of IT, significant progress can be achieved regarding life Increasing online accessibility quality improvements, despite the current to medical information challenges (an ageing population, increasing Atos has developed and coordinates the demands on, and the cost of healthcare). integration of all of the elements of the KHRESMOI European project. This increases Efficient online overview of pension online accessibility to reliable medical details for all Dutch citizens information for both the general public Atos designed, built, manages and hosts the and medical experts. Through this system, “Mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl” website for the Internet users will be able to search and Stichting Pensioenregister, which aims to access reliable health information in their give Dutch citizens a clear insight into their local language, generated from various (future) pension situation. Since the launch medical information sources (scientific in January 2011, more than 3 million visitors publications, image banks, pharmaceutical found their way to the site and recently the databases, etc.). site won the Dutch NAF Architecture Award for the easy-to-use structure. Olympic values promotion to Spanish youth via public education See Chapter “Helping to Build the firm of the Atos has designed the technical platform that Future” for more information on sustainable will promote the Olympic values at schools IT innovations that help improve our in Spain. Developed by the Spanish Olympic community. Committee, the Ministry of Education, the University Camilo José Cela (Madrid) and Atos, the project aims to promote Olympic values such as team effort in the “Education Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 59 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW Community Investments [EC8] Investments for social innovation projects Community Investment / 3,000,000 € Universities Community Investment / Responsable IT projects 2,250,000 € 2,000,000 € 1,500,000 € 1,000,000 € 500,000 € Atos funding for Social Communities [EC1] Donations to charity and social communities in EUR 2011 2010 2009 APAC 13,780 0 0 France 0 18,049 0 Germany 52,640 26,412 125,000 IMEA 123,863 0 0 NAM 4,579 0 0 BENELUX 18,465 152,887 0 SAM 800 21,000 8,000 IBERIA 33,800 217,000 0 UK/IR 158,280 0 0 WORLDLINE 30,173 40,000 40,000 N&SWE 211,765 Group 648,145 475,348 185,000 2011 2010 2009 60 Your business technologists. Powering progress Environmental Commitment Remaining true to our environmental commitments Atos opened a highly eco-efficient data center that provides the city of Helsinki with energy KEY ACHIEVEMENTS based on heat recovery. AND KEY COMMITMENTS Atos has extended the Carbon Audit program to 11 additional data centers. FOR THE PERIOD A new partnership between Southpole Carbon & EcoAct was agreed to offset the Carbon 2012-2015 from our hosting services for the full new scope of Atos’ activities. To reach our zero carbon ambitions, Atos established a new objective for the three coming years (2012 – 2015) to abate by additional 30% our entire carbon footprint (2011 baseline). In 2009, Atos made a commitment to abate strong mobilization mainly in travel policy its carbon Footprint by 15% by 2012 (using and energy management in data centers, the 2008 baseline) at a comparable scope. this objective was successively reached by The company has also launched a Carbon 2010. In only two years the accumulated Footprint Abatement Program (CFAP) reduction of carbon amounts we reached which aims to measure the CO2 emissions was a total of a 34,6% reduction, at a on a yearly basis. The evaluation gathers comparable scope. data coming from all countries where Atos is located. Following the methodology promoted by the GHG protocol, Atos measures direct and indirect GHG emissions. Thanks to a Decarbonizing the Firm of the Future by 15% over the period 2009-2011 (2008 Improving Decarbonizing the Earth is part of any baseline). Thanks to many efforts, we our environmental company’s responsibility. It means not only succeeded in reducing it by 34,6% (at performance considering the environment as a precious constant scope) within 3 years (2009-2011). resource, but it also means addressing the living conditions of people and communities In 2011, Atos produced 310 000 tones CO2 eq and to anticipate the consequences of for all activities worldwide. This volume today’s actions for future generations. It covers the former Atos Origin scope for the implies transforming the current exploitative first semester 2011, and the new Atos business paradigm to one that aligns social, perimeter for the second semester of the environmental and economic factors; year. The contributions are respectively, responsible business equals good business 41.5% for data centers, 32% for offices and sense. Decarbonizing also requires a 26.5% for transport. company to address its impact on climate The countries assessed are: Australia, change by integrating a low (even zero and Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, sometimes net positive) carbon strategy into Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Czech processes, corporate values, and of course, Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, the performance management of the Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, business. Firms of the future need to make Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 45% carbon management a pillar of their business strategy. At Atos, we believe that the implementation of an Ambition Carbon Free Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, The Netherlands, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, South is the amount by which initiative not only strengthens the stability Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Atos aims to reduce its of a company but also reinforces its Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, carbon footprint by 2015. competitiveness. United Kingdom, United States of America, Atos Worldline. The calculation includes Our zero carbon ambition: direct and indirect emissions of CO2 a plan in action [EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, generated mainly by commuting, travelling, EN7, EN16, EN18, EN19] data-centers and buildings. Since 2008, Atos has undertaken an annual evaluation of the carbon footprint of the Considering the increasing pressure on IT entire company, including all its activities. (partly due to the digitalization of the This initiative involves identifying the main economy) and the vastly increased size of sources of emission and taking the right Atos following the merger of Atos Origin and actions to reduce the volume of CO2 (directly Siemens IT Solutions and Services), Atos or indirectly) emitted. Our initial objective decided to reinforce its efforts to tackle was to abate the carbon footprint of Atos climate change. In this connection, in 2011 62 Your business technologists. Powering progress 1,462 Kwh the company set itself a new objective for the three coming years (2012–2015): to abate by an additional 30% the whole carbon according to the usage mode, some software is expected to save up to 50% of energy consumption. One of the objectives is to was the amount achieved footprint of Atos (using 2011 as a baseline). implement such a solution internally as the in 2011 through energy This objective is broken down as follows: return on investment will have positive saving measures in our 30% CO2 for buildings and travels (2011 impacts on both finance and environment. data centers baseline) At a second stage, this type of solution could 30% the CO2 resulting from data center be incorporated to one of our Global Key operations (2011 base line). Offerings (Adaptive Workplace), managing workplace infrastructure while improving To reach the target, we look at different areas financial and environmental aspects. such as the carbon embedded in IT equipment, energy consumption (electricity New ways of working based on new fuel or gas, for instance), and waste technologies (Office Communicator systems, management. In this respect, we have Microsoft), allowing remote working, identified several levers contributing to the reducing travels needs, increasing effort of energy management and carbon productivity, and improving the work/life reduction: balance with a positive impact on environment. Our Zero emailTM policy is part Energy management in data centers by of this approach. It should contribute to acting on IT infrastructure (e.g. cooling, reducing the carbon footprint of employees space room organization, cold corridor in their daily tasks. optimizing air flow, etc.) which can bring significant energy savings. An employee of Atos is likely to receive approximately 70 emails per day on average, Energy building management leading to and spends around 5% (and up to 20%) of savings of up to 20% of the energy bill their time to writing or dealing with emails. (optimizing the energy consumption of Considering the estimated weight of an heating, ventilation, and air conditioning, email (~19 gCO2 ), we could say that the lighting, etc.) with a view to reducing the 74,000 employees of Atos are producing electricity consumed by the building by more than 20,000 tCO2 eq. each year. Any 15% to 20%. The DESIMA solution, a action to reduce the number of emails will coherent set of demand response and have a positive effect on the carbon footprint energy management software tools of the company. That is why the Zero emailTM developed by Atos, is implemented in the strategy is considered as a good lever to Atos headquarters in Bezons. This solution reach the target of CO2 emission reduction. is likely to be progressively extended to other new Atos sites. Energy desktop management allowing us to potentially reduce our energy bills by 30%. IT equipment is a source of energy consumption. Atos is currently experimenting with different solutions to reduce the electricity bill and the carbon footprint of its IT infrastructure. By setting the workstation to switch into sleep mode when unused, but adjusting the processing power and the frequency of the processors Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 63 CASE STUDY The DESIMA system In 2011, in its headquarters at Bezons, near Paris Atos installed an innovative Energy 700 k€ in 2011 for 10 000 MWh consumption and a total subscribed power Management infrastructure designed by its of 4 500 MW, the building is occupied by Specialized Business Unit Atos Worldgrid . 4,000 people. First level cost savings The DESIMA system collects the real time identified with the Atos DESIMA system was electricity consumption and load profile for over-subscribed power, it is estimated data from at 65k€ ( 9%) for a full year and will be 50 sub-meters linked to the building parts in implemented in 2012 by reducing the an energy database. The system features a subscribed power with no impact on office web portal that provides analyses and activities. Further cost savings are estimated reporting to Atos users in charge of real to be an additional 15% obtained from waste estate optimization, showing the exact cost and drifts detection and automatic of electricity every hour and the savings correction, they will be implemented during potential, expressed the next years. in power (kW) energy (kWh) and €. Energy This system that is hosted on the Atos Cloud managers can also set real time alarms infrastructure which is being deployed at all on energy or demand threshold crossing Atos main offices sites in France and to automatically detect drifts in worldwide to consolidate energy savings on consumption and trigger corrective actions. a multisite basis. The Bezons site electricity bill was close to The first carbon assessment of Atos in 2008 Usage Effectiveness) from 1.88 to 1.75 in Carbon neutral data centers: revealed that data centers were responsible three years (2014) (weighted 12 months’ a distinctive initiative for more than 50% of Atos’ CO2 footprint. This average of 84 data centers). was confirmed during the following years (54% in 2008, 63% in 2009, 56% in 2010, 41% 2. Decrease the power usage effectiveness: in 2011, which corresponds approximately to The PUE has a direct impact on energy 128,000 T CO2 — The total footprint produced consumption as it measures the energy in 2011 at a global level, was about 310,000 efficiency. Focused measures and tCO2). It therefore became necessary to investments in strategic data centers are consider our data center activity as a priority additionally decreasing the PUE, estimated in our carbon management strategy. Since in the order of >= .03 PUE improvement by July 2011, we have faced the challenge of a 2015. We plan to reduce by 5% a year the material increase in the carbon footprint due PUE of 16 main data centers from July 2011 to the merger between Atos Origin and to June 2012. This will enable us to reduce Siemens IT Solutions and Services (SIS). This by approximately 10% our energy means that Atos will have to increase its consumption by the data center power efforts to control and monitor CO2 emissions and cooling infrastructure. in the 48 countries where we are located. 3. Server virtualization and Cloud In this connection, Atos implemented in 2011 Computing should contribute to abate the a program with the ambition to be energy consumption by the IT load. The considered as the leading IT company in virtualization ratio is expected to increase power management and carbon abatement from 30% in 2011 to 66% by end of 2015. strategy. Cloud Computing provides a decrease Atos’ environmental strategy gives primary of 10 to 40% in carbon emissions compared focus to 13 strategic countries (Austria to traditional IT. Belgium, Brazil, China, Finland, France, The main reason is that applications Germany, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, generally do not have their peak resources Singapore, Switzerland, United Kingdom and consumption at the same time, USA). Our approach is to act on the following and thus, by sharing the same flexible levers: infrastructure, Cloud “erases” peaks between 1. Consolidate Data Centers to give more applications and allows a significant efficient sites: following the incorporation decrease in terms of total infrastructure size with SIS plus subsequent consolidation and consumption. This sharing can occur and transformation of data centers, Atos during a day with different time zones or will be able to decrease the PUE (Power different business rhythms. For instance it 64 Your business technologists. Powering progress An example of the cockpit used to monitor data center performance Utilization Power Utilization Floorspace 8 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 6 000 10 000 3 000 7 000 4 000 12 000 2 000 8 000 2 000 14 000 1 000 9 000 0 16 000 0 10 000 used 5.047 kW used 6.661 sqm MAX 10.173 kW MAX 7.968 sqm 50 % 84 % Infra Cost per intalled kW (€/mth) PEU 150 1,60 1,80 125 175 100 200 1,40 2,00 146 EUR/kW 1,96 75 225 1,20 2,20 50 250 1,00 2,40 can occur within a month with HR The objective is to extend the initiative to 10 to 40% applications consuming more at the end of the month and Accounting more at the all strategic data centers around the world. carbon emission decrease beginning of the month, and finally within 5. Carbon offsetting: each year, Atos offsets a year for instance with tax — related the carbon emitted by data centers thus provided by Cloud applications which are typically quarterly allowing Atos to offer carbon neutral Computing compared or yearly. During 2011, Atos extended its hosting to its clients. to traditional IT. Cloud platforms worldwide and at the end of the year was able to run more than 26,000 Atos is the first IT company to provide virtual machines for around 200 clients carbon neutral hosting to its clients. in these shared environments. Considering the impact for Atos, and also In addition to the peak erase mentioned for our clients who host their applications 22 above, the Atos Cloud is running on the latest technology with low consumption hardware (computers and storage) which adds another within our data centers, in 2009 Atos decided, to go further than a standard corrective action plan. The idea was to data centers in 7 countries positive impact for the decrease of carbon neutralize the carbon emitted by Atos thanks are covered by Atos’ emissions. to the funding of a transfer of technology Carbon Audit Program toward emerging countries enabling them to over the period 2009-2012. 4. Carbon audit: the carbon audit aims to produce less polluting power plants. Since identify the CO2 footprint of data centers 2010, Atos compensates for the amount of and its drivers. It plans for reductions, CO2 produced by all its data centers located taking the whole life cycle of IT equipment worldwide (117,500 tones CO2 eq), which into account: carbon embedded in IT allows us to deliver to our clients carbon 2,659 Kgs CO2 equipment, carbon emitted by energy consumption and carbon produced by Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment neutral hosting. The volume to be offset is recalculated each year in order to adjust the volume to the emissions effectively total reduction through treatments. The Atos Carbon Audit produced the previous year. Atos’ reduction program covers 22 data centers over the initiatives. period 2009-2012, located in 7 countries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 65 CASE STUDY Data Center in Atos opened a highly eco-efficient data center in 2011 that provides the city of Helsinki Helsinki with energy based on heat recovery. It is a part of a new 5,000 m2 data center complex, built by the Finnish company Academica, known for efficient heat reclamation and energy recycling in its data centers. This eco-efficient data center will serve European customers and is one of the many initiatives to achieving Atos’ sustainable goals. The green data center utilizes eco-efficient cooling provided by Helsingin Energia, and the extra heat created by its servers will be transferred to the district heating network to provide heat and warm water for 4,500 new Photo of Helsingin Energia, 80 m2 apartments in the city. Atos has a total property of Juhani Eskelinen of 13 Global Data Centers and 50 Local Data Centers. In 2011, the objective is to continue this by Atos sites will no longer emit carbon. This 100% initiative, enlarging the offsetting perimeter to the new scope from the merger between Atos Origin and Siemens IT Solutions and decision will have a significantly positive impact on the environment. Once again, it is evidence for Atos’ stakeholders of our of Atos’ strategic data centers Services. In this respect, a new partnership commitments to face our social should be adressed by the between Southpole Carbon & EcoAct was responsibilities. program by the end of 2015. agreed beginning of 2012 to compensate the full new scope of Atos’ activities. One of the 7. IT selection (purchasing): embedded objectives is to support our clients in carbon represents a substantial part of the 2,834 reducing the environmental impact of IT and to abate the environmental impact of their operations thanks to ICT. In parallel, the carbon emissions produced per data center. By integrating carbon in to our purchasing requirements we minimize the Tons CO2 is produced by funded project supports the economic and contribution of carbon emissions from IT the use of refrigerants in social development of local communities equipment. Atos’ global business units. (energy supply, education, employment, etc.). 8. Generalize best practices in data centers: 6. Energy supply: Atos’ objective is to avoid extend innovative solutions such as heat producing carbon. The question is now recovery, free cooling, free chilling, or cold how to move from CO2 offset toward a air containment, etc. One of the initiatives suppression of emissions at source, which currently implemented by Atos’ data would involve a review of our policy in centers is to increase the temperature set relation to electricity supply. Some point by 3°C in the machine halls (to reach countries like the Netherlands or United 23°C on average in all data centers), which Kingdom have initiated this process. The should lead to a 10% savings in electricity. intention is to progressively extend this Our efforts in Green IT have brought practice to all our strategic data centers by results with the opening of our new green 2015. A transition roadmap to gradually Data Center in Helsinki located in the move towards a zero carbon emissions former electricity station of Helsingin status and progressively reduce the carbon Energia. offsetting program is currently under analysis. The decision has been taken to progressively switch from carbonized to renewable energies. This initiative, trialed first in several countries, will be extended to all strategic sites by the end of 2015. Once the target has been reached, all the electricity consumed 66 Your business technologists. Powering progress CASE STUDY A worldwide carbon A worldwide carbon audit program: Atos is the first IT Company to conduct a carbon bespoke carbon audit methodology and tool. The experimental project was confirmed by audit program audit in all its main data centers. a pilot phase (at three data centers located As a large part of CO2 emissions is produced respectively in France, Germany and the by data center operations, Atos has designed Netherlands) which showed a potential gain a program focused on data centers, whose of 6,100 tons of CO2 eq, 51 million kWh and an central component is a carbon audit initiative estimated saving of about Euros 4m over 5 aiming at measuring and abating CO2 years comparatively to a business-as-usual emissions. situation. As from 2009, Atos has implemented a carbon audit program in its 14 strategic data The next step was to train the project centers out of 47 with the external support managers of 11 more data centers. Under the of O2 France. 8 additional datacenters will guidance of O2 France, Atos performed its be audited in 2012. The objective is to identify own carbon audits in 2011/2012 and and quantify sources of emissions – developed customized action plans with addressing their whole lifecycle savings expressed both in CO2 and euros. By (manufacturing, usage and end of lifecycle) the end of the first quarter 2012, all action – and design the action plan to abate and plans should be completed. So far, CO2 monitor them. The objective is to address savings are in the range of 3% and kWh 100% of the strategic data centers by end around 10% but that is only a start. of 2015 (47 Data centers, 12 strategic sites, If we consider the 14 carbon audits performed located in 13 strategic countries). (9 action plans out of 14 were achieved by The first step is to define a carbon strategy. end of 2011), the perspective of savings over 5 This involves evaluating the carbon maturity years (2011-2015) is around of the data center, defining the level of 14,500 T CO2 eq, 75 991 Mwh and about ambition and identifying the gap to cover € 7,852 k (for an investment estimated at against best practices. As we can only € 2,583 K). manage what we can measure, the second In 2012, eight more data centers will go step is the carbon evaluation. This requires through the same process. Energy is, of identifying the main emission sources and course, the first area where savings are quantifies the volumes produced, applying identified but we also consider the CO2 international standards of calculation (GHG embedded in the IT hardware hosted. protocol, IPCC, DEFRA, Ademe). The result helps to identify the key levers to abate the The first results of phase 2 clearly indicate carbon footprint (mainly in Atos’ case, limit that carbon embedded in IT equipment the carbon embedded in IT equipment and exceeds expectations. Indeed, carbon audits reduce energy consumption). revealed that carbon emissions coming from Additional solutions could be considered as IT equipment can vary from 23% up to 77% virtualization or Cloud Services that, beyond depending on the data center profile. While the operational services delivered, help to the topic of carbon contained in the energy strengthen the abatement of carbon consumed is clearly addressed in operations, emissions (less physical investment in IT carbon embedded in IT equipment (hidden equipment, less energy used for the same carbon) needs to be more considered. The service provided). The set of levers identified lines of actions are twofold: serve as the basis for a corrective action plan Work with an architect on the IT together with an analysis of payback (savings infrastructure to design and develop lower generated kWh, CO2, money saved) in a carbon solutions prospective manner (carbon tax, energy Work with purchasing and IT hardware costs, etc.). A business case plan is designed providers to encourage solutions with a low to support the decision process. It combines rate of carbon embedded. That means three criteria: costs, return on investment (in clearly integrating carbon requirements in €, Kwh and CO2). On the basis of the carbon the purchasing process (in addition to policy agreed, a transformation program power efficiency and green label), and incorporating clients’ priorities is develop collaboration with hardware implemented. Finally, we incorporate the suppliers to develop the carbon “light” carbon in the performance management offering. dashboard as a parameter to improve profitability beside the PUE. Furthermore, with countries switching to Based on the recommendations by the renewable energy, reducing the carbon French Environment and Energy Agency, embedded in IT hardware is becoming Ademe, we have developed and tested a increasingly crucial. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 67 The project aims to audit 22 data centers over 4 years Pilot Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 2009 2010 2011 2012 France Aubervilliers Suresnes Croissy The Netherlands Amsterdam Eindhoven HWU Eindhoven HuRK Nottingham Birmingham Nottingham The United Kingdom Andover Livingstone Ratingen Essen II Essen I Fuerth Germany Nuremberg Feucht Munich United States Arlington Spain Tres cantos Austria Vienna 38 Vendôme Atos Worldline La Pointe PMP Dassault Electricity in GJ [EN 4] Indirect energy consumption by primary source 20,000 18,000 Other Equipement 16,000 Energy 14,000 12, 000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 Ein Am sterda PM P dh ov en m Ve nd Eindh ov HW U Bir ôm e en HR K mi ng Ra tin ge n ha m Au Es sen II An do be rvi llie Liv ing rve Su rs sto res ne s n Cr ois sy La po inte 68 Your business technologists. Powering progress TESTIMONIAL Carbon reduction “Atos has been active in reducing the carbon footprint of its data centers with the support the data center staff. In return, project managers showed a high level of for 02 France of O2 France for 3 years now. From a involvement and the project prompted Partnership for breeding single-site experiment in France, the project exchange of best practices amongst sites. moved into carbon audits and carbon The partnership between O2 France and best practices reduction plans (CO2 and Euros) for up to 20 Atos has been growing into a tight and data centers and is even involving trusting relationship, with Atos Pascale Fondeur procurement. We have been coordinating incorporating some return on experience Project Manager, O2 France the project directly with the project formulated by O2 France into their action managers of the various data centers, so not plans. This includes, for instance, having to go through unnecessary layers of considering more seriously carbon management. This favored efficiency and embedded in IT equipment or switching to allowed us to build good connections with renewable energy in countries where Ambition Carbon Free, a program to reach The set of levers identified will serve as the Ambition carbon free the zero carbon status basis for corrective action plan together with Atos has developed a sustainable portfolio an analysis of payback (savings generated for our clients to assist clients in achieving environmental kWh, CO2, EUROS) in a prospective manner excellence. The goal is to help develop a low (carbon tax, energy costs, etc.). A business carbon economy by providing its customers case plan is designed to support the with services and solutions that combine decision process. It combines three criteria: energy efficiency, carbon reductions and costs, return on investment (in €, Kwh and financial savings. The Ambition Carbon Free CO2). Finally, on the basis of the carbon demonstrates that decarbonizing business policy agreed, a transformation program strengthens and develops the company’s incorporating client’ priorities is profitability. The solution is designed to help implemented. companies identify levers that can both We recommend incorporating carbon in the reduce carbon emissions and achieve performance management dashboard as a energy efficiencies. As a result, it combines parameter to improve profitability. It can be carbon reduction and economic used as a criterion in the decisionmaking performance. process, but also to support management to The program addresses the entire lifecycle of take the right investment decisions. A set of an organization, process, product, data centers key performance indicators (e.g.: PUE, CUE, or IT for example (raw material extraction, WUE, CO2 produced per product, KWh per manufacturing, transport, usage, end of life) m2 used, CO2 per km, etc.) has to be agreed and not only the energy consumption during and integrated in the day to day operational the usage phase as it is often the case. dashboard of the management. The first step is to define a carbon strategy. Finally, it is suggested to offset the remaining This involves evaluating the carbon emissions by investing in carbon credits maturity of the company, defining the level with the clear objective of reducing of ambition on this issue and identifying the emissions at source rather than at end of gap to cover against best practices. cycle. As we can only manage what we can measure, the second step is the Carbon evaluation. This requires identifying the main emission sources and quantifying the volumes produced (It equipment, IT infrastructure, embedded carbon, etc.). The results will help to detect the key levers to abate the carbon footprint (e.g. free cooling, air containment, renewable power supply, design of IT rooms, etc.). Additional solutions could be considered such as digitalization, virtualization or Cloud Services that, beyond the operational services delivered, help to strengthen the abatement of carbon emissions. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 69 CASE STUDY This Carbon Audit project involves the Ambition carbon design of an application tailored to the be then spread to all the Group’s data centers as from 2012. From a governance free specific context of data centers. This tool perspective, carbon is now part of the enables us to: collect data, calculate the monthly report to the top management, carbon footprint, build a corrective action beside energy savings and PUE. In addition plan and conduct a business case to these efforts, Atos has decided to offset incorporating a dynamic forward-looking the remaining emissions by purchasing plan (the prospects for increasing energy certified carbon credits. This commitment costs and implementation a carbon tax reflects the desire of Atos to be a key IT provisions). The experimental phase of the player in the fight against global warming project conducted on three data centers while offering its customers the benefits (located respectively in France, Germany of this commitment. It can now offer its and the Netherland) showed a gain of 6,100 customers carbon neutral hosting services. tons of CO2 eq, 51 million kWh and an estimated saving about 4 million euros over 5 years. This project is currently being deployed in 11 additional European data centers. The expected gains could reach around 200 million Kwh. The initiative will Atos now offers its customers “carbon neutral” hosting services. The ISO 14001 approach requires our buildings is currently being implemented. Environmental company to take a look at all areas where its Today 20 major office sites across five management system — activities have an environmental impact. countries (Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, In 2009, Atos launched the implementation Switzerland, Germany) are already certified. core to our strategy of EMSs and attained ISO 14001 certifications Based on the 2011 results of the Carbon for office sites and data centers. The objective Footprint Abatement Program, the strategy is to have the environmental impacts for the certification of office sites will be properly managed: identify main sources redefined, taking into account floor space of pollution and ensure that governance and the number of employees working on and processes are in place to monitor and site. The objective is to certify all main office improve them. The major environmental sites by 2015. Major office sites with more aspects relate to the usage of electricity, gas than 400 employees are located in France, and fuels to operate data centers and offices. Germany, Poland, Spain, India, Brazil, United The common factor of these environmental Kingdom and Belgium. The Atos Campus aspects is carbon emissions. certification process complements the EMS Therefore our ambition is to manage the approach. majority of our carbon emissions through an Environmental Management System (EMS), aiming for at least 80% in the final stage. This requires us to address major office sites and strategic data centers located across 48 countries. With regards to data centers, the target initially agreed in 2010 was to certify 25 data centers over the period 2010-2012. By end of 2012, 100% of the target should be reached: 11 data centers were certified by 2010, three additional data centers were under certification process in 2011 and 11 sites are planned in 2012. A similar approach with regard to office 70 Your business technologists. Powering progress KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW Electricity in GJ [EN4] APAC 163,962 BENELUX 370,680 CEE 38,801 France 292,163 Germany 151,173 IBERIA 63,266 IMEA 6,269 NAM 10,822 N&SWE 36,465 LATAM 25,776 UK/IR 268,259 WORLDLINE 254,421 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 Direct / Indirect greenhouse gas emission (in Kgs C02e) [EN16] 150,000,000 Emissions by DCs 127,886,086 Emissions by Offices 120,000,000 Emissions by Travels 99,730,871 90,000,000 81,697,631 60,000,000 30,000,000 0 Direct / indirect greenhouse gas emission (data centers & offices) per country [EN16] APAC 30,772,650 BENELUX 34,492,477 CEE 6,659,702 France 11,159,729 Germany 38,764,197 IBERIA 8,942,568 IMEA 11,794,462 NAM 9,166,826 N&SWE 5,697,804 LATAM 4,364,630 UK/IR 52,063,206 WORLDLINE 46,907,156 0 10,000,000 20,000,000 30,000,000 40,000,000 50,000,000 60,000,000 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 71 Helping to build the Firm of the Future Powering progress to transform to the Firm of the Future Atos started applying its Ambition Carbon Free program to its own IT infrastructure as part KEY ACHIEVEMENTS of its worldwide carbon audit program. In 2011 Atos became the first global IT company to offer carbon-neutral data centers. During 2011, 25 data centers were targeted by the carbon audit program. The launch of our smart metering solution, an intelligent computer system, allows full interoperability and interchangeability of different metering equipment from different manufacturers and helps reduce energy consumption. In February 2011, Atos announced its ambition to become a Zero email CompanyTM by the end of 2013. Partnered with SAP on sustainability solutions. Atos understands the role it can play in Infrastructure: solutions that embed Powering progress developing solutions that allow its clients to sustainable platforms, infrastructure and to transform to operate in a more sustainable way which is technologies. the Firm of the Future both good for their own business as well as for society and the environment. Atos’ ‘Firm In each area we provide leading innovative of the Future’ strategy helps its clients solutions. Taken separately or as a complete transform to a sustainable, collaborative portfolio, Atos provides the innovation, and adaptive organization, addressing both solution-focus and long-term partnership strategic and operational levels and the approach to ensure that our clients adapt supporting infrastructure. and flourish in these increasingly volatile times. Atos’ Sustainability portfolio is mapped out in three focus areas: Strategy: solutions that help evolve our clients’ business models from a Firm of the Past to a Firm of the Future Operations: solutions that enable sustainable operational excellence Strategy Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 73 We provide consulting services and margarine, fats and oils Industry in the From Firm of the Past solutions that help our clients’ business Netherlands. Atos assisted the industry in to Firm of the Future models evolve to a sustainable Firm of the developing an action plan for 2030, showing Future. the different pathways for sustainable business and reaching out towards supply New ways of operating and innovative chain partners (including government) to business model approaches are a key part work together. Some specific examples of of the Firm of the Future transformation. energy-efficiency improvements and savings Client-tailored innovation sessions help recommended in the plan are: Atos envision, in partnership with its clients, Optimal management of process the optimal pathways ahead with IT as an installations enabler (rather than inhibitor). Examples of Innovative separation technologies tailored innovation sessions are: Firm of Biobased economy and industrial ecology the Future workshops; the New World of concepts. Working sessions; Sustainability Roadmap health-checks. Firm of the Future and New World of Working client sessions were run with our For example, Atos provided sustainable clients from a number of different sectors strategy advice and support to the throughout 2011. Sustainable operational excellence an online energy management system Operations – leverages the very granular data already for monitoring and controlling the energy Enabling our clients being generated and measured by consumption to move towards Manufacturing Execution Systems in our uniform processes focused on actively sustainable operational clients’ plants and infrastructure and controlling the energy consumption and excellence exposes them to an integrated reporting the related energy costs [A05, A07, EN26, A04] platform through which Sustainability KPIs energy dashboards in line with the can be measured and tracked at every level controlling processes. of the organization. Key to our future success both as a Sustainability exemplar and Sustainability compliance and reporting enabler are the strategic partnerships with were also carried out during 2011 for a SAP and Siemens; world leaders when it number of clients around the world, comes to sustainable business solutions. including: Symrise, ASK Chemicals, Akzo “We believe that IT is a key engine for Nobel and DyStar. sustainable growth and progress for companies, organizations and society at We have also helped clients with health, large, and strive to become a ‘Firm of the education, energy and transport solutions. Future,’” said Philippe Mareine, EVP General In Germany for example, we have started Secretary, Corporate and Social projects and implemented solutions in the Responsibility at Atos. “That’s why our field of smart metering, Commercial partnership with SAP is so significant. Our Dispatching for Gas Transport and Storage shared vision [with SAP] to improve the (CDGTS), Demand Side Management sustainability of both our internal operations (DESIMA), Energy4U (Siemens initiative) and and those of our customers is perfectly Ready4EnWG (preparation for customers on matched. With SAP solutions, we can upcoming law relevant to the energy proactively monitor and manage Atos’ key industry — EnWG), with a total revenue of environmental and social indicators across EUR 13,196,000 from these projects. In our sites worldwide, so we can accelerate our addition, we have started a consulting strategic commitments to green operations project in Germany with Siemens in the field and employees’ well-being at work.” of Intelligent Sustainability for the selection A good example of client activity in this area of a CSR reporting tool [AO7]. is the work undertaken with the Ministry of Infrastructure & Environment in the The Atos offering enables clients to Netherlands, a large-scale consumer of transform towards Sustainable Business. In energy with over 5,000 energy metering 2011 Atos provided a total of 4,182.64 tons of points (gas, water, electricity and heat). CO2e reduction on customers’ carbon These metering points are not only in footprint through several initiatives in relation to energy consumed in offices, Germany and UK [EN26]. but also in tunnels, water pumping stations, sluices, public lighting, etc. Atos supports Furthermore, 58 initiatives directly linked to the Ministry in the realization of sustainable Cloud Computing were implemented at our energy management by implementing: clients worldwide [AO4]. 74 Your business technologists. Powering progress Infrastructure (the places, technology and As a result, it combines carbon reduction and Infrastructure — equipment) utilized to run operations are economic performance. Ensuring a sustainable often seen as constraining In 2009, Atos applied the Ambition Carbon IT infrastructure transformational change. Yet, if the right Free approach to its own IT infrastructure as for our clients approaches are taken, the estates, part of its world-wide carbon audit program. technology platforms and embedded More information on this program can be equipment can yield opportunities to assist found in the “Environmental Commitment” and even catalyze transformational change. section of this report. Examples of sustainable infrastructure solutions are: Green IT HTTS – Atos is a world leader in providing Atos works in partnership with its clients the infrastructure to run transaction to sustainably manage their IT estates where services in sustainable ways. feasible. In the UK, for example, Green IT – To ensure that the IT function it successfully helped HM Revenue and runs as sustainably as possible, Atos Customs (HMRC) to achieve the provides solutions ranging from Green Government’s 10% reduction in carbon Data Centers and carbon-neutral hosting emissions target. services through to Green IT Assessments. Ambition Carbon Free – Atos has a unique Atos worked with HMRC to develop and offer to measure, manage, reduce and implement its Green IT strategy, the results of offset the carbon footprint of aspects of its which significantly contributed to the 13.8% clients’ infrastructure. cut in carbon emissions across Government Smart Grid – Atos provides building between 2010 and 2011. monitoring energy management, smart Key to success was the fact that HMRC took metering and distributed automation true ownership for the Green IT strategy solutions. developed with Atos and tested the feasibility of the plans and the assumptions which HTTS & Smart Mobility underpinned it at every stage of its In 2011, Atos worked to deliver Connected development. To ensure the sustainability Car solutions for new cars for leading targets were met, Atos submitted over 200 European car makers. Mixing Smart green ideas. To monitor progress of these, Atos Mobility technologies and in-depth Car ICT created a unique ‘green IT model’. knowledge, Atos has contributed to improve This allows HMRC to baseline its IT carbon the usage of electric cars and their footprint and then calculate how new Green integration within towns and cities (search IT initiatives will help to meet target carbon & book energy stations, remote control reductions. of the battery charging status, etc.). Atos is Giles Hutchins, Global Director of an innovator actor in this field with its Sustainability Solutions at Atos said: participation in funding initiatives like “Much of the success of this engagement Carga (a solution for the management and came as the result of exceptionally close supervision of networks of recharge points working between us and the client. HMRC has for Electrical Vehicles), eDash (aimed at the one of the largest IT estates in the world. The harmonization of electricity demand in opportunity to make their IT estate greener is Smart Grids for sustainable integration of immense. Helping our clients, like HMRC, electric vehicles), and Green eMotion over-achieve on their sustainability goals is a (Electromobility interoperability). Joint key part of our innovative approach to solutions with Atos’ co-innovation partner sustainability solutions globally. We are Siemens for road-tolling and car sharing thrilled to have played a part in HMRC were developed in 2011. Atos continued achieving this remarkable result.” throughout 2011 to improve its mParking solution to reduce time and energy looking Smart energy management for free street parking places (with Atos Worldgrid is a world leader in Smart significant CO2 savings). Energy and Utilities (electricity, oil & gas and water, etc.) focused on smart energy solutions Ambition Carbon Free around production, transport, distribution Ambition Carbon Free enables companies and retail to enable businesses to achieve to realize the benefits of carbon energy efficiencies and increase sustainability, performance management on company while improving operational performance. profitability. The solution has been designed Here smart grid and smart meter technologies to help companies, small or large, from all are an important part sectors, to build an efficient carbon program. of the transformation towards a more The solution is designed to help companies sustainable future. More information on this identify levers that can both reduce carbon program can be found in the “Environmental emissions and achieve energy efficiencies. Commitment” section of this report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 75 The world’s first smart metering information for both the general public and technology medical experts. Through this system, For the first time in the world, an intelligent Internet users will be able to search and computer system allows full interoperability access reliable health information in their and interchangeability of different metering local language, generated from various equipment from different manufacturers. medical information sources (scientific In 2011, Atos Worldgrid delivered the Linky publications, image banks, pharmaceutical Information System with an Automated databases, etc.). Meter Management system split between a central Information System and a unique Towards a sustainable health lifecycle Decentralized Universal Head-End software system in smart data concentrators. The Linky Atos has long-term experience in providing system is designed as ‘Smart Grid Ready’. IT services to the healthcare sector, Smart Data Concentrators will become including with Atos Healthcare in the UK, Smart Grid Nodes, allowing Advanced a division of Atos, that combines our Distribution Automation, by combining expertise in consulting, technology and the strengths of Smart Metering and of healthcare to improve the way care is Distribution Automation. delivered. Key benefits of the solution – We believe that through the use of IT, sustainability, increased customer significant progress can be achieved service, cost reduction regarding life quality improvements, despite Interoperability, real-time IT supervision, the current challenges (an ageing Atos’ Green IT strategy future-proof, fully downloadable software population, increasing demands on, and for HMRC in the UK and firmware the cost of, healthcare). We are present along contributed to the 13.8% ROI improvement based on the whole value chain and our state of the interoperability and interchangeability, art solutions include: cut in carbon emissions remote operations and additional future Improved cost management for hospitals across Government Smart Grid functions Facilitating exchanges between the between 2010 and 2011. Customer satisfaction due to increased various stakeholders of the healthcare service levels (precise bills, remote meter system and professionals management operations, improved Delivering effective occupational health, competition and faster localization and employee assistance and well-being service restoration), better visibility on services. energy consumption and sustainable effects. Zero email™ [A010] On 7th February 2011 the Atos Chairman and Jérôme de Parscau, CEO Atos Worldgrid CEO Thierry Breton stated “We are said: “Atos has a strategy of innovation and producing data on a massive scale that is sustainable development with its fast polluting our working environments customers and implements solutions today and also encroaching into our personal that are ready for the Firm of the Future. I lives. am very proud to be working with ERDF on At Atos, we are taking action now to reverse the world’s first smart metering project and this trend, just as organizations took would like to congratulate ERDF on the measures to reduce environmental success of the pilot run. Atos Worldgrid has pollution after the industrial revolution. Our an international presence and we aim to ambition is to be a Zero email CompanyTM offer our smart metering expertise to other within three years.” customers in the utility sector. With the successful deployment in France, Atos In the year since that announcement Atos Worldgrid demonstrates its know-how and has worked with industry and internal sets a reference for Europe and the rest of experts to form a point of view which will the world.” guide the strategy it employs to address the problem of email overload for its workforce. Increasing online accessibility This is established in the White Paper to medical information entitled The Zero email CompanyTM Atos has developed and coordinates the released in February 2012 which focuses on integration of all of the elements of the describing the email problem and Khresmoi (the Greek word for ‘oracles’) suggesting the kind of technology options European project. Khresmoi aims to available to organisations who wish to develop a multi-lingual multi-modal search address the inbox overload experienced by and access system for biomedical their employees. A limited survey information and documents. This increases online accessibility to reliable medical 76 Your business technologists. Powering progress completed to support this white paper days per employee with email per year, revealed the following findings which also assuming each mailbox maps to one vindicate Mr Breton’s comments. individual employee. Before Atos can implement appropriate The Zero emailTM Program will take the tooling for this purpose, it must first select marker of 1 billion emails as an initial and contract with a best of breed baseline to validate, segment and then technology partner whose expertise is to measure progress through its new measure email telemetry and usage. This automated tooling. search was initiated in January 2012. Secondly Atos must comply with data A key objective of the Firm of the Future is protection legislation in the 48 countries to encourage change in behavior, processes within which it operates and then reach and systems so that the entire business is appropriate consensus and agreements focused on understanding and reducing its with its workforce where consultation is impact on the environment around it, and necessary or advisable. This process is evolving to a business which is resilient and planned to take place before the end of sustainable. Attraction and retention of June 2012. talent through encouraging a collaborative working environment is a key part of this. Until KPI tooling is automated Atos can only This is what we aim to achieve both estimate the volumes of email generated internally and with our clients. manually. Such collected data suggest that there are approximately 60,000 active mailboxes within Atos globally and that between June and December 2011, 557 million emails were recorded through those known mailboxes – an annualised total of over 1 billion emails, representing approximately 70 emails sent or received per mailbox per working day based on a working day assumption of 240 working Atos also provides thought leadership collaboration on sustainable business with Partnerships through its joint work with leading a number of leading universities. Also in 2011, for sustainable universities, charities, think tanks, Atos released its ‘Simplicity & Control’ report business regulators and business partners. For as part of its Scientific Community example, Atos’ unique partnership with BCI: commitment to thought leadership and Biomimicry for Creative Innovation helps emerging IT trends related to IT-enabled apply ecological thinking for business transformation. transformation, building on concepts such as cradle-to-cradle, industrial ecology, Along with our SAP partnership on biomimicry, process re-engineering, Sustainability Solutions, in 2011 we formed a servitization and systems-thinking. unique co-innovation partnership with Whilst Atos is first and foremost about Siemens, a world leader in execution solutions, we recognize that engagement systems for operational excellence & at a thought leadership level is vitally sustainable business. The Siemens and SAP important to ensure solutions deliver the partnerships aligned to sustainability desired results. solutions ensure Atos provides world leading expertise in sustainable business solutions, In 2011 Atos proactively engaged in thoughtensuring our clients can transform to Firms leadership for sustainable business. Blogs of the Future. were written for a number of sustainability discussion groups (such as The Guardian Sustainable Business & Tomorrow’s Company blogs ) as well as guest lecturing and joint « Our ambition is to be a Zero email CompanyTM within three years » Thierry Breton, Atos Chairman and CEO Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 77 Corporate Governance Our approach to sustainable management Zero non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Launch of training program on the Atos Code of Ethics. Zero issues registered relative to breach of customer privacy and loss of data. Atos firmly believes that ethics in business Independence of corporate bodies Best practice is a key element for success. Over the last few The Afep-Medef Code places great in Corporate Governance years, and as part of its continuous importance on the necessity of having commitment towards corporate governance independent members on the Board best practices, the Group has designed and of Directors and recommends at least half implemented several decisions, policies of the Board to be independent Directors. and procedures in order to establish The company fully complies with these common practices and standardized independence requirements. methods ensuring integrity in business. As at December 23, 2008, the percentage Governance framework of independent members was as follows: Atos is a French Société Anonyme listed on • 58% of the Board of Directors the Paris stock exchange, and governed since • 100% of the Nomination and Remuneration February 10, 2009, by a Board of Directors Committee and a Chairman and CEO. • 60% of the Audit Committee. As part of its continuous commitment Censor and Reference Directors towards corporate governance best Ms. Colette Neuville’s appointment as practices, on December 31, 2011 the Board ‘Censor’ was renewed during the June 1, 2011 of Directors formally expressed its General Meeting of Shareholders for a term adherence to the Afep-Medef Code of of one year. The Censor acts as an observer Corporate Governance for listed companies at meetings of Directors and can be as a baseline reference code and committed consulted by it. In order to fulfill her role itself to comply with all these Ms. Neuville is invited to participate recommendations. in all Board meetings. In addition to the decision to appoint Since then, a session dedicated to corporate a Censor, in 2009 the Board of Directors governance matters takes place regularly decided to appoint a Reference Director during the Board of Directors meetings. from amongst its independent members. A yearly review of the implementation As from the Board’s meeting of December 22, and compliance with the Afep-Medef 2011, the Reference Director of the Board recommendations is also carried out, on of Directors is Mr. Pasquale Pistorio. which the company communicates at year The Board of Directors can assign specific end. governance-related tasks to the Reference The last review, performed, by the Board Director. As an illustration, the yearly of Directors on December 22, 2010, assessment of the Board’s mission is confirmed the company’s compliance managed under the responsibility with the Afep-Medef recommendations. of the Reference Director. His role is to ensure continuous commitment and the application Representation of women of best corporate governance standards at Board level [A06] by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is today composed of 16% of women, and 23% including the censor member. In the Executive Committee, 6% of the members are women. The topics of diversity and representation of women within the Board of Directors were considered by the company before Afep-Medef issued its recommendation in April 2010 and before relevant law was adopted in France in relation to representation of women within Boards of Directors. Atos fully complies with this recommendation and with the applicable law in France. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 79 Since July 1, 2011, a new General Counsel financial reporting may constitute fraud and Ethics in business [S08, PR8] has been in charge of Legal Compliance and are thus forbidden: they may lead to Legal Regulatory, reporting to the Group sanctions from Atos. Deputy General Counsel Compliance Legal In 2011, the Group reported zero significant(1) & General Matters. In July 2010, Atos signed fines or non-monetary sanctions for up to the United Nations Global Compact, non-compliance with laws and regulations demonstrating its commitment to the ten [SO8]. universally agreed principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, Atos is aware of the number of substantiated environment protection and anti-corruption. complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data (PR8). On October 12, 2010, the Board of Directors In 2011, Atos had a total of 18 Customers’ adopted a new version of the Atos Code complaints regarding this topic. of Ethics, covering more issues than the 13 complaints were for breach of previous version (adopted in 2003). Since confidentiality in the UK, 1 complaint in India November 2010, the Code of Ethics has been regarding project data leakage, and 3 distributed to all employees and is presented complaints in Atos Worldline because and explained to those who are more statement letters were sent to the wrong directly concerned with its content in their persons. day-to-day activities. Training was widely deployed in the Group during 2011 and Intermediaries or consultants assisting Atos all staff who underwent the training signed in developing its business are screened an acknowledgement of receipt stating their before any relationship starts and their commitment to abide by the Code of Ethics. behavior and knowledge of ethics are The Code was also attached to all essential elements which are verified employment contracts dated as from beforehand. January 1, 2011. Ethics and integrity are the basic elements of The Code is also shared with suppliers and our main Group policies such as those partners who are asked to commit to regarding accounting or authorizations for respecting its principles. signature. Monitoring, reporting and auditing help ensure that the principles are known Professional integrity within Atos and in and implemented by all. its relations with third parties is the core of the Code of Ethics. Among other issues, In 2011, training sessions on the Code of professional integrity covers the following: Ethics were given by Atos General Counsels • No bribery, no corruption: Atos is totally in all parts of the world where Atos is against any form of corruption or dishonest established. This type of training is or illegal practice with the aim of obtaining mandatory for top managers and for a commercial advantage or other such all persons considered as ‘core target’ advantage, whether directly or indirectly or who are concerned in their day-to-day (i.e. in case of assistance of intermediaries), professional activities with the content in any country, and is also against any form of the code. It is also open to all other of money laundering. employees and around 2,050 people • Fair competition: Atos treats its customers, followed a training session during 2011. suppliers, partners and intermediaries with Other tools were available to all employees respect and will not take unfair advantage in the second half of 2011 to ensure the of, nor take part directly or indirectly in correct implementation of these integrity an agreement, understanding or concerted principles in our day-to-day activities. practice which would contravene the In total, 53% of employees in the target group applicable laws and regulations concerning worldwide were trained in the Atos code anti-competitive practices. of Ethics [S03]. • Conflict of interest: decisions taken by Atos employees within their professional activity are taken objectively and impartially in the interest of Atos and not in the employee’s own interest, whether financial or personal, whether material or immaterial. • No fraud: misappropriation of resources or manipulation of data or assets, or wrong (1) Any fine above € 100,000 is considered a ‘significant fine’. 80 Your business technologists. Powering progress The protection of human rights has long fairly regardless of gender, age, religion, Human rights been a part of Atos policy. It was first disability or sexual orientation, with only 15% formalized in our 2003 Code of Ethics and in believing the contrary. the Group values, and has been reaffirmed since then. The 2010 Code of Ethics confirms A commitment to respect human rights that Atos will always take decisions based is also among the criteria we apply for on competences without consideration the selection of suppliers. for nationality, sex, age, handicap or any 85% other distinctive trait. Participating in the UN Global Compact, in which two of its principles relate to human rights, is another of Atos staff consider people way of showing how Atos is willing to ensure are treated fairly at Atos such protection. In the latest summary regardless of their race launched at the beginning of 2011, 77% of ethnicity. of respondents indicate that staff are treated Atos’ assets (including tools information, employee of The Group. The Group’s main Protection of assets [A03] intellectual property, financial equity and certifications regarding security include: PCI hardware) are protected and should only be DSS (cardholder data protection), ISAE 3402 used for conducting Atos business. (in Germany and in Belgium) and ISO 27001 (in Germany). The Code of Ethics reminds all employees of the mandatory use of this according to the In addition, Atos has put in place measures Group’s guidelines and that information and policies to protect its intellectual reported or shared with third parties must property assets and confidential information, always be accurate. It completes the Atos including, but not limited to, the use of Security policies. confidential agreements and encryption and logical and physical protection of The Group Security organization information where required. Furthermore, encompasses the protection of all Atos the Atos Legal and Compliance Department assets. advises on all commercial transactions as to Atos’ Information Security Management ensure that appropriate provisions are System (ISMS), built in 2001, continues to included in its contracts with customers and be enforced and extended across all GBUs, suppliers and confidential matters are SBUs and Service Lines. The security appropriately dealt with and in compliance organization is aligned with this continuous with applicable laws. process. In 29 countries in which Atos is located, large ISO 27001 perimeters are Atos’ financial transactions system certified, and Atos continues to extend its securitization business unit, Atos Worldline, certifications to new perimeters countries. which operates the card payment systems Atos thus enforces its information risk that process, on a daily basis, billions of management and better protects financial transactions on behalf of several customers’ information assets and its own banks, merchants and other parties. SEPA information assets. In 2011, the Group (Single Euro Payment Area) has been an registered zero issues relative to breach important driver to globalize our processing of customer privacy and loss of data. (issuing and acquiring) platforms which leads to the ability to deliver global, In all processes (change, configuration, patch, cross-border, standardized, customized incident management, etc.), security is a technical solutions & customer services. The recurring attention point. Technical payment terminal suite designed, sold, and measures are in place to act proactively on maintained by Atos Worldline has integrated security anomalies (weekly security watch the multi acquiring requirements laid down analysis, monthly monitoring of firewall by the SEPA initiative to enable configurations, quarterly vulnerability scans, interoperability between different cardyearly penetration tests and reviews of based payment systems. access rights, continuous intrusion detection systems, and monitoring and logging of Together with this globalization, financial system events). All these measures minimize transaction systems require the highest the misuse of card holder data. level of security, availability and reliability. Providing a continuous service to our clients, Continuous security awareness ensures that based on robust systems, while maintaining security becomes a concern of every a high level of security at all levels, is a daily Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 81 concern of Atos Worldline management. In 2011, following the merger with Siemens IT Security is embedded in Atos Worldline’s Solutions and Services, a transition process DNA: its organization, processes, technical was deployed to perform a top-down risk systems and employees. assessment, which has been presented to the Board of Directors (Audit Committee). Atos Enterprise Risk Management Corporate Responsibility and Climate (ERM) [EC2] change have been added to the list of 25 risks ERM designates the processes used to identified as relevant for the company. manage risks (and opportunities) related to Corporate Responsibility /climate change the achievement of business objectives. risk definition Atos ERM helps to: The risk that expectations of stakeholders – Create and preserve company’s value, (customers, business partners, employees, assets and reputation, public entities, non-governmental – Secure decision-making and the organizations and society) regarding company’s processes to attain its objectives corporate / environmental responsibility are – Promote the consistency of the not met, impacting reputation and the ability company’s action with its values to do business in certain areas. – Bring the company’s employees together behind a shared vision of the main risks. Atos’ Corporate Responsibility program, part The Corporate Responsibility Office is a Corporate Responsibility of the Group’s TOP (Total Operational global entity under the responsibility of the Performance) program, is overseen by the Executive Vice President General Secretary, Group’s General Secretary reporting directly composed of an international team of to the Chief Executive Officer, Thierry around 15 people including 11 global business Breton. unit heads of corporate responsibility as well as service The Corporate Responsibility program is part line representatives. of The Atos Wellbeing@work ambition and part of TOP Program scope, the global The Corporate Responsibility office holds transformation and integration process weekly calls and meets monthly, either on of the Group, aiming to be recognized as one a physical or virtual basis in order to discuss of the best companies to work for. In this strategic decisions and the implementation respect, the Wellbeing@work initiative is of follow-up actions. Specific bi-annual composed of 9 global projects out of a total specific reviews are performed by the Group of 30 for the TOP2 Program. Executive Committee. Group overview of governance structure Reporting Core team Extended team monthly Sponsors weekly workshops reporting Sustainability Global Performance (Spain Country and Global lines Management Global Communications) Representatives ISO 14001 GCE Carbon Reporting United Kingdom TOP2 Program Social Responsibility Sustainability Training India (the Netherlands USA, Latin America Members Spain) Central and Eastern Europe, Northand Southwest Europe, Asia and the Pacific Atos Worldline Wellbeing@work Environmental Global Managed Services Members Commitment (France) Global Factory Global Human Resources Global Procurement Global Finance Business Development Global Markets 82 Your business technologists. Powering progress Information about the Report section of the report. It states which subjects units and the corporate consolidations. Scope of the Report have been considered applicable and then Thus the results obtained are considered as included in the report, or not applicable with a first baseline for the Atos Group after the reasons for their exclusion. The required integration of Siemens IT Solutions and profile information and an overview of the Services, enabling a first measurement of management approach for each indicator sustainability data on some of the countries category is also provided. of the new worldwide perimeter. Atos plans to communicate on its complete worldwide Reporting scope for the indicators perimeter in the year 2012. This report only resulting from the materiality study includes data from entities that are fully Atos obtains its Corporate Responsibility owned or majority owned and from those (CR) data from internal measurement and joint ventures where Atos has a controlling from external sources (third parties). Data interest with respect to corporate relating to subcontractors are not reported responsibility. here, but can be found in the Annual Report. On the basis of this context, the scope of the For the year 2011, following to the merger indicators varies on the 2011 reporting with Siemens IT Solutions and Services, the period. The table on the pages 86 to 92 Group is organized as follows: specifies the scope associated to each • APAC: Asia Pacific including Australia, communicated indicator. This chapter describes the scope of 2011 China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Atos’ Corporate Responsibility Report and Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Reporting tool the guidelines on which it is based. It also Indonesia; Atos’ Sustainability Office is the contact point addresses how Atos reports according to • CEE: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech for questions regarding the Report and globally-accepted reporting standards, and Republic, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, includes representatives from each GBU and the process used to obtain the information Slovakia, Turkey; Service Line. Representatives are presented in this report. • BENELUX: The Netherlands, Belgium, responsible for collecting and documenting Luxembourg; the required data and for collecting the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • FRANCE; evidence. guidelines • GERMANY; The report is set up according to the Global • IBERIA: Portugal, Spain, Andorra. The data are gathered through global tools Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, • IMEA: India, Morocco, South Africa, Egypt, and various questionnaires. Most of LA a worldwide standard for reporting on UAE; indicators data have been extracted from Corporate Responsibility. GRI defines 79 • LATAM (Latin America): Argentina, Brazil, a Group HR tool (Nessie people). The other Performance Indicators clustered into Chile, Colombia, Mexico; part of these LA data has been collected 6 categories (economic, environment, labour • UK&I: The United Kingdom and Ireland; from the countries via a questionnaire. Some practices & decent work, human rights, • NAM (North America): Canada, USA; other indicators have also been collected society, product responsibility). This report • N&SWE: Denmark, Finland and the Baltics, at Group level. The rest of indicators have is prepared in accordance with the reporting Greece, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland; been collected from the GBUs via three criteria and guidelines of the A+ application • The Service Line ATOS WORLDLINE: questionnaires, one for calculating the full level of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). French, German, Belgian, Indian and carbon footprint one for the social Luxembourg subsidiaries; contribution, and another for the rest Atos is committed to transparent and public • ATOS WORLDGRID: China, France, Spain; of the GRI indicators. Figures are presented reporting on sustainability. This report • CORPORATE: France, Germany, in a relative way (using percentages and covers the period from January 1, 2011 to Netherlands, Switzerland; ratios), unless the reporting protocol requires December 31, 2011 in a comparable period • MAJOR EVENTS: France, Russia, Spain, absolute figures to be disclosed. (one year) to the previous 2010 report. In United Kingdom. term of scope, due to the merger with All the procedures, templates and final Siemens IT Solutions and Services on July 1, As the merger with Siemens IT Solutions and data are stored on the Atos Intranet (Livelink 2011, the geographical perimeter has Services took place on 1st July 2011, Atos Global Tool) with worldwide access. changed compared to 2010. Detailed Group scope for 2011 contains: explanations are provided in the ‘Scope of • H1 (first semester) Data related to the former In 2011, Atos launched the implementation of Key Performance Indicators’ section. Atos Origin Scope; the SAP Sustainability Performance • H2 (second semester) Data related to the Management as a new Global Tool to Process for defining report content new Atos perimeter, integrating Siemens IT facilitate the gathering of information, global The selection of the KPIs is aligned with Atos Solutions and Services; workflows, validations, exploitation and business strategy and based on a materiality • 2011 Full year data: H1 + H2 data related to visualization of KPIs results. 5 Indicators assessment. Corporate Responsibility real scope of operations and aligned with have been implemented in pilot in main strategy includes a prioritization of topics financial reporting. regions, Atos’ challenge is to report for the full which is an essential requirement for our 2012 year within the new tool worldwide. performance dashboard and internal project The impact of the merger (48,000 => 74,000 follow up. employees, € 5.1 => € 8.7 billion — pro-forma Carbon footprint assessment 2010), has made 2011 reporting process methodology The GRI table index can be found in this specially challenging for all the business Based on the GHG protocol, Atos measures 84 Your business technologists. Powering progress its own emissions considering the three Detailed information related to LA7 ‘classes’ of emissions sources identified Lost working hours used for the calculation in the GHG Protocol, relevant to assessing of this indicator include both sickness and and reporting the GHG emissions of entities. maternity. • Scope 1 emissions: Those are the emissions Detailed information related to LA12 directly arising from sources associated As ex-Siemens IT Solutions and Services with the subject, principally from the employees were not part of the same following types of activities: the combustion performance management tool in 2011, we of fuels for the generation of electricity, heat, do not have data concerning performance or steam; processing and/or manufacturing management for these people. We therefore of materials or chemicals; transportation in considered them out of scope. company owned/controlled mobile combustion sources; and fugitive emissions Detailed information related to LA14 of refrigerant gases as a result of cooling As the merger with Siemens IT Solutions and plant failures. Services happened in 2011, we do not have all the information concerning GCM for • Scope 2 emissions: Those are the emissions ex-Siemens IT Solutions and Services indirectly attributable to the subject from employees. the generation of purchased electricity, Due to legal reasons (work council heat, steam or cooling that is consumed in agreements or law restrictions), we do not owned or controlled equipment or have the salaries for some employees in operations. our system. As a result, we decided to consider the ones • Scope 3 emissions: Those are selected other that have no GCM or salaries as out of scope. indirect emissions. The most common examples are emissions from transport Detailed information related to HR2 related activities. All active suppliers assessed since the launch of this project have been considered The conversion factors used are based on for the calculation of this indicator. the DEFRA publications. Detailed information related to SO8 Detailed information related to EC6 Any fine above €100,000 is considered For Atos, locally sourced suppliers are a ‘significant fine’. mainly subcontractors, real estate, facilities management, some professional services, Detailed information related to AO2 telecom , some software suppliers (for This indicator is only based on the Great example if Atos buys Microsoft products in Place to Work surveys. the USA), very few hardware suppliers (they are often Japanese or from the USA), Detailed information related to AO4 maintenance (if there is a local third party The verified scope of this indicator includes provider), human resources , utilities, only external initiatives which are registered postage, healthcare & medical (UK only). Not in the internal financial system with their locally sourced categories are software (SAP, associated external revenue. Oracle, etc.), hardware (Dell, HP, etc.), fleet (Arval/ Leaseplan), banking & insurance and Detailed information related to LA13/AO6 outsourcing to shared service centers. Due to legal reasons (work council agreements), we do not have the job family Detailed information related to EC7 for some employees in our system. As a As the merger with Siemens IT Solutions and result, we decided to consider them as out Services happened in 2011, we do not have of scope. all the information concerning GCM or nationalities for ex-Siemens IT Solutions Detailed information related to PR5 and Services employees. As a result, we We have included some assumptions decided to consider the ones that have no and techniques for underlying estimations GCM or no known nationality applied to the compilation of the Indicators as out of scope. and other information in the specific KPIs. For example, in KPI PR5, we have converted Detailed information related to LA KPIs the GBUs reported score of customer Due to legal reasons (work council satisfaction to a homogenous percentage agreements or law restrictions), we do not independent from the scale used. yet have the data of Russia and Corporate Germany in our system. As a result, we decided to consider them as out of scope. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 85 SCOPE OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope APAC (China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, a) Sum of all Singapore, Taiwan) *For a: activities BENELUX (The Netherlands) ATOS WORLDLINE performed by FRANCE Funding for Social IMEA (India), Atos Origin to GERMANY Communities UK&I (The United Kingdom) charity a) 84,599€ ✓ IBERIA (Spain) EC1 (Donations to apart from the Million Maker charity & Comercial b) Sum of b) 552 employees ✓ initiative IMEA (India, Morocco, South employees Africa) initiatives) participating to LATAM (Brazil) *For b: the initiatives UK&IR (The United Kingdom) ATOS WORLDLINE (EC1&EC8) NAM (USA) N&SWE (Italy, Switzerland) ATOS WORLDLINE APAC (China) BENELUX (Belgium, Luxembourg) Direct Financial GERMANY Financial assistance assistance / ATOS WORLDLINE (France, IBERIA (Spain) EC4 5,117,300 € ✓ from governments subsidies received Belgium) IMEA (India, Morocco, South from governments Africa) N&SWE (Italy) ATOS WORLDLINE (France, Belgium) Germany: No local minimum wage ✓ France: 2.01% ✓ Belgium: 7.98% ✓ Luxembourg: 29.44% ✓ Netherlands: 8.18% ✓ Ireland: 29.56% ✓ United Kingdom: 0.78% ✓ Worldine Belgium: 3.73% ✓ Worldline France: 8.69% ✓ Worldline Germany: No local minimum wage ✓ Worldline India: No local minimum wage ✓ Worldline Luxembourg: 66.42% ✓ Austria: 0% ✓ Bulgaria: 193.94% ✓ Croatia: 115.97% ✓ Czech Republic: 0% ✓ Poland: 0% ✓ APAC (Australia, Hong Kong, APAC (Australia, Hong Kong, Romania: 971.43% ✓ Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Serbia: 0% ✓ Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovakia: 358.72% ✓ CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Turkey: 15.21% ✓ Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Andorra: 106.30% ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Portugal: 242.78% ✓ Turkey) BENELUX Spain: 38.80% ✓ BENELUX FRANCE Comparison of the Major Events France: 384.28% ✓ FRANCE GERMANY entry level wage GERMANY Major Events Russia: 1964.75% ✓ IBERIA Minimum wage to the local IBERIA EC5 Major Events Spain: 182.88% ✓ IMEA comparison minimum wage IMEA Major Events UK: 40.22% ✓ LATAM (Argentina, Brazil) (percentage of LATAM (Argentina, Brazil) variation). Greece: 87.66% ✓ UK&I UK&I Italy: 38.35% ✓ NAM NAM Switzerland: No local minimum wage ✓ N&SWE (Greece, Italy, N&SWE (Greece, Italy, Australia: 69.69% ✓ Switzerland) Switzerland) Hong Kong: 20.97% ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDGRID Indonesia : No local minimum wage ✓ ATOS WORLDGRID MAJOR EVENTS Japan: 136.72% ✓ MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, Malaysia : No local minimum wage ✓ CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) Philippines: 48.37% ✓ Netherlands, Switzerland) Taiwan: 55.75% ✓ Thailand: 167.33% ✓ India : No local minimum wage ✓ Morocco: 100.91% ✓ South Africa: No local minimum wage ✓ United Arab Emirates : 0% ✓ Canada: 57.56% ✓ USA: 19.18% ✓ Argentina: 19.88% ✓ Brazil: 0% ✓ Worldgrid China: 653.97% ✓ Worldgrid France: 51.95% ✓ Wordlgrid Spain: 94.89% ✓ Corporate France: 61.43% ✓ Corporate Netherlands: 131.30% ✓ Corporate Switzerland: No local minimum wage ✓ ✓ Data verified by KPMG. 86 Your business technologists. Powering progress Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope APAC APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Turkey) BENELUX BENELUX a) Number of FRANCE FRANCE national senior GERMANY GERMANY manager divided IBERIA IBERIA by total number of a) 95.14% ✓ IMEA IMEA senior managers LATAM LATAM EC7 Local hiring in the country/ b) 94.40% ✓ UK&I UK&I GBU. c) 92.43% ✓ NAM NAM b) Percentage of N&SWE N&SWE local employee ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE c) Percentage of ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID local recruitment MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) Excluding for a : 7,730 Excluding for a : 7,730 employees with missing GCM employees with missing GCM in Nessie in Nessie APAC (Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan) CEE (Austria(1), Bulgaria(2), Serbia) APAC (Hong Kong, Malaysia, BENELUX (Netherlands) Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan) a) Tons of FRANCE(3) CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Serbia) recycled/FSC/PSC GERMANY(3) BENELUX (Netherlands) paper used in the IBERIA (Spain) FRANCE reporting year IMEA (India, Morocco)(3) GERMANY b) Tons of other a) 277.46 t ✓ LATAM (Brazil) IBERIA (Spain) EN1 Office paper used paper used in the b) 91.72 t ✓ UK&I(3) IMEA (India, Morocco) reporting year N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, LATAM (Brazil) (including paper Greece, Italy) UK&I of which the ATOS WORLDLINE (France, N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, source is Germany, Belgium) Greece, Italy) unknown) ATOS WORLDLINE (France, (1) ex-ATOS ORIGIN employees Germany, Belgium) only (2) ex-SIS employees only (3) ATOS employees APAC (Australia, China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia) BENELUX (Belgium, The Netherlands) CEE (Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Turkey) FRANCE Direct Energy GERMANY b) Gas purchased by EN3 Consumption (DCs b) 2,037 G ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium) IBERIA (Portugal, Spain) Atos & Offices) IMEA (India, Morocco, United Arab) NAM (Canada, USA) N&SWE (Denmark, Greece, Italy, Sweden) LATAM (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico) UK&IR (The United Kingdom) WORLDLINE (Belgium, France, Germany) APAC (Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) BENELUX (Belgium, Netherlands) CEE (Austria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) APAC (Hong Kong(1)) FRANCE FRANCE Indirect Energy GERMANY UK&I EN4 Consumption (DCs b) Electricity b) 880,412 GJ ✓ IBERIA (Portugal, Spain) ATOS WORLDLINE & Offices) IMEA (India, Morocco, South Africa, United Arab) (1) Datacenter “Mega” only NAM (Canada, USA) N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, Greece, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland) LATAM (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico) UK&IR (UK) WORLDLINE (Belgium, France, Germany) ✓ Data verified by KPMG. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 87 Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope APAC (Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) BENELUX (Belgium, Netherlands) CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Direct / Indirect Slovakia, Turkey) greenhouse gas FRANCE Direct / Indirect APAC (Hong Kong(1)) emission (DCs & GERMANY greenhouse gas ATOS WORLDLINE (Germany) EN16 Offices) 16,396.8 teq CO2 ✓ IBERIA (Portugal, Spain) emission (DCs & (scope 2 IMEA (India, Morocco, South Offices) (1) Datacenter “Mega” only emissions linked Africa, United Arab) to electricity only) NAM (Canada, USA) N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, Greece, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland) LATAM (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico) UK&IR (UK) WORLDLINE (Belgium, France, Germany) a) Number of initatives/projects related to a decrease of customers’ GHG BENELUX (Netherlands) a) 3 ✓ Customers’ GHG emissions; GERMANY FRANCE EN26 emissions savings b) GHG emissions UK&I GERMANY reduction b) 4,182.64 teq CO2 ✓ UK&IR (UK) obtained at customer company level (teq CO 2); APAC APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Turkey) BENELUX BENELUX The total FRANCE FRANCE workforce GERMANY GERMANY includes the legal Organizational IBERIA IBERIA staff, the Total Workforce: 82,483 ✓ LA1 workforce per IMEA IMEA headcount supervised Legal Staff: 72,570 ✓ LATAM LATAM workers and the UK&I UK&I external NAM NAM subcontractors N&SWE N&SWE ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) APAC APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Turkey) a) Number of BENELUX BENELUX employees FRANCE FRANCE leaving GERMANY GERMANY employment a) 8,519 ✓ IBERIA IBERIA b) Number of LA2 Employee Attrition b) 72,570 ✓ IMEA IMEA employees at end of reporting c) 11.74 % ✓ LATAM LATAM UK&I UK&I period NAM NAM c) Employees N&SWE N&SWE turnover in % ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) ✓ Data verified by KPMG. 88 Your business technologists. Powering progress Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope a) Atos employee APAC APAC stock ownership CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, plan Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, b) Employees a) Plan available for 14 countries covering 88% of the total Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, participating in staff ✓ Turkey) Turkey) risk benefit b) Death benefits: 97% of permanent, 87% of temporary ✓ BENELUX BENELUX arrangements Disability benefits: 94% of permanent, 85% of temporary ✓ FRANCE FRANCE c) Breakdown of Health care: 79% of permanent, 67% of temporary ✓ GERMANY GERMANY permanent c) Lump sum payment: 79% ✓ IBERIA IBERIA Benefits to LA3 workforce by form IMEA IMEA employees Annuity for spouse/children: 18% ✓ of death benefit LATAM LATAM payment None: 3% ✓ UK&I UK&I d) Breakdown of d) 3 times and above: 46% ✓ NAM NAM permanent 2-3 times: 26% ✓ N&SWE N&SWE workforce who is 1-2 times: 25% ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE entitled to a lump Less than 1 time: 4% ✓ ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID sum death benefit MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS by level of CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, benefits Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) APAC (Hong Kong, Japan, APAC (Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan) Singapore, Taiwan) CEE (Poland, Turkey) CEE (Poland, Turkey) a) Lost Working BENELUX BENELUX Hours a) 1 ,270,307.91 hours ✓ FRANCE FRANCE Lost working days / b) Total Workable GERMANY GERMANY LA7 b) 41,672,016.8 hours ✓ Absenteeism rate Hours IBERIA (Spain) IBERIA (Spain) c) Absenteeism c) 3.05% ✓ IMEA (Morocco) IMEA (Morocco) Rate UK&I (UK) UK&I (UK) NAM NAM MAJOR EVENTS (Spain, United MAJOR EVENTS (Spain, United Kingdom) Kingdom * for H1: ATOS ORIGIN * for H1: ATOS ORIGIN employees employees * for H2: ATOS employees from : * for H2: ATOS employees from : CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, a) Total number of Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, employees H1 & a) H1: 47,564 ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, H2 2011 Average training Turkey) Turkey) LA10 H2: 72,570 ✓ hours per employee BENELUX BENELUX c) Number of c) Total : 68,396 hours ✓ FRANCE FRANCE e-learning hours GERMANY GERMANY per key program IBERIA IBERIA IMEA IMEA UK&I UK&I NAM NAM ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE * for a: ATOS employees from: * for a: ATOS employees from: APAC APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Turkey) Number and BENELUX BENELUX percentage of FRANCE FRANCE total employees GERMANY GERMANY who received a IBERIA IBERIA Career formal a) 48.16% ✓ IMEA IMEA LA12 development performance monitoring appraisal and b) 73.46% ✓ LATAM LATAM UK&I UK&I review during the NAM NAM reporting period. N&SWE N&SWE a) for Atos Group, ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE b) for Atos Origin. ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) * for b: ATOS ORIGIN employees * for b: ATOS ORIGIN employees a) Audit: 0.41% ✓ Communication: 0.68% ✓ * for a, b, c: ATOS employees * for a, b, c: ATOS employees from: from: Customer Relations: 8.53% ✓ APAC APAC Finance: 3.11% ✓ CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Human Resources: 2.84% ✓ Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, a) Total number of ICT Support & Administration: 0.14 % ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Management TOP750 in each LA13 Legal Affairs: 1.35% ✓ Turkey) Turkey) diversity ratios job family Management: 59.13% ✓ BENELUX BENELUX Purchasing: 1.49% ✓ FRANCE FRANCE GERMANY GERMANY Service Delivery: 3.1% ✓ IBERIA IBERIA Systems Development and Maintenance: 0.81% ✓ IMEA IMEA Technical Advice and Consultancy: 2.30% ✓ LATAM LATAM Unknown: 16.10% ✓ ✓ Data verified by KPMG. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 89 Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope b) Percentage of female in the TOP750: 14.61% ✓ Percentage of male in the TOP750: 85.39% ✓ Percentage of French employees in the TOP750: 26% ✓ b) Number and Percentage of Dutch employees in the TOP750: 12% ✓ percentage of Percentage of British employees in the TOP750: 15.97% ✓ UK&I UK&I TOP750 per Percentage of German employees in the TOP750: 17% ✓ NAM NAM gender and Percentage of Spanish employees in the TOP750: 4% ✓ N&SWE N&SWE nationality ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE Percentage of Belgian employees in the TOP750: 3.92% ✓ c) Average age ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID LA13 and seniority per Percentage of Indian employees in the TOP750: 4% ✓ MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS GBU and gender Percentage of American employees in the TOP750: 3.65% ✓ CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, d) Promotion Percentage of Austrian employees in the TOP750: 3.38% ✓ Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) among the TOP750 per c) Average seniority: 12 years ✓ *for d : ATOS ORIGIN employees *for d : ATOS ORIGIN employees gender Average age: 46.28 years old ✓ d) Percentage of female that received a promotion: 28.07% ✓ Percentage of male that received a promotion: 34.94% ✓ a) Audit: 1.03 ✓ Communication: 0.72 ✓ Customer Relations: 0.73 ✓ Education & Training: 0.90 ✓ Facility Management: 0.76 ✓ APAC APAC Finance: 0.70 ✓ CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Human Resources: 0.81 ✓ Czech Republic, Poland, Czech Republic, Poland, ICT Support & Administration: 0.75 ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Legal Affairs: 0.79 ✓ Turkey) Turkey) Management: 0.81 ✓ BENELUX BENELUX a) Ratio of the Management and Office Support: 1.46 ✓ FRANCE FRANCE basic salary of GERMANY GERMANY Medical Services: 0.67✓ women to the IBERIA IBERIA basic salary of Policy, Planning and Research: 1.01 ✓ IMEA IMEA men for each job Purchasing: 0.66 ✓ LATAM LATAM family Quality: 0.80 ✓ UK&I UK&I Salary rate between LA14 b) Variation Risk Management: 0.81 ✓ NAM NAM men and women between the basic Service Delivery: 0.72 ✓ N&SWE N&SWE salary of women Systems Development and Maintenance: 0.84 ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDLINE and the basic ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID Technical Advice & Consultancy: 0.78 ✓ salary of men for MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS each GCM (Global Unknown: 0.82 ✓ CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Capability Model) b) GCM 0: -47% ✓ Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) GCM 1: -5% ✓ GCM 2: -11% ✓ Excluding for a, b, c, d : 9,384 Excluding for a, b, c, d : 9,384 GCM 3: -7% ✓ ex-SIS employees (missing ex-SIS employees (missing GCM 4: -7% ✓ salary) salary) and for c, d : 7,730 employees and for c, d : 7,730 employees GCM 5: -11% ✓ (missing GCM) (missing GCM) GCM 6: -9% ✓ GCM 7: -8% ✓ GCM 8: -6% ✓ GCM 9: -7% ✓ GCM 99:-11% ✓ APAC (Japan, Philippines, APAC (Japan, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia) Singapore, Taïwan) CEE (Austria, Serbia, Bulgaria, CEE (Austria, Serbia) Czech Republic, Poland) BENELUX (Netherlands) BENELUX (Netherlands) a) Number of GERMANY FRANCE Customer surveys fulfilled a) 1,149 ✓ IBERIA (Spain, Portugal) GERMANY PR5 satisfaction survey b) % customer b) 77% ✓ IMEA (India, Morocco) IBERIA (Spain) satisfaction LATAM (Brazil) IMEA (India, Morocco) UK&I (UK) LATAM (Brazil) N&SWE (Denmark, Greece, Italy, UK&IR (UK) Sweden, Switzerland) N&SWE (Denmark, Greece, Italy, ATOS WORLDLINE (Germany) Sweden, Switzerland) ATOS WORLDLINE (Germany) APAC CEE Total number of BENELUX substantiated FRANCE complaints GERMANY Customers´ regarding PR8 3✓ ATOS WORLDLINE IBERIA complaints breaches of IMEA customer privacy LATAM and losses of UK&IR customer data N&SWE ATOS WORLDLINE ✓ Data verified by KPMG. 90 Your business technologists. Powering progress Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope GERMANY (3) GERMANY(3) a) employees IBERIA (Spain(3)) IBERIA (Spain(3)) targeted in the IMEA (India(1)) IMEA (India(1)) GPTW survey LATAM (Brazil(1)) LATAM (Brazil(1)) b) employees UK&I (UK(1)) UK&I (UK(1)) answering GPTW a) 32,160 ✓ NAM (USA(3), Canada (3)) NAM (USA(3), Canada(3)) survey Employee N&SWE (Finland(3)) N&SWE (Finland(3)) AO2 c) % positive b) 16,471 ✓ Satisfaction ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium(3) ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium(3), answers to c) 39% ✓ India (3)) India(3))) “Taking everything into (1) ex-ATOS ORIGIN employees (1) ex-ATOS ORIGIN employees account, I would only only say this is a great (2) ex-SIS employees only (2) ex-SIS employees only place to work.” (3) ATOS employees (3) ATOS employees a) Number of APAC (Thailand) initiatives CEE (Austria, Slovakia, Bulgaria, regarding Cloud Slovenia) Computing BENELUX (Netherlands) development BENELUX (Netherlands) Cloud Computing a) 32 ✓ GERMANY AO4 b) Revenues IBERIA (Spain) projects with clients associated with b) 1,336,792 € ✓ N&SWE (Italy) IBERIA (Spain) UK&I initiatives N&SWE (Italy) regarding Cloud ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium, Computing France, Germany) development a) Audit: 0.6% ✓ Communication: 0.14% ✓ Customer Relations: 2.51% ✓ Education & Training: 0.15% ✓ Facility Management: 0.28% ✓ Finance: 1.95% ✓ Human Resources: 1.12% ✓ ICT Support & Administration: 1.19% ✓ * for a, b, c: ATOS employees Legal Affairs: 0.13% ✓ * for a, b, c: ATOS employees from: Management: 9.52% ✓ from: APAC Management and Office Support: 1.54% ✓ APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Medical Services: 1.51% ✓ CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, Policy, Planning & Research: 0.03% ✓ Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Purchasing: 0.41% ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) Quality: 0.48% ✓ Turkey) BENELUX Risk Management: 0.05% ✓ BENELUX FRANCE Service Delivery: 33.65% ✓ FRANCE GERMANY Systems Development and Maintenance: 25.88% ✓ GERMANY IBERIA Technical Advice and Consultancy: 8.77% ✓ IBERIA IMEA Unknown: 10.65% ✓ IMEA LATAM b) Percentage of female: 27% ✓ LATAM UK&I Percentage of male: 73% ✓ UK&I NAM a) Total number of Percentage of French employees: 18.81% ✓ NAM N&SWE employees in Percentage of Dutch employees: 8.54% ✓ N&SWE ATOS WORLDLINE each job family Percentage of British employees: 12.55% ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE ATOS WORLDGRID b) Number and Percentage of German employees: 12.31% ✓ ATOS WORLDGRID MAJOR EVENTS percentage of Percentage of Spanish employees: 7.28% ✓ MAJOR EVENTS CORPORATE (France, employees per Percentage of Belgian employees: 2.68% ✓ CORPORATE (France, Netherlands, Switzerland) gender and Percentage of Indian employees: 11.2% ✓ Netherlands, Switzerland) nationality Percentage of American employees: 5.06% ✓ *for d : ATOS ORIGIN employees Workforce diversity c) Average age Percentage of Austrian employees: 2.55% ✓ *for d : ATOS ORIGIN employees AO6 ratios and seniority c) Average seniority: 9.40 years ✓ * for e: ATOS employees from: d) Promotion Average age: 39.32 years old ✓ * for e: ATOS employees from: APAC among the d) Percentage of female that received a promotion: 11.48% ✓ APAC CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, employees per Percentage of male that received a promotion: 12.60% ✓ CEE (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Poland, gender e) Germany: 4.02% ✓ Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, e) Percentage of France: 1.65% ✓ Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey) disabled Belgium: 0% ✓ Turkey) BENELUX employee, per Luxembourg: 0% ✓ BENELUX FRANCE GBU and country Netherlands: 0.74% ✓ FRANCE GERMANY Ireland: 0% ✓ GERMANY IBERIA (Spain) United Kingdom: 1.54% ✓ IMEA (India, Morocco, UAE, IMEA (India, Morocco, UAE, Worldline Belgium: 0.09% ✓ South Africa) South Africa) Worldline France: 1.46% ✓ LATAM (Argentina, Brazil, LATAM (Argentina, Brazil, Worldline Germany: 0.82% ✓ Colombia, Mexico) Colombia, Mexico) Worldline India: 0% ✓ UK&I UK&I Austria: 2.01% ✓ N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, N&SWE (Denmark, Finland, Bulgaria: 1.04% ✓ Greece, Italy, Switzerland) Greece, Italy, Switzerland) Croatia: 2.42% ✓ ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium, ATOS WORLDLINE (Belgium, Czech Republic: 0.54% ✓ France, Germany, India) France, Germany, India) Poland: 0.50% ✓ ATOS WORLDGRID ATOS WORLDGRID Romania: 0.69% ✓ MAJOR EVENTS MAJOR EVENTS Serbia: 0% ✓ CORPORATE (France, CORPORATE (France, Slovakia: 1.07% ✓ Netherlands, Switzerland) Netherlands, Switzerland) Turkey: 3.55% ✓ Spain: 0.93% ✓ Major Events France: 0% ✓ Major Events Russia: 0% ✓ Major Events Spain: 0% ✓ Denmark: 0% ✓ Finland: 0% ✓ Greece: 0% ✓ ✓ Data verified by KPMG. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 91 Ref Indicator name Subindicator Verified data Verified scope Full reported scope Italy: 2.91% ✓ Switzerland: 0% ✓ Australia: 0% ✓ China: 0% ✓ Hong Kong: 0% ✓ Indonesia : 0% ✓ Japan: 0% ✓ Malaysia : 0% ✓ Philippines: 0.10% ✓ Singapore: 0% ✓ Taiwan: 0% ✓ e) Percentage of Thailand: 0% ✓ Workforce diversity disabled AO6 India : 0% ✓ ratio employees per Morocco: 0% ✓ GBU and country South Africa: 4.27% ✓ United Arab Emirates : 0% ✓ Argentina: 0% ✓ Brazil: 2.54% ✓ Colombia: 0% ✓ Mexico: 0% ✓ Worldgrid China: 0% ✓ Worldgrid France: 0.33% ✓ Corporate France: 3.13% ✓ Corporate Netherlands: 0% ✓ Corporate Switzerland: 0% ✓ a) Number of initiatives related to Sustainability GERMANY Sustainable projects Offering : a) 2 ✓ AO7 GERMANY IBERIA (Spain) with clients b) 158,400€ ✓ a.2 Intelligent Sustainability b) Revenues a) Number of audited sites ATOS ORIGIN employees from : (Campus ATOS ORIGIN employees from : FRANCE Number of questionnaire) a) 36 ✓ FRANCE GERMANY initiatives to b) People in b) 4,500 ✓ GERMANY AO9 IMEA (India) improve work Campus concept > c) 12,315 ✓ IMEA (India) LATAM (Brazil) conditions 80% LATAM (Brazil) UK&I (UK) c) People in UK&I (UK) Campus concept > 50% People BENELUX (Netherlands) BENELUX (Netherlands) Top Management participating to GERMANY GERMANY AO12 commitment with breakfast with 368 ✓ IBERIA (Spain) IBERIA (Spain) employees CEO or local UK&I (UK) UK&I (UK) management a) New joiners participating to a) 336 ✓ Atos culture and AO13 Welcome days b) 336 ✓ BENELUX (Netherlands) BENELUX (Netherlands) values awareness b) Buddy assignment ✓ Data verified by KPMG. 92 Your business technologists. Powering progress Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Foreword by the Chairman & CEO Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the CR report + Vision & Strategy CR *** organization report (CR = Corporate 1.1 Reponsability; AR = Annual Report) IT sector challenges and Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. *** oportunities CR report + Vision & 1.2 Strategy CR report 2. Organizational Profile Atos at a glance CR Report + Name of the organization. *** 2.1 Company Profile AR 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. *** Company Profile AR Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint *** Company Profile AR 2.3 ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. *** Locations AR Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are *** Company Profile AR specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the 2.5 report. Corporate Governance AR + Nature of ownership and legal form. *** 2.6 Corporate Governance CR report Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors *** Market sectors AR 2.7 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Company Profile AR + Atos at a Scale of the reporting organization. *** 2.8 glance CR Report Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Atos to Siemens AR + Governance *** 2.9 structure, or ownership. and Stock Market overview AR 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. *** Our sustainable journey CR report 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Information about the report CR *** 3.1 provided. report + Stock Market overview AR 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). *** DA = 2010 CR report + 2010 AR 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) *** DA = Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. *** Contacts AR + Contacts CR report Vision & Strategy CR report + Process for defining report content. *** Information about the report CR + 3.5 Future & Trends AR Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Information about the report CR leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary *** report 3.6 Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Information about the report CR *** 3.7 report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). I report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Information about the report CR *** significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or report 3.8 between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and Information about the report CR *** other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to report apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator 3.9 Protocols. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 93 Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such Information about the report CR *** re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ report 3.10 periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Information about the report CR scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the *** report 3.11 report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) *** 3.12 the report. CR report Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Information about the report CR *** 3.13 assurance for the report. report 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible Corporate Governance CR Report *** for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational + Governance AR 4.1 oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Corporate Governance CR Report *** 4.2 also an executive officer. + Governance AR For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Corporate Governance CR Report number of members of the highest governance body that are *** + Governance AR 4.3 independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Corporate Governance CR Report recommendations or direction to the highest governance *** + Governance AR 4.4 body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Corporate Governance CR Report *** departure arrangements), and the organization's performance + Governance AR 4.5 (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance CR Report *** 4.6 conflicts of interest are avoided. + Governance AR Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the Corporate Governance CR Report *** organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and + Governance AR 4.7 social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes Vission and Strategy CR Report + of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, *** Building a great place to work CR environmental, and social performance and the status of their Report + Future & Trends AR 4.8 implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant Corporate Governance CR Report *** risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with + Governance AR internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and 4.9 principles. Corporate Governance CR Report Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own + Governance AR + DA = In 2012, performance, particularly with respect to economic, *** TOP management will have new environmental, and social performance. 4.10 social targets in BSC. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach *** Future & Trends AR 4.11 or principle is addressed by the organization. Responsible Citizenship CR report Externally developed economic, environmental, and social + Helping to build the firm of future charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the *** CR Report + Stakeholder dialogue organization subscribes or endorses. 4.12 CR report Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in Responsible Citizenship CR report which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * *** + Helping to build the firm of future Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive CR Report funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views 4.13 membership as strategic. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. *** Stakeholder dialogue CR report 4.14 94 Your business technologists. Powering progress Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Vision & Strategy CR report + ** 4.15 whom to engage. Stakeholder dialogue CR report. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency *** Stakeholder Dialogue CR report 4.16 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Vision & Strategy CR report + *** responded to those key topics and concerns, including Stakeholders Dialogue CR report 4.17 through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC ** Business & technology AR DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN ** Our sustainable journey CR report Building a great place to work CR Disclosure on Management Approach LA ** DMA LA report Our sustainable journey CR report + Corporate Governance CR report Disclosure on Management Approach HR ** + Stakeholder dialogue CR report + Building a great place to work CR DMA HR report DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO ** Corporate Governance CR report Corporate Governance CR report + Disclosure on Management Approach PR *** DMA PR Stakeholder dialogue CR report STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Our model, our results AR + Atos at donations and other community investments, retained *** a glance CR Report + Responsible earnings, and payments to capital providers and Citizenship CR report EC1 governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for ** Corporate Governance CR Report Not available the organization's activities due to climate change. EC2 Building a great place to work CR Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ** Not material EC3 report Responsible Citizenship CR report + DA = The governement is not Significant financial assistance received from government. *** present in the shareholding EC4 structure. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local Building a great place to work CR ** Not available EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. report Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based ** Our sustainable journey CR report Not available EC6 suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Building a great place to work CR management hired from the local community at significant ** Not available report EC7 locations of operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through ** Responsible Citizenship CR report Not available commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 95 Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. *** Our sustainable journey CR report 7 Environmental Commitment CR Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. *** EN2 report Environmental Commitment CR Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. *** 7 EN3 report Environmental Commitment CR Indirect energy consumption by primary source. *** 7 EN4 report Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Environmental Commitment CR ** Not available 7,8 EN5 improvements. report Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Environmental Commitment CR based products and services, and reductions in energy ** Not available 7,8 report EN6 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Environmental Commitment CR ** Not available 7,8 EN7 reductions achieved. report EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. * Not material Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity * Not material EN11 value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high * Not material EN12 biodiversity value outside protected areas. Environmental Commitment CR Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. *** 7 EN16 report Environmental Commitment CR Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. *** EN17 report Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Environmental Commitment CR *** 7,8 EN18 achieved. report Environmental Commitment CR Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ** Not available 7 EN19 report NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and * Not material EN20 weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. * Not material EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. * Not material EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. * Not material Environmental Commitment CR Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and ** report + Helping to build the firm of Not available 7,8,9 services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN26 future CR report Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials * Not material EN27 that are reclaimed by category. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with * Not material EN28 environmental laws and regulations. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Building a great place to work CR *** LA1 and region. report Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Building a great place to work CR *** 6 gender, and region. report LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Building a great place to work CR *** 6 LA3 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. report Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Building a great place to work CR *** 3 LA4 agreements. report 96 Your business technologists. Powering progress Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Building a great place to work CR changes, including whether it is specified in collective ** Not available 3 report LA5 agreements. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Building a great place to work CR ** Not available 1 LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. report Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Building a great place to work CR programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, ** Not available 1 report LA8 or community members regarding serious diseases. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Building a great place to work CR ** Not available 1 LA10 category. report Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Building a great place to work CR support the continued employability of employees and assist *** report LA11 them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Building a great place to work CR *** LA12 career development reviews. report Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Building a great place to work CR employees per category according to gender, age group, *** 1, 6 report minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA13 Building a great place to work CR Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ** Not available 6 LA14 report Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by * Not available LA15 gender. Social: Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating * Not material human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights HR1 screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have *** Our sustainable journey CR report 1-6, 10 HR2 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to ** Corporate Governance CR report Not material 6 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR3 Corporate Governance CR report + DA= Atos is committed to ensuring Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. ** Not available 6 that all employees and applicants HR4 are not subject to unlawful discrimination. During 2011, a team has been put in place to Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of work in a new Diversity policy to association and collective bargaining may be at significant ** Not available 3 increase employee awareness and risk, and actions taken to support these rights. promote anti-discrimination HR5 values. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Our sustainable journey CR report significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken * + Corporate Governance CR report Not material HR6 to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. + Stakeholder dialogue CR report Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, * Not material and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of HR7 forced or compulsory labor. Percentage and total number of operations that have been ** Not available 1-6, 10 HR10 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, * Our sustainable journey CR Report Not available HR11 addressed and resolved through formal Social: Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development * Not available SO1 programs. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 97 Degree of Reason for reporting (we do Atos Sustainability Report 2011 omission UN G Profile report ***/ (more detailed info in Atos Annual Description (subPrinDisclosure we partially Report) (Where to find info/ indicators not ciples report**/ remarks) reported) we do not report*) Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for ** Corporate Governance CR report Not available 10 SO2 risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti** Corporate Governance CR report Not available 10 SO3 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ** Corporate Governance CR report Not available Public policy positions and participation in public policy * Not material SO5 development and lobbying. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and ** Corporate Governance CR report Not available 10 SO8 regulations. Operations with significant potential or actual negative * Not available SO9 impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative * Not available SO10 impacts on local communities. Social: Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and * Not material percentage of significant products and services categories PR1 subject to such procedures. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and * Not material PR3 services subject to such information requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of *** Stakeholder dialogue CR report PR5 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including * Not material PR6 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches ** Corporate Governance CR report 10 PR8 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Proprietary laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of * information PR9 products and services. Social: Product Responsibility Proprietary Percentage of people in inter-contracts. * AO1 information Building a great place to work CR Employee Satisfaction *** AO2 report AO3 Data Security Incidents *** Corporate Governance CR report Helping to build the firm of future Cloud computing initiatives *** AO4 CR report Helping to build the firm of future Health, education, energy and transport solutions *** AO5 CR report AO6 Workforce diversity ratios *** Corporate Governance CR report 6 Helping to build the firm of future Sustainable projects with clients *** AO7 CR report Building a great place to work CR Number of initiatives to improve work conditions *** AO9 report Helping to build the firm of future Number of initiatives linked to collaborative technologies *** AO11 CR report Building a great place to work CR Top management commitment with employees *** AO12 report Building a great place to work CR Atos culture and values awareness *** AO13 report 98 Your business technologists. Powering progress Auditor’s report Independent limited assurance report on some sustainability indicators published in the Atos 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report We have been engaged by Atos to provide limited assurance on some 2011 sustainability indicators 1 (“the Data”) selected by Atos and identified by the symbol “✓” presented in the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report. The conclusions below only relate to the Data, and not to the whole Corporate Responsibility Report (the “Report”). The Data were prepared under the responsibility of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Department Management, in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Group as described in the section “Information about the report” of the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report (the “Standards”), which can be consulted at the Group’s head office. The methodological note presented on pages 84 to 92 of the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report provides details on data collection and on the calculation of the published indicators. Due to the merger with Siemens IT Solutions and Services in July 2011, the scope varies depending on the indicators. It is therefore specified in the section “Information about the report”. Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion on the Data based on the work performed. Nature and scope of our engagement We conducted our engagement in accordance with the applicable French professional guidelines and the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That standard requires that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Data are free from material misstatement. A higher level of assurance would have required a more extensive review. A limited assurance engagement on the Data consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Data, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: Assessing the Standards on sustainability reporting with respect to their relevance, reliability, objectivity, clarity and completeness. Interviews with management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business. Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit level responsible for providing the information and the Data Detailed tests on the basis of the data available for four entities 2, representing between 15.6% and 100% of the Group’s quantitative consolidated Data. 1/ Economic indicators (a): EC1, EC4, EC5, EC6, EC7, EC8; Environmental indicators (a): EN1, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN16, EN18, EN19, EN26; Human rights indicator (a): HR2; Labor practices and decent work indicators (a): LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA7, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA13, LA14; Product responsibility indicators (a): PR5, PR8; Society indicators (a): SO3, SO8; Atos specific indicators (a): AO2 – Employee Satisfaction (Employees targeted in the Great Place to Work survey, employees answering GPTW survey, percentage of positive answers to “Taking everything into account, I would say this is a great place to work.”) AO3 – Data Security Incidents (Number of security incidents for financial payment systems platforms, percentage of security incidents for financial payment systems platforms with associated root cause analysis, number and percentage of employees attending Security Awareness trainings) AO4 – Cloud Computing projects with clients (Number of initiatives regarding Cloud Computing development, revenues associated with initiatives regarding Cloud Computing development) AO5 – Health, education, energy and transport solutions (Number of initiatives/projects related to improvements of health system and associated revenues, number of initiatives/projects related to energy solutions and associated revenues, number of initiatives/projects related to improvements of educational system and associated revenues, number of initiatives/projects related to green transport development and associated revenues) AO6 – Workforce diversity ratios (Total number of employees in each job family, number and percentage of employees per gender and nationality, average age and seniority, promotion among the employees per gender, percentage of disabled employees per GBU and country) AO7 – Sustainable projects with clients (Number of initiatives related to sustainability offering – ambition carbon free, intelligent sustainability, smart campus -, number of projects/ initiatives related to Zero emailTM Offering, revenues) AO9 – Number of initiatives to improve work conditions AO11 – Number of initiatives linked to collaborative technologies(Zero emailTM) AO12 – Top management commitment with employees AO13 – Atos culture and values awareness. 2/ Global HR, Global Factory, Atos UK, Atos Worldline. (a) The country scope for each indicator is specified pages 86 to 92. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 99 For these countries, we conducted interviews with the persons responsible for providing the information and the Data in order to verify the understanding and application of the Standards. We verified the calculations on a test basis, performed consistency checks and reconciled data with the supporting documentation. Consistency tests on the consolidation of the Data. Information on the procedures We would like to bring your attention on the following improvements occurred during the year: A materiality test has been undertaken for the second time by the Group in order to select the most relevant indicators to be monitored. More quantitative data have been collected in a global corporate IT tool, A corporate survey has been carried out with stakeholders and results has been integrated in materiality test assessment, On this basis, definitions, formulas and reporting procedures have been improved and sent to all the Group contributors, Comparing with last year, more indicators have been monitored and embedded in Group’s corporate organization. However: The merger between Atos and SIS has made 2011 reporting process specially challenging for all business units and the corporate consolidation due to the increase of reporting contributors and the short delays to organize the perimeter, Consistency checks need to be reinforced at various data collection levels, Specially for some new indicators, definitions and calculation methods have still to be clarified and an increased awareness from contributors is still required to enable a consistent reporting of data. Such improvements must be implemented before we can express an opinion on the indicators 3. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above and taking into account the scope specified on pages 86 to 92 of the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, we did not identify any material misstatements which could call into question the fact that indicators EC1, EC4, EC5, EC7, EN1, EN3 (for gas), EN4 (for electricity), EN16 (for scope 2 emissions related to electricity), EN26, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA7, LA10 (for total number of employees by region and number of e-learning hours per key program), LA12, LA13, LA14, PR5, PR8, AO2, AO4, AO6, AO7 (for the number of initiatives linked to intelligent sustainability), AO9, AO12 and AO13 (for new joiners participating to Welcome days and buddy assignment), were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the abovementioned Standards. Paris La Défense, 3rd April 2012 KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A Philippe Arnaud Partner In charge of the Climate Change & Sustainability Services. 3/ EC6, EC8, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN18, EN19, LA4, LA11, HR2, SO3, SO8, AO3, AO5, AO11. 100 Your business technologists. Powering progress Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 101 Atos Global Headquarter France Locations River Ouest 80, quai Voltaire 95 877 Bezons Cx France Atos Consulting River Ouest 80, quai Voltaire 95 877 Bezons Cedex Tel.: +33 1 73 26 00 00 Tel.: +33 1 73 26 00 00 Argentina Atos Worldline Vedia 3892 P.B. River Ouest 80, quai Voltaire C1430 DAL Buenos Aires 95 877 Bezons Cedex Tel.: +54 11 6315 8800 Tel.: +33 1 34 34 95 95 Austria Atos Worldgrid Siemensstrasse 92 36, Chemin du vieux Chêne A-1210 Vienna 38243 Meylan Cedex 2 Tel.: +43 (0) 51707-0 Tel.: +33 4 76 41 46 00 Belgium Germany Da Vincilaan 5 Otto-Hahn-Ring 6 B-1935 Zaventem 81379 München Tel.: +32 2 690 28 00 Tel.: +49 89 636 02 Atos Worldline Atos Worldline Chaussée de Haecht 1442 Hahnstraße 25 Haachtsesteenweg D-60528 Frankfurt/Main 1130 Brussels Tel.: +49 69 6657 10 Tel.: +32 (0)2 727 61 11 Hong Kong Brazil Unit 3B & 05-01 Rua Werner Siemens,111 Lapa 18/F Exchange Tower 05069-900 Sao Paulo 33 Wang Chiu Road Tel.: +55 11 3550 2000 Kowloon Bay, Kowloon F +852 2886.5293 Chile Av. Providencia 1760 Fl. 17 Of. 1702 India 7500498 Santiago de Chile Prism Towers, “A” wing, 6th Floor, Tel.: +56 (2) 477 1313 Mindspace Off Link Road, Goregaon West, Mumbai -400 062 China Tel.: +91-22-66452500 Building B, No.7, Wangjing ZhongHuan Nanlu, Atos Worldline Chaoyang District, 701, Interface 11 Beijing 100102 Malad (W) Tel.: +86 10 69115888 Mumbai 400 064 – India Colombia Tel.: +91 22 40 42 40 00 Cra. 65 No. 11-83 Bogota Indonesia Tel.: + 57 (1) 425 3477 Wisma Keiai Prince, #1707 Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav.3 Denmark Jakarta 10220 Dybendalsvænget 3 Tel.: +62 21 572.4373 2630 Taastrup Tel.: +45 4477 5600 Italy Via Vipiteno, 4 Egypt 20128 Milano 50 Abbass El Akkad Street Tel.: +39 02 2431 Nasr City Cairo Tel.: + 202 26 70 88 06 Japan Level 20, Shinjuku Park Tower Finland 3-7-1 Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku Majurinkatu 6 Tokyo 163-1020 02601 Espoo Tel.: +81 3 3344.6631 Tel.: +358 10 511 5300 102 Your business technologists. Powering progress Luxembourg Switzerland Rue Nicolas Bové 2a Freilagerstrasse 28 1253 Luxembourg 8047 Zürich Tel.: +352 31 36 37 1 Tel.: +41 58 702 11 11 Malaysia Thailand 1st Floor, 2310 Century Square 2922/339, New Petchaburi Road Jalan Usahawan Charn Issara Tower II, 36th Floor 63000 Cyberjaya Selangor Bangkok, Thailand 10310 Tel.: +60 3 2084.5418 Tel.: +66 (0) 2787-9000 Morocco Taiwan Casablanca Nearshore Park – Shore 7 5F No.100, Sec 3 1100, boulevard El Qods — Quartier Sidi Min Sheng East Road Maârouf Taipei 10596 Casablanca Tel.: +886 2 2514.2500 Tel.: +212 (0)5 29 04 45 29 The Netherlands Mexico Papendorpseweg 93 Poniente 116 No.590 3528 BJ Utrecht D.F. 2300 Tel.: +31 (0) 88 265 5555 Tel.: + 52 55 5328 2000 Atos Consulting Portugal Papendorpseweg 93 Rua Irmãos Siemens, 1 3528 BJ Utrecht 2720-093 Amadora Tel.: +31 (0) 88 265 5555 Tel.: +351 21 417 8760 Turkey Philippines Buyukdere Cad. A Block Floor3 23/F Cyber One Building Maslak 34398 Istanbul Turkey 11 Eastwood Ave., Tel.: +90 212 286 46 66 Bagumbayan, Quezon City Philippines 1110 United Arab Emirates Tel: +63 2 982 9600 Level 2, Building 2, The Galleries Downtown Jebel Ali — Dubai Singapore Tel.: +971 4 4402300 620A Toa Payoh Lorong 1 TP4 Level 5 United Kingdom Singapore 319762 1 Triton Square Tel.: +65 6496 3888 Regent’s Place London NW1 3HG South Africa Tel.: +44 20 7830 4444 Woodlands Office Park, Ground Floor, Building 32 USA Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, 101 Merritt 7 Johannesburg Norwalk, CT 06851 — North America Tel.: +27 87 310 2867 Tel.: +203 642 2300 Spain Albarracín, 25 28037 Madrid Tel.: +34 91 440 8800 Atos Consulting & Technology Services Albasanz 16, 4ª planta 28037 Madrid Tel.: +34 91 214 9500 Sweden Johanneslundsvägen 12-14 19487 Upplands Väsby Tel.: +46 87306500 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 103 For further information or questions related Contacts to Atos’ Sustainability program, please contact: sustainability@atos.net HEAD OF CORPORATE Global Factory Audit assurance RESPONSIBILITY Vincent Loiseau, Global Human Philippe Mareine, Resources General Secretary Peter Hobday, Global Procurement Executive Vice-President Kaci Shebi, Global Finance Paul Bayle, Global Security CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Audrey Morin, Global Compliance & SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE Eric Martos, Well Being@work/Great Pilar Barea, Place to Work Corporate International Program CORPORATE Leader RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Marianne Hewlett, CONTRIBUTORS Corporate Wellbeing@work / Luc Barbier, Social Responsibility Business Strategy Sophie Chambon, Alexandre Menais, Corporate/Global Consulting Corporate Governance Environmental Commitment Leon Emmen, Giles Hutchins, The Netherlands UK Program Manager Sustainability Global Production CRR2011 Key Offering Jeff Chater, CORPORATE AND LOCAL KPI UK COLLECTION / REPORTING Carbon Reporting CONTRIBUTORS Andreas Koeller, Corporate Germany Yoan Job, Danielle Lagarde, Robin Ajdari, ISO 14001 Certifications Corinne Vidon, Justine Alleaume, Murli Menon, Pauline Lallinec, Audrey Morin, India Gregor Goeb, Birgitt Ruprah, Sustainability Training Andreas Schwenteck, Jonathan Stevens, Michèle Claverie, Anne Hodsman, Pascale Strock, Global Communication Garans, Torben Wiede, Joop Overeem, Denis Daullé, Jean-Louis Gravier. Atos Worldline Asia and the Pacific Jean-Michel Douvesy, Sally Wang, Joy Chen, Kevin Yau , Wei Guo, Global Managed Operations Brenda Li, Daniel Ching, Joetrix Yee, Jane Chen, Edward Yang, Jessica Lo, Joost Van Rooy, Benelux Keiko Saito, Motoko Hara , Keiko Saito, Eliane Assuncao, South America Rolito Kudera, Anthony Orduna, Connie Chua, APAC Anthony Orduna, Rupali Joshi, Mark Dishon, USA Vijay Narayan, Frances Quaglia, Diana Lee, Andrea Woloch, CEE Frances Quaglia, Pamela Yap, Karen Aw, Minas Paliatsaras, N/WSE Dylan Buan, Nenny Yuliayuningsih, Miguel Viedma, Global Legal Cheekiong Liew, Teri Lee, Chek Tsang Foo, Giles Hutchins, Global Manufacturing Amalyn Chai, Kimberly Tham, Lalaine Herrera, Rupali Joshi, Teresa Chen, CORPORATE Violet Chua, Eric Taylor, Lili Tan, RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Sheau Wei Chuah. DATA COLLECTION Benelux Liesbeth Enkels, Henk de Olde, Henk Frijters, Eva Carro Solana, Iberia Jean-Jacques Wintraecken, Willem Ultee, Global consolidation and Audit Wim Tolk, Jan Schaffers, Marc Sanders, assurance Tjerk Jansen, Jan Woudstra, Jean François Rodriguez, Atos Manon Remeijsen, Alex Boss, Worldline Jan Willem van der Linden, Kees de Klein, GBU audit assurance Chantal Grassere, Joep van Haastrecht, Dorette Bell, Global Managed Hans Molenaar, Marcel Mulder, Operations Nicole Sanders, Frank van Kins, Paul Oor, 104 Your business technologists. Powering progress Willem Loorbach, Martin van den Boogaard, Arendt, Gerhard Bitterwolf, Heinz Geert Meijer, Theo Vangeneugden, Doennebrink, Jörg Wolfrum, Jutta Haslinger, Luigi Dorado, Heidi Rothfuchs, Lai Wu. Lörg Wetterling, Ludger Demming, Centraland Eastern Europe Ludwig-Lorenz Kimmig, Matthias Konrath, Valentina Mihaylova, Ilya Todorov, Michael Bienert, Monika Burschel, Nicola Stela Dimitrova , Michal Rembowiecki, Lang, Rainer Jordan, Rosa-Maria Jolanta Trebinska , Yalin Gokyar, Liechtenauer, Rudolf, Landwehr, Ulrike Köhl, Seda Balaman, Opacoc Petar, Klus Martin, Uwe Rabeler, Vivien Giese, Edgar Simon, Paschinger Alfred, Banu Tomruk, Jeanette Fermazin. Schaudy Adelheid, Otto Eger. Latin America Iberia Marcelo Lima, Luciene Lima, William Rebeca Bañón Sodini, Victoria Erice Alonso, Machado, Arnaldo Felippe, Elio Soares, Carla Tomas Lesmes Garcia, Nuria Ranz Rubio, Rossi, Andrea Sanicandro, Vera Carvalho, Maria Jose Rodríguez Seco, Jose Manuel Marcos Brunele, Sivaldino Avelino de Souza, Lopez Del-barrio, Asunción Artal Lahoz, Claudia Pozzato Ribeiro, Ricardo Santana de Andres Fernandez Rodríguez, Araujo, Claudeir Alvarez, Marcos Freire, Carlo Ciccarelli, Beatriz Aznar Gimeno, Vanessa Buzaneli, Vando Trindade, Victoria Jimeno Vazquez, Lorenzo Javier Fernanda Martins, Gilberto Michelmann, Rubio Pliego, Beatriz Garcia Martinez, Javier Solange Lima, François Tack, Natalia Villanueva Urgel, Ignacio Perez Fernández, Costales, Berta Grisel, Martha Gaviria, Blanca Jordán Rodríguez, Carlos Veira Gabriela Valdez, Daniel Bulnes Lorenzo, Marta Román Barrero, Laura United Kingdom Menendez. Jayesh Maroo, James Loughrey, Jon Earp, India, Middle East and Africa Jo Humphries, Mike Shanahan, Shailesh Mehta, R Santosh, Pradeep Salian, James Bailey, Suman Khuttan, Ian Kirkham, Gitarchana Roy, Theodoline Miranda, Rahul Tim Burnett, Debbie Holden, Sharon Berle, Roy, Sanober Tamhankar, Raghunath Mary Dawson, Darryl Denton, Dhakras, Amit Kulkarni, Mandar Desai, Susan Gorman, Sue Jackson, Vikram Prasad Purayil, Deepa Sidhwani,Vaishali Gaitonde. Moye, Anup Malavia, Alok Dwivedi, Northand Southwest Europe Priyanka Mehta, Vinay Kumar Aggarwal, Sergio Brasca, Marco Continolo, Rajkishor Sah, Arabinda Saha, Jayendran Emanuele Ianeti , Christine Alton, Teija Kanathingal, Pallab Mallick, Sachin Kulkarni, Mutanen, Mikkel Sabroe, Fredrik Hallenborg, Sachin Marathe, Joyson Pinto, Namita Annette Segesser, Buonavita Antonio, Ovalekar, Ritesh Joshi, Fatima Ezzahra Hanna Saarinen, Paer Hoeoeglund, Essami, Habiba Sattar, Asmae El Khayati, Stavroula Anagnostopoulou, Mariam Zahri, Youssef Ouaziz, Amina El Arne-Willem Van Den Burg. Baghdadi, Yassine Rguagui, Mohamed Worldline ElKniez, Fahd Demnati, Najat Ziani, Lesley Laurence Dehaene, Laurette Vandeplas, Haenel, Willie Robbertse, Evanda Veeran, Pascale de Jonckheere, Karl Alles, Brigitta Elmarie Kleinhans, Evanda Veeran, Farheen Brys, Paul Wernerus, Jens Kluss, Wim Khatib , Sanober Tamhankar, Caroline Desiron, Hugo Deneyer, Jacques Biernaux, Brunellière Yves Adamzack, Brigitte de Broyer, Gerlinde France Betz-Kroeber, Micael Marquer, Jens Kluss, Jean-Michel Douvesy, Pierre Boulad, Susanne Denker, Nancy Cosson, Christiane Jean-Luc Marpillat, Jean-Paul Coelho, Anne De Kimpe, Amalyn Chai, Roberto Bortoli, Picot-Periac, Dominique Boscher, Stephanie Gérard Mayeur, Katleen Vandeweyer. Foucher , Delphine Delsaux, Annick Riou, USA Pierre Douvreleur, Michael Scebon. Michelle Reese-Parsons, Tom Parsons, Jim Germany Annable, Aime Portugal, Leslie Dauer-Creek Alessandra Ali, Angela Bongards, and Vicki Barker, Saba Shaikh. Brigitte Schmitt, Christiane Richter, Gabriele Design and production: Printing: Lecaux Group Copywritting: Analytica Photos credits: Marc Bertrand — Challenges-REA, Juhani Eskelinen, Fotolia, Getty, Veer, Atos brandportal. Editing, Plate Making. This report is compiled using the Computer to Plate (CIP) system, resulting in the total elimination of film, an intermediate material, during the plate making process. Paper: The report consists of paper made from pulp derived from Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes (PEFC) approved and managed forests. All paper contained in the report has been elemental chlorine free (ECF) bleached. Instead of the chlorine gas used in conventional pulp bleaching, EFC pulp bleaching uses oxygen and chlorine dioxide, which does not generate dioxins such as chlorinated organic compounds. Ink. The ink “Vegetable Oil Ink” used for this report is made from a composite of vegetable oils (including soybean oil, linseed oil, tung oil, coconut oil and palm oil). Processing. The adhesive for the binding is a polyurethane-type adhesive that is easy to separate and remove for paper recycling. Also, 19.3% of the blank sheets generated from sheet cutting during processing for this report is sent to a paper manufacturing company and this isused as raw material for recycled paper. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 www.atos.net
