United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress by Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd No. 60, Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 3, Sri Lanka Managing Director’s Message At Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd, we are committed to follow the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact under Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti –Corruption. In these endeavours, the company has stated its commitment in specific areas for which systems have been put in place. Initially we educated all our staff on the ten UNGC principles and a special committee was established to carry out the activities. The committee has started to meet regularly and action plans are being agreed upon and implemented. We have made steady progress on these initiatives up to now and in future we intend to measure their impact by collecting relevant data. By adhering to these principles the company can reap many benefits. We can create a pleasant working atmosphere for our staff members, strengthen the industrial relations with our work force, help conserve environment, preserve energy and reduce costs and conduct our business ethically. Therefore, we hope to support the UNGC principles in the future too. Dushy Ratnasingham Managing Director Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd 28th November 2012 1. Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea (Pvt) All SST staff  SST staff members participated in cultural events of Ltd is committed to must treat Buddhists,Tamil and Christians. All took part in Christmas the protection of each other carols ,Sarasvathi Pooja etc. human rights. with respect and dignity. 2. Labour Principle 3: Business should upload the freedom of association and effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea All selected  All staff employed during the financial year (Pvt) Ltd shall candidates are 2011/2013 have signed the appointment letters not employ any provided an signifying their acceptance of the terms and person against opportunity to either conditions of employment. that person’s accept or reject the will. terms and conditions of employment offered to them. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd shall  Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd shall check  Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd, not employ and shall not personal details of each regularly checked the allow the employment by employee and/or possible employment records of the suppliers of persons candidates for employment to people supplied by the two below the age of 18 years. ensure that no person below 18 contractors, Nawalanka Tea years of age is employed. Blenders and Thisara  Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd shall Enterprises. request the suppliers to submit  SST did not employ and also proof that no person below 18 did not allow the labour years of age is employed by contractor to employ any them. person below 18 years Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd is an The recruitment processes or  Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd equal opportunity performance evaluation systems of employed a differentlyemployer and shall not Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd shall not abled person in the Shipping discriminate any person on include any references to race, Department during the last the basis of race, religion, religion, gender or disability. financial year. gender or disability etc. when offering employment or for career progression. 3. Environment Principle 7: business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd is Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd will  “Save a Tree “ – E-Mail campaign committed to protect the sieze opportunities to was held within the company. environment from pollution and modify existing will endeavour to modify technologies and/or existing technologies or make introduce new technologies use of new technologies to that would make the improve its processes to be processes more more environmental friendly. environmental friendly. 4. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Systems Activities Sunshine Tea (Pvt) Ltd is The Employee Handbook All employees sign the policy committed to ensure that all its contains the Policy on Business document pledging their employees abide by the Ethics. Key policy statements commitment to abide its company’s Policy on Business are contained in the provisions. Ethics. The Company’s appointment letters. reputation and future prospects are heavily dependent upon the standards of business conduct demonstrated by all our employees. In this policy statement the company articulates the high ethical standards it expects from its employees, concerning such matters as conflicts of interest, payments to outside entities and individuals, political contributions, and the maintenance of proper books, records and controls.
