NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 A Whole Life Cycle Approach Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Contents Welcome. In May 2011, Novelis announced a company-wide Sustainability Commitment to significantly improve the life cycle impact of our aluminum products and meet an ambitious set of targets for the year 2020. This, our second annual sustainability report, reviews our progress and challenges at each life cycle stage of our business: sourcing, manufacturing, customer use and end-of-life with consumers. It also includes context, case studies and forward-looking goals and targets. We have aligned this report to conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the GRI Mining and Metals sector supplement at a GRI-checked “A” Application Level. Please see About This Report (page 60) for more information about the report’s scope and boundaries, as well as our plans for future reporting. Overview Strategy and Management About This Report 3 CEO Letter 11 Our Corporate Strategy 60 Scope and Boundaries 6 Our Company 13 Our Sustainability Strategy 61 Reporting Period and 9 Our Industry & Progress Future Reporting 17 Sustainability Management 61 The Global Reporting & Governance Initiative 18 Stakeholder Engagement 62 GRI Content Index 68 UNGC Communication on Progress Index 70 Awards and Recognition Sourcing A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs 22 Novelis’ Global Recycling Strategy 26 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Helping Consumers Recycle Manufacturing Our Products 57 Shifting the Post-Consumer 31 Environmental Performance Recycling Landscape 41 Our People 57 Supporting Collection and A Whole Life 46 Engaging with Recycling Infrastructure Cycle Approach Our Communities 58 Educating Consumers about Recycling 59 Product Safety and Health Delivering Value to Our Customers 51 Value of Aluminum to Our Customers 51 Evolving Design Specifications 52 Delivering on Customers’ Needs 55 Closing the Loop with Customers NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 2 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report CEO Letter “Our customers are keenly To our stakeholders: At Novelis, we are building our aware of the need to make their company’s future on sustainability. In early 2011, Novelis products more sustainable. By engaging with our customers put a first stake in the ground and adopted a new set and helping them meet their of sustainability targets, among them the strikingly goals, we are transforming ambitious aim that 80% of our aluminum inputs will these relationships. Rather than a transactional relationship, be comprised of recycled content by the year 2020. we’re becoming thought This, along with our other sustainability targets and partners, driven by a common efforts, is part of our strategy to become the sustainability agenda.” low-carbon aluminum producer. Phil Martens President and Chief Executive Officer This strategic direction is based on what we think the world will look like in 2020, which includes these conditions: An increasingly urban population approaching 8 billion people. Consumers who are demanding affordable green products and who expect the companies, technologies and processes behind those products to be entirely sustainable. Hundreds of millions of tons of aluminum in use around the planet, the vast majority of which are retrieved, recycled and employed in the manufacture of new products. We are embedding sustainability into our business and our way of life − how we make decisions and how we work to do the right thing for our people, our customers, our communities and other stakeholders. In only a year, we jumped from 33% to 39% recycled content, and we will nearly double our recycling capacity through the strategic projects we have already announced. This achievement brings into view our interim goal of 50% by 2015. For example, we are investing about $250 million at our plant in Nachterstedt, Germany, to build the world’s largest integrated recycling system. This facility will make Novelis the largest recycler – not just of beverage cans – but of all aluminum. Importantly, from the perspective of our customers, our global recycling network will create the potential for large-scale closedloop manufacturing. We’re working on this with our automotive, beverage can and specialty customers. We melt, cast, and roll the material; ship it to them; take back their scrap; then re-melt, cast and roll it again. Our customers are keenly aware of the need to make their products more sustainable – with a smaller carbon footprint and the opportunity to close recycling loops. By engaging with our 39% customers and helping them meet their goals, we are transforming these relationships. Rather than a transactional relationship, we’re In the last year, we becoming thought partners with our customers, driven by a common jumped from 33% to sustainability agenda. 39% recycled content. We envision a future where greater carbon constraints, rising energy demands, depletion of natural resources, government regulation and consumer preferences drive dramatically increased demand for aluminum. Forging the path towards the future is going to require NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 3 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Did you know innovation to re-imagine our products and new technology to reshape our manufacturing processes. And it’s going to require changes On a life cycle basis, recycled to fundamental aspects of our industry that have been in place for aluminum avoids 95% of the over a century. At Novelis, we call this “disruptive innovation,” and it’s GHG emissions associated with become a core value of the company. primary aluminum production, and every recycled aluminum That’s why we are so excited about our new Global Research & metric ton saves 7.8 metric tons Technology Center near Atlanta. This state-of-the-art facility will of carbon dioxide equivalents bring product and process innovation together to develop better (CO2e) over the total aluminum manufacturing and product specifications, as well as provide a forum value chain. for partnering with customer companies. In addition, to underscore our commitment to being a positive force in local and global communities, we signed up to the United Nations Life Cycle Thinking Global Compact in 2012. We remain committed to the initiative, and we are working to implement its 10 principles. Aluminum can be recycled to make exactly the same product over We also face challenges. For example, while our overall safety record and over. Unlike other commonly compares well to the industry and is improving, as we shrink overall recycled materials, such as paper, incident rates, the percentage of severe accidents has increased. And using recycled aluminum does not severe accidents, of course, are what we especially want to drive to affect the quality of the product. This zero. This continues to be one of the top – if not the top – priorities in unique characteristic has become the company. a value driver in our business. We aim to increase our use of recycled We also still have much work to do on the consumer end of the material to 80% by 2020. Reaching aluminum life cycle to help improve recovery rates for post-consumer this goal requires changing the way aluminum. We’re collaborating with customers, governments, we conduct business in every stage regulators and other stakeholders to develop partnerships that of aluminum’s life cycle. will result in higher levels of recycling. And, more broadly, we are supporting dialogue and action to address climate change and to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. Many companies state that their sustainability strategy is inextricably entwined with their business strategy. With this report – and in our future reports – we hope to demonstrate that this is truly the case for Novelis. The truth is, this is uncharted territory for Novelis, and for most companies. We are fortunate to have the benefit of invaluable insights and advice from our world-class Sustainability Advisory Council. Already, the Council's input is helping us learn about the perspectives of sustainability thought-leaders, tap into the Council’s thinking about the future, and get their critical feedback. Novelis is both benefiting from the sustainability movement and feeding it. It’s where our attention, our resources, our investments, and our brand are headed. We welcome See page 8 additional dialogue and partnership, and we hope to get your feedback on our strategy and our report. Phil Martens President and Chief Executive Officer NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 4 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “We believe that achieving our Our Targets and Progress targets will enable us to become In 2011, we established a set of corporate-wide 2020 sustainability the undisputed low-carbon leader in our industry through targets, using the average of fiscal years 2007–2009 as the baseline innovation and sustainability.” where relevant. John Gardner The table below shows our baseline averages for our targets, FY11 Chief Sustainability and FY12 results, progress in reference to our baseline, and our Officer, Novelis FY20 targets. Key Unchanging Behind schedule Improving or on track to meet target Baseline Performance Progress Targets Our Targets FY07–FY09 Average FY11 FY12 FY20 Overall Targets Profitability Approximately double FY11 $0.6 billion $1.1 billion $1.1 billion >$2 billion adjusted EBITDA by FY16 Recycled 80% by 2020 30% 33% 39% 80% metal content 2020 Operational Targets Energy usage Reduce by 39% per metric ton 12.4 GJ/mt 10.5 GJ/mt 10.0 GJ/mt 7.6 GJ/mt of sales Water usage Reduce by 25% per metric ton 3.7 m3/mt 3.1 m3/mt 3.2 m3/mt 2.7 m3/mt of sales GHG Halve our absolute amount 21 m mt 20 m mt 19 m mt 11 m mt emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Landfill Zero landfilled waste 60 K mt 52 K mt 49 K mt 0 K mt 2020 People Targets Safety Zero recordable injuries 1.01 0.76 0.59 0 Employees 100% of eligible employees NA 38% 38% 100% receive annual performance feedback World-class leadership NA NA in progress Benchmarked development program, in top 10% benchmarked in the top 10% of companies Community 100% of operations have NA NA in progress 100% implemented local community engagement process Code of Employee and supplier codes NA NA in progress 100% Conduct rolled out, process in place for noncompliance NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 5 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Company 40 billion* Novelis is the world’s largest manufacturer of rolled aluminum, producing an estimated 17% of the world’s total aluminum rolled Approximate number of products. Novelis is also the global leader in beverage can recycling; used beverage cans we we recycle approximately 40 billion used beverage cans annually. recycle annually. The company serves customers in sectors including automotive, beverage can, high-end specialties such as electronics and architecture, and others (see figure 1). 11 countries* Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA, Novelis is a wholly owned Novelis operates in subsidiary of Hindalco Industries Limited, one of Asia’s largest 11 countries and four continents. integrated producers of aluminum and a leading producer of copper. Hindalco's stock is publicly traded on the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and the Luxembourg $11.1 billion* Stock Exchange. Hindalco is the flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group, a $40 billion multinational conglomerate with more than Revenue (FY11 $10.6 bn). 133,000 employees and operations in 36 countries. A global workforce Increased recycled content Financial highlights Approximately 11,620 employees From FY11 to FY12, increased Net income attributable to common on four continents. recycled input of products from shareholder: $63 m (FY11: $116 m). 33% to 39%. Adjusted EBITDA: $1,053 m (FY11: $1,072 m). Free cash flow: $98 m (FY11: $310 m). Figure 1: Novelis Flat Rolled Product Shipments by Market. Flat rolled product shipments of 2,838 metric kt decreased by 4% compared to previous year (FY11: 2,969 metric kt). Automotive 6% Electronics & high-end specialties 13% Foil & other 20% Cans 61% *FY12 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 6 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 2: Our operations and global presence – from the locations where we operate to the products and applications in which our aluminum is used, Novelis’ presence is both diverse and worldwide. Middelfart Savings Bank, Denmark The Jaguar XK Cell phones and laptop computers Beverages with The New Library of Alexandria, Egypt aluminum packaging North America South America Europe Asia Headquarters Atlanta, USA (global HQ) São Paulo, Brazil Zurich, Switzerland Seoul, South Korea Employees* 2,860 + 240 HQ 1,710 5,210 1,600 Sales $4.0 bn $1.3 bn $3.8 bn $1.8 bn Operations Aluminum sheet for Aluminum sheet for Aluminum sheet Aluminum sheet the beverage can, the beverage can and for the automotive, for the beverage automotive, and industrial markets; beverage and food can, electronics and construction markets; light gauge products; can, construction, industrial markets; light gauge products aluminum smelting; electronics, industrial, light gauge products power generation and lithographic markets; foil products Operating facilities* Global Research & 2 rolling plants (1 with 12 plants (5 plants with 3 plants (2 with Technology Center recycling operations) recycling operations) recycling operations) in France, Germany, in South Korea 11 plants (4 with recycling 1 primary aluminum Italy, Luxembourg, and Malaysia operations) smelter and a Switzerland and the in Canada and the USA hydroelectric power United Kingdom system in Brazil *as of March 31, 2012 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 7 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report 2.1 million Novelis’ Role in the Aluminum Value Chain Aluminum products are produced by using primary aluminum – Novelis has already which is made through a process of extracting alumina from the announced plans to nearly mined substance bauxite – or by using recycled aluminum. double its recycling capacity Recycled aluminum is made from either preor post-consumer scrap, – from 1.2 million metric tons which is shredded and de-coated, re-melted and cast into ingots. to 2.1 million metric tons – Aluminum is infinitely recyclable, which means that, unlike most other by FY15. materials, the quality is not degraded through the recycling process. Consequently, recycling has always been an important part of the aluminum value chain. Novelis is almost entirely an aluminum converter, rather than an aluminum producer. When we use primary aluminum as our raw material, we mainly buy aluminum ingots from producers, which we then convert into flat rolled products (FRP). These are semi-finished Figure 3: Our Product Life Cycle. aluminum products used in the manufacture of finished goods such as cars and packaging for beverages and food. More than 98% of what we sell is FRP. For some customers, we produce more finished products such as blanks or flexible tubing used by the automotive industry. PRIMARY RAW MATERIALS Novelis is also an aluminum recycler. We purchase used beverage cans and other aluminum scrap, process it at our recycling facilities, and then use the recycled aluminum in our production of new FRP. In addition, we operate one small aluminum smelter in Brazil. INGOT CASTING RECYCLING NOVELIS FABRICATION Did you know Aluminum has become the second most-used metal in the world after steel. Source: www.world-aluminium.org NOVELIS Reduced Life Cycle Impacts of Aluminum Products END-OF-LIFE CUSTOMER COLLECTION MANUFACTURING CONSUMER USE NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 8 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Industry 2012 Over the last 25 years, demand for aluminum has grown by approximately 5% per year, which is a considerably faster growth rate Aluminum is heavily than that of other comparable metals (such as steel, lead or copper). featured in the design of While the historic growth in demand for aluminum has been relatively many of the 2012 Olympic strong, many predict it will be even stronger over the next five years. Between 2011 and 2016, global demand for flat rolled aluminum is Game sites, including the expected to grow by 6.4 million metric tons, or 34%, reflecting rapidly Aquatic Centre and accelerating demand in some key sectors (see figure 4). the Velodrome. This strong growth in demand will be driven by three key mega trends: Figure 4: Long-term Global Aluminum Demand (2011–2016 CAGR*). MEGA TREND Proliferation of Electronic Devices Automotive and High-end 25% Specialties Electronics & highend specialties 6% 2 Beverage cans MEGA TREND 4–5% MEGA TREND Growth in Growth in Sustainability as an 2011 2016 Emerging 1 Demand for 3 Enabler of Growth Markets Aluminum Source: Novelis estimates This growth is expected to be due to global shifts such as towards more 1 Growth in Emerging Markets fuel-efficient cars driving Emerging market countries, including China, India, Brazil and many substitution with aluminum, in Southeast Asia, are in the midst of a massive demographic shift. as well as widespread Rapidly growing populations are increasingly migrating to urban urbanization. areas, with concurrent industrialization and accelerated economic development. The result is an ascendant consumer class in these markets, with the ability and desire to purchase a range of new products – from automobiles, appliances and personal technology to packaged foods and more. That, in turn, drives demand for aluminum; two-thirds of the projected growth in demand over the next decade will come from Asia alone. * CAGR= Compound Annual Growth Rate NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 9 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report 2 Proliferation of Electronic Devices and High-end Specialties Consumers in developed economies and, increasingly, in emerging markets are dramatically increasing the number of electronic devices they buy. In the USA, the average household owns 25 consumer electronic devices – a considerable increase over the last three decades. Emerging markets look set to follow a similar – and accelerated – trajectory. For example, by the middle of 2011, China had approximately 900 million cell phone users – a nearly 25% increase from two years prior. Burgeoning consumer demand for light, sleek, portable electronic devices – many made with aluminum – promises to be a significant contributor to increased demand for our products. 3 Sustainability as an Enabler of Growth Rising energy demands, greater carbon constraints, depletion of natural resources and related government regulation, and consumer Novelis estimates that preferences are all key factors driving demand for our products. by 2020, global demand Aluminum is inherently strong, malleable, conductive, versatile, for aluminum FRP could infinitely recyclable and, most importantly amid energy and carbon be more than double the constraints, lightweight. As a result, aluminum offers unique potential amount produced in 2010. to help mitigate these sustainability challenges. The recent and projected growth in demand for aluminum in the automotive industry is one example. Driven by fuel economy requirements, car manufacturers are increasingly turning to aluminum to “lightweight” vehicles and, in turn, reduce emissions. Today, aluminum sheet has a 2% to 3% share of the global automotive structural and body metals market, but between 2011 and 2016, we expect demand to increase by 25% (see page 53 for a more detailed look at aluminum use in automobiles). The consumer electronics sector is another example where sustainability issues are driving demand for our products. Aluminum casings save weight, remove heat and add to recyclability – especially important amidst expanding product take-back legislation. Aluminum’s sustainability properties are exceptional, but challenges exist to maximizing the sustainability potential of aluminum. While producers have made major efficiency improvements in recent years, the production of primary aluminum still consumes large amounts of energy and water, and creates waste. Recycling aluminum requires 95% less energy and results in 95% fewer greenhouse gases (GHGs), compared to manufacturing primary aluminum. Novelis estimates that the global aluminum recycling rate is approximately 70%. However, the long life of many products that use aluminum – such as cars or buildings – means that it can be as many as 50 years before that aluminum makes its way back into the recycling stream. For products with shorter life cycles, such as beverage cans, the challenge is increasing recycling rates in locations where rates remain low. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 10 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Strategy and Management Novelis estimates that by 2020, the global demand for aluminum flat rolled products could be more than double the amount produced in 2010. Our sustainabilityand innovation-driven business strategy is designed to ensure our company capitalizes on this strong market growth, effectively manages potential risks, and solidifies our position as the undisputed leader in the aluminum rolled products industry. Our Corporate Strategy Novelis is aggressively positioning our company for rapid growth. In 2009, we initiated a process to transform our company and lay the foundation for this growth. The process is well underway and has touched on nearly every aspect of our business. It has required us to make some difficult decisions and has already yielded measurable impacts on our financial performance. Looking forward, we are focused on executing our four-fold strategy for growth: Growing our premium product portfolio. We are reshaping  our product portfolio to be more focused on the beverage can, automotive, and high-end specialties market segments, and to be more balanced across these markets. Given our particular skills and expertise, these products provide Novelis a competitive advantage and deliver higher value for our company, while at the same time lowering life cycle carbon emissions. Novelis has already announced investments of $1.7 billion to come online before 2015 to dramatically expand our production capacity for these products, as well as our research and development (R&D) capabilities and our recycling capacity. While these investments will significantly grow our business overall, we are also downsizing in some areas as we reshape our portfolio to focus on higher-value, lower-carbon products. Driving constant improvement in operations. An essential part of  our business transformation has been an effort called One Novelis. The vision for One Novelis is to create a truly global organization – in scale and practice – and to achieve it has meant a realignment of our culture, customer interactions, processes and systems to ensure a consistent approach across our operations. As part of this effort, we are implementing a global business transformation initiative, Novelis 2.0, that will enable us to operate as a globally integrated company with consistent business practices and systems (see page 28). In addition, we are strengthening and standardizing the safety aspect of our Environment, Health & Safety management system (see page 28). We are also enhancing and harmonizing our global talent development programs (see page 44), increasing our internal and external NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 11 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report R&T Spotlight communications, and undertaking a range of other efforts aimed at ensuring that across all of our operations, we are using consistent, New R&T Center Supports world-class systems and processes that will enable us to deliver Growth Plans and Sustainability world-class results. Commitments Capturing growth in emerging markets. Emerging markets will  In June 2012, Novelis opened a new, drive demand for aluminum in the coming decade, and Novelis is state-of-the-art global research positioning itself to capture that growth. We are already capable of and technology (R&T) center near producing high-end rolled products on all four major industrialized Atlanta, Georgia, USA. The nearly continents, and now we are expanding our existing production 15,000 square meter facility will and recycling capacity in Brazil and South Korea to better serve serve as the hub of Novelis’ R&D the growing Asian and South American markets. In Asia, where activities worldwide and is designed we expect demand for Novelis’ products to more than double by to expand our R&D program to 2020, we are focusing, in particular, on serving the automotive and support our aggressive growth plans. can industry, which will be a major source of increased demand. In The center will offer unparalleled April 2012, Novelis announced it is investing $100 million in its first R&D capabilities to help Novelis meet manufacturing facility in China. The Novelis-owned and operated the global long-term demand for aluminum used for the automotive, plant, set to open in 2014, will be the first facility in China dedicated beverage can and specialties to the production of aluminum sheet for the automotive market. markets. To meet the company’s Driving results through sustainability. Novelis is fundamentally  sustainability commitments, a key altering its business model to ensure we will capitalize on focus at the center will be to help aluminum’s potential – as a lightweight, infinitely recyclable metal develop sustainable products and – to be a key part of solving the global sustainability challenge. increase the amount of recycled As one example, we have set an aggressive target to increase our metal input across our product use of recycled aluminum to 80% of all input material by 2020. lines while meeting performance requirements. With the new location To meet the target, we are building the world’s largest aluminum in Kennesaw, Georgia, USA, we recycling network and working with our customers to develop will enable our researchers to new, more recyclable products and closed-loop recycling systems interact more closely with our (see Sourcing, page 21 for details on our recycling strategy). When global commercial, manufacturing we reach 80%, we will not only eliminate 10 million metric tons of excellence, engineering, EHS, GHGs from the aluminum production chain, but we will also help leadership and strategic teams ensure security of supply and, over the long term, lower the cost headquartered in Atlanta. of feedstock. Additionally, we will have a product portfolio that is well positioned for future carbon tax measures. Through our strategic investments to increase capacity serving the automotive, beverage can and high-end specialty markets, we are also actively positioning Novelis to capitalize on and help accelerate the trend towards aluminum use that is being driven by energy and carbon constraints. By executing this strategy, we aim to approximately double our profitability (adjusted EBITDA) between FY11 and FY16, and to solidify our position as the undisputed leader of our industry. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 12 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Sustainability Strategy & Progress Our sustainability strategy is directly linked to, and reinforces, our Becoming a UN Global overall corporate strategy. For example, sustainability is driving a Compact Signatory shift in our product mix towards higher-value, lower-carbon products that enable our customers to achieve their sustainability objectives In 2012, Novelis became a signatory through lightweighting, increased recycling and other benefits of the United Nations Global Compact, which is a major policy of aluminum. Sustainability is also at the core of our approach to initiative for businesses that manufacturing excellence and its emphasis on Environment, Health are committed to aligning their and Safety (EHS) management and continuous improvement in operations and strategies with resource efficiency. It is behind our target to reach 80% recycled 10 universally accepted principles in input (see Sourcing, page 21, for details on our recycling strategy). the areas of human rights, labor, the And it is heavily influencing our capital investments as we environment and anti-corruption. dramatically expand recycling capacity and increase production We believe participation in the capabilities for lower-carbon products. Indeed, sustainability is Global Compact is well aligned with requiring us to re-think the basic science and technology behind our and supports Novelis’ sustainability products – and is fundamentally changing our very business model. strategy. Our involvement will enable us to continue to enhance our understanding of and further drive our performance on Page 21 sustainability. See page 68 for Page 27 our Global Compact index. ability SOURCING tain MANUFACTURING sus CO NT M gh nt IN a ou nte UO n US uf hr co TPRINT t d O le FO lence EM EH ive yc N CORPO cel c BO Y PL ations Ex IN oper re EG RAT R AT O S suA TR ES ng nt S lt ri me Y TR s BI AT tu ove LI RE 80% T EG ac pr DU r ent NT Dr CE e Y SUS TA TO BE THE em ME INA C UNDISPUTED LEADER im ag ELOP an V m E DE IN THE ALUMINUM INDUSTRY THROUGH INNOVATION AND YE SUSTAINABILITY s I n u st ts c r a in d u c in g ea abi ro ycl se l it ed p pos y-relat r rec t-consume G S GR ROW U CT S OW PREM P R O D O MI E IN E M I U M O N ERGING EC CONSUMERS CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY Page 15, Page 50 46 and 56 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 13 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Did you know Taking a Life Cycle Approach In developing our sustainability strategy, Novelis was guided by Globally, aluminum achieves life cycle thinking. In practice, that means our strategy is designed among the highest material to address the “cradle-to-cradle” or “cradle-to-grave” impacts of recycling rates for end-of-life our products across the full aluminum mining, production, use and products, with up to 90% for transport and recycling value chain – including those phases where Novelis does construction applications. not have direct operations, such as bauxite mining and alumina refining or end-use by the consumer. Source: www.world-aluminium.org The life cycle approach reflects our awareness of the particular sustainability attributes of aluminum. Namely, although primary aluminum production is relatively energyand carbon-intensive, when viewed over the full product life cycle, aluminum’s sustainability “footprint” improves considerably as a result of its inherently energysaving, light-weight and corrosion-resistant nature. Aluminum’s infinite recyclability is the other essential component of its sustainability footprint, and recycling aluminum uses dramatically less energy than manufacturing primary aluminum. In light of this, we are using life cycle assessment (LCA) as a key Cutting our GHG Emissions in strategic tool to increasingly focus our business on those products Half: How Does 95% of 80% with more favorable life cycle attributes, including lower energy and Make 50%? carbon intensity, higher levels of recycling, and greater profitability. The life cycle approach is also driving our aggressive efforts to In what on the surface seems a expand our recycling business and dramatically increase our use of paradox, implementing a life cycle recycled content. approach will actually increase Novelis’ direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions because as we grow our recycling business (which requires additional energy inputs), our direct GHG emissions will also grow. However, recycling cuts the Reducing GHG Emissions across the Life-Cycle embedded carbon of aluminum products by 95% compared to primary aluminum, resulting in 10% 24% reduced Scope 3 emissions. When we reach our target of using 80% recycled content, we will cut our total life cycle GHG emissions by Baseline Vision nearly 50% despite considerable FY07—FY09 2020 11 m growth in production, thereby 21 m metric tons metric tons avoiding 10 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year. For us, this is a far more beneficial societal outcome – and an outcome that 90% 76% ultimately ensures the sustainability of our whole industry – than simply reducing our own direct emissions. Novelis Recycling and Fabrication (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Material Inputs page 35 for details). NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 14 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Using Materiality to Shape Our Sustainability Strategy As part of our effort to develop a comprehensive sustainability strategy, we conducted a materiality assessment to help us identify and prioritize the sustainability issues that are most important for our business and to our stakeholders. The assessment was conducted via our ongoing engagement with external stakeholders and also informed by Novelis’ planning and strategy development efforts. Energy use and climate change are the most material issues related to our operations and products – in particular, the “upstream” effects of our sourcing of raw materials – and the central sustainability challenge for our industry. At the same time, aluminum’s potential as a solution in an increasingly carbon-constrained world is enormous. In addition to energy and carbon reduction, our sustainability strategy is focused on the issues that are most important to our company and our stakeholders (see below). Figure 5: Materiality Material Issues Assessment Across the Life Cycle of Our Products. Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers/ Themes Page 21 Page 27 Page 50 Society Page 46 and 56 Strong economic Metal and other Profitable growth Continuous performance resource availability Attracting, developing improvement in and retaining talent customer service Increasing recycling Increasing recycled Reduced life cycle Reduced life cycle Increasing recycling to decrease life cycle content of metal supply environmental impact environmental impact rates environmental impact and carbon emissions and carbon emissions of Reducing waste of aluminum of our products our customers’ products and resource use Engaging in policy dialogue on sustainable aluminum products Sustainable product Innovation, sustainable Safe, environmentally innovation products for the future sound products Ethical, safe, Responsible sourcing Improving our health Engaging and responsible operations and safety performance contributing to Reducing the our communities environmental footprint of our operations, including: •g  reenhouse gas emissions • energy use • water use • waste Ethical behavior and compliance NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 15 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Demonstrating Progress and Improving Performance In FY12, we made strong progress on many of our key targets, including increasing our use of recycled input from 33% to 39% in just one year and making steady progress towards our energy efficiency goal. In some instances, however, our progress is not what we had hoped. For example, although our recordable rates have improved, we unfortunately experienced two fatalities in FY12. As a result, we are taking steps to strengthen our safety management system – as well as to address other performance setbacks – which we believe will lead to improvements in the future. Focusing on Internal Engagement on Sustainability One of our key areas of focus in the past year has been on communicating and engaging with our employees about Novelis’ Novelis employees gather at the end sustainability commitment. Our objective is to educate employees of the annual Leadership Summit in about our approach to sustainability and how they can contribute September 2011 in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. to our efforts. We have dramatically increased our internal communications on sustainability using management briefings, company publications, our intranet, and other vehicles. We also created an employee-specific summary of our 2011 sustainability report, translated into the local language at all Novelis operating sites, and distributed to every employee, which outlined how sustainability relates to all areas of our business and how employees could become engaged. We will continue to regularly update our employees on our sustainability initiatives. We have also used forums, such as our annual Leadership Summit and plant manager meetings, to communicate about and engage employees on sustainability. While we have made good progress building greater awareness of sustainability among our employees, we still have more work to do to fully embed sustainability into our culture. We will continue to hold workshops and other sessions with all the different functions within Novelis to further educate and engage them in the company’s sustainability efforts. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 16 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainability Management & Governance Did you know At Novelis, we are working to take an integrated, cohesive approach to managing sustainability issues alongside, and on par with, Of the estimated 900 million our other financial and operational objectives. Indeed, because tonnes of aluminum produced sustainability is such an integral part of our corporate strategy, our since 1880, three-quarters is sustainability and business performance are increasingly interrelated. still in productive use. Around 35% is located in buildings, Corporate Governance & Policy Framework 30% in electrical cables and Management of our company starts with our strict adherence to machinery and 30% within corporate governance principles. Novelis’ Board of Directors is transport applications. comprised of five directors, all of whom were appointed Source: www.world-aluminium.org by our sole shareholder, Hindalco Industries Limited, which is a publicly-held company whose shares are listed for trading on the Mumbai Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India and Recycling the metal currently the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Our Board oversees and provides stored in use would equal up guidance on the overall direction of our company, while our executive to 17 years’ worth of current officers are responsible for the day-to-day management. annual primary aluminum production. Novelis has a Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Senior Managers that reflects our ethical principles and our core values. Source: www.world-aluminium.org This code is a key pillar of corporate governance practices and complies with both the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission. This is supplemented by a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which reflects our commitment to financial integrity and to full and accurate financial disclosure in compliance with applicable accounting policies, laws and regulations. It sets out specific principles to guide the company’s senior financial officers in the performance of their duties. Senior financial officers are, therefore, bound by the requirements of both documents. Updated Employee Code of Conduct Novelis also has a Code of Conduct for all employees, which prohibits conflicts of interest, political activity, kickbacks and anti-competitive behavior, among other things. We have been updating the Code of Conduct, which will be rolled out to all employees in FY13, supported by communication and training programs. Sustainability Management at Novelis Novelis’ Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports to the company’s CEO, is responsible for leading implementation of the company’s sustainability strategy. Because our sustainability strategy is integrated into our corporate strategy and cuts across all aspects of our business, implementation is by necessity crossfunctional. All of Novelis’ senior executives have responsibility for delivering on some aspect of the plan, and sustainability aspects are integrated into a range of policies and systems we use to manage our company (see page 28). Our sustainability targets, alongside financial and operational ones, essentially form our company’s scorecard, which we use to monitor our company’s performance against our strategic objectives. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 17 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is an essential component of managing sustainability. Consistent with our life cycle approach, we are committed to working to understand and be responsive to the full range of stakeholders who are impacted across the aluminum value chain. Our key stakeholders include employees and employee representatives, customers, suppliers, bond holders, our parent company, regulators and policymakers, the communities in which we live and work, and sustainability organizations (including nongovernmental organizations concerned about the social, environmental and climate impacts of the production and use of aluminum products). We engage with our stakeholders on an ongoing basis and through a variety of forums and communication channels. One way that we are accomplishing this is through our community engagement, or Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), program. In FY12, we launched an effort to begin implementing a more formalized process at each of our facilities for engaging in dialogue with nongovernmental organizations, local government officials, other companies, and other interested community stakeholders through a training process for our Novelis Neighbor site champions. Our objective is to obtain input that enables us to better identify, understand and address the most important issues in the communities where we operate. We have established a target that 100% of our operations will have implemented such a process by 2020 (see page 47). The Candonga Consortium partners with Another way that we engage with stakeholders is through participation public and private entities to address the in various industry associations and packaging organizations, such as needs of the community in Brazil (see Automotive Industry Action Group, Curbside Value Partnership, Can page 49). Manufacturer’s Institute, European Organization for Packaging and the Environment (Europen), Metal Packaging Europe, the Aluminum Association, European Aluminium Association, and others (see Public Policy Engagement section on page 20). As the keynote speaker at AMM's Aluminum Summit in June 2012, Phil Martens described the bright future of the aluminum industry and of Novelis. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 18 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “With the rapid rise of China, Formation of our Sustainability Advisory Council India, Brazil and other emerging In FY12, we formed a Sustainability Advisory Council, which is economies, it is becoming increasingly clear that ecomade up of well-respected experts in the sustainability field who efficiency – reducing negative collectively offer Novelis a wealth of knowledge, experience and impact from current operations perspectives. Members are: – will not be sufficient. Instead, we will need to move “beyond Matt Arnold, Head of Environmental Affairs, JP Morgan Chase greening” to reinvent industries Stuart Hart, S.C. Johnson Chair in Sustainable Global Enterprise, through regeneration, reuse, Cornell University and recycling. Novelis has set in Jeffrey Keefer, Former Executive Vice President, DuPont motion an audacious strategy to reinvent the entire aluminum Miguel Milano, Board Member Instituto LIFE, Fundação O Boticário industry – to effectively become de Proteção a Natureza “above-ground miners.” If they Jonathon Porritt, Founder, Forum for the Future are successful, not only will they dramatically reduce greenhouse The objective of the Council is to provide a regular channel for gas emissions and put in place a Novelis to solicit external expertise, advice and critical analysis of our global aluminum cycle, but they sustainability goals, efforts, performance and reporting. We also ask will also lower cost and increase members of the Council to help Novelis identify and understand key profitability in the process. current and emerging sustainability issues and challenges, to share This captures the essence of their insights on evolving stakeholder expectations and to provide “sustainability” in action.” examples of how other companies are demonstrating leadership in Stuart Hart sustainability. We urge Council members to genuinely challenge S.C. Johnson Chair and expand Novelis’ thinking as we work to achieve our in Sustainable sustainability vision. Global Enterprise, Cornell University To ensure the Council has a direct line of communication to the most senior decision-makers at the company, the Council also includes Novelis’ CEO, Chief Commercial and Strategy Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer. The Council has two formal meetings per year, and members are engaged on an ad hoc basis between meetings. The Novelis Sustainability Advisory Council. (Left to right: Jonathon Porritt, Erwin Mayr, Matt Arnold, Jeffrey Keefer, Phil Martens, Miguel Milano, Stuart Hart and John Gardner). NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 19 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engaging with Our Customers on Sustainability Our customers have been one of the key stakeholder groups driving demand for sustainability at Novelis. They are not only concerned about Novelis’ own sustainability practices, but also are interested in engaging with us to find shared solutions to common challenges. In both FY11 and FY12, we met with key contacts across our customer base to learn more about their companies’ sustainability goals and how Novelis can help them achieve them. This has resulted in increased collaboration and alignment with our customers, which has helped both Novelis and our customers achieve our sustainability goals (see Customers, page 50 and Awards, page 70). Public Policy Engagement Most of our advocacy on global and national public policy issues is conducted through aluminum associations, rather than by directly engaging with policymakers. At the local level, Novelis works directly In May 2012, executives from Rexam with public officials and government agencies on local issues and visited Novelis’ new Global Research & policies that affect our business. Technology Center in Kennesaw, Georgia, USA, to discuss joint innovation projects, Our primary objective is to track and understand the environmental objectives and priorities with Novelis leaders. (Left to right: Tomas Sjölin, regulations and other policies that may affect our business and, Mauro Moreno, Pierre Labat, Stefan when we feel it is necessary, to seek to constructively advocate for Erdmann, Claude Marbach, Michael particular policies. Demmer, Iain Percival, John Gardner, John Caton, Frances Tolley, Derek Climate change is a key policy priority for Novelis, and we support Prichett, Richard Downes, Mike Reiner, Andy King and Jose-Luiz Tortelli.) dialogue and action to address climate change and to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. We support policies that take a holistic approach by factoring in overall life cycle impacts and benefits, including recycling. End-of-life recycling is another key policy priority for Novelis, and we are committed to collaborating with regulators and other stakeholders in support of policies that encourage and facilitate efficient recycling. Novelis made no political contributions in FY12, either directly as a Did you know company or through employee political action committee donations. As of 2012, recycling of postconsumer aluminum products saves over 90 million tonnes of CO2 and over 100,000 GWh of electrical energy, equivalent to the annual power consumption of the Netherlands. Source: recycling.world-aluminium.org NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 20 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sourcing A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs The sourcing phase of our life cycle is important ife Cycle App because it is where the most significant environmental le L ro impacts occur and where there are some key social ho ac W h A challenges. It is also an area where we are making As we move towards our recycled profound changes as we work to dramatically increase aluminum goal, we our use of recycled metal input. are expanding our capacity to collect and process aluminum from a variety of preand post-consumer sources. We are also developing a Supplier Code of Conduct, which we plan to implement in FY13. Baseline Performance Targets Our Targets FY07–FY09 Average FY12 FY20 2020 Operational Targets Recycled metal 80% by 2020 30% 39% 80% content NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 21 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Novelis’ Global Recycling Strategy 25% During FY12, our percentage of recycled input increased from 33% to 39%, bringing us within sight of reaching 50% recycled input by midBetween 2011 and 2016, decade. We are also on course to meet our longer-term target of 80% Novelis expects to see recycled aluminum input by 2020. Moving forward, many aspects an approximately 25% of our business will need to align in order to achieve our recycling target. This section details our progress as we shift our sourcing compound annual growth model towards recycling and manage the impacts this has on both rate (CAGR) in demand our supply chain and our company’s entire business strategy. for aluminum by the automotive industry. Over While our 80% recycled target is aggressive, it nonetheless recognizes the same period, we expect that we continue to require some primary aluminum in order to demand for aluminum in the manufacture our products (see case study on “Why Not 100%?” electronics and high-end page 25). Compared to recycled aluminum, creating aluminum from specialties sector to increase bauxite uses significantly more energy and raw materials, and results in more greenhouse gas emissions. For additional information about by approximately 6% per how aluminum is made, please see our website. year, and by 4% to 5% per year in the beverage At the most basic level, our recycling target is a sourcing issue. can sector. Achieving it in practice, however, will mean taking steps at all stages of the product life cycle. The following outlines the core pillars of our recycling strategy and describes steps we are taking in each area. Increase Recycling Capacity In order to process increased volumes and variable types of aluminum scrap, we first need to significantly increase our global recycling capacity. Over the past two years, we have announced investments that will nearly double our global recycling capacity from 1.2 million metric tons to 2.1 million metric tons through either new operations or expansions of our current facilities, as detailed in the Manufacturing section of this report. A key project we have recently made public is the Nachterstedt recycling facility, located in Germany, which will come on line in late 2014 as the largest recycling center in the world (see below). Nachterstedt: Future Direction of Novelis Plants When our Nachterstedt, Germany, recycling facility comes on line in late 2014, it will be the largest aluminum recycling center in the world – and also one of the most sophisticated. Novelis will invest $250 million in the 400 metric kt per year facility, which incorporates cutting-edge processing technology like advanced melting furnaces and high-speed sorting with eddy-current, optical and other sensors. The plant will be capable of recycling more than 18 different categories of scrap from consumers, construction and industrial applications, helping to diversify our source of raw materials. Technology employed at Nachterstedt will be replicated in Novelis’ other new recycling facilities, providing a glimpse of the scale and advanced technology we are developing for recycling. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 22 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Evolve Design Specifications Oswego Plant Forges We are also collaborating with our customers to advance research New Approach to Scrap and development of products with greater recycled input that are Historically, Novelis’ Oswego, New more easily recycled, such as a single-alloy can. These products offer York, USA plant relied mainly on not only a lower carbon footprint, but also new sources of recycled used beverage cans for the recycled aluminum for Novelis to use. Examples of our collaborative work in aluminum supply it used to make this area are provided in this section and the Customers section of can products. More recently, to this report (see page 50). expand and diversify its options for using recycled materials, the Reshape Product Portfolio Oswego plant pioneered sourcing of other types of scrap and their We are shifting our product portfolio to be more focused on use in other types of products. sustainable, higher-value products that offer the potential of greater To make this happen, Novelis recyclability and recycled input, and hence lower embedded carbon. brought metallurgists together with As a result, we are reducing production of or divesting some product procurement and operations team lines like foil that are largely produced from primary aluminum members to tackle the challenge (see case study on site closures in Our People, page 44). as a group through innovative new approaches. As a result, Oswego Expand Scrap Purchasing System has developed expertise and systems for recovering materials, Significantly expanding our purchases of scrap aluminum is driving like car radiators, helping to shift changes in how we source materials. We are diversifying the kinds its material base towards large of recycled aluminum we can use, and our goal is to purchase half volumes of scrap metal. Lessons of our scrap from applications other than used beverage cans by from the Oswego plant have been 2020. We estimate that while 65% of Novelis’ scrap purchases are shared with other plants across the currently from cans, can scrap as a whole represents only 17% of the Novelis system. scrap market. Although this means a large supply of alternative scrap exists, other sources of scrap tend to be more variable than cans in their size, shape and alloy composition, and can present technical issues in collection, processing and manufacturing. Sources we are exploring include: End-of-life automobiles and auto manufacturing scrap. Construction and industrial scrap. Wire, foil, cable and extrusion scrap. To boost our supply of available aluminum inputs, we are also becoming more systematic about taking back scrap our customers produce during manufacturing processes. As much as possible, new Novelis contracts in the beverage can and automotive segments, as well as some others, now incorporate closed-loop provisions. In other words, we almost always try to buy back aluminum scrap that our clients generate during production − and we recycle it. This approach will double our preconsumer scrap supply by FY20, providing approximately 25% of our Did you know total recycled materials. Steps we are taking to increase our sourcing from customers are discussed in the Customers section. Aluminum is infinitely recyclable – it can be recycled to make exactly the same product over and over, and using recycled aluminum does not affect the quality of the product. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 23 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Increase Post-Consumer Recycling Vertically Integrating through As we seek to expand our use of recycled aluminum, procuring Scrap Collection in Brazil the needed supplies of scrap and used aluminum presents several Brazil has very high recycling rates challenges. Historically, used beverage cans have been the preferred and a fairly well developed recycling source of recycled aluminum because they offer a uniform, highinfrastructure. However, there is quality material. However, the worldwide demand for used beverage room for further improvement as the containers is growing faster than supply. Can-recycling rates vary market grows, and we have invested by country, but in most regions room for improvement exists. As a in expanding post-consumer result, we are collaborating with a range of stakeholders to provide recycling in Brazil by opening five or support expanded post-consumer collection and recycling Novelis-owned and operated used infrastructure and to develop partnerships that facilitate efficient can collection centers. This new on-the-ground presence has allowed recycling. We are also supporting and developing consumer Novelis to develop relationships education and awareness programs (see Consumers, page 56). with small collectors and scrap yards, rather than purchase only from commercial companies that handle very large volumes. Through these relationships, we are building a closer-knit network in order to secure sources of used aluminum Figure 6: Moving Towards Infinite Recyclability. that Novelis previously could not access due to logistical challenges. CURRENT FUTURE The new collection centers can process 700 metric tons of used beverage cans a month. The new END centers are located throughout ALLOY Brazil in Florianopolis, Salvador, Recife, Pindamonhangaba, and Sao Paulo. BODY SINGLE ALLOY ALLOY CURRENT SINGLE ALLOY 2-ALLOY CAN FOR BODY AND RECYCLING END WILL BE ABLE (END AND TO BE RECYCLED BODY ALLOY PRIMARY INFINITELY RECYCLED INTO ADDED TO BODY ALLOY) DILUTE SCRAP NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 24 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “Ball welcomes Novelis working with the industry to think about Why Not 100%? The Beverage Can as Object Lesson innovative concepts to make beverage cans even more Our goal of 80% recycling is ambitious, but why not 100%? There are several sustainable in the future than reasons, some of which are structural and are unlikely to change, and some they are today. of which are technical and are a current focus for our innovation efforts. Novelis’ target to increase the Fundamentally, our ability to get to 100% recycled inputs (or any percentage, use of recycled aluminum to for that matter), depends on our having a sufficient supply of scrap 80% is a bold initiative and aluminum. Aluminum often has a very long life cycle, which can slow down will require Novelis to make its return to the recycling stream. While a recycled beverage container can considerable investment in be back on the shelf in 60 days, aluminum in automobiles has a life span of research and development, as 15 to 20 years, and aluminum in buildings lasts up to 50 years. In fact, of all well as substantial changes in the aluminum that has been manufactured over the past 100 years, 75% is how our industries support still in use. Even if all aluminum that could be recycled were captured, the post-consumer recycling. It significant growth in demand for aluminum products would continue to will also require the entire require additional primary production. supply chain to collaborate and Another challenge, detailed in the Consumers section of this report, is communicate more effectively. the need to increase rates of post-consumer recycling to ensure that all At Ball, we also want to better recyclable scrap re-enters the aluminum life cycle. understand environmental and Finally, given current manufacturing processes, primary aluminum must often social impacts in our supply be added to recycled scrap to ensure the appropriate alloy composition chain – not only from our tierduring the production process. For example, the current aluminum can is one suppliers like Novelis, but composed of two different types of alloy, one for the can body and one for also further back in the chain.” the can end and tab. Primary aluminum must be added to get the recycled Björn Kulmann can material back to one or the other of those alloy types. Even if beverage Director, Sustainability, can recycling rates worldwide were 100%, we still would not be able to Ball Corporation efficiently produce a can sheet that is made of 100% recycled material because of the two-alloy design. To address this barrier, Novelis is re-thinking the manufacturing process itself. We are working with our customers on the next generation of aluminum can, employing a single-alloy design for both can body and end sheet (see graphic on page 24). This disruptive innovation has brought an up to 100% recycled-content can within our reach − the ultimate sustainable package. This is the model that preserves the highest value for the scrap and delivers the highest environmental benefit. Did you know In 2010, Americans recycled approximately 56 billion aluminum cans, increasing the recycling rate to 58% – saving the energy equivalent of 17 million barrels of crude oil, or nearly two days of all US oil imports. Source: Canned Water for Kids website NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 25 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainability in Our Supply Chain 75% Beyond our efforts to change our sourcing model, we are working to understand and manage a broader range of sustainability While a recycled beverage aspects within our supply chain, from human and labor rights to the container can be back environmental, health and safety (EHS) practices of our suppliers. on the shelf in 60 days, As a first step, we are gathering more information from our suppliers, such as which certifications they have achieved (e.g., ISO 14001) aluminum in automobiles and data regarding their EHS policies. The specific type and amount has a life span of 15 to 20 of information we are asking for varies depending on the level of years. In fact, of all the the supplier. aluminum that has been manufactured over the past In addition, we are working to develop a new Supplier Code of 100 years, 75% is still in use. Conduct to ensure that the standards set out in our internal Code of Conduct are also observed by our business partners. The Supplier Code will be rolled out to our current suppliers, who will be asked to confirm their commitment to adhere to it, and it will be part of the process of contracting with new suppliers. The Supplier Code will apply to suppliers of both metal and non-metal products. To support the release of the Supplier Code, we are developing an informative portal that highlights the importance of sustainability in our overall procurement program and relationships. In addition, in October 2011 we signed the United Nations Global Compact. With this commitment, we agreed to abide by and report on our implementation of 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Among these commitments are eliminating forced or child labor and upholding collective bargaining rights. Novelis products transported between the Norf, Göttingen and Nachterstedt facilities in Germany are carried on a daily train. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 26 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Manufacturing Our Products Novelis is a global manufacturer with operations spanning 11 countries, world-class rolling mills, recycling centers, and advanced manufacturing technology. le Life Cycle App ho ro a This section discusses our One Novelis culture, W ch A management systems, and how we are implementing The manufacturing the manufacturing aspects of our global recycling life cycle stage is the strategy. It also reviews our performance in FY12 and heart of our business. our progress towards targets in the key areas of It is where our human, environmental and financial environment, people and community. capabilities come together to produce consistent, premium-quality rolled aluminum, sustainably. Baseline Performance Targets Our Targets FY07–FY09 Average FY12 FY20 2020 Operational Targets Energy usage Reduce by 39% per metric ton of sales 12.4 GJ/mt 10.0 GJ/mt 7.6 GJ/mt Water usage Reduce by 25% per metric ton of sales 3.7 m3/mt 3.2 m3/mt 2.7 m3/mt GHG emissions Halve our absolute amount (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 21 m mt 19 m mt 11 m mt Landfill Zero landfilled waste 60 K mt 49 K mt 0 K mt 2020 People Targets Safety Zero recordable injuries 1.01 0.59 0 Employees 100% of eligible employees receive annual NA 38% 100% performance feedback World-class leadership development NA in progress Benchmarked program, benchmarked in the top 10% of in top 10% companies Community 100% of operations have implemented local NA in progress 100% community engagement process Code of Employee and supplier codes rolled out, NA in progress 100% Conduct process in place for noncompliance NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 27 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “One Novelis” Manufacturing Excellence A sheet of aluminum from a coil We have a One Novelis goal of operating as a fully integrated global is cut into strips using an industrial company. We are implementing One Novelis through initiatives such metal slitter at the Novelis plant in Göttingen, Germany. as standardizing our global manufacturing processes to ensure that high-quality products are delivered across the globe. Through both people and processes, One Novelis leads to manufacturing excellence. We rely on our people to continuously improve our operations by initiating lean principles and developing new ways to maximize use of our plants, increasing both productivity and customer service. Our people are also the key to creating a culture that ensures that everyone remains safe by embracing the aspects of our EHS “Together We Are Safe” global program (see sidebar page 41). Another way Novelis is improving processes is through its investment in a new data management system called Novelis 2.0. The system will allow us to operate as a truly globally integrated company with consistent business practices and information systems. Novelis 2.0 will improve tracking of our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) data as well as retrieve human resources, financial, manufacturing, commercial and other business data at the global level. Environment, Health & Safety Management Systems Achieving EHS manufacturing excellence requires rigorous, consistent management systems. Because of this, all Novelis manufacturing sites are required to obtain registration to two internationally recognized management systems: The ISO 14001 environmental management standard, which provides a framework for continuous improvement of our environmental performance, and The OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Specification, which serves as the foundation of our management approach to employee health and safety. Additionally, all of our manufacturing facilities are certified to ISO quality standards. These certifications are one element of our push to standardize our business systems, processes and procedures across all our operations to achieve consistent, high levels of performance. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 28 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Aluminum coils in our Logan plant in The newly created role of Chief Technical Officer at Novelis oversees Russellville, Kentucky, USA. several areas to ensure that we are streamlined and integrated across our functions, including operations, engineering, research and development, and EHS. The global EHS team develops standards, provides expertise and facilitates best practice sharing across One Novelis, while local line managers and plant EHS staff throughout our many manufacturing sites together are accountable for EHS performance at the plant level. Our CEO leads our EHS Steering Committee, which oversees EHS strategy and performance at the global level. Similar cross-functional teams operate at the regional and plant levels and are championed by senior line managers with the support of EHS, Human Resources and Communication partners. The teams provide leadership, direction and strategy to effectively implement programs and initiatives. Did you know From 1972–2003, consumers in the USA threw away over one trillion aluminum cans – enough to reach around the earth 3,048 times. The trillion wasted beverage cans weigh in at 17.5 million tons – a quantity of scrap aluminum worth about $21 billion at today's market prices. Source: Container Recycling Institute NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 29 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Investing in Global Expansion Novelis is in the midst of a significant global expansion. Since the start of FY11, we have announced major investments totaling approximately $1.4 billion into expanding our rolling, finishing and recycling capacity. Our global recycling strategy calls for Novelis to achieve recycling capacity of over 4 million metric tons of scrap by 2020. During FY12, we announced expansions that will double our recycling capacity from 1.2 million to 2.1 million metric tons by 2015. In November 2011, we completed construction of new recycling capacity in the Alunorf facility near Dusseldorf in Germany, the world's largest aluminum rolling complex. The expansion adds 50,000 metric tons per year of aluminum scrap recycling capacity, for a total recycled scrap capacity at Alunorf of 100,000 metric tons per year. The following table details the major investments we have made since April 2010 to expand our production capacity: Figure 7: Major Expansion Investments Announced Since April 2010. Location Capacity Timing Alunorf, Germany 50 metric kt recycling November 2011 Changzhou, China 120 metric kt finishing Late 2014 Nachterstedt, Germany 400 metric kt recycling Early 2015 Oswego, USA 200 metric kt finishing Mid-2013 Pieve Emanuele, Italy 15 metric kt recycling Late 2012 Pinda, Brazil 220 metric kt rolling Late 2012 190 metric kt recycling Late 2013 100 metric kt coating Late 2013 Ulsan & Yeongju, South Korea 220 metric kt recycling 2012/2013 350 metric kt rolling Late 2013 In addition to these investments, in FY12 Novelis increased its share of ownership of Novelis Korea Ltd from 68% to over 99%. Pindamonhangaba, Brazil Yeongju, Korea Oswego, USA NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 30 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Environmental Performance We are taking a life cycle approach to our environmental strategy. We recognize that increasing our use of recycled material will also increase Novelis’ energy and water use − even though over the life cycle of our products less energy and other resources will be used. That is why we have set targets to improve our efficiency and cut our impacts across key environmental performance areas as we are working to achieve our sustainability goals. Measure Unit Baseline Average FY11 FY12 Change FY07–FY09 (baseline to FY12) Energy intensity GJ/metric ton FRP Sales 12.4 10.5 10.0 -19% GHG emissions intensity metric tons CO2e/metric ton 7.2 6.8 6.9 -5% (Scope 1, 2 and 3) FRP Sales Water intensity m3/metric ton FRP Sales 3.7 3.1 3.2 -11% Waste intensity kg/metric ton FRP Sales 20.7 17.6 17.4 -16% Energy Use and Greenhouse Solar Panel Installation Gas Emissions In FY12, Novelis’ Bresso, Italy plant turned a routine maintenance chore into an opportunity to reduce its Energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the most environmental footprint by using significant environmental issues related to our operations and innovative solar technology. Plant products. Within our own operations, the most substantial portions of managers decided to replace an our GHG emissions are CO2 and NOx emissions related to energy use obsolete warehouse roof with one (the remainder are perfluorocarbon (PFC) and anode consumption that incorporates an integrated solar CO2 emissions related to our single primary aluminum facility). photovoltaic electricity generation Taking a life cycle view, the vast majority of energy use and GHG system and uses aluminum extensively in its structure. The emissions associated with our products occur “upstream” in our 156 solar panels, which have a supply chain (see figure 8 on page 32), which is also where our capacity of 37.4 KW, generate about biggest opportunities for contributing to climate change solutions 36,000 KWh per year and prevent occur. Recycling cuts the embedded carbon of aluminum products 16 metric tons of CO2 emissions. by 95% compared to primary aluminum. This means that the overall The investment will be repaid in six life cycle GHG emissions related to our products will decrease years and the panels are expected dramatically (by nearly 50%) as we increase our use of recycled to last more than 20 years. inputs (see page 21). However, recycling requires more energy use in our facilities because of the additional de-coating, shredding and re-melting steps in the process. That is why we’ve committed to increasing the efficiency of our own operations, while also shifting to significantly higher use of recycled aluminum. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 31 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 8: Novelis Greenhouse Gas Footprint FY12 (All data in metric t/CO2e). PRIMARY RAW MATERIALS Primary GHG emissions aluminum 17,269,031 Avoided emissions INGOT CASTING Manufacturing of flat rolled products 2,001,013 Avoided due RECYCLING NOVELIS FABRICATION to energy efficiency Avoided due 34,049 to recycling 9,660,556 NOVELIS Reduced Life Cycle Impacts of Aluminum Transportation Products 217,527 END-OF-LIFE CUSTOMER COLLECTION MANUFACTURING CONSUMER USE We developed this approach based on a review of the risks and Did you know opportunities associated with GHG emissions and climate change issues. We expect the public interest in this area to grow and carbon Recycling scrap from used legislation to be enacted in more countries and regions (e.g., beyond products has avoided over the Emission Trading Scheme in Europe as well as Korea). This situation one billion metric tons of CO2 emissions. will impact Novelis in a number of areas, from our energy procurement operations to our key markets. The recognition of these risks and Source: www.world-aluminium.org opportunities has been a significant driver of our sustainability strategy, a chief objective of which is to reduce the carbon footprint of Novelis and our customers. We see supplying sustainable low-carbon products that benefit society as fundamental to our long-term growth. The company’s most senior governance bodies have endorsed this strategy and the adoption of our GHG-reduction targets. We have supported dialogue to reduce GHG emissions, and we engage on the climate change issue with stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, government and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 32 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainable Energy Use 5% We use several sources of energy in the production and delivery of our aluminum products. The majority of energy usage in our facilities Novelis' overall energy occurs at our recycling casting centers, at our smelter in South America intensity improved 5% in just and during the process of hot and cold rolling aluminum. one year (from FY11 to FY12) Natural gas used directly at our facilities (particularly for melting) and – and has improved by 19% purchased electricity (particularly for rolling) are the most important from our baseline. sources of energy for Novelis, supplying 88% of our total energy needs by cost (see figures 10 and 12). We also use fuel oil, transport fuel and other energy sources. Our South American segment has its own hydroelectric facilities providing power to the Ouro Preto smelter, which meet approximately 60% of its electricity requirements and account for 11% of the company’s overall direct electricity usage. Outside of South America, we purchase electricity from third-party suppliers. Of the energy we purchase, about 33% comes from renewable sources and 20% from nuclear power (see figure 10). In FY11, Novelis appointed a new Global Energy Efficiency Manager to coordinate activities and facilitate the development and sharing of best practices. We are currently evaluating adoption of the new ISO 50001 standard, which specifies requirements for an energy management system and enables an organization to take a systematic approach to the continual improvement of energy efficiency and energy performance. Our energy platform focuses on the key pillars for success in improving energy efficiency. Our plants are working to increase monitoring of energy use, identify the most promising targets for energy reductions Reducing Energy Use and implement energy efficiency improvements for both our indirect Through Lighting Efficiency and direct energy use. In FY12 we implemented extensive lighting efficiency projects at 10 of Direct energy efficiency improvements our facilities (Warren, Berea, Terre Haute, Toronto, Oswego, Ohle, We implemented several equipment upgrades that reduce direct energy Bresso, Göttingen, Pieve, and Ulsan). use, including the following: These projects not only provide I n Warren, Ohio, USA, the incinerator of the coating line stack was exhausting better quality light in our facilities approximately 600°F air directly to the atmosphere. By installing an additional from a health and safety perspective, heat exchanger on the incinerator to pre-heat the make-up air, the plant cut its but also reduce our electricity use. entire natural gas use by 25%, equivalent to 48,000 gigajoules (GJ). In Sierre, Switzerland, several process experts worked with pre-heating, loading, melting and alloying operators to improve operating practices, FIGURE 9: Novelis Energy Use FY12: resulting in a 15% increase in re-melt energy efficiency. The plant also Direct and Indirect (GJ). standardized and optimized operational procedures including the number of metal pre-heaters that should be used. Indirect 31% In Norf, Germany, five new high-efficiency annealers have been installed to meet the growing demand for aluminum. Equipment was selected to ensure an optimum life cycle cost with low maintenance and energy costs. The annealers were designed with state-of-the-art insulation, furnace control and heat recovery solutions, which have resulted in savings of 30% in gas, 50% on power and 70% of nitrogen emissions compared to the annealers used Direct 69% previously. The yearly energy saving is more than 112,000 GJ. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 33 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our overall energy intensity (measured in gigajoules per metric ton Global Energy Policy of product) has improved by 19% from our baseline (average of FY07 to FY09) and 5% from FY11 to FY12. Our direct energy intensity has In 2011, Novelis created a new Global improved by 9% and our indirect energy intensity has improved by Energy Policy. The policy’s goals 35% compared to the baseline. In FY12, the largest contributing factor are aligned with those of our overall 39% energy reduction target. It also to the reduction in our overall energy use was the closure of our covers decision making, planned aluminum smelter in Aratu, Brazil. In line with our strategy, the closing maintenance, developing our people of the smelter and our Bridgnorth foil packaging plant reflect our and evaluating our processes. commitment to align our portfolio to favor sustainable products. The energy reductions due to the restructuring were slightly offset by an increase in energy intensity at our other operations due to declines in production between FY11 and FY12. In general, our manufacturing processes run most efficiently when they operate at close to capacity. FIGURE 10: Novelis Indirect Energy Others 0.3 Use FY12 (%). Natural Gas 12.7 Note: The amount of our indirect energy use and breakdown by source have not Refined changed significantly since FY07. Petroleum Hydro Products Power 2.3 28.1 Nuclear NonTotal 21.1 Renewable 8,704,130 Renewable 67.1 GJ 32.9 Biomass 2.9 Others Coal 1.9 30.7 FIGURE 11: Novelis Energy Intensity FIGURE 12: Novelis Direct Energy Use FY07–FY12 (GJ/metric ton). FY07–FY12 (GJ). 25,000,000 15 10 5 KEY Other Liquid Fuels Other Gases Hydro Natural Gas 0 0 Heavy Fuel Oil FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 07 08 09 10 11 12 07 08 09 10 11 12 KEY Total Energy Intensity FRP Sales Direct Intensity (GJ/metric ton FRP Sales) Indirect Intensity (GJ/metric ton FRP Sales) NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 34 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions Since our baseline, we have reduced our absolute GHG emissions Ulsan Korea to cut GHG (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) by 7% (see figure 13), while our GHG emissions emissions by 16.5% per metric ton have declined in a similar fashion. We take a life cycle view and account for the Scope 3 emissions − those related On March 9, 2011, Korea’s Ministry of Environment, the City of Ulsan to our purchase of primary aluminum, which is made using energyand 23 local companies, including intensive processes, and emissions related to the transportation of Novelis Korea, agreed to reduce our products. GHG emissions in Ulsan. The goal of this voluntary agreement is to cut In addition, our use of recycled aluminum as a raw material avoids life the emissions of the participating cycle GHG emissions compared to primary aluminum production. We organizations by 16.5% by 2016 estimate these avoided emissions at 9.66 million metric tons of CO2e compared to 2008. As part of in FY12. We also estimate that we avoided 34,049 metric tons of GHG this initiative to reduce our air emissions by implementing energy efficiency projects. emissions, in FY12 our Korean plants invested in equipment to be able to use natural gas instead of heavy fuel FIGURE 13: Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions (metric tons CO2e). oil for their operations. 25,000,000 Novelis 2020 GHG target 11,000,000 KEY 0 Scope 3 FY FY FY FY FY FY Scope 2 (Indirect) 07 08 09 10 11 12 Scope 1 (Direct) FIGURE 14: Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions Intensity (metric tons CO2e/metric ton FRP Sales). 8.0 KEY Location of Novelis plant in Total GHG Intensity Ulsan, Korea. Scope 3 Intensity Scope 1 and 2 Intensity Note: The process for Novelis’ calculation of GHG emissions and energy use was 4.0 developed in cooperation with the US EPA Climate Leaders Program. Novelis, along with the global aluminum industry, uses the IAI Aluminum Sector Greenhouse Gas Protocol formula, as well as the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol stationary combustion calculation tool, for 0 calculating GHG emissions. FY FY FY FY FY FY 07 08 09 10 11 12 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 35 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Did you know As we move towards our 80% recycled aluminum input target, we project that both the GHG intensity and total amount of emissions Every recycled aluminum metric from our own operations (Scopes 1 and 2) will increase, while ton saves 7.8 metric tons of emissions in our supply chain (Scope 3) will decrease dramatically. carbon dioxide equivalents Figure 14 shows the trends in these Scope 3 emissions, which also (CO2e) over the total aluminum illustrates the magnitude of our Scope 3 emissions compared to our value chain. Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Source: IAI, www.world-aluminium.org/cache/ fl0000329.pdf Between FY11 and FY12, Novelis achieved a 3.3% reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions. About two-thirds of the total reduction can be attributed to a reduction in Scope 3 emissions resulting from our increased purchases of recycled aluminum (and reduced purchases of primary aluminum), which is also in line with our recycling strategy. Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased for three main reasons: Overall production declined, we reduced our emissions when we closed our smelting operation in Aratu, Brazil, and we increased our use of hydropower for our Ouro Preto plant. Moving forward, we expect continued reductions overall to be largely due to the reduction in our Scope 3 emissions as we increase our recycled input. Water Use Water conservation and water quality management are important to Novelis’ own operations and to our contribution to addressing global water issues. Since 2002, Novelis has been measuring and managing the amount of water used at its facilities and has set a series of targets to use water more efficiently. Much of our focus in FY12 was to improve our understanding of our water requirements and how water is used in our operations. We measure our overall water withdrawal globally, but we are working to enhance the way we account for internal water recirculation, recycling, and the subsequent volume and quality of the water discharged. As we increase the amount of recycled content in our products, we also increase the recycling operations at our plants. One step in the recycling process − the casting of ingots after re-melting the recycled materials − uses cooling water. At locations that cast ingots, the trend towards using more scrap aluminum requires more water for processing. As we continue to expand our recycling operations, the additional water requirements will make meeting our water intensity goal challenging. Hot mill in Norf, Germany. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 36 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The hydroelectric plant on the Doce Compared to our baseline, we have improved our water use intensity River in the Minas Gerais state of Brazil by 11% due to many water conservation and internal recycling was built through a partnership between Vale and Novelis Brazil. efforts. From FY11 to FY12, our overall water usage decreased about 1%, primarily due to the decrease in production volume. Water use intensity, however, increased about 4%. This increase is largely due to an increase in recycling, variation in product mixes and baseline demands at a lower production volume. In FY12, we conducted an initial survey of our water recycling and reuse efforts. Based on this survey, we found that water usage is reduced by over 90% by using recirculated cooling water systems and over 2% of Novelis’ water demand is satisfied by recycling wastewater back into different process requirements. Our water recycling efforts have focused on product lines that offered significant water savings. FIGURE 15: Water Withdrawal (m3). FIGURE 16: Water Use Intensity (m3/metric ton FRP Sales). 10,908,245 10,575,109 10,415,049 9,294,581 9,298,947 9,215,908 3.7 3.8 3.5 3.4 3.1 3.2 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 07 08 09 10 11 12 07 08 09 10 11 12 KEY Water from Public Net Surface Water Ground Water NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 37 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Water is used for chilling molten Water Conservation Projects aluminum during the ingot casting process in our recycling facilities. In FY12, we pursued water conservation projects including these: Ulsan Our Ulsan facility in South Korea uses significant amounts of cooling water for the aluminum casting process and equipment cooling. The facility utilizes cooling towers to reduce the temperature of the water so that it can be reused repeatedly. The cooling towers pass ambient air across the water stream to reduce its temperature. In FY12, the Ulsan facility upgraded two cooling towers by replacing many of the internal parts. This increased the heat transfer of the cooling tower, resulting in a water use reduction of approximately 14,000 m3 per year. Yeongju Our Yeongju facility in South Korea uses water for metal cooling during its can-coating operation. In FY12, the plant installed piping that allowed coating-line wastewater to be transferred to another operation for reuse. The project reduced water usage by an estimated 10,000 m3 per year. Logan Our Logan joint venture in Russellville, Kentucky, USA, filters large volumes of fresh water daily to ensure the necessary water quality for production operations. During the filtering process, a partial stream of the raw water did not pass the filters and was traditionally discharged to the facility’s storm-water settling ponds. In FY12, Logan upgraded equipment that now allows nearly all the discharged water from the filters to be treated with existing equipment and reused, reducing water usage by an estimated 56,000 m3 per year. Latchford Our Latchford facility in the United Kingdom reduced the amount of water required for process cooling by improving its cooling tower equipment and practices. Improvements included: • Recirculating process water for pump cooling. • Expanding allowable cooling water chemistry requirements. • Changing cooling water chemical additives. The resulting water reduction is estimated to be 4,000 m3 per year. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 38 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Waste About two-thirds of all our waste is generated during our re-melt Zero Landfill Waste Progress recycling and casting processes, and over three-quarters of the operational waste we generated in FY12 was recycled (see figure 17). Waste reduction hinges on the Most of our locations have improvement programs aimed at reducing participation and support of all of our waste generation and reducing waste sent to landfill. More than 60% employees. We are working to make recycling a part of our culture at the of Novelis’ landfilled waste is generated from the recycling of “dross.” plant as well as in our communities. Dross forms from impurities that float on molten aluminum during Whether in the plant or in the offices melting or reprocessing. Most dross generated by Novelis is sent and lunch areas, we need buy-in from off-site to be recycled by specialized processing companies. These everyone to make it truly happen. companies recover the aluminum (comprising approximately 50% in Most things we throw in the garbage dross). We track and account for the dross managed for us by third are actually recyclable. From filter parties. In some regions, the dross waste remaining after aluminum is media generated at the mill, to extracted is used in road construction and other applications. organics in the cafeteria, finding suppliers across our global network Novelis recycling and casting facilities use large amounts of refractory to take the different waste products material (i.e., insulating bricks) to ensure that their furnaces are energy and recycle them will be one of our efficient when melting aluminum. Periodically, the refractory material biggest challenges. deteriorates to the point that it must be replaced. Traditionally, our The following plants are moving facilities in North America have disposed of this material in nonclose to zero waste with less than hazardous landfills. In FY12, Novelis North America, working with several 5 kg of waste for every metric ton processing companies, was able to recycle 1 million kg of refractory of product produced: material. After processing, the refractory material was used as input in • Burnaby the production of steel and cement. Our plants outside North America • Dudelange also reuse refractory material as input for steel and cement. • Kingston Our target of zero landfill disposal of waste by 2020 includes dross • Kingston Technical Center managed by third-party recyclers. Reaching our target will require • Ludenscheid us toTotal expand the recycling of dross Total by-products, refractory brick and 8,704,130 other GJwastes, and to find new ways GJ to handle materials that are not 8,704,130 • Nachterstedt • Novelis PAE currently recyclable. • Pieve Although the total amount of waste Novelis generates has increased • Sierre since our baseline, when we look at the breakdown of the waste • Terre Haute Others 0.3 stream, the amount recycled has increased by 22% while landfilling has declined by 18% since our FY07–09 average. Between FY11 and Other Fossil 0.1 Oil 0.9 Natural Gas 12.7 FY12, the amountHydro of waste landfilled declined by 6%, mostly due to lower production 28.1 volumes globally and enhanced processing prior to Power Refined Petroleum Products Nonrecycling offsite. Additionally, the amount recycled has increased by Total 2.3 Nuclear Renewable 67.1 8,704,130 GJ 11% due Renewable 32.9 to significant improvements in dross recycling. As shown in 21.1 figure 16, incineration Biomass has remained low across our global operations 2.9 Coal relative to the amount 0.1 Wind we landfill and recycle. 30.7 Others 1.9 FIGURE 17: Waste by Process Method (%). FIGURE XX: Waste by Process Method (%) Recycled Recycled 76 76 Incinerated Incinerated 1 Landfilled 1 23 Landfilled 23 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 39 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Non-GHG Air Emissions Novelis total air emissions have declined over the past few years due Figure 18: Novelis Total Estimated Air Emissions (metric tons). to the reduction in smelter operations. Particulate matter and fluoride emissions, which comprise the majority of the emissions coming from our smelter operations, were reduced significantly with the closure of our Aratu plant. 10,005 9,086 8,732 9,052 Within our flat rolled product operations, we saw a slight reduction 7,849 in air emissions due to our reduction in production volumes. Moving forward, we expect to see a reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions 5,401 as we continue to increase our fuel efficiency. We also expect an even greater reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions as we upgrade our equipment to operate on natural gas instead of the heavier petroleum-based fuels. As mentioned on page 35, as an effort to FY FY FY FY FY FY reduce not only our costs but also our CO2 and SO2 emissions, our 07 08 09 10 11 12 Korean plants converted from heavy fuels to natural gas in FY12. Note: Figures represent estimates of We anticipate that volatile organic compounds (VOCs), NOx and pollutants tracked from stack emissions SO2 emissions will become increasingly challenging to reduce as we only. Novelis has not developed emission estimates for persistent organic pollutants. increase our recycling operations. Biodiversity Novelis operates in many locations across the globe and is keenly Through the Candonga Consortium aware that conserving diverse ecosystems is important to the program, native trees and vegetation are communities in which we operate and to our overall mission to planted to ecologically restore the Riparian Forest in Brazil. reduce our impact on the environment. The most significant and recognized biodiversity impacts occur during the primary aluminum production phase of the life cycle of our products. Bauxite mining results in land disturbances, and alumina refining may require red mud lakes. Additionally, the use of hydroelectric power plants to provide electricity for the energy-intensive aluminum production process can impact biodiversity. It is difficult to express the value of biodiversity consistently across the various regions, land features and cultures in which we operate. We recognize the need to improve our understanding in this area and are currently seeking input from experts in this area and other stakeholders. None of our currently operational and our newly announced sites exist within the boundaries of a United Nations Biosphere Reserve, Ramsar Wetland, or UNESCO World Heritage Site. Thus, at this time, none of our facilities have been identified as within the boundaries of protected or high biodiversity areas. However, as we look to broaden our understanding and characterization of areas with high biodiversity value, this assessment could evolve. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 40 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our People Protecting the health and safety of our employees and Standardizing Our Safety System Through “Together others who work on our behalf is our first, and most We Are Safe” fundamental, priority. And ensuring we attract, retain and develop employees with the right skills and In 2012, Novelis launched Together We Are Safe, a global safety experience is critical to achieving our company’s program that is building on the best aggressive growth plans. practices already in place in many of our operations and working to make those programs and processes the global Novelis standard. Together Our Health and Safety Performance We Are Safe includes training for all plant employees and increased quality and consistency of EHS Management of safety issues is integrated into our overall communications across all of our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system (see page facilities. In 2012, Novelis also 28). We have safety processes in place at all of our operations, and hired a new Vice President of EHS we collect and track global safety data for our employees and project to lead our overall EHS program contractors using the Novelis Injury and Illness Record keeping and strategy, including our safety System (NIRS). As part of our One Novelis effort, however, we management standardization effort, identified an opportunity to take a more consistent and standardized as well as efforts to strengthen our approach to safety management globally (see sidebar). overall safety culture. During FY12, Novelis continued to improve our recordable case rate, which is an aggregate measure of injuries, illnesses and fatalities. In FY12, our recordable case rate was 0.59 cases per 200,000 hours worked, down from 0.76 in FY11 (see figure 19). While we are proud of our progress, we will not be satisfied until we reach our ultimate goal of zero. Very regrettably, during FY12 two Novelis employees lost their lives working for the company (see case study on page 42). Figure 19: NIRS Recordable Case Rate. 1.02 1.03 0.99 0.86 FY12 0.76 target 0.50 0.59 FY FY FY FY FY FY 07 08 09 10 11 12 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 41 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “Novelis is committed to achieving world-class safety Tragic Accidents Drive Greater Focus on Controlling Serious Risks levels – and to building the culture required to do so. It’s During FY12, Novelis experienced two employee fatalities. The first occurred important to have an honest on October 4, 2011, at our Oswego, New York, facility when a cold mill culture, one where employees employee, Ed Carvey, was working with the mill crew to restart the cold mill perform their tasks according after a maintenance day. Mr. Carvey was connecting oil mist hoses behind the to the safety procedures even mill. Another crew member was not aware that Mr. Carvey had gone behind when no one is watching. It the mill and activated some large hydraulic equipment. The equipment also requires an interdependent movement trapped and crushed Mr. Carvey, who died the following day. mindset, where employees not The second fatal accident occurred on November 11, 2011, at our Yeongju, only look out for themselves, South Korea, facility. A cold mill operator, DongSup Shin, was in the cold mill but for their colleagues too.” preparation station coil conveyor area talking to a crane operator. Mr. Shin David Johnson noticed that there was a coil in the conveyor that still had banding around Novelis’ new Vice President, it. He did not tell the preparation station operator that he was going to help Environment, Health & Safety by removing the banding. Mr. Shin stood between two of the coils to cut the banding. At that moment the coil conveyor moved one of the coils, and Mr. Shin was caught between the coils. He died from internal injuries to the chest area. As is our practice following any injury or fatality, Novelis conducted in-depth investigations to determine the root causes and implemented corrective actions to help prevent similar events in the future. For example, in Oswego, the connection point for oil mist hoses was moved to place the employee outside the pinch point area. At Yeongju, barriers were installed to prevent personnel from entering the coil conveyor system when it is in operation. Additionally, across Novelis we are working to implement a more risk-based approach that focuses on effectively identifying and controlling the potential hazards that pose the greatest risk of a serious injury. These tragic accidents serve as an important reminder of the need to be continually vigilant about building and maintaining a strong safety culture. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 42 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Aligning Our Culture to Support Growth Novelis is in the midst of transforming our company to lay the foundation for aggressive growth (see Our Corporate Strategy, page 11). Essential to this foundation is a more aligned culture, built on a shared vision of what kind of company we want to be. We are striving to create a culture where every employee across our global operations feels invested in helping Novelis achieve its goals – and where they get the support and development they need to be satisfied and productive in their jobs. The Novelis Culture Map The Novelis Culture Map is a visual tool we use to engage and communicate with our employees as part of our culture change effort. There is no significance to the color or the direction of the words. However, there is significance to the relative size of the words. Importantly, “One Novelis” is the largest because that is the single most important call-to-action for our company at this time. The second largest word is “safe”: This is a core value for Novelis, and everyone in the company must be focused on it if we are to reach our Employee Engagement ultimate goal of zero injuries. Our most recent employee survey in 2008 found a relatively strong sense of pride among our employees, but indicated that we needed to do a better job communicating and engaging with them. We knew that this would also be an essential step in realigning our culture. In response, we have dramatically increased our internal communications efforts, expanding or launching new ways to encourage two-way communication between management and our employees. These include regular interactive webcasts conducted by our CEO, additional plant visits by regional presidents and other senior leaders, an enhanced intranet that enables employees to make comments and raise questions, a new magazine sent to every employee, and more. The efforts are all designed to improve employee engagement and strengthen our culture. We will conduct our next employee survey before the end of FY13 to assess the results. In addition to these efforts, Novelis is committed to maintaining our good record of open communication and dialogue with both our unionized and non-unionized employees. In FY12, approximately 58% of our employees were represented by labor unions, and their employment conditions were governed by collective bargaining agreements. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 43 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Employee Evaluations Changes in Our A key part of creating a growth culture is ensuring that employees Operational Footprint understand their roles and how they can contribute to the company’s As we have reshaped our portfolio success, that they receive regular feedback about their performance, to focus more on the beverage can, and that they have an opportunity to have discussions with their line automotive, electronics and highmanagers about how they can advance their careers. end specialties market segments, our organizational footprint has Novelis has a consistent, centralized performance management changed. While we are investing system for our managers. At the plant level, however, performance to significantly grow our business, management has been decentralized and variable in terms of the reshaping our portfolio has also processes used and how many employees receive regular evaluations. resulted in the sale or closure of In FY12, approximately 38% of our employees worldwide received some plants and, in some cases, annual performance reviews both through our centralized system and job losses. local performance reviews, the same percentage as the prior year. In March 2012, we announced Of the employees currently in our centralized system, more than that we planned to sell three of 85% are receiving annual performance reviews. We plan to expand our European foil manufacturing this centralized program globally over the next several years. operations to American Industrial Acquisition Corporation. The sale, During FY11, we established a corporate-wide sustainability target completed in June 2012, included that 100% of eligible employees will receive annual performance our operations in Rugles, France; feedback by 2020. We recognize that this reflects a considerable Dudelange, Luxembourg; and shift from our current level and that it will require time and effort to Berlin, Germany. The transaction reach our target. To help us do so, we are including a performance included the Foil Innovation Centre management component in Novelis 2.0, the integrated, global data in Belvaux, Luxembourg. The sale was driven by the need to align our management system we are building. operations with our growth strategy. Approximately 850 individuals work Training and Development at these facilities. These changes Novelis has a range of training programs designed to ensure our to our manufacturing footprint employees have the skills and capabilities they need to do their jobs were also a result of the challenges well, from “on-boarding” sessions for all new hires to job-specific involved in incorporating significant technical training programs. As we look to the future, we know that levels of recycled content into the ensuring we have a strong pool of talent in the leadership pipeline products made at these facilities. will be especially critical to our company’s long-term success. In April 2012, Novelis announced that we will close our Saguenay That’s why, in FY11, we launched a major effort to develop a worldWorks facility in Jonquière, class leadership development program and, in FY12, we have Quebec, Canada. Closure occurred continued to expand the program. Our goal is that our program in August 2012. This very difficult will be benchmarked by 2020 within the top 10% of world-class decision was driven by the need companies that have development programs. to right-size production capacity in North America, along with the increasing logistics costs and structural challenges facing the location. A total of 157 people were employed at the site. As a result of the closure of these operations, Novelis has been taking steps to assist the affected employees through severance packages, as well as outplacement and re-training support to aid them in finding future employment. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 44 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Novelis now offers six levels of leadership development programs, each Developing the Next Generation geared to participants’ experience. Through these programs, managers of Engineers develop their leadership and management skills in managing conflict, leading across global cultures, identifying and developing personal and There is intense competition team strengths, and more. Some of the programs engage participants in for qualified employees among companies like Novelis that require business cases; others have participants partake in a project to identify engineering and technical skills. solutions to real challenges our company is facing. In FY12, we also That is why, as part of our overall expanded the curriculum for four of our leadership programs to include leadership development effort, we a hands-on community engagement component. Novelis’ goal is to make launched the Novelis Engineering our employees leaders both in our company and in the communities Development Program in FY11. where we operate (see Engaging with Our Communities, page 46). The two-year program, which is We also recognize that having qualified engineers is vital to geared towards recent engineering our business, and our Engineering Development Program is graduates or early career engineers, includes technical, professional intended specifically for new graduates and early career engineers and leadership training in one of (see sidebar). our plants around the world. It also While not all of these programs are available to all employees at includes classroom coursework, work-based assignments, coaching, every level, we do have some form of professional development or on-the-job projects and other training program at the local level for all employees. In addition, in the developmental opportunities. The coming years, formal development opportunities will be offered on an goal is to attract the best and ongoing basis to the different functional areas within Novelis, specific brightest young engineers into to their role. Novelis – and to put them on a career track that keeps them there. In FY12, approximately 331 engineers, first-line leaders, managers In FY12, 66 engineers participated in and executives participated in these six leadership development the program. programs. Since their inception, 521 employees have participated in these programs. Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights Protection of human rights and nondiscrimination are imperatives to Novelis and are reflected in our employee Code of Conduct. Additionally, we are in the process of updating the Code to strengthen the company’s commitment to acting with integrity, good faith and in accordance with good corporate governance. We also want to more clearly affirm Novelis’ commitment to human rights and sustainability. In addition, we are introducing a new ethics hotline for confidential reporting of incidents or violations of the Code. The new EDP class of 2012. Code will be rolled out, and the hotline will go live, in FY13. As part of the rollout, every employee will receive a copy of the Code and training on it and use of the hotline. The Code will also be incorporated into orientation sessions for new employees, and all employees will undergo an annual acknowledgement process to ensure their understanding of, and intent to comply with, the Code. In 2012, Novelis further affirmed and strengthened our commitment to protecting human rights by becoming a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. As a signatory, Novelis commits to align our operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human and labor rights, as well as the environment and anticorruption (see page 68). NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 45 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engaging with Our Communities With facilities in dozens of communities on four Using Community Engagement to Build Leadership Skills continents, we like to say that Novelis is a global company with a local presence. While we focus many Novelis believes that an essential of our community engagement programs near our quality for a leader is a commitment to give back to the community. manufacturing facilities, we also contribute in a variety We also believe that participating of ways in the communities where our employees and in community engagement efforts business partners live and work, and where our provides employees with an opportunity to develop valuable products are used. skills and experience that can be applied not only in the community, but also in their work at Novelis. As a result, we have expanded the Aligning Community Engagement curriculum for four of our leadership with Company Strategy development training programs to include a hands-on community engagement component. Our goal is to always be a good neighbor. All of Novelis’ operating sites have community programs in place, which we call “Novelis For example, in 2011, members Neighbor.” Through the programs, our employees are able to connect of the Engineering Development Program built prosthetic hands to with the people who live in the communities where Novelis operates help children who have lost limbs and, in the process, put a human face on our company. to landmines. Also during the year, Over the past year, as part of our broader effort to fully integrate participants in Novelis’ Accelerated Leadership Program visited the sustainability across our business, we saw an opportunity to better company’s Yeongju plant in Seoul, align our community efforts with our business strategy and to take South Korea, and took part in a more coordinated, global approach, while also recognizing local the plant’s “Sharing Briquettes of issues or needs. In addition, we recognized the need to better focus Love” program. The program is a our charitable investments and to more formally measure our impact. Novelis Neighbor initiative, which By doing so, we believe we can increase our positive impacts in the the company has supported since community, while also strengthening employee engagement and 1999, that provides charcoal to further embedding Novelis Neighbor into our company culture. local residents for heating and cooking purposes. Additionally, As a first step in this direction, we developed themes for charitable participants in the Global Leadership investment and volunteering aligned with our company’s strategy. Program visited the Primavera Group in Campinas, Brazil, which Specifically, the Novelis Neighbor program seeks to meet offers educational guidance, a safe community needs through three areas of focus: haven, and hope for youth in a neighborhood historically plagued with drug trafficking and prostitution. Brighter Futures 1 3 Better Environment Aims to develop Supports aluminum more scientists, recycling and engineers and education, as well as technologists other environmental through the support initiatives, in of math and science 2 communities around education. the world. Lighter Living Extends our safety first value into our communities. Sharing Briquettes of Love program in Korea. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 46 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In practice, this means we are increasingly targeting our charitable Supporting Habitat investments to organizations and initiatives focused in our three areas for Humanity of safety, math and science education, and recycling. At the same time, we are still working to meet the unique needs of the diverse In FY12, Novelis supported Habitat communities where we operate. For example, in Ouro Preto, Brazil, for Humanity through contributions of $170,000 and volunteer hours. In we have been a long-time supporter of a program that provides the USA, Novelis donated funds and educational materials for elementary school children to learn about employees volunteered time to make environmental conservation and recycling. In the USA we partner homes move-in ready for up to three with organizations, including Rebuilding Together, to help repair families. The donation from Novelis and safeguard the homes of the elderly and disabled, allowing these will help support Habitat’s Global homeowners to maintain their independence. Mission Fund, which is used to assist communities that are most in need across the globe, and will help fund Habitat’s IndiaBUILD initiative. Strengthening Our Community Also during the year, Novelis Asia Engagement Processes donated funds and nearly 900 volunteer hours to Habitat for Humanity. This contribution allowed While we have engaged with local stakeholders in a variety of for one home to be built for a family ways as long as we have been in operation, the process has been in the suburb of Seoul. largely informal and has varied across our different locations. That is why, in FY11, we adopted a corporate-wide sustainability target to implement community engagement processes at 100% of our operations. Building on the Novelis Neighbor community investment programs already in place at all of our major locations, we are now implementing a more formalized process for routinely and proactively Novelis Continues Support of engaging in dialogue with neighbors, nongovernmental organizations, the Make-A-Wish Foundation local government officials, other companies and community stakeholders. Our objective is to receive input that enables us to In FY12, Novelis continued its support of the Make-A-Wish better identify, understand and address the most important issues in Foundation, an organization the communities where we operate. that works to grant the wishes of children with life-threatening To help us achieve our target, in FY12 we conducted training for illnesses, with a donation of all of our Novelis Neighbor “site champions” – individuals who are $275,000. This donation to the responsible for managing and tracking the community programs Georgia and Alabama chapter was at each facility. During this training, the site champions learned the largest in its history. Novelis how to implement our newly formalized process of dialogue and has supported Make-A-Wish engagement with members of their local communities. Additionally, since 2009 and, over that time, the training included information on how to better measure the has granted more than 65 wishes impacts of our community programs. We will report on our progress through its contributions. implementing the process in future sustainability reports. Novelis is proud to work with MakeA-Wish and, over the last few years, our partnership has also inspired our employees to get involved in local events, including the Walk for Wishes and the Tournament of Wishes. Additionally, we have worked with Make-A-Wish on can recycling in Atlanta schools, and many Novelis employees also volunteer for the organization year-round. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 47 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Using Community Engagement to Attract “Recycle a Smile” Raises Money and Develop Employees for Community Groups in Brazil In addition to bringing benefits to the community, it is clear that Since 2006, Novelis South America effectively engaging with, and contributing to, the communities has conducted an annual “Recycle where we operate has a number of direct benefits for Novelis. a Smile” program that educates Companies that build strong relationships with their local the public about the importance of communities are better positioned to attract and retain employees recycling while also raising money who live there. As a result, we view our community engagement for nongovernmental organizations efforts as one of the ways our overall sustainability platform is working to address the needs of becoming an additional factor in our company’s acquisition of communities in Brazil. Through the program, can collection bins are new talent. placed in shopping malls near our We also believe that community engagement is a responsibility facilities. Novelis then recycles the cans and turns them into “smiles” of leaders at Novelis. To this end, we have incorporated Novelis by donating the proceeds to Neighbor service projects into our leadership development programs local organizations. (see case study on page 46). Whether through these programs or our Novelis Neighbor volunteer opportunities, we believe that when our Beginning in 2011, all money employees engage in service projects, they learn valuable skills that raised from the Recycle a Smile develop them as leaders both in their communities and at Novelis. program has been donated to the Ação Criança Foundation, a group fighting malnutrition and helping more than 700 Brazilian children Community Giving and Volunteerism: each year. Since its inception in 2003, the program has collected By the Numbers over 3.7 million cans, which generated approximately R$118,000 (over $57,000) in donations. In FY12, Novelis’ charitable giving through the Novelis Neighbor program totaled just over $1.8 million, including company matches to employee donations. Together with donations given by employees through the Novelis matching gift program and other workplace giving campaigns, the total impact of donations made by Novelis and its employees reached approximately $2.1 million. Through Novelis Neighbor, we also encourage and facilitate employee volunteerism by helping to identify and organize volunteer opportunities in the communities in which we operate. In FY12, our employees volunteered for approximately 3,500 hours of Novelis Neighbor and community service projects. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 48 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Novelis’ Plant Manager Candonga Consortium Continues to Implement Resettlement Recognized for Quick CompanyAgreement in Brazil Wide Response to Flooding In 2012, the Candonga Consortium (a joint venture between Novelis and In late 2011 and early 2012, heavy Vale) continued its efforts to implement social, environmental and economic rains caused major flooding and development programs in Ouro Preto, Brazil. The Consortium was formed in landslides in the area surrounding 2003 to construct a hydroelectric power plant to supply energy to Novelis’ Novelis’ facility in Ouro Preto, primary aluminum smelter in Ouro Preto. The power plant, which became Brazil. As he saw the emergency operational in 2004, required the flooding of a river valley and the relocation unfolding, Novelis’ plant manager, of 137 families. Those affected were consulted regarding resettlement and, Eli Murilo, realized that Novelis had in collaboration with the state government, the Consortium committed to equipment and trained personnel a variety of actions to compensate and provide future support to those that could help. He assembled a affected. Nonetheless, the resettlement agreement was challenged by some team and worked with the mayor members of the community and is the subject of an ongoing lawsuit. and other local officials on the During the year, the Consortium held workshops with community members overall emergency response. Eli and to help develop strategies to foster economic development and raise his team marshaled the equipment awareness about environmental issues. The program focuses on income and donated the resources needed generation projects, vocational training and initiatives to facilitate the to clear roads and help stabilize inclusion of the affected individuals in the labor market. It also works on local infrastructure. In addition to projects to reduce the environmental impact of the power plant on the personal donations from Novelis local ecosystem. Currently, nearly 70% of the economically active South America employees, Novelis population that was resettled participates in the Consortium’s economic contributed $17,000 to support development programs. these relief efforts. In recognition of its environmental awareness efforts, the Vale do Piranga In April 2012, in recognition Municipalities Association gave the Consortium its Merito Regional of Novelis’ assistance to the 2012 Award. community during the disaster, Eli was presented with the Medalha da Inconfidência, the highest civilian award in the Minas Gerais state by the state’s mayor, Angelo Oswaldo. Mr. Oswaldo also cited Novelis’ strong track record of engaging Oswego Cans for the Community with the local community to In 2010, Novelis’ Oswego, New York, facility started a program called “Cans understand and meet local needs. for the Community” to give grants to local schools and nonprofits. Through the program, Novelis collects cans through our own internal recycling efforts and in partnership with businesses and nonprofits such as the Oswego Speedway, Harborfest, Tri-Oswego and Oswego City Schools. The value of the cans is then donated to local organizations. In FY12, Cans for the Community collected more than 140,000 cans valued at more than $12,500; the money was used to provide grants and matching donations to schools and other organizations. The money funds music and library equipment, classroom supplies, field trips and other programs to encourage education. Eli Murilo, second from left, shown after the ceremony with other Minas Gerais authorities and local leaders. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 49 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Delivering Value to Our Customers Our customers span many industries and geographies. One interest they have in common is a growing focus on purchasing sustainable products. We are taking a collaborative approach, working with customers to ife Cycle App improve design and recyclability over the product’s le L ro life cycle. ho ac W h A Our customers care as much about the life cycle impacts of our products as we do. Together we are designing solutions that exceed customer demands and improve the environmental footprint of their products – and ours. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 50 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Value of Aluminum to Our Customers Our customers choose to work with us because we provide highquality aluminum, work with them to meet their needs and are systematically improving the sustainability of aluminum products. Aluminum offers many benefits: It is strong, malleable, versatile, corrosion-resistant and lightweight. It is also long-lived, and as it is infinitely recyclable, it offers significant low-carbon benefits when it is recycled. Different markets value these characteristics differently. Increasingly, many customers and end consumers are appreciating that aluminum use reduces weight and results in direct savings to their bottom line and a better environmental footprint for their product. The inherent properties of aluminum, along with growing economies and populations, are driving growth in demand for aluminum. As we expand to meet this demand, we are also implementing our recycling strategy. This requires close collaboration with our customers. Evolving Design Specifications A key area of innovation for Novelis is using our research and development capabilities to target particular products that are less easily recycled, often because of the nature of the alloys they are made of. By redesigning alloys for specific uses, it will be easier for Novelis to incorporate them back into products in a closed loop, “With a world-class team and to separate them, or to recycle them with other types of aluminum equipment available in the scrap. As new products are developed, we will work with customers new R&T center, our customers to ensure that we continue to meet their needs. are already taking note. We have had great feedback from customers who have visited and multiple requests Meeting Customer Needs through Innovation from others to come see the center. This center and the Our new Novelis Global Research & Technology Center (see page 12 in the creation of a Global Research Strategy section), which opened in June 2012, is the focal point for Novelis’ and Technology team further own research as well as collaborative efforts with customers to develop new show Novelis’ commitment products and applications. to leading the industry in These are some of the areas Novelis researchers are exploring: innovation and technology.” • Development of new sustainable products. Jack Clark, • Improved rolling process technologies. VP and Chief Technical Officer • T echniques that take advantage of the value of alloy ingredients derived from mixed streams of scrap aluminum. To be able to use these alloys, we must create new casting and fabrication processing methods. • Alloy optimization for improved properties, including strength, formability and corrosion resistance. • Molten metal and advanced solidification technology. • Advanced surface treatment and coating technologies. • Modeling of forming processes for applications such as automotive and can products (e.g., on lightweighting optimization). NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 51 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Delivering on Customers’ Needs “Working towards a more Collaborating with customers to accelerate research and sustainable business is at the development of sustainable products is another element of our heart of Rexam’s vision to be approach. We are working with customers in each of our core the best in our industry. This markets to meet their needs by delivering sustainable products. means doing more to keep our cans in a closed material First, we take the time to understand customer specifications. loop, preventing cans from Customers’ products require a range of alloy mixtures (metal going to landfill. Some markets composition), tempers (hardness), gauges (thickness) and widths, require long-term support as well as various coatings and finishes. To make the product more to establish and enhance sustainable, we do several things. One is that we work with customers collection mechanisms and to to design for increased recycled input in the alloy mixture. We also create a recycling culture. We are delighted to be working in research ways to substitute aluminum for other components in the partnership with Novelis on a product by adjusting alloy combinations to ensure an equivalent number of such sustainability strength to the component it is replacing, as well as to reduce the projects that will reduce the weight of the product. Additionally, we work with customers to carbon footprint of the can and optimize product designs to lightweight as much as is possible. grow the market opportunities Finally, we work with customers to create processes to take for our products.” manufacturing (pre-consumer) scrap or post-consumer material back John Revess at its end of life so we can recycle it. Head of Sustainability, Rexam PLC Our beverage can customers are very interested in the carbon footprint of their products. We are working with them to provide baseline data on their carbon footprint, to increase recycling, and to improve performance in relation to other packaging materials. The growing use of aluminum containers for craft beer has shown that the sustainability aspects of using aluminum are becoming more widely recognized (see Why Not 100% case study on page 25). Manufacturers of consumer electronics are impressed with aluminum’s stylish “look and feel.” Beyond appearance, these manufacturers appreciate the light weight, recyclability, and heat conduction properties of aluminum. Novelis has helped electronics producers increase the recyclability of their products while providing superior performance. Aluminum use also reduces weight and disperses heat, which allows for a simpler, more streamlined and flatter design of screen-based devices. Did you know Aluminum is a unique metal; strong, durable, flexible, impermeable and light-weight, it does not rust and is 100% recyclable. Source: www.world-aluminium.org NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 52 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Titanic Belfast Novelis and Automakers Team to Accelerate Progress in Fuel Efficiency The construction industry appreciates aluminum’s stylish look Modern automobiles are highly complex technological machines that in addition to its UV-, corrosionpresent challenges for designers and material engineers. Automakers must and weather-resistant properties. continually innovate to provide their customers with ever-increasing levels Novelis was chosen to supply 120 of fuel efficiency, safety, convenience, performance and style. Some of these metric tons of anodizing quality imperatives are driven by regulation and others by customer preferences. aluminum from its Nachterstedt, A number of factors are now converging to make aluminum a key ingredient Germany, plant to create the 3,000 in the future of auto-making. Fuel economy requirements are rising rapidly. 3-D aluminum panels covering the In the USA, for example, the fuel economy standard for passenger cars façade of the Titanic Belfast. The flat-lined at 27.5 miles per gallon (mpg) for two decades between 1990 panels were crafted by forming and 2010. But driven by concerns about energy security, climate change Novelis aluminum sheets into and fuel cost volatility, standards have increased so that by 2016, cars and complicated asymmetrical shapes. trucks together will need to achieve around 35.5 mpg. Those standards are The use of aluminum brings “a expected to increase further to 54 mpg by 2025. Government agencies in modern dimension to the 100-yearthe European Union, China, Japan and other major markets are demanding old story.” Builders appreciate that similar increases in fuel economy. the aluminum will age gracefully against salt-spray since it is located Reducing the weight of a vehicle is one of the key methods an automaker can in a Northern Ireland harbor where use to improve fuel economy. Lightweighting an automobile also sets off a the Titanic was built. virtuous cycle: With less weight to pull, the engine can be downsized, further improving fuel economy. Lightweight design will be particularly important as the market for electric vehicles develops over the next 10 to 20 years: Using aluminum to design electric vehicles from the ground up will allow either smaller battery packs or improved range. And use of aluminum in certain vehicle applications can enhance safety and performance. Figure 20: Aluminum Builds a Better Vehicle. MASS BETTER FUEL REDUCTION ECONOMY INFINITELY REDUCED RECYCLABLE EMISSIONS ENHANCED IMPROVED PERFORMANCE SAFETY In addition, as the middle class grows in countries like China, India and Brazil, rates of car ownership and growth in auto sales are projected to soar. Novelis expects this market expansion – together with new technologies for aluminum use in automobiles − to lead to a compound annual growth rate of 25% in demand for aluminum in automotive applications over the next five years. continued >> NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 53 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “Customers have frankly been continued >> staggered by how challenging our targets are, yet at the same Already, Novelis aluminum is used in 117 vehicle models around the world. time they are excited about To further expand in the automotive market, we are partnering with our the opportunity we have to customers to develop tailored applications and entirely new alloys. Material create the products that society specifications for automobile parts are very demanding, and we’re often needs and wants for the future. charting new territory when substituting aluminum for other materials. Sustainability touches every part That’s why we work very closely with our customers’ engineers and of our business. It’s the right designers to develop innovative solutions, including these examples: thing to do − and doing the • Our Novelis Fusion™ material has been used in the BMW 5 and 7 series’ right thing has always been one-piece aluminum doors and window frames, which are 25% lighter than part of Novelis’ DNA.” a similar steel design and maintain the same performance. The multi-layer Erwin Mayr technology provides a unique combination of core properties and surface Senior VP and Chief Strategy characteristics that make possible a design that couldn’t be achieved with and Commercial Officer, Novelis conventional aluminum sheet. This application garnered Novelis the BMW Supplier Innovation Award in November 2011. • Mercedes has collaborated with Novelis to develop a new alloy, Anticorodal®-300, which is being used in doors, hoods and various structural applications. The new alloy reduces weight and also provides enhanced crash safety and strength. • The Land Rover Evoque features an aluminum hood, roof and structural parts made with Novelis automotive sheet. The advanced roof design is the first production application of Novelis’ new high-strength aluminum alloy Anticorodal®-600 PX. Our scientists developed this alloy specifically for automotive use. It is about 20% stronger than typical aluminum automotive sheet yet offers improved formability over other high-strength alloys. The increased strength also provides the opportunity to reduce the thickness of the sheet by as much as 15%, making it ideal for applications such as hoods, fenders, roofs and doors. Did you know The vast majority of a vehicle’s greenhouse gas emissions occur during the use phase of the life cycle, where the light weight of aluminum offers immediate The use of lightweight fuel economy benefits. But sustainability-minded automakers are also looking aluminum components in a upstream in the life cycle, where the use of recycled aluminum reduces the vehicle can save 6 to 12 times embedded carbon in the material by 95% compared to primary aluminum. the energy compared to that Novelis is working with automakers to increase the recycled input of the used in the production of the aluminum used in cars. Because the alloys have been designed for very specific primary aluminum used in its uses, a key to increasing recycled input is recovering scrap from those uses for construction (using recycled closed-loop recycling back into the same alloy. Jaguar Land Rover’s REALCAR aluminum saves even more). program is an exciting example of this approach (see case study on page 55). Up to 8% fuel savings can be To meet the rapid growth in demand for automotive aluminum, Novelis realized for every 10% reduction is expanding existing facilities and building new ones dedicated to the in weight. automobile market. In April 2012, Novelis announced plans to build our first automotive sheet manufacturing facility in China. The wholly owned, Source: www.world-aluminium.org $100-million plant will have a capacity of 120,000 metric tons per year and is expected to be ready for operation in late 2014. This project is in addition to a $200 million expansion of finishing at our Oswego, New York, facility announced in mid-2011. This expansion will result in a capacity increase of 200,000 metric tons per year, five times Novelis’ current capacity for aluminum sheet in North America. It will begin operations in the summer of 2013. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 54 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report “Working with Novelis and Real Progress through REALCAR other REALCAR project partners, we’re pushing the REALCAR (REcycled ALuminium CAR) is a project led by Jaguar Land Rover boundaries of current levels to explore ways to increase the use of recycled aluminum in automobile of recycled aluminum use in manufacturing. The three-year project is partly funded by the UK Government the automotive industry. The Technology Strategy Board, and Novelis is a key partner. The overall goal of the REALCAR project addresses project is to develop technologies and processes that will enable lightweight the full range of questions automotive body structures to be built using aluminum sheet derived from involved in expanding lower-cost, energy-efficient, recycled sources, in line with Jaguar Land recycled aluminum use, from Rover's Environmental Innovation (EI) strategy to reduce the CO2 footprint of the composition of alloys to manufacturing premium cars. REALCAR is targeting 75% recycled content for where and how we will secure automotive aluminum sheet, including about 50% from manufacturing scrap suppliers of scrap aluminum. and 25% from various post-consumer sources. Novelis’ sustainability goals Project partners are investigating innovative high-recycled sheet aluminum are well aligned with those of developments by evaluating production processes at Novelis and continuous Jaguar Land Rover. Novelis casting at Brunel University. REALCAR addresses the sourcing of aluminum has been a thought partner scrap by exploring infrastructure and recycling approaches at the at every step of the project, manufacturing facilities of Jaguar Land Rover and its Tier 1 suppliers. The helping to tackle the technical project aims to drive progress towards a streamlined logistics/supply chain issues and also think through to facilitate closed-loop returns of aluminum scrap, which not only reduces how to create value through the carbon footprint of the material but also provides a low-cost source. new models of sourcing The project has also investigated potential scrap sources from non-automotive and manufacturing.” sources and end-of-life vehicle waste; this investigation has identified a Adrian Tautscher number of future opportunities. REALCAR evaluated over 20 different sheet REALCAR Project Leader, Materials chemistries and processes, and developed two compositions based on Engineering Technical Services (ETS) commercially available aluminum scrap sources, with a view to replacing Jaguar Land Rover the sheet grade that accounts for the majority of aluminum structural sheet used in Jaguar Land Rover body construction in the next generation of Jaguar Land Rover products. Closing the Loop with Customers As we implement our recycling strategy, our customers are becoming our suppliers by providing us with their scrap aluminum. This is not a new practice, but as we strive to secure new sources and types of scrap aluminum, we are institutionalizing the practice. Beginning in FY12, we changed our sales process so that, as a matter of course, our contracts include an agreement to buy back our customers’ aluminum scrap as much as possible. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 55 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Helping Consumers Recycle Novelis estimates that the average American touches our aluminum 15 to 20 times per day in everything from their car, to a beverage container, cell phone or television. Consumers are not only the end users of a wide range of aluminum products, they are also a critical linchpin in “closing the loop” of the aluminum life cycle. Their actions are a key determinant of how much aluminum makes it back into the recycling stream – and how much ends up in a landfill. Novelis is le Life Cycle App ho ro a committed both to providing consumers with safe, W ch A innovative and high-quality aluminum products and to helping ensure they have a convenient and effective We are working way to recycle them. on a global scale to help support and develop recycling infrastructure and influence consumer behavior to meet our 2020 recycled aluminum goal. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 56 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Shifting the Post-Consumer Recycling Landscape Figure 21: Recycling Opportunities for Post-consumer recycled aluminum currently accounts for Consumers. approximately 25% of our overall aluminum inputs. We will need to source over 4 million tons of scrap by 2020 to meet our 80% recycling goal. Therefore, increasing recycling at the consumer level is very important to us and a big challenge in moving forward. Novelis is keen to work with brandholders, retailers, municipalities CURBSIDE and other stakeholders to increase end-of-life recycling and influence consumers. Novelis would like to make recycling aluminum products as easy to do as throwing them away. The hurdle is that consumer behavior and recycling infrastructure vary widely in different global locations. For example, differences exist in local and municipal recycling collection and processing infrastructure and in recycling Away From public policy frameworks. Nonetheless, Novelis believes we can home (e.g., sporting events, make an important contribution towards shifting the post-consumer reverse vending machines) recycling landscape by collaborating with others in the supply chain, and we are working to do so in three main ways: Further engaging stakeholder partners to expand collection infrastructure. Encouraging – and in some cases, directly creating – both can and non-can recycling infrastructure. Local/municipal Supporting and developing consumer education and awareness drop-off point efforts in both mature and emerging markets. Supporting Collection and Recycling Infrastructure Can Drives/ fundraisers The infrastructure for collecting and recycling aluminum products varies considerably around the world. In some locations, there are well developed, integrated, large-scale systems for collecting, sorting and processing a wide variety of aluminum scrap, while in other locations, the systems are less developed, more fragmented or more limited in the type of scrap they can process. Recycling services are Did you know provided by government agencies in some places and by the private The amount of energy wasted sector or public–private partnerships in others. from the aluminum cans not Given the variability, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to recycled in 2006 would be sufficient to supply the total developing and expanding the aluminum collection and recycling energy needs of 1.8 million infrastructure. As a result, Novelis is developing tailored strategies to American homes for a year. address gaps in key locations. While the specific tactics may vary, our objective across the board is to expand the supply of aluminum scrap Source: Container Recycling Institute – both in terms of volume and type – that we can use as an input for our products. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 57 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Brazil, for example, we have opened five scrap collection centers Curbside Value Partnership to enable us to connect with small scrap yards to increase our supply of material for recycling (see page 24 in Sourcing). In the United Novelis is an active member and Kingdom, we have helped develop a program called Every Can funder of the nonprofit Curbside Counts that helps people recycle outside the home and provides Value Partnership (CVP). CVP’s goal is to launch and study education information and resources about why recycling is important (see programs designed to increase sidebar, page 59). In the USA, we are continuing to support nationparticipation in US curbside wide programs that fund recycling programs both at the home, such recycling programs, while making as Curbside Value Partnership (see sidebar), as well as away from the the programs more profitable and home, such as the Can Crusade, a national awareness campaign that sustainable. Novelis has been a toured NFL games to encourage recycling when tailgating. sponsor of CVP for seven years, and Novelis’ David Gill currently Globally we support efficient recycling policy and infrastructure chairs the Board of Directors. CVP development appropriate to local needs. is the only US program engaging all recycling stakeholders to identify solutions to improve curbside recycling programs. CVP has worked with 27 communities in four states. In these communities, results have www.everycancounts.co.uk cancrusade.com included an average 23% increase in recycling volume and 18% increase in the number of locations that recycle. Educating Consumers about Recycling www.recyclecurbside.org Finding ways to encourage consumers to recycle aluminum is as important as ensuring the infrastructure exists to process it. Metal Packaging Europe Consumer attitudes and behavior towards recycling vary widely across countries. For example, 98% of used beverage containers Novelis is proud to be a part of the Metal Packaging Europe are recycled in Brazil (as of 2009), compared with about 58% in group. This umbrella organization the USA (as of 2010). Recycling rates in Scandinavian countries are brings together European and greater than 90%, while Austria and France have lower recycling national industry associations to rates, bringing the European average to approximately 64%. Novelis use a unified voice to ensure the is taking a regionally specific approach to supporting consumer benefits of rigid metal packaging recycling efforts, helping to influence consumer behavior and helping are understood and promoted. The to develop recycling infrastructure. organization uses communication tools, policy papers and results We organize and support a broad range of consumer education and from technical studies on areas awareness efforts around the world, particularly in locations with lower like life cycle inventories to share recycling rates. For example, Novelis’ recycling program “ThinkCans” in knowledge about these concepts: the United Kingdom has established a consumer education campaign • T he value of responsible metal that has promoted awareness about recycling at work, home, school resource management in meeting and in charities over the last eight years. In another approach, through sustainability objectives, and one of our FY12 Novelis Neighbor community engagement program • T he importance of metal recycling initiatives in the USA, Novelis employees go directly to schools to to increase resource efficiency. give presentations to educate schoolchildren about recycling. As of April 2012, employees from our corporate office presented programs This partnership is a great example at over 25 schools across metropolitan Atlanta, reaching nearly of a program that helps Novelis 1,500 students. We plan to expand this program in future reach its goal of promoting aluminum recycling. years, so all Novelis employees can make presentations in their local communities. (See Engaging with Our Communities on page 46.) www.thinkcans.net NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 58 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Product Safety and Health Most of our products are further processed by our customers before Every Can Counts they are used by consumers, but Novelis works with our customers to ensure we meet their safety needs. For some food, beverage and In Europe, 30% of beverage pharmaceutical applications, we certify that we meet demanding containers are used outside of regulatory consumer safety requirements. We also comply with the the home. “Every Can Counts,” a beverage can recycling program rigorous safety requirements of our automotive customers. sponsored by Novelis, helped collect Aluminum forms 8% of the Earth’s crust, making it the most common 51 million additional used beverage metallic element. It is present in various chemical forms in rocks, soil cans from workplaces and “on the go” locations such as colleges, and vegetation, and is found naturally in most water supplies. As a outdoor locations and tourist result, humans regularly ingest aluminum: The average European attractions in 2011. Since its inception, adult’s diet typically includes 2.5 mg–13 mg per day, although Every Can Counts has added nearly people taking medication containing aluminum may consume much 5,000 recycling collection points in more. There is no known biological role for aluminum: Though it is the United Kingdom and partnered present in small amounts in the lungs, soft tissues and bones, the with more than 800 organizations to vast majority of aluminum ingested is excreted. The body has highly promote recycling. effective barriers to exclude aluminum and similar metals. Only a very Through this program, Novelis small fraction of aluminum in the diet is taken up from the gut, and in has partnered with beverage can healthy individuals, the kidneys quickly excrete most of this absorbed manufacturers, as well as aluminum aluminum. Patients with severe kidney problems, including those and steel packaging companies on dialysis treatment, often face problems, including the inability to and recyclers to provide branded excrete absorbed aluminum. recycling bins, stickers, assistance in finding a suitable collection The use of modern aluminum-free dialysate solutions now prevents center and recycling information. dialysis dementia. Acute dialysis dementia described in the early The program was also a part of the days of renal dialysis has no connection with Alzheimer's disease. In 2012 Olympic Games. Specifically, dialysis dementia, there are neither neurofibrillary tangles nor senile 20 Every Can Counts-branded plaques, and the dementia can be reversed by treatment with drugs can crushers were installed at to remove aluminum. In 1997, a Task Group under the auspices of Weymouth and Portland at sports locations, tourist sites and in areas the World Health Organization and the United Nations Environment that do not currently benefit from Programme published what is the latest comprehensive report. It on-street recycling facilities. concluded no evidence exists to support the premise that aluminum causes, exacerbates or accelerates Alzheimer’s disease. Given its success, the program is being expanded elsewhere in Bisphenol-A (BPA) Europe, including Austria, France and Eastern Europe. Epoxy-based coatings that include BPA are found in almost all aluminum and steel beverage cans. Regulatory agencies in the USA, Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand have stated that scientific evidence has consistently shown that these coatings are safe. In March 2012, the US Food & Drug Administration said that no compelling scientific evidence exists to justify new restrictions on BPA. However, Novelis recognizes that some consumers are concerned with BPA. As a result, Novelis is working with its customers on innovations in non-epoxy-based coatings. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 59 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report About This Report This is Novelis’ second sustainability report, published in the summer of 2012. Our first sustainability report was issued in November 2011. Scope and Boundaries This report was prepared in accordance with the principles of materiality (see page 15), as well as completeness, balance, comparability, accuracy, reliability, timeliness and clarity. We applied quality principles to its data collection and reporting process, and used Global Reporting Initiative reporting principles (see page 61) in compiling this data. The report focuses on our most material impacts and opportunities – those that are of most importance to our company and our stakeholders. These issues are either currently affecting, or will affect, our business activities, and Novelis has some level of indirect or direct influence over them (see page 15 for discussion of how we identified our material issues). This report covers all Novelis Inc. divisions, subsidiaries and legal entities in the 11 countries in which we are present. It includes our joint ventures. We have included 50% of the Alunorf joint venture in Germany where we have 50% of plant output, and 55% of the Logan facility in the USA, where we own 40% of outstanding common shares, but receive 55% of plant output due to equipment investments. For the operations in Korea and Malaysia, we report operational data at 100%. In Korea, we hold a 99% equity interest in the Ulsan and Yeongju plants, up from 68% in FY. We hold a 59% equity interest in the Aluminum Company of Malaysia Berhad, a publicly traded company that operates from Bukit Raja, Selangor, Inside the Novelis Research and Technology Center in Kennesaw, Malaysia. Unlike our production-sharing joint ventures at Norf, Georgia, USA. Germany, and Logan, USA, we market 100% of the Korean and Malaysian plants’ output. The full Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index lists details of organizational changes that could affect the future year-onyear comparability of data, where applicable. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, if relevant, are noted with the data graphics and tables. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 60 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Reporting Period and Future Reporting The information contained in this report covers the period April 1, Assurance 2011, to March 31, 2012, which is Novelis’ 2012 fiscal year (FY12). Additional relevant baseline data or context from preceding years is We did not seek third-party included where specified. Data may have changed slightly due to the assurance of this report; following: Improved processes for calculations, estimations, conversion however, we systematically factors, reporting periods (calendar year to fiscal year), or improved gathered our data with future methodologies (e.g. tracking actual numbers instead of using estimates). assurance in mind. Some of the data we disclose has undergone We intend to publicly report our sustainability performance in a full various forms of internal and report available annually in late summer. third-party verification. For example, some financial data was derived from financial statements included in the The Global Reporting Initiative Annual Report on Form 10-K, and some environmental We have aligned this report to conform to the Global Reporting data was reported to Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the regulatory authorities. GRI Mining and Metals sector supplement at a GRI-checked “A” Application Level. An abbreviated GRI Content Index can be found on pages 62 to 67. Supplemental data and other information on our performance against the GRI’s criteria can be found in the complete GRI Content Index on our website at novelis.com/sustainability GRI Content Index We aligned this report to both the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the GRI Mining and Metals sector supplement. We are not currently mining, but we do own mining rights in the Ouro Preto region of Brazil that are not being utilized. We also assessed our report against GRI requirements. We are reporting at a GRI-checked A Application Level (see www. globalreporting.org for more information). We included a brief GRI G3.1 index below to help readers easily locate information on indicators spelled out in the GRI guidelines. A more comprehensive index, which includes additional information on indicators that were deemed less material, can be found online at novelis.com/sustainability or by requesting a hard copy (see contact details on back cover). Status Key: Fully Reported We have fully reported the information required by the GRI indicator. Partially Reported We have provided some of the information required and, in some instances, we are working towards fully reporting this information in the future.  Not Disclosed This information is either not collected on a global basis or is confidential for competitive or other reasons.  Not Applicable This indicator does not apply to our operations or our reporting. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 61 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 3.3 Reporting Period and Future Reporting 1.1 CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) (Pg 61) Full GRI Content Index 1.2 Our Targets (Pg 5) Novelis’ Role in the Aluminum Value Chain 3.4 Contact (Outside Back Cover) (Pg 8) Full GRI Content Index Our Industry (Pgs 9–10) 3.5 Using Materiality to Shape Our Our Corporate Strategy (Pgs 11–12) Sustainability Strategy (Pg 15) Our Sustainability Strategy & Progress About This Report (Pgs 60–68) (Pg 13–16) 3.6 Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) Sustainability Management & Governance Full GRI Content Index (Pg 17) 3.7 Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Reporting Period and Future Reporting Novelis FY12 10-K (Pgs 20–28) (Pg 61) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Full GRI Content Index 2.1 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) 3.8 Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) 2.2 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Reporting Period and Future Reporting Corporate website: Who We Are (Pg 61) Full GRI Content Index 2.3 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) 3.9 Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) Full GRI Content Index Reporting Period and Future Reporting Joint ventures: (Pg 61) • Aluminum Norf GmbH (Alunorf) Full GRI Content Index • Logan Aluminum Inc. NVL Environmental Metrics Reporting and Management Guideline 2.4 Atlanta, GA, USA Our Company (Pgs 6–7) 3.10 Reporting Period and Future Reporting Our Operations (Pg 7) (Pg 61) Full GRI Content Index 2.5 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Full GRI Content Index 3.11 Reporting Period and Future Reporting (Pg 61) 2.6 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Full GRI Content Index Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 17) 3.12 Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index 3.13 Assurance (Pg 61) 2.7 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Full GRI Content Index Delivering Value to Our Customers GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT (Pgs 50–55) 4.1 Sustainability Management & Governance 2.8 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) (Pg 17) Corporate website: Investors Corporate Website: Executive Officers Novelis FY12 10-K (Pgs 6, 43, 52, 68, 69, 72) Corporate Website: Board of Directors Full GRI Content Index Novelis FY12 10-K (Pg 136) 2.9 Novelis FY12 10-K (Pgs 11, 13–14) Full GRI Content Index Changes in Our Operational Footprint 4.2 Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 44) (Pg 17) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index 2.10 Awards and Recognition (Pgs 5, 70–71) 4.3 Sustainability Management & Governance Full GRI Content Index (Pg 17) REPORT PARAMETERS Corporate Website: Corporate Governance 3.1 Reporting Period and Future Reporting Novelis FY12 10-K (Pg 136) (Pg 61) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index 4.4 Full GRI Content Index 3.2 Scope and Boundaries (Pg 60) 4.5 Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index 4.6 Full GRI Content Index NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 62 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index continued Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References 4.7 Full GRI Content Index Performance: Environmental 4.8 Updated Employee Code of Conduct EN Our standards and protocols for (Pg 17) environmental protection and health Global Energy Policy (Pg 34) and safety management are based on Corporate Website: Code of Conduct for relevant government requirements and Board of Directors and Senior Managers Novelis policies, which may exceed them. Corporate Website: Code of Ethics for Our global performance standards are Senior Financial Officers implemented following site-specific Full GRI Content Index evaluation of issues and hazards. 4.9 Full GRI Content Index Plants are responsible for training employees on the requirements backed 4.10 Full GRI Content Index up by EHS specialists. Training is tailored 4.11 Full GRI Content Index to the employee’s job requirements and carried out through a variety of methods 4.12 Environmental Health & Safety Management including online and hands-on training. Systems (Pgs 28–29) All training is tracked to completion and Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory results are analyzed annually. (Pg 13) Novelis has a Global Supply Chain Updated Employee Code of Conduct framework, including a head of logistics, (Pg 17) whose goal is to minimize our costs Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and and our footprint whilst we deliver our Senior Managers products. We additionally use lightweight Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers materials like aluminum where possible to Full GRI Content Index lighten our load. 4.13 Full GRI Content Index Materials (Pgs 13–14, 21–26) 4.14 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Energy, Water, Emissions/Effluents/Waste 4.15 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) (Pgs 5, 28–29) Biodiversity (Pgs 5, 17–19) 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Products and Services (Pgs 9–12, 50–55) 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Full GRI Index EN 26 Compliance DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Full GRI Index EN 28 Performance: Economic Overall (Pgs 17, 28–29) EC Our economic performance is reviewed Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work quarterly with the Board. We do not have LA Our Senior Vice President and Chief People formal policies related to indirect economic Officer is responsible for managing the impacts. However, through our Novelis aspects noted except for occupational Neighbor program and other activities, we health and safety, which is managed by strive to make positive contributions to Novelis’ Vice President of Environment, local, national and global communities in Health and Safety. (See Environmental which we operate. Our direct and indirect DMA, above) contributions to those communities are significant and bring social and economic Employment (Pg 6) benefit to these communities. Labor/Management Relations (Pgs 43–45) Occupational Health and Safety (Pgs Economic Performance (Pgs 5–7, 17) 28–29, 41–42) Market Presence (Pg 6–12) Training and Education (Pgs 17, 44–45) Indirect Economic Impacts (Pgs 6–7, Diversity and Equal Opportunity 46–49) Corporate Governance Website Full GRI Index SO1 and EC9 Novelis Code of Conduct (Pgs 17, 45) Full GRI Index LA13 Equal remuneration for women and men Corporate Governance Website Novelis Code of Conduct (Pgs 17, 45) NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 63 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index continued Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References Performance: Human Rights Performance: Product Responsibility HR We have set a target to roll out employee PR Our Chief Sustainability Officer has overall and supplier codes of conduct and put responsibility for considering sustainability processes in place for compliance. These issues throughout the product life cycle. codes will further strengthen our practices, Materials Stewardship (Pgs 13–14, 21–26) and management and accountability in Full GRI Index PR1 these areas. Customer Health & Safety (Pg 59) Investment and Procurement Practices Full GRI Index PR3 (Pgs 17, 26) Product and Service Labeling Non-discrimination, Freedom of Full GRI Index PR3–5 Association and Collective Bargaining, Marketing Communications Child Labor, Prevention of Forced and Full GRI Index PR6–7 Compulsory Labor (Pgs 5, 26, 43, 45) Customer Privacy UNGC Index Full GRI Index PR8 Full GRI Index HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7 Compliance Security Practices Full GRI Index PR9 We have a Global Security Team and Global Security Policies, which include IT security ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE policies and oversight. EC1 Full GRI Content Index Indigenous Rights (Pg 49) Novelis FY12 10–K (Pgs 6, 43, 52, 68, 69, 72) Full GRI Index responses to MM5 and HR9 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Assessment (Pgs 43-45) Community Giving and Volunteerism: By Remediation (Pgs 43-45) the Numbers (Pg 48) Performance: Society EC2 CEO Letter (Pg 3–4) SO Community (Pgs 46–49, 58) Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory Index response to SO1 (Pg 13) Artisanal and small-scale mining Using Materiality to Shape our Sustainability Full GRI Index MM8 Strategy (Pg 15) Resettlement Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Full GRI Index MM9 Nachterstedt: Future Direction of Novelis Closure planning Plants (Pg 22) Full GRI Index MM10 Investing in Global Expansion (Pg 30) Grievance mechanisms and procedures Energy Use & GHG Emissions (Pgs 31–36) Our Senior Vice President of General Aligning Our Culture to Support Growth Counsel and Compliance Officer oversees (Pgs 43–45) management of any grievance-related Novelis' Plant Manager Recognized for issues. Quick Company–Wide Response to Flooding Full GRI Index HR11, MM7 (Pg 49) Emergency Preparedness Delivering Value to Our Customers Our Vice President of Environment, Health (Pgs 50–55) & Safety and EHS Steering Committee, Full GRI Content Index which our CEO leads, oversee any EC3 Full GRI Content Index emergency-related issues related to our EC4 Full GRI Content Index business. Corruption (Pgs 17, 45) EC5 Full GRI Index SO2, SO3, SO4 EC6 Sustainability in our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Public Policy (Pg 20) Full GRI Content Index Anti-competitive Behavior (Pg 45) Full GRI Index SO 7 EC7 Full GRI Content Index Compliance (Pg 45) EC8 Engaging with our Communities We do not have formal targets but always (Pg 46–49) strive for 100% compliance with legal and Helping Consumers Recycle (Pgs 56–59) Novelis requirements. Full GRI Content Index NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 64 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index continued Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References EC9 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) EN19 Full GRI Content Index Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) EN20 Non–GHG Air Emissions (Pg 40) Community Giving and Volunteerism: Full GRI Content Index By the Numbers (Pg 48) EN21 Water Use (Pgs 36–38) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE EN22 Waste (Pg 39) EN1 Sourcing: A Holistic Look at Our Material Full GRI Content Index Inputs (Pgs 21–26) MM3 Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index EN23 Full GRI Content Index EN2 Sourcing: A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs (Pgs 21–26) EN24 Full GRI Content Index EN25 EN3 Sustainable Energy Use (Pgs 33–34) EN26 Our Targets (Pg 5) Full GRI Content Index Delivering Value to Our Customers EN4 Sustainable Energy Use (Pgs 33–34) (Pgs 50–55) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index EN5 Sustainable Energy Use (Pgs 33–34) EN27 Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index EN28 Full GRI Content Index EN6 Delivering Value to Our Customers (Pgs 50–55) EN29 Full GRI Content Index EN30 EN7 Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (Pgs 31–32) Sustainable Energy Use (Pgs 33–34) Labor Practices and Decent Work Full GRI Content Index LA1 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) EN8 Water Use (Pgs 36–38) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index LA2 Full GRI Content Index EN9 LA3 Full GRI Content Index LA15 Full GRI Content Index EN10 Water Use (Pgs 36–38) Full GRI Content Index LA4 Employee Engagement (Pg 43) Full GRI Content Index EN11 Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index LA5 Changes in our Operational Footprint (Pg 44) EN12 Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index MM4 Full GRI Content Index MM1 Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index LA6 Environment, Health & Management EN13 Full GRI Content Index Systems (Pgs 28–29) Full GRI Content Index EN14 LA7 Our Health and Safety Performance (Pg 41) MM2 Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index LA8 Engaging with Our Communities EN15 (Pg 46–49) EN16 Greenhouse Gas Footprint (Pg 32) Full GRI Content Index Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Pgs 35–36) LA9 Employee Engagement (Pg 43) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index EN17 Greenhouse Gas Footprint (Pg 32) LA10 Training and Development (Pgs 44–45) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Pgs 35–36) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index EN18 Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Pgs 31–36) Full GRI Content Index NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 65 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index continued Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References Indicator Level References LA11 Training and Development (Pgs 44–45) Society Using Community Engagement to Build SO1 Engaging with Our Communities Leadership Skills (Pg 46) (Pgs 46–49) Changes in Our Operational Footprint Educating Consumers about Recycling (Pg 44) (Pg 58) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index LA12 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) MM6 Candonga Consortium (Pg 49) Employee Evaluations (Pg 44) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index MM7 Candonga Consortium (Pg 49) LA13 Sustainability Management & Full GRI Content Index Governance (Pg 17) MM8 Full GRI Content Index Corporate website: Executive Officers Corporate website: Board of Directors MM9 Candonga Consortium (Pg 49) Novelis FY12 10–K (Pg 136) Full GRI Content Index Full GRI Content Index MM10 Full GRI Content Index LA14 Full GRI Content Index SO9 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Human Rights Energy Use and GHG Emissions (Pgs 31–36) Water Use (Pgs 36–37) HR1 Investing in Global Expansion (Pg 30) Waste (Pg 39) Employee Code of Conduct & Human Non-GHG Air Emissions (Pg 40) Rights (Pg 45) Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index Changes in Our Operational Footprint HR2 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 44) (Pg 26) Candonga Consortium (Pg 49) Full GRI Content Index Product Safety and Health (Pg 59) HR3 Employee Code of Conduct and Human Full GRI Content Index Rights (Pg 45) SO10 Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Full GRI Content Index Energy Use & GHG Emissions (Pgs 31–36) HR4 Full GRI Content Index Water Conservation Projects (Pg 38) HR5 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory Waste (Pg 39) (Pg 13) Zero Landfill Waste Progress (Pg 39) Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Non–GHG Air Emissions (Pg 40) Employee Engagement (Pg 43) Biodiversity (Pg 40) Full GRI Content Index Changes in Our Operational Footprint HR6 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 44) (Pg 13) Candonga Consortium (Pg 49) Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Educating Customers about Recycling Employee Engagement (Pg 43) (Pg 58) Full GRI Content Index Product Safety and Health (Pg 59) Full GRI Content Index HR7 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) SO2 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) (Pg 13) Employee Engagement (Pg 43) Employee Code of Conduct and Human Full GRI Content Index Rights (Pg 45) Full GRI Content Index HR8 SO3 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory MM5 Full GRI Content Index (Pg 13) HR9 Employee Code of Conduct and Human HR10 Our Company (Pgs 6–7) Rights (Pg 45) Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory Full GRI Content Index (Pg 13) Full GRI Content Index HR11 Full GRI Content Index NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 66 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report GRI Index continued Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Disclosed Not Applicable Indicator Level References SO4 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) Full GRI Content Index SO5 Public Policy Engagement (Pg 20) Full GRI Content Index SO6 Public Policy Engagement (Pg 20) Full GRI Content Index SO7 Full GRI Content Index SO8 Full GRI Content Index Product Responsibility MM11 Novelis' Role in the Aluminum Value Chain (Pg 8) New R&D Center Supports Growth Plans & Sustainability Commitments (Pg 12) Taking a Life Cycle Approach (Pg 14) Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Novelis' Global Recycling Strategy (Pgs 22–25) Investing in Global Expansion (Pg 30) Aligning Community Engagement with Company Strategy (Pg 46) Delivering Value to Our Customers (Pgs 50–55) Helping Consumers Recycle (Pgs 56–59) Full GRI Content Index PR1 Product Safety and Health (Pg 59) Full GRI Content Index PR2 Full GRI Content Index PR3 Full GRI Content Index PR4 Full GRI Content Index PR5 Evolving Design Specifications (Pg 51) Delivering on Customers' Needs (Pg 52) Full GRI Content Index PR6 Full GRI Content Index PR7 Full GRI Content Index PR8 Full GRI Content Index PR9 Full GRI Content Index NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 67 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report UNGC Communication on Progress Index As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to upholding the Compact's principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations as well as reporting our progress. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle References Human Rights 1 Businesses should support Novelis endorses the UNGC, CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) and respect the protection International Labor Organization's Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) of internationally proclaimed Conventions on Human Rights Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) human rights; and and the Universal Declaration of Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Human Rights. Environment, Health & Safety Systems (Pgs 28–29) Full GRI Index: 4.4, 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, Employee Engagement (Pg 43) HR DMA, HR 1-9 Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) Corporate Website: Code of Engaging with Our Communities (Pgs 46–49) Conduct for Board of Directors Educating Consumers about Recycling (Pg 58) and Senior Managers & Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers 2 Make sure that they are Full GRI Index: 4.4, 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) not complicit in human HR DMA, HR 1-9 Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) rights abuses. Corporate Website: Code of Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) Conduct for Board of Directors Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) and Senior Managers & Code of Environment, Health & Safety Systems (Pgs 28–29) Ethics for Senior Financial Officers Employee Engagement (Pg 43) Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) Engaging with Our Communities (Pgs 46–49) Educating Consumers about Recycling (Pg 58) Labor 3 Businesses should uphold Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) the freedom of association LA 3, LA 14, HR DMA, HR 9-11 Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) and the effective recognition Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) of the right to collective Aligning Our Culture to Support Growth (Pgs 43–45) bargaining, and 4 The elimination of all forms Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Our Company (Pgs 6–7) of forced and compulsory LA 3, LA 14, HR DMA Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) labor, Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Aligning Our Culture to Support Growth (Pgs 43–45) Engaging with our Communities (Pgs 46–49) 5 The effective abolition of Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) child labor, LA 3, LA 14, HR DMA Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Aligning Our Culture to Support Growth (Pgs 43–45) Engaging with our Communities (Pgs 46–49) 6 The elimination of Novelis does not discriminate on Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) discrimination in respect of the basis of race, religion, national Sustainability Management & Governance (Pgs 17–20) employment and occupation. origin, color, sex, age, veteran Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) status, or disability. Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) Full GRI Index: 4.9, 4.13, LA DMA, LA 3, LA 14, HR DMA, HR 4 NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 68 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report UNGC Communication on Progress Index Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact continued Principle References Environment 7 Businesses should support GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA, CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) a precautionary approach to EN 27 Our Targets and Progress (Pg 5) environmental challenges, Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) and Our Sustainability Strategy & Progress (Pgs 13–16) Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 17) Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Sourcing: A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs (Pgs 21–26) Environment, Health & Safety Systems (Pgs 28–29) Environmental Performance (Pgs 31–40) Changes in Our Operational Footprint (Pg 44) Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) Engaging with Our Communities (Pgs 46–49) Delivering Value to Our Customers (Pgs 50–55) Helping Consumers Recycle (Pgs 56–59) 8 Undertake initiatives GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA, CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) to promote greater EN 27 Our Targets and Progress (Pg 5) environmental responsibility, Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) Our Sustainability Strategy & Progress (Pgs 13–16) Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 17) Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Sourcing: A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs (Pgs 21–26) Environment, Health & Safety Systems (Pgs 28–29) Environmental Performance (Pgs 31–40) Changes in Our Operational Footprint (Pg 44) Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights (Pg 45) Engaging with Our Communities (Pgs 46–49) Delivering Value to Our Customers (Pgs 50–55) Helping Consumers Recycle (Pgs 56–59) 9 Encourage the development GRI Index: 4.9, 4.11, 4.13, EN DMA CEO Letter (Pgs 3–4) and diffusion of Our Targets and Progress (Pg 5) environmentally friendly Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) technologies. Our Sustainability Strategy & Progress (Pgs 13–16) Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 17) Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) Sourcing: A Holistic Look at Our Material Inputs (Pgs 21–26) Environment, Health & Safety Systems (Pgs 28–29) Environmental Performance (Pgs 31–40) Changes in Our Operational Footprint (Pg 44) Employee Code of Conduct & Human Rights (Pg 45) Engaging with Our Communities (Pgs 46–49) Delivering Value to Our Customers (Pgs 50–55) Helping Consumers Recycle (Pgs 56–59) Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work Novelis does not tolerate Becoming a UN Global Compact Signatory (Pg 13) against corruption in all its corruption, extortion or bribery. Sustainability Management & Governance (Pg 17) forms, including extortion GRI Index: 4.1, 4.6, 4.8, 4.11-12, Stakeholder Engagement (Pgs 18–20) and bribery. SO DMA, SO 7-8 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain (Pg 26) Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights (Pg 45) NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 69 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Awards and Recognition Great Place to Work in Brazil American Metal Market Environmental Responsibility and Stewardship Award Novelis South America was in the top 20% of more than 900 Great In June 2012, the American Metal Market recognized Novelis Inc. with an Places to Work in Brazil in 2011. award for Environmental Responsibility and Stewardship at American Metal Employees completed a voluntary Market’s first Awards for Aluminum Excellence. Novelis was recognized for survey conducted by the Great its commitment to sustainability. Place to Work Institute. Novelis President and CEO, Phil Martens, said, The award is a testament to the talented, dedicated individuals who make Novelis an industry leader and partner of choice to our customers every day. I'm proud that Novelis is being recognized for blazing a trail in increasing the sustainability of our products and our industry.” New York CenterState Corporation for Economic Opportunity Business of the Year As a result of the company’s community involvement, innovation and job creation, Novelis won the “more than 50 employees” category for Business of the Year for its contributions to the 12-county CenterState New York region. 2012 AluFoil Trophy In March 2012, Novelis received the AluFoil Trophy in the Technical Innovation category from the European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA). Novelis created a heat shield in partnership with Lydall Inc., an automotive Image courtesy of: Wainwright parts group, in order to add Photography noise reduction functions to traditional heat protection products. This is the second year that Novelis has received the Alufoil Trophy. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 70 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report BMW Innovation Award Novelis won BMW's Supplier Innovation Award in the Lightweight Construction category in November 2011. The award recognized Novelis’ development of a new type of multi-layer aluminum sheet that enables BMW to manufacture onepiece aluminum door structures, with integral window frames, to a design that is not achievable with conventional aluminum products. Two Supplier Awards from Rexam In March 2011, Novelis was doubly honored when Rexam, the world’s largest beverage can maker, recognized us with awards from Novelis Wins Award for Work both their European and North Life Balance in Korea American business units. Rexam In August 2011, Novelis’ Yeongju, Europe presented Novelis with Korea, plant was recognized for its its 2011 “Rexam Way” prize for family-friendly policies. The award, alignment with Rexam’s core values, presented by Korea’s Ministry of while Rexam Beverage Can North Health and Welfare and the Center America gave Novelis its Supplier for the Make the World a Good of the Year award for exceeding Place for Families Campaign, the company’s expectations in its recognized Novelis for its Supplier Excellence Program. policies that promote work and family balance. NOVELIS Sustainability Report 2012 www.novelis.com/sustainability 71 Novelis Inc. is the global leader in aluminum rolled products and aluminum can recycling. Novelis Design and production: Flag Content: BuzzWord supplies premium aluminum sheet and foil products to automotive, transportation, packaging, construction, industrial, electronics and printing markets throughout North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Novelis is a subsidiary of Hindalco Industries Limited (BSE: HINDALCO), one of Asia's largest integrated producers of aluminum and a leading copper producer. Hindalco is a flagship company of the Aditya Birla Group, a multinational conglomerate based in Mumbai, India. For more information, visit www.novelis.com and follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/Novelis. We very much welcome your feedback or partnership on sustainability. If you have any questions or comments about this sustainability report or about sustainability at Novelis, please contact: Tel: +1 404 760-4483 john.gardner@novelis.com www.novelis.com/sustainability Novelis Inc. Two Alliance Center 3560 Lenox Road, Suite 2000 Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Tel: +1 404 760-4000 www.novelis.com © Novelis 2012
