Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2011 Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM, the Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We connect our unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and for generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, DSM creates solutions to some of the world’s great challenges, thus adding to both its own and its customers’ success. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by its ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that allow its customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit solutions − solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM’s 22,000 employees deliver annual net sales of around € 9 billion. The company is listed on NYSE Euronext. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com Key data for 2011 Net sales, continuing Operating profit plus Net profit, continuing Net profit, total DSM operations depreciation and operations1 (x million) (x million) amortization, continuing (x million) operations1 (x million) € 9,048 € 1,296 € 594 € 814 Cash provided by Capital expenditure Basic earnings per Dividend per ordinary operating activities, total including acquisitions ordinary share, total DSM share2 DSM (x million) (x million) € 882 € 1,502 € 4.86 € 1.45 ROCE, continuing Innovation sales as % of Sales in High Growth China sales, continuing operations total sales Economies as % of total operations (in %) sales (x USD million) 14.0 18 39 2,002 ECO+ products as % of ECO+ products as % of Energy use, continuing Water use, continuing innovation pipeline, total running business, total operations operations DSM DSM (in PetaJoules) (in million m3) (at year-end) 94 41 44 157 Greenhouse-gas Workforce Employee engagement Frequency Index of emissions, continuing (at year-end) favorable score recordable injuries operations (in %) (per 100 DSM employees (x million tons) and contractors) 4.6 22,224 71 0.53 1 Before exceptional items 2 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 1 Table of contents 3 Key data 116 Report by the Supervisory Board 116 Supervisory Board report 4 DSM at a glance 120 Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board 6 Letter from the Chairman 130 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 10 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living.TM 132 What still went wrong in 2011 26 Report by the Managing Board 26 Highlights of 2011 134 Information about the DSM share 28 DSM in motion: driving focused growth 32 Sustainability 138 Consolidated financial statements 36 Stakeholder engagement 138 Summary of significant accounting policies 42 People in 2011 144 Consolidated statements 50 Planet in 2011 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal 58 Profit in 2011 DSM 62 Outlook 63 Innovation 206 Parent company financial statements 69 External recognition 208 Notes to the parent company financial statements 70 Review of business in 2011 216 Other information 73 Life Sciences 216 Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability 74 Nutrition Information 82 Pharma 217 Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements 87 Materials Sciences 218 Events after the reporting period 88 Performance Materials 218 Profit appropriation 94 Polymer Intermediates 218 Special statutory rights 98 Innovation Center 219 Important dates 103 Corporate activities 220 DSM figures: five-year summary 104 Financial and reporting policy 104 Financial policy 224 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 104 Reporting policy 226 List of abbreviations 106 Corporate governance and risk management 106 Introduction 108 Dutch corporate governance code 108 Governance framework 110 Risk management 115 Statements of the Managing Board Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 2 Key data 2011 2010 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 22,224 21,911 Female/male ratio 26/74 25/75 Total employee benefits costs in € million 1,655 1,566 Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 employees; DSM and contractors) 0.53 0.57 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 71 71 Energy use (in PetaJoules), continuing operations 44 44 Water use (in million m3), continuing operations 157 148 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons), continuing operations 4.6 4.5 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons), continuing operations 4.2 6.5 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges (x 1000 tons), continuing operations 7.1 7.9 ECO+ products as % of innovation pipeline, total DSM1 94 89 ECO+ products as % of running business (at year-end), total DSM 41 40 million, unless otherwise indicated) Net sales, continuing operations 9,048 8,176 China sales in USD million, continuing operations 2,002 1,535 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, continuing operations (EBITDA) 1,296 1,161 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 866 752 Net profit, total DSM 814 507 882 1,103 Dividend 247 234 Capital expenditure including acquisitions 1,502 476 Net debt 318 (108) Shareholders' equity 5,784 5,481 Total assets 11,157 10,480 Capital employed, continuing operations 6,581 5,264 Market capitalization at 31 December2 6,504 7,730 Net earnings before exceptional items (total DSM) 3.66 3.27 Dividend 1.453 1.35 Shareholders' equity 34.00 31.52 Sales in High Growth Economies / net sales (total DSM) 39 37 Innovation sales / net sales ( total DSM) 18 16 EBITDA / net sales (continuing operations) 14.3 14.2 Operating working capital / annualized net sales (continuing operations) 20.2 17.9 ROCE (continuing operations)4 14.0 14.6 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 5.1 (2.0) Equity / total assets 53.5 53.2 Cash provided by operating activities / net sales (total DSM) 9.6 12.2 1 For a definition of ECO+ see page 224 2 Source: Bloomberg 3 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 4 Including discontinued operations ROCE was 14.3% (2010: 15.0%) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 3 DSM at a glance DSM’s activities have been grouped into For reporting purposes, the activities are business groups representing coherent grouped into four clusters. In addition, DSM product/market combinations. The reports on the Innovation Center and a business group directors report directly to number of other activities, which have been the Managing Board. grouped under Corporate activities. Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Continued value growth Leveraging partnerships for growth The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products (DNP) The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM and DSM Food Specialties (DFS). The nutrition and food Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world’s leading ingredients businesses serve the food and beverage, feed, custom manufacturing suppliers to the pharmaceutical industry. personal care and pharmaceutical industries. Their activities are Many of today’s medicines around the world contain ingredients based on in-depth knowledge of customer/market needs. With produced by DPP. The cluster also contains DSM's 50% interest customized formulation activities in more than 44 locations and in the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture (DSP). DSP a marketing/sales presence reaching over 60 countries, was formed from the former DSM business group DSM Anticustomer intimacy is a key success factor. The Nutrition Infectives (DAI). DSP is one of the few producers and marketers businesses' technical expertise is based on application knowof beta-lactam active pharmaceutical ingredients with a global how and innovation translating market needs into products and presence, using cutting-edge low eco-footprint manufacturing services with new benefits. Technologies in the Nutrition cluster technology. are broad, utilizing DSM’s competences in biotechnology (including fermentation), chemical process technology and particle engineering. DSM has the world's broadest ingredients portfolio and holds leading positions in many large ingredient markets for animal and human nutrition and health as well as personal care. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 4 Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Growing via sustainable, innovative solutions Strengthening backward integration for DSM Engineering The Performance Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins. These business The Polymer Intermediates product cluster comprises groups specialize in the manufacture of technologically caprolactam and acrylonitrile produced by DSM Fibre sophisticated, high-quality products that are tailored to meet Intermediates (DFI). These products are raw materials for customers’ performance criteria. DSM's performance materials synthetic fibers and plastics. Caprolactam is a key feedstock for are used in a wide variety of end-use markets: the automotive DSM Engineering Plastics’ polyamide production. Globally, DFI industry, the aviation industry, the electrical and electronics is the largest merchant caprolactam supplier and the third largest industry, the marine industry, the sports and leisure industries, merchant acrylonitrile supplier. In addition, the business group the paint and coatings industry and the construction industry. produces ammonium sulfate, sodium cyanide, cyclohexanone and diaminobutane. Innovation Center The Innovation Center is an element of the strategy DSM in devices. DSM Bio-based Products & Services creates motion: driving focused growth. It contains the activities of the solutions for bioconversion of feedstocks for the production of DSM Innovation Center (including DSM Venturing) and the bio-based chemicals and materials and develops the Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). The EBAs comprise new technologies to enable the production of advanced biofuels. innovative growth platforms based on the combination of DSM’s DSM Advanced Surfaces provides solutions for the competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. development and application of smart coatings that boost DSM Biomedical develops novel materials-based solutions to performance and/or improve aesthetics across a wide range of meet the needs of the medical device and biopharmaceutical industries and applications, including solar glass and the lighting industries with coatings, drug delivery platforms and a wide industry. range of biomedical materials for use in implantable medical Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 5 Letter from the Chairman Dear reader, We increased our sales and our presence in the new, emerging, high growth economies, which now account for almost 40% of The year behind us was in many ways very eventful, not just for our total sales. We also shifted part of our senior management our company but for the entire world. Major trends and events positions from Europe to other regions, in particular Asia. such as the Arab Spring, the European debt crisis, the tsunami in Japan and increased economic uncertainties dominated the Our continued investments in innovation are paying off. The news. Where we saw a remarkable economic recovery and Emerging Business Areas DSM Biomedical and DSM Bio-based growth in 2010 and the first half of 2011, the last part of 2011 Products & Services are developing well toward becoming new brought stagnation and even decline, especially in Europe and growth platforms for DSM. We are also on track when it comes in some market sectors. to sales from innovation as a percentage of total sales, which was 18% in 2011. Despite this environment, 2011 was a strong year for DSM. It was the first full year in the implementation of our strategy DSM We have achieved almost all our targets regarding sustainability. in motion: driving focused growth. We made substantial For the sixth time in eight years, we were ranked number one in strategic progress in all clusters and on all growth drivers, as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for our sector. In addition, illustrated by the highlights in this report regarding acquisitions, we are seeing that sustainability is increasingly becoming a growth in high growth economies, innovation (including the business driver, on top of being a value and a tool for making a development of new growth platforms), and sustainability. responsible contribution to society. With our previous strategy we had transformed DSM into a much We successfully completed the acquisition and integration of more balanced and stronger company with a relatively resilient Martek and we started the joint venture of DSM Anti-Infectives portfolio in health, nutrition and materials, a broad geographic with Sinochem, to name just two highlights in the area of spread with a strong presence in high growth economies, and a Acquisitions & Partnerships. solid balance sheet. Our strategy for the coming years is a response to global trends which all have to do with the Despite the headwind we faced in 2011, especially from the unprecedented challenges that the world is facing. strong Swiss franc, the relatively high raw material prices and the uncertain economic climate, our business and financial The global population is expected to grow from 7 billion now to performance was very good. Our EBITDA of almost € 1.3 billion 9 billion by 2050. In addition, it is aging and becoming was the second highest ever and a good step up toward increasingly urban and wealthy, leading to increased achieving our medium term goals. Our Nutrition business consumption per capita and a bigger claim on the world’s performed very well. In our Pharma cluster we took important resources. All this comes together in three key global societal strategic steps, but the cluster's performance still needs to trends: a global demographic shift, challenges in the field of improve. Our Performance Materials business made a good step climate and energy usage and a growing focus on how to secure up compared to 2010, although especially in the last part of 2011 health and wellness for all. it felt the effects of the uncertain economic climate that the world, and the Eurozone in particular, was experiencing. Our Polymer These trends are affecting our planet, people and markets in Intermediates business had an extraordinary performance in different ways. They give direction to our customers' efforts to 2011. address current and future unmet needs, for which we aim to provide innovative and sustainable solutions. In the year under review we also made good progress regarding our cultural and organizational change. Throughout the DSM Our strategy in addressing these trends and meeting these organization we are seeing a more diverse workforce, not only needs is underpinned by four growth drivers: High Growth in terms of male/female ratio, but also in terms of nationality and Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & other backgrounds. Increased diversity and inclusion together Partnerships. In 2011 we delivered progress on all four of them. with the DSM Change Agenda – with a focus on external orientation, accountability for performance and inspirational leadership – will create the culture that we need to achieve our strategic objectives in a sustainable way with increased speed and using the 'One DSM' approach. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 6 Letter from the Chairman The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Stefan Doboczky, Stephan Tanda, Feike Sijbesma (Chairman/CEO), Nico Gerardu, Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (CFO) The successful launch of the new DSM brand was another highlight of 2011. All our employees watched an award winning movie to celebrate the launch of the new brand, which will support our One DSM philosophy. Besides movie awards we received many other forms of recognition, including the George Washington Carver Award for Innovation in Industrial Biotechnology and the Leaders of Change Award, which is supported by the United Nations. In the area of safety we need to make further improvements. It is with deep regret that we report the tragic death of a contractor employee in 2011. On 13 September an electrician from Austin Industrial lost his life while working on a high voltage substation at the recently acquired DSM South Center property in Augusta (Georgia, USA). And on 28 July a vapor cloud explosion followed by a fire occurred at the DSM-AGI Xinhua plant in Tainan (Taiwan). As a result, seven employees were injured, two of them seriously. These tragic accidents, together with a number of other serious incidents in 2011, led us to organize a Safety Day for all employees worldwide to highlight the DSM Life Saving Rules, the implementation of which we strengthened in 2011. On this day, all DSM employees discussed their safety situation and ways to further improve it. We stay committed to aligning our strategy and operations with the UN Global Compact principles. We are proud that the transparency of our reporting on sustainability has once again been recognized, as is evidenced by our achievement of GRI A+ status for this second Integrated Annual Report. The year 2012 has just begun. We are conscious that risks to the macro-economic global outlook remain, and that weakness in Europe and some of our end markets, especially building and construction, persists. However, we believe that our balanced, relatively resilient portfolio in health, nutrition and materials, our broad geographic spread with a significant presence in high growth economies, together with our strong balance sheet, leaves us well placed to achieve our ambitious 2013 targets. We are committed to creating value for all stakeholders by fully leveraging the unique opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, not just individually but also in combination, for the benefit of people today and for generations to come. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 7 In 2011 Mr. Cor Herkströter, Chairman of the DSM Supervisory Board since March 2002 and member of the Supervisory Board since April 2000, stepped down after the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. I would like to express our deep gratitude for his guidance and support in DSM's transformation process. We look forward to continuing working with Mr. Rob Routs, who took over the Supervisory Board chairmanship. I would like to thank all our employees for their valuable contributions, and our customers and shareholders for their continued support. DSM in motion: driving focused growth will be a very exciting journey and we look forward to reporting further progress. Feike Sijbesma CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 8 Letter from the Chairman Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 9 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living.TM DSM has transformed itself into a leading Life Sciences and Food security (access to nutritious food for all people at all times) Materials Sciences company that is active in health, nutrition and is one of the main themes to which DSM is contributing. materials and creates value for its customers by helping them provide solutions to the world’s great challenges. DSM uses its At the same time, a focus on healthy and active aging is driving bright science to create brighter lives for people today and demand for fortified foods and supplements. And finally, an aging generations to come by providing the ingredients to develop population means increased healthcare spending, which DSM innovative more sustainable, healthier, more nutritious and better addresses through its engagement in preventive health and performing products. services to pharmaceutical companies. DSM has a very strong starting position to realize its ambitious Performance and sustainability are key drivers impacting growth targets as set in its strategy for the period till 2015, all demand in DSM’s Materials Sciences markets, where the based on its strong global market position (with about 40% of company is accelerating the transformation toward the its total sales of € 9 billion coming from high growth economies), production and use of materials that are lighter, healthier, safer, its unique technological knowledge as a basis for innovation, its stronger and more durable and that have lower environmental strong track record in sustainability, its very solid balance sheet, footprints throughout their value chains than traditional materials and the experience and expertise of its 22,000 people. such as steel. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by For automotive manufacturers for instance, this transformation creating shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the means providing more features for drivers while simultaneously future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways reducing the environmental impact of vehicles over their lifecycle. that allow its customers to provide better solutions serving This requires not just lighter materials but also innovations that People, Planet and Profit solutions to the challenges facing reduce friction – a factor that is important in other transport society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s sectors as well. Miniaturization and constant innovation still drive customers derive value from being able to offer end-users the market for electronics manufacturers, but E-waste and improved products; society and the planet derive value from the resource availability and efficiency are growing concerns. In impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and order to avoid health risks and reputational problems for their more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its brands, electronics manufacturers want to be able to use shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. materials that not only offer increasingly lower hazards and deliver excellent performance, but are also efficiently recyclable Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated through or even bio-based. Similarly, the building and construction the contribution they make to a better world and the success this industry needs paints and coatings that offer improved quality creates for the company in which they work. In short, DSM is a and appearance while at the same time minimizing health risks multi-stakeholder-oriented company with a triple bottom line and offering exceptional environmental performance. (People-Planet-Profit) creating value for its customers, shareholders and employees as well as society at large. Bringing DSM’s Life Sciences and Materials Sciences competences together offers cross-fertilization opportunities As a global company, DSM is actively engaged in addressing the allowing further advances. This cross-fertilization is managed same key trends that face all its stakeholders: meeting changing through DSM’s Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). A thorough demands arising from global shifts in demographics and understanding of how advanced materials can be used in the technology, mitigating the impact of climate change while human body to strengthen or replace body parts and accurately searching for new forms of energy and trying not just to feed but deliver medicines is driving DSM’s biomedical materials also to improve the health of a growing population. business. By merging its broad biotechnology capability with its materials businesses, DSM is able to find renewable solutions In DSM’s Life Sciences markets, these trends manifest for the post fossil age by creating bio-based materials and themselves through the related impacts of increasing personal building blocks and by actively working to create commercially wealth, urbanization and expanding life expectancy. viable advanced biofuels that do not compete with the food value chain. Urbanization drives the consumption of processed foods and the need for a more efficient food chain, while rising wealth translates While DSM continues to meet the needs of customers in the into increased demand for proteins from meat, fish, eggs and mature markets of North America and Western Europe − which milk – in turn driving demand for DSM’s food and feed products. remain central to its core business – the company’s investment focus is increasingly on the high growth economies such as Asia, Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 10 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. Central and Eastern Europe and Latin America, where DSM expects 70% of its growth up to 2015 to take place. In turn, this means DSM is becoming steadily more international, enabling it to bring a global perspective to the challenges of all its customers. In addition to achieving sustainable, innovative organic growth, DSM will continue to take advantage of opportunities to acquire exciting businesses and to partner with others to the benefit of all its stakeholders. And finally, the DSM brand company will continue to improve its shareholder returns, In 2011 DSM introduced its new corporate brand, a logical supported by its solid dividend policy. step as the company had just completed its transformation into a Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company active In short, after having transformed itself into a Life Sciences and in health, nutrition and materials. The new DSM brand Materials Sciences company, DSM now focuses on further demonstrates very clearly – to customers, suppliers, growing the company, using four growth drivers: High Growth shareholders, the communities in which the company Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & works as well as to DSM employees – that DSM has turned Partnerships. a page. The new brand is a symbol of the company's transition to ‘the new DSM’: a Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company addressing key global societal trends. On the following pages, and throughout the Review of business section, examples of the brand campaign DSM undertook in 2011 are shown. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 11 For her, bright science the recipe From India to Indiana, the world’s consumers increasingly want natural, healthy food that tastes delicious, feels authentic and yet is highly conYenient and aŁordaEle $t '60 we’re helSing the food industry meet these needs through a family of ingredients that SacN ŃaYor into Sroducts while reducing salt, sugar and fat In fact, our latest range of saYory ingredients was created in SartnershiS with indeSendent chefs 7hey insSired us, now we’re insSiring them 7ruly, food for thought means rewriting book. For him, bright science DQLPDOVDQGKHDOWKLHU Farmers need all the help they can get to succeed in a very competitive industry. Which is why so many of them use DSM products to feed their animals. We are one of the biggest and brightest names in solutions for animal health and nutrition, enabling farmers to raise stronger and healthier animals. In fact our vitamin supplementation guidelines for cows and other ruminants are used by nutritionists and veterinarians worldwide. So you could say that when it comes to animal nutrition, we wrote the book. means healthier SURĲWV For her, bright science means better drugs. Every pharmaceutical company on the planet is searching for that next breakthrough drug that could make its mark on mankind. At the same time, they are all under pressure to improve eńciency and sustainability. Which is where our ögreen chemistry toolbox’ comes in ô enabling us to provide drug development and manufacturing services to pharma companies so that they can focus more on drug discovery. And did we mention that our active ingredients are used in some half a billion potentially lifesaving antibiotic treatments each year For him, bright science      VFLHQFHĲFWLRQ The good news is that humans are generally living longer. The bad news is that this means more wear and tear on our bodies. The really good news? Thanks to our unique crossover between life sciences and materials sciences there are now millions of people whose lives have been enhanced by biomedical devices inside their bodies ô from artiłcial Moints to delicate devices that improve the function of impaired critical organs such as the brain and the heart. It’s all about creating brighter lives. means turning LQWRIDFW For them, bright science making greener cars. At DSM we’re going the extra mile for customers in the automotive and transportation industries...but without using the extra fuel. Our increasingly bio-based performance materials are making cars stronger yet lighter. Which means lower fuel consumption, reduced carbon emissions and lower costs. Our scientists are also focusing on the fuel itself: they have found a way to convert agricultural residue into advanced biofuels – the fruit of more than a century of enzyme innovation. means For them, bright science       WROLYHRıWKH The race is on to replace dwindling natural resources with plentiful alternative energy sources like sun, water and wind. Our polymers and resins are helping to make it happen – from the gargantuan 64-meter blades (now stronger, lighter and more environmentally friendly) of advanced windmills to the giant skysails seen pulling commercial ships across the ocean and thus cutting oil consumption in a big way. It’s true wind-assisted thinking… means being able ZLQG For him, bright science never goes out of The global textile industry is going through enormous change – and DSM is truly measuring up to this challenge with sustainable technologies. For those with a passion for fashion it is good to know that bright and colorful acrylics based on our raw material are more sustainable than sheep’s wool (which requires a surprising amount of chemical processing). We’re also one of the world’s leading producers of caprolactam – a raw material used extensively in recyclable nylon textiles. In fact, we’ve got it all covered. means quality fashion. Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 The Nutrition result (€ 735 million) including Martek was higher despite the negative impact of currencies of € 70-80 million net General of hedging results, mainly Swiss franc related. The year 2011 was another strong year for DSM despite the challenges of the global economy, adverse currency movements The Pharma result (€ 36 million) was lower, but stabilizing. As a and high raw material costs. As a consequence we propose to result of the formation of the joint venture with Sinochem in antiincrease our dividend for the second consecutive year. In infectives, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals was consolidated at Nutrition the company made good progress once again and 50% in the last 4 months of the year. Polymer Intermediates delivered its highest profitability in history. Performance Materials posted a higher result for the year (€ € 293 Furthermore, the company made significant steps in the first year million), despite tough economic conditions in Q4 and weakness of implementing its growth strategy. This included the acquisition in the tender driven vehicle protection business at DSM of Martek, the formation of the joint venture with Sinochem, the Dyneema. completion of non-core divestments, progress in sustainabilityrelated innovations and expansion into high growth economies, Polymer Intermediates had its four best quarters ever in 2011, which now account for 39% of sales. At the start of 2012 DSM resulting in a very substantial increase in EBITDA (to € 380 announced an exciting joint venture with POET, to make million), compared to a strong 2010 performance. advanced biofuels a reality on a commercial scale. Net sales in China (continuing operations) increased by 30% DSM is conscious that risks to the macro-economic global from USD 1,535 million in 2010 to USD 2,002 million in 2011. outlook remain, and that weakness in Europe and some of its Total sales in high growth economies increased to 39% of overall end markets, especially building and construction, persists. sales in 2011. However, DSM believes that its balanced, relatively resilient portfolio in health, nutrition and materials, its broad geographic Innovation sales – measured as sales from innovative products spread with a significant presence in high growth economies, and applications introduced in the last five years – reached 18% together with its strong balance sheet, leave the company well of total net sales in 2011, close to the company’s 2015 target of placed to achieve its ambitious 2013 targets. approximately 20%. Net sales, continuing operations Nutrition Full year sales increased by 12% with organic sales growth of x € million 2011 2010 4% due to higher volumes across all businesses and stable pricing. Martek (contributing since the end of February 2011) 3,370 3,005 delivered an excellent performance with sales reaching € 284 Pharma 677 739 million and EBITDA of € 88 million. Performance Materials 2,752 2,507 Polymer Intermediates 1,820 1,398 Despite a strong currency headwind, which had an impact on Innovation Center 60 50 EBITDA of € 70-80 million net of hedging results (mainly Swiss Corporate activities 369 477 franc related), EBITDA increased to € 735 million due to the Martek acquisition, higher volumes and further cost 9,048 8,176 improvements. Pharma Full year organic sales growth was 11%, well above DSM’s Organic sales growth was 3% in 2011 due to higher volumes at strategic target of 5-7%. All clusters, especially Polymer DSM Pharmaceutical Products and slightly lower volumes at Intermediates, contributed to this growth. DSP. Overall sales decreased by 8% mainly as a consequence of the proportional consolidation of DSP. Full year EBITDA was € 1,296 million. EBITDA growth (excluding the IFRS pension adjustment) was 15%, which is clearly above The cluster’s profitability was reduced by tougher market sales growth. conditions in 2011 in the anti-infectives markets and the proportional consolidation of DSP. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 26 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Performance Materials Net profit before exceptional items amounted to € 615 million, Full year organic sales growth was 9%. Higher prices at DSM which was € 68 million higher than in 2010. Total net profit Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins were partly offset by lower increased by € 307 million compared to the previous year and volumes at DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins. Despite the lower reached a level of € 814 million, partly due to exceptional items results in Q4, EBITDA was higher than in 2010. and a lower tax rate. Net earnings per ordinary share (continuing operations, excluding exceptional items) increased by 22% to a Polymer Intermediates level of € 3.53 compared to € 2.89 in 2010. Organic sales growth in 2011 was 32%, compared to an already very strong performance in 2010. The cluster benefited from the Sustainability favorable market conditions and demonstrated an excellent In sustainability DSM set a number of ambitious aspirations in manufacturing performance, resulting in an all time high EBITDA. 2010, and in 2011 the company made good progress toward meeting them, as evidenced by the following highlights. Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), continuing operations DSM once again retained its number one position in the chemical industry sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. This x € million 2011 2010 is the third consecutive year that DSM has held this top position in worldwide sustainability and the sixth time in total since 2004. 735 684 In 2007 and 2008, the two years when DSM was not ranked Pharma 36 61 number one, it was also among the leaders in the sector. Performance Materials 293 283 Polymer Intermediates 380 223 In 2011 the percentage of ECO+ solutions in the innovation Innovation Center (57) (49) pipeline was 94%, well above the target set. ECO+ solutions as Corporate activities (91) (41) a percentage of running business increased further to 41%. DSM is on its way toward the 50% aspiration. 1,296 1,161 DSM is on track with its drive to improve energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 compared to 2008. Including 2011 energy Innovation Center efficiency improved 13% compared to 2008. Strategic progress was made in 2011 with the start-up of the Actamax joint venture in surgical biomedical materials. In In 2011 DSM executed its fourth worldwide Employee addition, several development agreements were signed in the Engagement Survey. The main element in the survey is the main segments of the Biomedical business. DSM and Roquette measurement of DSM’s Employee Engagement Index, the started the construction of the commercial-scale bio-based percentage of employees scoring favorable on a combination of succinic acid plant in Italy. The acquisition of C5 Yeast Company four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. B.V. from Royal Cosun was completed, further extending DSM’s The Employee Engagement Index measured in 2011 again was leadership position in the field of cellulosic bio-ethanol. close to high performance norm with an all time high response rate of 91%. Corporate activities Excluding the changes in the Dutch pension plan, full year DSM’s People+ strategy will deliver measurably better solutions EBITDA decreased by € 17 million due to a lower contribution of to improve the lives of people. The company has defined a new the captive insurance company and higher share based payment People+ framework based on broad stakeholder analyses. The costs. dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working conditions and community development have been identified as Financials distinct and instrumental categories to measure People+ impact Net finance costs decreased by € 11 million compared to the at product level. previous year to a level of € 82 million, mainly as a result of favorable hedging results and lower interest costs. In 2011 diversity ambitions for the business groups were defined for the period 2011-2015, to ensure that DSM’s organizational The effective tax rate amounted to 19% (2010: 24%). The lower readiness is in line with its stretched growth ambitions for 2015. tax rate was a result of a different geographical spread of results In addition, DSM has addressed the geographical distribution of and the application of preferential tax regimes in countries where management and other key functions. DSM is operating. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 27 DSM in motion: driving focused growth DSM’s focus is on providing its customers with the innovations and sustainable products they need to meet the societal and After a long history of successful transformations, DSM has market demands arising from these trends. By adding to its reached a next phase where it delivers on its mission of creating customers’ success, DSM adds to its own success too. brighter lives for people today and generations to come, driving focused growth and becoming a truly global company. It is DSM’s ambition to fully leverage the unique opportunities in Embedded in the company’s mission is the core value that Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, using four growth drivers DSM’s activities should contribute to a more sustainable world. (High Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and This guides how DSM pursues sustainable value creation for all Acquisitions & Partnerships) and bringing all four drivers to the stakeholders on three dimensions simultaneously: People, next level. At the same time DSM aims to make maximum use Planet and Profit. of the potential of all four growth drivers to mutually reinforce each other and generate a greater number of compelling The businesses that form DSM’s new core in Life Sciences and business opportunities. Materials Sciences are built around finding innovative and sustainable solutions to some of the world’s most important Regional organizations, functional excellence groups and shared challenges, based on a clear understanding of the key global services enhance the performance of the business groups, societal trends and their consequences for the planet, which together operate as One DSM. DSM will capture regional consumers and societies, which in turn is based upon extensive business opportunities and synergies and implement excellence stakeholder input. See also the chapter on stakeholder throughout its global organization. engagement from page 36. The culture change program that is currently in progress The global population is expected to grow from 7 billion now to (focusing on external orientation, accountability for performance 9 billion by 2050. In addition, it is aging and becoming and inspirational leadership) will be further rolled out with an increasingly urban and wealthy, leading to increased emphasis on collaboration and speed of execution to support consumption per capita and a bigger claim on the world’s this strategy. All this is based on sustainability as DSM’s core resources. All this comes together in three key global societal value and its true belief in diversity and inclusion, including trends: a global demographic shift, challenges in the field of internationalization. climate and energy usage and a growing focus on how to secure health and wellness for all. DSM has set itself ambitious targets for the current strategy period. The company has high aspirations, based on an Global shifts assessment of the opportunities, particularly in high growth The accelerating shift of wealth from West to East and from economies, innovation, sustainability, acquisitions and North to South is the basis of a whole series of global shifts partnerships, and aims at accelerated growth and increased which are creating a more urban, more connected and more profitability. prosperous world − but with huge resource and cultural challenges as a result. For 2013 two profitability targets have been set: an increase in Climate change and energy EBITDA to a level of € 1.4-1.6 billion and an increase in Return The accepted reality that our fossil age is causing considerable on Capital Employed (ROCE) to more than 15%. In 2011 EBITDA change to our climate is driving the search for alternative was € 1,296 million, compared to € 1,128 million in 2010 energy, chemicals and materials sources as well as efforts to (excluding IFRS pension adjustment of € 33 million). ROCE in reduce resource consumption in a multitude of ways as the 2011 was 14.0%, compared to 14.6% in 2010. world will enter an era of resource scarcity. Health and wellness The impact of a growing, aging, more urban population is being felt across the world, but in remarkably different ways: the drive to improve well-being and increase life span among the growing middle classes of the high growth economies contrasts with the continuing struggle to effectively feed the populations in less well-off parts of the world. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 28 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Strategic and financial targets Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Profitability targets 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Index EBITDA € 1.4 1.6 bn Top ranking (SAM Gold Class)1 ROCE > 15% ECO+ (innovation) 80%+ of pipeline is ECO+2 Sales targets 2015 ECO+ (running business) Organic sales growth 5-7% annually From approximately 34% toward 50% China sales from USD 1.5 bn to > USD 3 bn Energy efficiency High growth economies sales from ~32% toward 50% of sales 20% improvement in 2020, compared to 2008 Innovation sales from ~12% to 20% of sales Greenhouse-gas emissions -25% (absolute) by 2020, compared to 2008 Aspiration regarding Emerging Business Areas for 2020 Employee Engagement Survey EBA sales > € 1 bn Toward High Performance Norm3 Diversity and People+ To be updated in 2011 In terms of the sales targets established for this strategy period, DSM comfortably exceeded the organic sales growth target and 1 This means a total score of at least 75% and within 5% of the SAM sector leader demonstrated solid growth in sales in China in 2011. DSM saw 23 See page 224 for a definition of ECO+ The High Performance Norm (79% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% a growth in sales in high growth economies as a percentage of employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations overall sales to 39% in 2011, bringing the company closer to its announced goal of moving from approximately 32% toward 50% of total net sales. Innovation sales — measured as sales from In 2010 DSM set a number of ambitious sustainability aspirations innovative products and applications introduced in the last five for 2015, and in 2011 the company made good progress toward years — reached 18% of total net sales in 2011, close to the meeting them. The highlights can be found on page 27. company’s 2015 target of approximately 20%. High Growth Economies: from 'reaching out' to being truly Further progress was made in the Emerging Business Areas global (EBAs). The EBAs are DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based A key element of DSM in motion: driving focused growth is for Products & Services and DSM Advanced Surfaces. DSM to move from being a European company reaching out to the world to being a truly global company. All the evidence For the period 2011-2015 capital expenditure can be expected indicates that fast-growing economies such as China, India, at a level comparable to that in the 'accelerated Vision 2010' Brazil and Russia and other emerging areas will be the major period (€ 500-550 million per year on average). For the total growth engines for the world economy over the next decade. period, capital expenditure is expected to amount to € 2.5-2.7 DSM’s market penetration in the high growth economies has billion, of which approximately USD 1 billion in China. In addition, increased from just 22% of sales in 2005 to 39% now, the target DSM aspires to keep working capital as a percentage of for 2015 being to move toward 50% of sales. DSM expects over annualized net sales below 19%. At the end of 2011 working 70% of its growth in the period to 2015 to come from high growth capital as a percentage of annualized net sales amounted to economies. 20.2%. DSM has a clear focus on China, where the company has set a target to double sales to a level of at least USD 3 billion by 2015. In 2011 DSM made good progress toward this target: China sales increased 23% to USD 2.0 billion. To support this growth DSM intends to invest USD 1 billion in China in this strategy period. DSM will also increase its presence in other markets, doubling or even trebling revenues in India, Latin America and Russia. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 29 Achieving these targets requires a true internationalization of the Acquisitions & Partnerships: from ‘portfolio transformation’ to company. DSM is adjusting its organization in a variety of ways ‘driving focused growth’ to facilitate local decision making (for example via country When DSM launched DSM in motion: driving focused growth in presidents in China, India, Russia and Latin America), drive local 2010, the company made it clear that, alongside stretched innovation (through Innovation Centers such as in China and organic growth targets, it would also use acquisitions and India), and establish clear accountability for regional growth at partnerships to achieve its ambitions more rapidly. Clearly, these Managing Board level. The headquarters of DSM Fibre would need to be partnerships that make strategic sense in Intermediates was moved to Shanghai and that of DSM terms of meeting the ambitions, and acquisitions that meet Engineering Plastics to Singapore. The headquarters of the DSM DSM’s criteria. A notable example is the successful acquisition Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture was established in Asia and subsequent integration of Martek. (currently it is located in Hong Kong). DSM applies stringent strategic, financial and sustainability Innovation: from 'building the machine' to doubling innovation criteria to any potential acquisition or partnership. In the output screening process a first selection is made on the basis of Since the announcement of the innovation boost back in 2005, strategic fit. This results in a shortlist to which DSM applies its as part of DSM’s Vision 2010 strategy, the company's increased financial criteria. A key strategic criterion is that the business or commitment to innovation has significantly paid off, as shown by partner should add or increase a leadership position and should the achievement of numerous milestones, the most tangible one add value to DSM in terms of technological and/or market being the fact that in 2010 DSM clearly exceeded its target of competences. achieving € 1 billion in additional sales through innovation compared to 2005 (the actual contribution achieved was € 1.3 The key financial criteria for acquisitions are a Single A credit billion in 2010). rating for DSM, a contribution to cash earnings per share from the beginning and a contribution to earnings per share from year Building on this track record, DSM is taking value creation two. An acquisition should also support DSM's other financial through innovation to the next level. DSM has adopted a new targets. definition of its innovation target which is more in line with the definition used by other mainstream innovators in the industry: In the exceptional case that a very attractive acquisition percentage of sales created by new products and applications opportunity arises of a size that would put pressure on financial introduced in the last five years, replacing the previous target of metrics, DSM may be willing to accept a temporary deviation an absolute amount of additional sales through innovation. from the credit metrics commensurate with its rating target. However, DSM believes that Single A ratings are the right place DSM’s target is to increase innovation sales from approximately to be for the company to ensure sufficient financial and strategic 12% in 2010 toward 20% of total sales by 2015. In 2011 flexibility at all times, and DSM would seek to manage its balance innovation sales increased to 18% of total sales. sheet and underlying financials after such an acquisition to allow the company to re-align ratios with Single A ratings within a short Sustainability: from responsibility to a business driver period of time. DSM’s sustainability strategy is strongly connected to the company’s mission to create brighter lives for people today and DSM will look for opportunities to strengthen competences and for generations to come, and to its brand promise of Bright market positions for the other three strategic growth drivers: Science. Brighter Living.™ DSM believes sustainability will be a expansion in High Growth Economies, Innovation and key differentiator and value driver over the coming decades. The Sustainability. company is on track to achieve all the sustainability targets it has set for 2015. More information regarding progress toward these Each of DSM’s four strategic growth drivers is important in its targets and other achievements in 2011 can be found in the own right, but they also reinforce one another. By combining chapter on sustainability from page 32. multiple growth drivers, DSM will be able to generate a greater number of compelling, high-potential business opportunities. In engaging with stakeholders, DSM does more than just respond to stakeholders’ expectations. The company actively shapes these expectations by striving to be a trendsetter rather than a trend follower in selected fields, including sustainability. For more information see the chapter on stakeholder engagement from page 36. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 30 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Since September 2010 DSM has announced a range of acquisitions and partnerships in the Nutrition and Performance Materials clusters as well as in the Emerging Business Areas. The table below gives an overview of the acquisitions and partnerships and how they meet DSM’s strategic acquisition criteria. Value creation via acquisitions & partnerships Acquisitions & Leadership Market position Geographic ambition Innovation / technology Sustainability Partnerships Martek Vitatene Microbia Premix plants AGI Taiwan KuibyshevAzot Shandong ICD C5 Yeast Company Nutrition/Health Performance Materials Emerging Business Areas shared understanding of essential DSM values and principles to Nutrition, Performance Materials and Innovation Center. promote growth. Organization and culture DSM aims to truly internationalize its business. This will bring it DSM is transforming to become a genuinely global organization closer to its key markets and customers, strengthen the regional that is capable of achieving its strategic ambitions. By businesses and stimulate diversity and innovation. DSM strengthening and empowering its regional businesses, DSM combines a strong regional infrastructure with clear board level deepens local market insights and relationships. In parallel, the accountability for regional growth. One DSM drive progressively enhances knowledge-sharing and collaboration across businesses, functions and regions, The following changes contribute to the further enabling DSM to realize the full benefits of scale and diversity. internationalization of DSM: The business groups are the primary organizational and Relocation of business group headquarters: DSM Fibre entrepreneurial building blocks with a focus on customers and Intermediates to Shanghai, DSM Engineering Plastics to markets. The regional organizations strengthen the business Singapore. groups by providing infrastructure and capabilities. They also Establishment of the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint cater for local innovation in designated countries and present the venture, headquartered in Asia (currently Hong Kong). One DSM face to the external stakeholders. As a shared Relocation of the DSM Biomedical business headquarters to responsibility, the regional organizations also support sales the US. growth. Relocation of the biofuel business, a part of DSM Bio-based Products & Services, to the US. All this is supported and optimized by shared services (providing Initiation of new Innovation Centers in China, India and Latin efficient high quality services in designated areas) and functional America, and expansion of the existing Innovation Centers in excellence groups (offering functional expertise and the US and Japan. implementation capabilities). Corporate staff departments Strengthening of regional capabilities, infrastructure and support the Managing Board in running the company. management to provide regional views to the business and to support growth and innovation in the regions. DSM has The further transformation of DSM’s organization is supported established regional president roles in China, India, Latin by DSM’s culture change program, which has established a America, Russia, Japan and the US. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 31 Allocation of regional growth and synergy accountability to actively pursuing this approach. The other business groups are designated members of the Managing Board, with two scheduled to follow. members also having offices in Asia and the US, respectively. Sustainability The drive for a global high performance organization is, among DSM’s mission is about creating brighter lives for people today other things, supported by functional excellence programs, one and generations to come. This mission is supported by DSM’s of which focuses on achieving excellence in marketing and sales core value, which is that its activities should contribute to a more (see the People in 2011 chapter from page 42 for further sustainable world. As part of its strategy, DSM in motion: driving activities supporting this drive). DSM is taking its focus on focused growth, DSM has formulated the ambition to go to the customer centricity to the next level to enhance its next level in sustainability: from an internal value and a tool for competitiveness and profitability, which means going beyond the making a responsible contribution to society, to a strategic traditional sales driven relationship to develop an in-depth business driver. understanding of the needs of customers and the evolving markets in which they operate. By “sustainable” DSM means “meeting the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future It is mandatory for all DSM businesses to perform customer generations to meet their own needs.” This is the widely satisfaction surveys at least once every two years. A best accepted definition that the Brundtland Commission published practice has been established for this. The results are split into in 1987. Like that Commission, DSM believes that achieving two categories: strategic and business-specific. Strategic results sustainability means simultaneously pursuing social are consolidated at corporate level and business-specific results responsibility, environmental quality and economic performance, are fed back to the units concerned. All results are used in planin other words creating value on the three dimensions of People, do-check-act improvement cycles. Risk Management Planet and Profit. Coordinators make sure the results and the improvement plans are reviewed annually, and Corporate Operational Audit reviews Sustainability has the attention of the entire Managing Board, the efficiency and effectiveness of the processes and procedures with Feike Sijbesma, Chairman of the Managing Board, as the involved. Customer satisfaction targets are set decentrally (in primary focal point. Sustainability at DSM is organized in a view of the wide variety of DSM businesses) and are always network supported by the Corporate Sustainability department aligned with DSM’s corporate strategy. under the responsibility of the Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Managing Customer feedback is an integral element of important business Board. processes at DSM. It is for example used as key input for setting the innovation agenda at both the strategic and the operational In addition to the Corporate Sustainability department, DSM has level. Also, key performance indicators defined for Demand and a dedicated Corporate Operations & Responsible Care Supply Chain Management are centered around “on-time department. It is among other things responsible for all corporate delivery in full” as reported by customers. Every customer SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) issues. Sustainability complaint is officially filed and followed up by the relevant champions in all business and functional groups and the DSM experts. Risk Management Coordinators ensure that Innovation Center and SHE managers at business group level complaints, complaint trends and corrective actions are annually support line management. The DSM SHE Council, which is reviewed and evaluated. And finally, DSM has a company-wide composed of all business group SHE managers, plays an customer relationship management platform in which customer important role in sharing experiences and developing practices feedback management workflows have been integrated. and communications regarding SHE issues. The Vice President Corporate Operations & Responsible Care reports directly to DSM aims to be in the top quartile of customer-centric DSM Managing Board member Nico Gerardu. companies by 2013. The DSM Excellence in Marketing and Sales department is supporting this drive with four programs Furthermore, members of the Managing Board chair different (Value Creation, Capture Value, Customer Management and sustainability-related projects and areas, such as DSM’s People & Performance) and an extensive training curriculum. To partnership with the World Food Programme (Stephan Tanda), further promote customer centricity DSM has decided to Diversity and Inclusion (Feike Sijbesma), Base of the Pyramid introduce the Net Promoter Score1 as the relevant vehicle. Tools (Feike Sijbesma) and SHE (Nico Gerardu). have been established and three business groups are now 1 A customer loyalty metric that provides a comparable measure of business performance Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 32 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition In this way DSM has integrated and strengthened the functional DSM’s Profit objective is to translate innovative sustainable network approach to sustainability (which focuses on solutions into strong value-creating businesses meeting unmet performance) with a business approach focusing on needs. As a result of its increased focus on understanding sustainability as a business driver. (societal) needs, DSM will grow the profitability of its ECO+ businesses and People+ solutions in several ways. This includes Sustainability is also recognized as an important element for meeting demand for cleaner, greener technologies; developing DSM's Supervisory Board agenda. The Corporate Social products specific to high growth economies; and making Responsibility Committee is a subcommittee of the Supervisory sustainability a criterion for acquisitions and partnerships. Board, demonstrating the strategic importance of sustainability Sustainability-driven value creation examples are described in for DSM. See the Report by the Supervisory Board from page the chapters on the clusters and on innovation. Base of the 116 for more information. DSM has also installed an external Pyramid and Cradle to Cradle® are examples of sustainable Sustainability Advisory Board. business models. A Sustainability Advisory Board, comprising a diverse Growing proﬁtable business on a strong foundation international group of external thought leaders on key sustainability topics, will meet for the first time in 2012 to provide Credible Sustainability advice to and act as a sounding board for the DSM Managing Qualifiers Drivers Board. The Sustainability Advisory Board will support DSM in Internal DSM External DSM Triple P Foundation Sustainability Position deepening its understanding of strategic issues and stakeholder needs, sharpening its focus, conducting advocacy efforts and • Health and safety dealing with dilemmas. DSM Sustainability • Diversity People • Employee engagement People+ • Vitality@DSM In 2011, DSM started externally reporting a number of sustainability metrics on a semi-annual basis. Since 2010 the Positioning • Greenhouse-gas emissions company has published an Integrated Annual Report. The Planet • Energy efficiency ECO+ • Water transparency of DSM’s reporting on sustainability is once again at a high level, as is evidenced by the achievement of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A+ status for this Integrated Annual Report. In place Scope DSM’s activities in the field of sustainability cover three dimensions: People: improving people’s lives through DSM’s activities, products and innovations (People+) Planet: improving the environmental footprint of DSM’s activities, products and innovations (ECO+)2 Profit: creating profitable businesses and value for DSM’s shareholders while meeting DSM’s objectives to provide solutions to global societal needs DSM will tap the creativity of its increasingly global and diverse organization to increase ECO+ innovation and meet its ambitious 2015 ECO+ sales targets. DSM will build on its strong platform of ECO+ innovation, such as coatings for solar cells, waterborne paints, bio-based products, food and feed enzymes, etc. In addition, the company works with suppliers to improve the overall footprint of the value chains in which it operates. 2 See the section 'explanation of some concepts and ratios' for a definition of ECO+ Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 33 Progress on the implementation of the principles of the UN Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Realization 2011 Global Compact Since 2007 DSM has been a signatory to the UN Global Dow Jones Sustainability Index Compact. DSM remains committed to aligning its operations Top ranking (SAM Gold Class)1 Number 1 and strategy with the UN Global Compact principles in the area chemical sector of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. For ECO+ (innovation) example, the company will refrain from any form of corruption, 80%+ of pipeline is ECO+2 94% including extortion and active or passive bribery, even if it loses ECO+ (running business) business as a consequence. DSM fully supports the Global From approximately 34% toward 50% 41% Compact’s principles and is continuing to integrate them into its Energy efficiency business activities. The table on page 35 shows the pages in 20% improvement in 2020, compared 13% improvement this document where DSM reports on values and activities that to 2008 are relevant to these principles. Greenhouse-gas emissions -25% (absolute) by 2020, compared 8% increase DSM furthermore takes sustainability explicitly into account in the to 2008 selection and evaluation of suppliers by applying a Supplier Code Employee Engagement Survey of Conduct, which is based on the company's Code of Business Toward High Performance Norm3 71% favorable Conduct. At the end of 2011, more than 90% of DSM’s suppliers Diversity and People+ had signed the DSM Supplier Code of Conduct. For details see To be updated in 2011 Updated, see pages the chapter on stakeholder engagement from page 36. 27 and 44 DSM maintains an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, such as 1 This means a total score of at least 75% and within 5% of the SAM sector leader (trade) associations and networks, the United Nations and 2 See page 224 for a definition of ECO+ 3 The High Performance Norm (79% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% governmental and non-governmental organizations, and employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations includes their feedback in its strategy. The company also engages in several global and local community programs, the public-private partnership with the United Nations World Food Position papers Programme (WFP) being a notable example. See the chapter on As part of its transparent reporting, DSM has posted position stakeholder engagement from page 36 for more information. papers on CO2 emissions trading, industrial biotechnology and nanotechnologies as well as key messages on the European Emissions Trading System on its website. In addition, DSM has published a large number of documents on its website that provide background information on relevant topics such as biobased performance materials, the bio-based economy and the Cradle to Cradle® concept. DSM produces some products with the help of genetically modified micro-organisms (GMMs) in contained use. DSM is transparent toward its customers about how its products are produced, and, where possible, offers customers a choice regarding the production system used. When a product is produced by a GMM, DSM clearly states this in the accompanying product information. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 34 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in this report Principle 1 Support of human rights 42-50 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation 42-50 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association 42-50 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor 42-50 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor 42-50 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination 42-50 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection 10, 32-58, 63-69 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection 10, 32-58, 63-69 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10, 32-58, 63-69 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption 34, 42-50 1 In 2011 DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see page 56 Securing sustainability in manufacturing In addition, networks are in place for the following issues: In DSM’s manufacturing organization, sustainability is secured through Functional Excellence programs and expert networks Industrial hygiene for maintaining and improving specific competences. The Lean/Six-Sigma essence of the Functional Excellence programs is that they help Process control make DSM’s pooled manufacturing expertise available wherever Process safety and whenever it is needed throughout the global organization. Water and waste Competence networks have been set up to develop shared Materials and corrosion solutions to DSM-wide issues. The programs and networks help Maintenance and reliability DSM to achieve its objectives in the People, Planet and Profit Energy fields. They are driven and supported by stakeholder Project engineering engagement activities. Large capital projects Life cycle assessments (LCAs) An example of a Functional Excellence program is Advanced Manufacturing (AM), a multi-business-group program, executed These are all strategically important competences that help DSM by the Corporate Operations & Responsible Care department to secure a competitive advantage or mitigate key risks. together with the business groups. At the end of 2011 the Advanced Manufacturing program had yielded significant External recognition operational savings. Its goals – mainly relating to Planet and DSM received many awards and other forms of external Profit – include the following: recognition in 2011. An overview can be found in the External recognition section on page 69 and on www.dsm.com. Optimize DSM's footprint by improving plant operations and process stability and substantially reducing energy and raw Legally required safety studies materials consumption and waste As an innovative company, DSM is continuously developing new Create a sustainability-driven, global value-generation-based products. DSM is required by law to assess the properties and culture through the transfer of an AM toolbox, AM skills and safety profiles of these products. These assessments can AM behaviors to the local sites necessitate the use of live animals. The company only uses animals in studies for safety assessment if this is required by regulation and only if no accepted and validated non-animal alternative methods are available. DSM is committed to constantly seeking and pursuing opportunities to further improve its performance and to ‘reduce, replace and refine’ methods in which the use of animals is the only alternative. The examples below illustrate this ‘3R’ approach. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 35 DSM will continue to make reasoned requests to the authorities Stakeholder engagement to waive safety tests with animals in cases where the company believes that requirements are excessive and in cases where the DSM invests in a strategic, pro-active and ongoing dialogue with information can be provided by other means. DSM is committed key stakeholders in order to: to the use of state-of-the-art analysis techniques that allow for repeated measurements on fewer animals and the use of nonshare thoughts and views; invasive measurements, such as scanning ‘from the outside’ deepen the company’s insights into political, societal and similar to MRI scans on humans whenever possible. The customer trends, drivers and needs; company increasingly makes use of in silico (computer modeling) achieve advocacy goals in a focused manner by engaging in and in vitro techniques (e.g. cell arrays) to identify candidate political and societal debates on topics that are relevant for substances. DSM, preferably jointly with key stakeholders; resolve issues, receive endorsement and build trust (through DSM conducts in-house projects to develop and promote public-private partnerships and new business models); and alternative testing methods. The company develops ‘early be able to create more shared value, for these stakeholders safety’ and ‘early efficacy’ assessments aimed at predicting and by implication for DSM. these effects by computer calculations, based on comparison of new compounds to known effects of existing compounds. In engaging with these stakeholders, DSM does more than just respond to their expectations. As a thought leader, the company DSM also cooperates actively in external networks and with actively shapes these expectations by striving to be a trendsetter academic partners. Examples are the International Council of rather than a trend follower in selected fields, including Chemical Associations’ Long-Range Research Initiative and the sustainability. joint government-industry initiative European Partnership for Alternatives to Animal Testing (EPAA). In recent years DSM has DSM’s strategy (DSM in motion: driving focused growth) was been able to significantly reduce the number of lab animals used, influenced by the company’s continuous dialogue with all in some tests by up to 90%. stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, local communities, end-consumers, industry peers, banks, DSM is concerned about the increasing need for assessments governments, investors, non-governmental organizations because of the implementation of REACH3 (Registration, (NGOs), special interest groups and, of course, its own Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical employees. The strategy is about meeting the unmet needs substances), the European chemicals legislation. DSM has resulting from societal trends with innovative and sustainable already observed an increase in animal tests performed for this solutions. In cooperation with its stakeholders DSM has purpose even though the company has, where possible, used identified the following trends: alternative ways to fulfill the data requirements and has worked together with other companies in consortia. Global shifts (demographic shifts, urbanization, high growth economies, usage of resources, impact of new technology) Further reduction will require adjustment of legal requirements Climate change and energy and the development, validation, dissemination and Health and wellness implementation of new testing methods. DSM does not want the safety and efficacy of its products to be compromised. This In order to meet its strategic stakeholder engagement means that studies involving animals will continue to be objectives, DSM addresses the stakeholder needs and issues necessary in the foreseeable future. However, DSM believes that listed below. its approach is sensible and responsible and the company is committed to further reducing, refining and replacing these Hidden Hunger studies where possible. In various partnerships (with the UN World Food Programme (WFP), the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) movement, Wageningen University (Netherlands), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)), DSM is advocating greater awareness about the importance of improved nutrition. 3 See the Planet chapter for more information about REACH Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 36 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Nutrition improvement is one of DSM's main businesses in both Water management the developing and the developed world. In a relatively short DSM aims to achieve sustainable water management by taking period of time, DSM has emerged as one of the industry leaders into account the needs of present and future users and applying in this area and the company is often consulted by United practices aimed at safeguarding this vital resource. For this, DSM Nations agencies, governments and non-governmental continues to execute water risk assessments to mitigate organizations. The partnership with WFP (since 2007) has made operational, regulatory, reputational and financial risks. DSM’s it possible for DSM to reach up to 10 million people with its continuing commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water tailored nutrition solutions. Mandate will secure its focus on the topic. DSM takes part in the WBCSD water task force. See page 55 for more information Food safety and quality on water. As a leading nutritional ingredients supplier, DSM feels that it is its duty to address society’s growing concern about health Sustainable biomass issues related to food safety and quality. It does so by developing DSM’s growing involvement in industrial biotechnology is programs, together with partners such as the Chinese attended by the need to secure a sustainable raw-material base government. The Quality for Life™ seal reflects DSM’s that does not compete with the food supply chain. DSM is commitment to create safer, fully traceable, more reliable and seeking further engagements in this area. The company closely sustainable business processes. It extends beyond products cooperates with parties such as IUCN (the International Union and services to incorporate DSM’s commitment to the for the Conservation of Nature), the Biomass Sustainability environment and society. The Quality for Life™ seal symbolizes Studies Commission (Corbey Commission) in the Netherlands DSM’s pledge to uphold ethical values in relationships with and EuropaBio to take into account both biodiversity and customers, employees and partners. possible societal effects. DSM joined the Inspirational Programme on Ecosystems together with many other Dutch Industrial biotechnology companies to engage in long-term projects in order to reach an DSM promotes the development of industrial biotechnology in effective approach to reducing the ecological footprint and various ways. For example, DSM Bio-based Products & Services eventually have a positive impact on biodiversity. continues to invest in industrial biotechnology, which supports a bio-based economy as an alternative to the fossil based Careers and employment economy. DSM Managing Board member Stephan Tanda DSM carries out regular Employee Engagement Surveys (see serves as chair to EuropaBio, the European Association for biopage 42) to gauge the needs and concerns of its employees industries. In addition, DSM initiated the Dutch multi-stakeholder worldwide as well as their opinions about all aspects of the initiative resulting in a Manifesto on the Bio-based Economy. company’s operations. DSM aims to provide employees with the DSM is represented on the board of SusChem, the European opportunity to engage with the societies impacted by its technology platform for sustainable chemistry, and leads the products (an example being the DSM-WFP employee volunteer industrial biotechnology work group of this organization. DSM is program). also a member of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) in the US. And finally, the company engages with various Sustainable value chains European commissioners and the European Parliament on the DSM is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, subject of industrial biotechnology. customers, NGOs and industry peers to reach a consensus on how to jointly increase the sustainability of the various value Climate change chains in which the company operates. This includes both DSM believes industry can and must play a positive role in environmental and societal sustainability. securing economic growth while simultaneously reducing the total carbon footprint of both its own operations and its value Role of business in society chains. The company engages with multiple supply chain DSM engages with various organizations on the role of initiatives and sector organizations such as the World Business transparent and responsible business in society, in order to Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and The create shared value. The company actively promotes and Sustainability Consortium on measuring environmental impact in participates in transformative public-private partnerships. DSM the value chain and on ways to collectively steer toward products Chairman and CEO Feike Sijbesma chairs the World Economic with minimum environmental impact. Forum Global Agenda Council on the Role of Business, and DSM has been co-developing the ‘shared value’ concept as an active participant in UN Global Compact LEAD, which is a platform for corporate sustainability leadership. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 37 Stakeholder engagement in 2011 euros available to WFP and other community initiatives and partnerships. In 2011 DSM continued to update its Stakeholder Engagement Roadmap. This identifies the strengths and weaknesses in Public awareness of the importance of nutrition is increasing. At DSM’s current network of stakeholder relationships and the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) in August provides the company with a structured agenda for intensifying 2011, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton addressed the its dialogue with key groups. A number of key stakeholders were humanitarian crisis in the Horn of Africa and mentioned DSM's identified, the desired levels of engagement were decided upon, nutrition initiatives as exemplary. The rising interest of EU and implementation plans (including evaluation criteria) were set decision makers such as EU President Herman van Rompuy and up. Kristalina Georgieva, Commissioner for International Cooperation, Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Response, was Sustainability Advisory Board confirmed at the high-level conference ‘Combating Malnutrition As DSM is looking for strong, diverse and challenging input and through Sustainable Interventions EU-ASEAN Relations as Key advice for its strategy, its objectives and their implementation, it Driver’ that DSM organized in Brussels in November 2011. The set up a Sustainability Advisory Board in 2011. This board, conference highlighted DSM’s contribution toward establishing comprising a diverse international group of external thought this issue on the political agenda in Brussels. leaders on key sustainability topics, will support DSM in deepening its understanding of strategic issues and stakeholder DSM is one of the few private sector actors who have been needs, sharpening its focus, conducting advocacy efforts and involved from the start in the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) initiative, dealing with dilemmas. led by UN Special Representative David Nabarro and officially launched at the UN Millennium Development Goals Summit in Shareholders 2010 by US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The initiative has By being present at investor events for institutional investors laid out a roadmap for achieving nutrition security, with a focus (including Socially Responsible Investors) and retail investors and on delivering proper nutrition within 'the first 1000 days' (from by organizing conference calls, capital markets days and conception to a child’s second birthday). It has also formulated roadshows in 2011, DSM maintained contacts with current and the rationale in doing so, and calculated its expected annual potential DSM shareholders and with analysts who advise cost. See also the Review of business Nutrition from page shareholders. In these contacts, DSM provided information 74. about developments at the company and ensured that all relevant information was equally and simultaneously provided At the 2011 World Economic Forum, DSM and USAID launched and accessible to all interested parties. a partnership initiative to combat hidden hunger. USAID and DSM will develop a priority list of countries and projects to Strategic partnerships with stakeholders provide proper nutrition to people in the developing world with an initial focus on rice fortification. This will help achieve the As a result of DSM’s continuous stakeholder engagement, nutrition objectives of Feed the Future, the US Government’s several strategic partnerships have evolved around key topics. global food security initiative. At the 2012 World Economic Forum, DSM and WFP organized a high level session on how to Since 2007, DSM and WFP have maintained a strategic improve lives by making nutrition accessible and effective. partnership that has enabled DSM to reach up to 10 million Representatives from The Coca-Cola Company, General Mills, people to date with its tailored nutrition solutions. DSM also United Nations, USAID, GAIN, WFP, DSM and Columbia played an integral role in the development of WFP’s Nutrition University discussed cross-sector approaches to deliver Improvement Strategy. DSM believes that providing aid via such improved nutrition. a partnership is both the right thing to do and critical to the future growth of its business: Project Laser Beam (PLB) is a 5-year, USD 50 million publicprivate partnership that seeks to eradicate child malnutrition. It gives DSM insight into the needs in different countries where PLB was unveiled in September 2009 on behalf of PLB founding organizations like WFP operate, which helps DSM to innovate. partners WFP, Unilever, Kraft Foods, DSM and the Global It strengthens advocacy on the importance of nutrients. Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) by former US President Bill Clinton at the Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New York. DSM In 2010 DSM and WFP announced a three-year extension of is working with a variety of partners and projects to fortify a range their global partnership. In 2011, DSM made several million of foods and create a sustainable business model for fortified foods. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 38 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition The Amsterdam Initiative on Malnutrition is a public-private Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon concluded that the answer to partnership involving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the both obesity and malnutrition is better nutrition. He emphasized Netherlands, DSM, Unilever, AkzoNobel, ICCO and Wageningen that NCDs can have their roots in poor nutrition during infancy. University. The goal is to eliminate malnutrition for 100 million US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, confirmed that ensuring people in Africa by 2015, focusing on six countries: Ghana, that women and children receive essential nutrients is crucial to Kenya, South Africa, Ethiopia, Mozambique and Tanzania. setting them on a better path toward lifelong health. Together with General Mills, the global food company, Cargill, Future Fortified campaign kicks off with support for Africa the international producer and marketer of food, agricultural, In 2011 DSM, together with Herbalife, made a donation of 20 financial and industrial products and services, and Technoserve, million MixMe™ micronutrient powder sachets to fill the critical an NGO focused on helping entrepreneurs in developing nutrition gaps for those suffering from one of the worst famines countries, DSM has become one of the first corporate partners to hit the Horn of Africa. More than a one-off donation, this of the non-profit initiative Partners in Food Solutions founded by commitment also signals DSM’s involvement in a new nutrition General Mills. Linking the expertise of employees from General campaign, Future Fortified, which will 'inform, influence and Mills, Cargill and DSM – in research and development, nutrition, invest' in order to improve the lives of millions of women and engineering, marketing, finance and more − with small, growing children worldwide. food manufacturers throughout Africa, this non-profit and volunteer initiative is designed to share knowledge and Making value chains more sustainable strengthen the capacity of local food manufacturers in Africa to Improving the carbon footprint of DSM's raw materials help address the hunger problem. DSM’s collaboration with the In order to gain a better insight into the environmental impact of Partners in Food Solutions initiative emphasizes its longits products, DSM pays attention to the whole value chain. The standing commitment to developing sustainable partnershipcompany used to focus primarily on the impacts of its own based approaches that address the global problem of production activities, including the greenhouse-gas emissions malnutrition and hidden hunger. from power plants that supply electricity and/or steam to DSM. These are called 'scope 1' and 'scope 2' emissions, respectively. Through its continued support of the non-profit humanitarian A more complete picture of the environmental impact of DSM's initiative Sight and Life, DSM is further building the world’s activities emerges when the greenhouse-gas emissions related knowledge, understanding and awareness of hidden hunger. to the production of its raw materials are taken into account. Sight and Life’s vision is to ensure a sustainable and significant These are part of the so-called 'scope 3' emissions. improvement in human nutrition, health and well-being. In 2011 DSM analyzed the greenhouse-gas emissions due to all Nutrition is vital in disease prevention raw materials it uses, which in total represent a spend of approximately € 4.3 billion per year. Based on information from Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cancer, diabetes, expert databases, the production of DSM's raw materials cardiovascular and respiratory diseases are the leading causes generates emissions amounting to some twelve million tons of of death globally, killing more people each year than all other CO2 equivalents per annum, which is quite significant compared causes combined. More than 36 million people die annually from to the company's greenhouse-gas emissions of 4.6 million tons NCDs, including 9 million who die before the age of 60. Globally, of CO2 equivalents. NCDs are expected to increase significantly in the next 10 years. Improving nutrition is the most fundamental and effective way of While improving production processes and reducing material tackling NCDs. In fact six leading NCDs, which contribute to 70% losses are crucial to DSM's sustainability performance, the of deaths worldwide, are all modifiable by an appropriate diet company is also working with its major suppliers to improve the providing an adequate intake of micronutrients. Furthermore, overall footprint in the value chains in which it operates. according to the Copenhagen Consensus, micronutrient fortification and supplementation are the most cost-effective interventions to address global health and development problems. At the 2011 UN Summit on NCDs in New York, a call was made for global action to tackle the NCD epidemic. At the high-level meeting, where DSM Managing Board member Stephan Tanda was invited to speak on behalf of the private sector, UN Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 39 GHG emissions in DSM’s value chain (all ﬁgures in million tons of CO2 equivalents) 1.2 ~0.1 Electricity and heat Transport ~12 3.4 Raw materials DSM production Downstream processing and use Sustainable supply chains improvement program necessary) and D (the contractual DSM's supplier sustainability program covers both global relationship will most likely be terminated or frozen). In 2011, suppliers, who account for approximately 60% of its spend, and 80% of the audited suppliers were ranked A and a further 10% local suppliers. The program comprises two main elements: were ranked B. Some 7% got the score C. For these, follow-up supplier conduct and supplier solutions. DSM invites all of its programs have been or are being executed. One supplier suppliers to use their unique competences and capabilities to received a D score and has been replaced, and the contractual contribute to the ECO+ solutions in its product pipeline. relationship with another supplier has been frozen until the moment that the accusations of environmental laws breach are Supplier conduct cleared by the relevant court authorities. DSM takes sustainability explicitly into account in the selection and evaluation of suppliers by applying a Supplier Code of In 2011, DSM requested an external party to execute 22 supplier Conduct (SCoC), which is based on the company's Code of audits to further secure the high quality of its audit procedure. Business Conduct. The SCoC asks DSM's suppliers to show For these external audits, too, the supplier selection process was their commitment to sustainable business practices with regard risk based. Initial results revealed that most of DSM's suppliers to People (non-discrimination, health and safety, fair had received A (68%) or B (27%) rankings, while a small remuneration), Planet (eco-footprint, product stewardship, local percentage had received a C (5%) ranking. For all suppliers community welfare, waste) and Profit (anti-bribery and ranked C, follow-up programs have been started. No suppliers corruption, fair trade, confidentiality, transparency). At the end of received a D ranking from the external party. 2011, more than 90% of DSM's external spend was covered by the SCoC. The SCoC is an integral part of every contract as well The differences in supplier rankings between audits carried out as DSM’s general purchase conditions. Every year some by DSM and audits carried out by the external party mainly stem 50-100 suppliers are selected for closer evaluation. Evaluation from the fact that these audits covered different regions. In 2011 criteria and questions are directly derived from the SCoC. The DSM mainly audited European suppliers, while the external party selection process is risk based, where a combination of various mainly audited suppliers in the Asia-Pacific region. factors, such as the nature of the product (for example hazardous chemicals) or service, the country risk (which covers Supplier solutions the areas of labor conditions, corruption and greenhouse-gas Using 2010 as a reference, DSM is working with suppliers to emissions), specific business risks (single source, very particular reduce their carbon footprint by 20% by 2020. This has already material) as well as the size of spend determines whether a resulted in a number of incremental improvements via more supplier will receive a questionnaire or will be audited. efficient synthetic routes, and there are also a number of radical improvements in the pipeline, for example suppliers moving from Between 2007 and the end of 2011 DSM received 344 selfchemical routes to synthesis based on biorenewables, and assessments from suppliers, covering approximately 30% of energy providers coming up with breakthroughs in the area of external spend. A total of 81 of these were received in 2011. renewable energy. To identify potential improvement areas, DSM audited 125 suppliers in this period (of which 41 during several Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) were carried out during 2011), covering 12% of external spend. In 2008 a supplier 2011 jointly with suppliers. One of the most promising cases is classification was introduced. Based on the outcome of the audit a new type of pallet used for transportation, whose eco-footprint a supplier might receive the ranking A (no improvement needed), is approximately 60% lower than that of the most common pallet B (small improvement program necessary), C (extensive types (plastic and wooden ones). The new pallet is made of Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 40 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition 100% waste materials, allowing approximately 10,000 tons of DSM and its employees developed many initiatives in 2011 to virgin plastic (with 0% recycled content) to be saved every year, create awareness for the WFP and to collect money. In June which is equivalent to avoiding approximately 60,000 tons of 2011, 23 DSM sites and over 3,500 employees participated in CO2 emissions. Walk the World, a global advocacy and fund raising event to end child hunger. In June DSM employees raised USD 146,000 for As DSM is introducing more and more biorenewables into its WFP in Ethiopia in just under 10 days, enough to provide ECO+ product pipeline, it is key that these bio-derived or bio584,000 meals to children through WFP’s School Meals related materials are sourced in the most sustainable ways and program. This amount was matched by a donation on behalf of are compliant with DSM’s business strategy. To secure this, DSM’s Managing Board. In October DSM’s first ever global DSM has drafted biodiversity and biomass policies based on a employee fund raising campaign raised nearly € 100,000 for number of international guidelines. Furthermore, for every WFP. In 2011 six DSM employees went on WFP volunteer biorenewable and its related plant sources DSM aims to apply assignments in Zambia, Nepal, the Philippines and Indonesia. more specific guidelines, like the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil guidelines for palm oil. The company has started Sponsoring evaluating its bio-based raw material portfolio and how this might DSM continued its Innovation is our Sport™ program, change in the future, including potential risk factors relating to sponsoring various athletes and supporting them with the sourcing of each bio-based material. Possible key risk areas innovations in the fields of nutrition and materials. For DSM, identified so far are water use, land use, impact on biodiversity sports provide a platform to showcase innovations. Since 2001 and impact on mass balance (whether or not nutrients are left in DSM has been Innovation Partner of the Dutch Olympic the soil). Committee (NOC*NSF). To further increase the impact of such activities, a training DSM Art Collection program has been prepared and will be rolled out in 2012 to give the DSM Purchasing community and its supplier base the DSM has an extensive art collection that currently comprises relevant tools to perform some 20 LCAs, which may lead to a about 700 works. The DSM Art Collection includes works that substantial reduction of carbon footprints as well as represent creativeness, innovativeness and concern for the improvements in other areas, such as reduction of water usage global and local environment. and the replacement of hazardous raw materials. Donations DSM’s Code of Business Conduct creates an agenda for making a positive contribution not only to the world of business but also to society as a whole. In line with this Code, DSM does not make any payments or donations in kind to political parties or their institutions, agencies or representatives. DSM focuses its donations and sponsorships on activities that are connected to: DSM's know-how and competence base; DSM's business position; or DSM's present and future geographical presence (in this case the donations and sponsorships are part of 'being an active neighbor'). In 2011, DSM donated and/or made available more than € 5 million to a range of initiatives. DSM continued its long-term commitments such as those to WFP and the Dutch Olympic Committee (NOC*NSF). DSM also continued its humanitarian initiative Sight and Life and made charitable donations to a number of local causes. Many of DSM’s contributions draw on the expertise of its micronutrient scientists or materials specialists. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 41 People in 2011 Inspirational leadership DSM recognizes the importance of stronger inspirational DSM’s strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth requires leadership to lead the company’s further cultural transformation. a new focus of its human resources strategy. The main elements This leadership is a combination of setting direction by of the human resources strategy are talent management, formulating a vision and targets; pursuing this vision and these leadership development and performance management, targets with passion, a sense of urgency and decisiveness; and supported by the further implementation of DSM’s Change connecting with people by giving and inspiring trust, being Agenda. These elements are given shape by, among other authentic and showing humility. things, the DSM career management process (including succession planning and performance reviews), the To involve all employees in the desired culture change, all development of DSM’s Leadership Model and the development business groups and service units have started programs to of DSM's people via training and mentoring. (1) clarify to their entire workforce why the change process is necessary, given their specific challenges, and (2) develop the DSM aims to truly internationalize its business. This will bring the desired behaviors. The activities aimed at developing the desired organization closer to its key markets and customers, strengthen behaviors include experiential workshops to develop the basis the regional businesses and stimulate diversity and innovation. of trust and the skills needed for having more open and deeper DSM combines a strong regional infrastructure with clear board dialogues, a renewed target setting process to structurally level accountability for regional growth. Its human resources connect the desired behaviors with achieving strategic goals, strategy supports the internationalization goal. and on-site events for employees’ families and the broader community to strengthen social connections. Change Agenda Through its Change Agenda, DSM is developing the culture To facilitate learning across the organization, specific activities needed to achieve its strategic ambitions. Building this culture were started in 2011. These included the launch of internal across DSM will lead to a more agile organization that is fit to platforms for sharing experiences and ideas around the themes cope with fast moving developments in the business of the Change Agenda. For all platforms an awareness campaign environment. The three main themes of the Change Agenda are: was launched to inform and engage the employees. Within the external orientation, accountability for performance and various platforms, activities were organized to attract groups of inspirational leadership. These three themes are supported by employees who, as front-runners, will be creating and organizing DSM’s underlying beliefs in sustainability and diversity. new activities ‘by employees for employees’. The tools used to support the development of the platforms include instruments to External orientation improve inspirational leadership and behavior, interactive DSM has anchored its strategy in key long-term trends (global webinars to share internal and external sustainability best shifts, climate & energy and health & wellness) that drive practices, and a dedicated Change Agenda intranet portal. In fundamental societal needs. At the same time, the ‘clock speed’ 2011, four webinars were held which each attracted over 400 of business is ever increasing. DSM is convinced that, in order attendees. As part of the activities to support the development to be able to rapidly adapt to changing industry and customer of the sustainability platform, regional sustainability events were requirements, the vast majority of its people need to be fully in organized, for instance in China. The platforms have grown into tune with the external world, not only anticipating customer self-sustaining worldwide communities facilitating collaboration, needs to drive innovation priorities, but also tracking best shared learning and the exchange of best practices across the practices for key business functions, broadening networks, businesses and regions. These global communities will enable engaging with stakeholder groups, shaping the debate and faster organizational and individual learning, and will thus speed collaborating with external stakeholders. up the culture change within DSM. Accountability for performance The human resources function supports DSM’s managers in DSM believes that its work is critical to its customers and that it further advancing their mindset and behavior concerning the is therefore important that its employees take ownership and three themes and the two beliefs and moving ‘from intent to deliver upon the ambitious targets established to meet living’. For example, the Change Agenda has been integrated customers’ needs. Accountability for performance is about into DSM’s global management and leadership learning portfolio people taking responsibility for their actions and for the in order to build the desired skill set, share best practices and performance of their teams, about recognizing and celebrating facilitate collaboration. New, dedicated programs have been successes, bringing issues to the surface and viewing mistakes added to the portfolio, such as the Diversity and Inclusiveness as individual and collective learning opportunities. workshop to develop better skills in fostering an inclusive culture Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 42 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition that embraces differences. An inclusive culture will contribute to Compensation (57% favorable), DSM’s Change Agenda (57% DSM’s business results in innovation. favorable) and Inspirational Leadership (57% favorable). The Change Agenda score was still low but showed the largest The DSM Employee Engagement Survey (see below) serves as improvement compared to 2010. DSM’s ‘navigation device’ for change. The 2011 outcome supports the positive advancement of the DSM Change Agenda. The survey results for the individual DSM units have been The results show that currently 62% of all DSM employees are translated into measurable action plans. DSM will continue to fully aware of the Change Agenda, of whom 84% feel they have use the Employee Engagement Survey to guide its Change gained personal insights into what they can do differently in terms Agenda activities. of the three Change Agenda themes. Talent management DSM Employee Engagement Survey DSM aims to create opportunities for its talent to maximize their DSM’s HR strategy is about helping employees to successfully development. In 2011 several initiatives were started and/or deal with the challenges of a changing company in a fast-moving finalized: global marketplace. The concept of employee engagement is very important in this respect. An engaged workforce is critical Full implementation of Career Management Online, supporting to DSM in realizing its ambitions. Engagement is about creating the career management process and performance an inclusive and high-energy working environment, where development reviews, including succession planning. employees are aligned and energized to contribute to the The development of the Career Compass website, which went company’s success. An engaged workforce delivers a live in January 2012, providing transparency about career competitive advantage because engaged employees are highly opportunities at DSM. motivated. It is the backbone of a truly sustainable organization The development of the DSM Leadership Model, which will capable of delivering its strategy. specify the characteristics needed by future DSM leaders in a simple, understandable and compelling way. This Leadership In 2011 DSM executed its fourth worldwide Employee Model will be finalized early in 2012. Engagement Survey. Over 19,800 employees (including 1000 Further extension of Talent Summits toward the US, China and contractors) in more than 50 countries completed the Asia Pacific, with a strong focus on learning and networking. questionnaire that was distributed online and on paper in 17 languages to all DSM employees. This represents a very high Organizational learning response rate of 91%, which exceeds the 90% response rate of DSM strongly believes in the need to invest in the knowledge, 2010. skills and experience of its employees to ensure their employability. The company provides its employees with various The main element in the survey is the measurement of DSM’s kinds of learning opportunities, including classroom and virtual Employee Engagement Index, the percentage of employees programs, on-the-job training, coaching and mentoring. scoring favorable on a combination of four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The Employee The DSM Learning Architecture consists of four program Engagement Index measured in 2011 was 71%, the same as in clusters: Executive Programs, Management Programs, 2010 and above the global overall norm (68%). The neutral Functional Programs and e-Learning Programs. This responses amounted to 19%, the same as in 2010. The DSM architecture creates a common and coherent concept of score takes DSM within an 8 percentage point range of the learning and program design, facilitates the development of a external benchmark of high performing companies (scoring 79% DSM learning culture and provides enhanced learning for talent. favorable), which is the league DSM wants to be part of. The programs are designed and delivered in close cooperation The scores improved slightly on most dimensions. The main with leading international business schools and global training improvements compared to 2010 related to the DSM Change providers (IMD, Wharton, Erasmus University) and are supported Agenda and employees’ awareness of the DSM whistleblower by a diverse internal faculty, primarily consisting of DSM’s Top procedure. The dimensions that received the highest scores Management. were Safety (82% favorable), Teamwork (79% favorable), Sustainability (77% favorable) and My Manager (77% favorable). Other learning methods such as round table discussions, This reflects DSM’s strong focus on these areas of importance business simulations, virtual classrooms, web-casting and team and demonstrates that employees believe in a sustainable future assignments are integrated into the programs. This enables for DSM. The lowest scoring dimensions related to Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 43 interactive knowledge sharing and stimulates peer-to-peer and classroom training). The number of training hours per networking in the organization. employee increased from 25 in 2010 to 32 in 2011. In 2011 progress was made in designing and implementing Training per FTE (in hours) curriculae in the areas of marketing, sales and innovation. DSM made a start on the worldwide deployment of the One DSM 40 Diversity and Inclusiveness Program to support the company’s 32 internationalization efforts and to strengthen its inclusive working 30 culture. Significant efforts were made to further increase safety, 25 21 21 health and environment (SHE) awareness via a global roll-out of 20 the SHE Leadership Experience (SHELEX) course. It is an experiential, personalized, behavior-based course in which 10 people experience how their behavior affects others (in a positive or negative way) and learn how they can use their strengths more 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 effectively. The set-up and content of the SHELEX course supports DSM’s cultural change program. The number of SHELEX enrollments for 2011 was close to 500, and the course is now given in Europe, Asia and the US. Several DSM sites have Workforce composition offered an adapted version of the course (based on the same Diversity and inclusion experiential learning format) to shop floor personnel. DSM also DSM believes that fostering an inclusive culture that embraces continued to align the core curriculum with the scope of its differences will help to drive business results and innovation. A Change Agenda. workforce that is diverse and that shares the desired DSM behaviors and mindsets will support a high performing culture. In 2011, six new programs were designed and introduced, Inclusion and diversity will moreover promote an outside-in bringing the total number of available global learning programs approach, lead to a better connection with end customers and to 77. increase DSM’s focus on innovation, thereby strengthening the company’s global presence. And finally, a more balanced DSM leadership group (in terms of gender, nationality and Program portfolio Available Available background) will improve the decision-making process as well programs programs as the implementation of DSM’s strategy. 2011 2010 The diversity targets that the Managing Board had set for 2010, Executive programs 8 8 and continued in 2011, focused on executives and top potentials Management programs 27 25 (gender and nationality). The number of women in executive Functional programs 34 30 positions (36 in 2010) increased from 9% in 2010 to 10% (41 e-Learning programs 8 8 positions) in 2011. In addition to using an internal pool of women candidates to promote into executive positions in the coming Total 77 71 years, DSM is making an effort to recruit female executives from the external market. The growth of the non-European executive population, relative to the growth of DSM in high growth In 2011, 3,059 DSM employees worldwide (from 43 different economies, will also continue to demand full attention from the countries; 2,153 male and 906 female) participated in the businesses and regional organizations. learning programs of the DSM Business Academy (DBA). This is an increase of 63% compared to 2010. More than 200 programs DSM has defined diversity ambitions (in terms of gender and were delivered in 9 countries – an increase of almost 100% nationality) for its business groups for the period 2011-2015 to compared to the previous year. These increases were mainly due ensure that its organizational readiness is in line with its stretched to a significant rise in the number of programs and participants growth ambitions for 2015. DSM continues to address the in China, as well as the completion of more than 40 project geographical distribution of management and other key management programs in Europe. In addition to the DBA functions, with a keen eye on gender and nationality balance. offerings, DSM employees at all levels in the organization are offered a wide variety of training opportunities (both on-the-job Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 44 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition The role of the DSM Diversity Council, chaired by DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma, is to facilitate diversity at DSM and to ultimately support all DSM businesses in creating a sustainable inclusive environment, where diversity is fully embraced. This Council is strongly aligned with DSM’s internationalization efforts to make further progress with the company-wide Change Agenda. Workforce diversity (% women) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 40 30 27 25 26 24 20 20 21 21 20 9 10 10 7 8 0 Executives Management Other Workforce diversity (% non-Dutch) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 100 75 75 71 71 71 59 58 53 49 50 42 40 39 32 25 0 Executives Management Other Executive hires Professional hires (diversity in %) (diversity in %) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 100 100 84 81 77 79 75 71 70 75 65 67 50 50 38 38 39 31 25 25 18 20 25 14 0 0 Non-Dutch Women Non-Dutch Women New employees At the beginning of 2008, DSM decided that the intake of non-Dutch executives should be increased; at least 60% of the annual inflow of new executives should be non-Dutch. This was once again achieved during 2011, the score being 70%. DSM’s aim was also for an average of 25% of executives joining from outside the company in the period from 2008 to 2011 to be women. In 2011 this figure was 20%. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 45 In 2011, DSM recruited a total of 656 professionals (graduates and experienced hires), of whom 81% were non-Dutch and 39% were women. The company wants to keep its focus on the diversity of these hires (nationality/gender) and build a strong diverse talent pipeline to achieve sufficient 'diverse critical mass' in the organization. DSM wants to improve its labor market positioning as an employer of choice, to ensure that the company is an attractive career option for talented individuals across all groups of potential employees. Total workforce hires The total inflow of new employees into DSM in 2011 was 2,404. This does not include the inflow of employees due to acquisitions (1,402). New hires by region (in %) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 40 37 30 29 27 27 25 23 21 20 21 20 21 20 18 16 15 14 13 11 10 10 7 7 8 3 3 4 0 Netherlands Rest of Europe North America China Rest of Asia-Pacific Rest of the world Employees by age category (in %) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 40 34 35 32 31 30 27 28 28 28 23 23 24 22 20 10 10 11 11 10 6 5 6 6 0 < 26 yrs 26-35 yrs 36-45 yrs 46-55 yrs 55 > yrs Net sales per employee Outflow of employees (x € 1000) (in % of total workforce) 413 ■ Resignations and other ■ Dismissed ■ Reorganization ■ Retirements ■ Divestments 407 394 400 346 18 300 12 200 6 100 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 www.dsm.com 46 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Outflow of employees DSM Code of Business Conduct The total outflow of employees at DSM in 2011 was 3,493. A The DSM Code of Business Conduct, as introduced in 2010, total of 303 employees retired, 849 resigned of their own will and, contains the company's business principles across the three sadly, 6 employees died. In 2011, 438 employees were dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. All DSM employees are requested to leave the company (for non-performance or nonexpected to act in accordance with the Code, and the Managing compliance reasons). A further 134 were made redundant due Board holds DSM management accountable for this to reorganizations that took place across DSM in 2011. A part compliance. In 2011 the Code was further rolled out into the of the outflow (1,763 employees in total) was related to the organization. Presentations by management cascaded the divestment in 2011 of DSM Elastomers, the deconsolidation of information throughout the organization, booklets were Sitech and the partnership between DSM Anti-Infectives and distributed worldwide and a mandatory e-learning course was Sinochem Group. made available in 17 languages. The full text of the DSM Code of Business Conduct is available on www.dsm.com. The Code International labor standards serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations, such Respect for people is part of the business principles outlined in as global trade controls and global competition principles and the DSM Code of Business Conduct that DSM launched in 2010. practices, for which targeted employees completed e-learning DSM supports and respects human values as outlined in the courses as well. In addition, compliance with competition law United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. DSM’s and trade controls is being addressed via regular classroom employees represent about 50 different nationalities and the training sessions and e-learning. This is structurally embedded company supports the equal treatment of all employees in DSM's systems and processes. For example, DSM master irrespective of race, nationality, ethnic background, age, religion, data is screened overnight to check customers and suppliers gender, sexual orientation or disability. Respect for human rights against embargoes and sanctioned parties. is also integral to DSM’s sourcing policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. DSM utterly rejects and condemns any form of forced DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management with labor or child labor, whether at its own premises or within its respect to deliberate violation of its Code of Business Conduct supply chain. This is clearly stated in the DSM Code of Business policy. A whistleblower procedure (DSM Alert) and a Conduct. DSM conducts due diligence before making any consequence management policy are in place to support investment decisions in order to exclude, among other things, compliance with the Code. The DSM Compliance Officer any relationships or practices which may be in contravention of responsible for dealing with violations of the DSM Code of human rights. Business Conduct reports to the CEO and is invited to report independently to the Supervisory Board once a year. Proven DSM is a Dutch signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. violations of the Code can result in immediate discharge. In line For an overview of how the Compact's principles are with this policy, 24 employees were requested to leave the implemented within DSM, see page 35. DSM also meets the company during 2011 for breach of the Code of Business recommendations made in the OECD (Organization for Conduct or other legal or local company regulations. Economic Development) Guidelines for Multinational Compliance with the DSM Code of Business Conduct and with Enterprises. Furthermore, DSM supports the work-related rights legal and local regulations is regularly audited. DSM is unaware defined by the ILO (International Labor Organization) and of any cases of breach of human rights or the use of forced or therefore recognizes the International Labor Standards. In child labor within its operations in 2011. countries or businesses where employees have third-party representation via a works council or collective bargaining, DSM Safety and health respects these relationships and works with these third parties DSM has set itself the target of reducing the Frequency Index of in a mutually respectful manner. In the event of an organizational recordable injuries (number of fatalities, Lost Workday Cases or restructuring that results in the loss of a significant number of Restricted Workday Cases and Medical Treatment Cases per jobs, DSM develops and implements either a social program 100 DSM employees and contractors in one year) by 50% or (aimed at assisting employees to continue in employment, more (compared to 2010) by the year 2020. In 2010 this whether inside or outside the company) or else a severance Frequency Index was 0.57; the target for 2020 is ≤ 0.25. In 2011 program. DSM promotes employee empowerment and human the index was 0.53. The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases rights protection and therefore seeks dialogue with its involving DSM employees was 0.15 (2010: 0.15). employees and their representatives (works councils, labor unions). DSM’s performance in this area has fluctuated around this level since mid 2009. It has proved to be difficult to improve it to a next level. Over half of the accidents in 2011 related to ‘slips, Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 47 trips and falls’, ‘sprains and strains’ or the work posture in which well as the safeguarding of packaged goods for transport and the job was executed. For such cases improvements must come handling. from training, increased awareness, and behavioral programs as well as improving ergonomics in work situations. Such programs This has led to increased awareness and fewer accidents in the take some time to deliver success. supply chain. Supply chain accidents now account for about 15% of the total number of reportable accidents. Incidents in the It is with deep regret that DSM reports the tragic death of a logistics area are carefully monitored and separately reported on contractor employee in 2011. On 13 September an electrician a quarterly basis. from Austin Industrial lost his life while working on a high voltage substation at the recently acquired DSM South Center property SHE Award and SHE Improvement Award in Augusta (Georgia, USA). To stimulate excellence in the field of SHE, DSM annually grants a SHE Award to the DSM site that showed the best SHE On 28 July a vapor cloud explosion followed by a fire occurred performance, and a SHE Improvement Award to the site that has at the recently acquired DSM-AGI Xinhua plant in Tainan made the greatest progress in improving its SHE performance (Taiwan). As a result, seven employees were injured, five of over a number of years. All business groups are invited to whom were hospitalized shortly after the explosion. Two nominate sites or other parts of their organization for these employees were seriously injured; one of them had burn injuries awards. to 70-80% of his body. To protect people from potentially toxic substances that might leak out of the plant or might be released The nominees are ranked on the basis of approximately 30 from the fire, the authorities temporarily shut down the hospital criteria. Besides SHE elements, these include sustainability and the neighboring agricultural refinement factories, evacuated aspects (for example how the unit has supported the local the patients from the hospital and also evacuated approximately community). The winner of the SHE Award receives a bronze 1500 residents living in nearby villages. sculpture and a check of € 10,000, to be spent on the local community. This reflects the importance that DSM attaches to DSM wants to eliminate fatalities altogether and has launched the communities around its sites. To emphasize the importance specific initiatives (on top of the well-established general safety of the awards, a member of the Managing Board hands over the programs) to reach this ambition, including the strengthening of prizes to the winning organizations. In 2011, the DSM Resins site the implementation of a set of Life Saving Rules in 2011. in Schoonebeek (Netherlands) won the SHE Award and the caprolactam site of DSM Fibre intermediates in Nanjing (China) DSM’s Life Saving Rules focus on certain known high-risk won the SHE Improvement Award. DSM Resins has donated its activities (for example entry into confined spaces, or driving) prize to 'Stichting Stroomdal', a housing project for disabled where the company has experienced fatal accidents in the past. children. In 2012 the SHE Awards committee will pay particular Many of the rules already existed; strengthening their attention to contractors' SHE management. implementation as Life Saving Rules provided an excellent opportunity for highlighting the importance of the rules, and Learning from major incidents discussing what they mean in the daily working environment and DSM uses the TRIPOD method to analyze serious incidents and how they should be applied. Via company-wide briefing sessions learn lessons from them. TRIPOD offers deep learning in June and workshops in the second half of the year all DSM opportunities because it reveals what are called ‘preconditions’ employees and all contractors working on DSM sites were and ‘latent failures’. These are hidden flaws (including involved in the roll-out of and discussions on these Life Saving organizational or management flaws) that play a vital role in Rules. causing accidents. Safety in logistics A relatively new analysis method that complements the TRIPOD In 2011 DSM finalized the implementation of standard practices approach is Human Factors Analysis (HFA). HFA was developed on a global scale to improve safety in the logistics chain. This by The Keil Centre (well-known for its Safety Culture Maturity® chain covers the transport of raw materials to DSM sites, all model). It is based on the observation that 80% of all accidents DSM-internal logistics operations (unloading at DSM sites, are due to human factors. DSM uses this method in addition to internal transport and storage and loading of finished goods) and the TRIPOD approach when deemed appropriate. the transport of finished goods to customers. Historically, logistics has accounted for 35% of all accidents and incidents at DSM investigates very serious near-misses in a similar way as DSM, so the new practices fill a clear need. Among other things, fatalities. This maximizes the lessons to be learned from them. they relate to safe working with tank cars and fork lift trucks as Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 48 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition To enable the entire DSM organization to learn from incidents out, with locations in China, India, the US and Brazil occurring anywhere in the company, DSM has an internal implementing the program. At the end of 2011, more than 6,100 reporting system in place which includes communication to the DSM employees worldwide had participated. relevant groups of employees. Based on the data collected until now, the highest employee Employee health management health risks at DSM relate to stress (mentioned by 72% of DSM is rolling out a global employee health management participants in Asia, 67% in North America and 46% in Europe), program, Vitality@DSM. Participants are offered a Vitality Check eating habits (North America 49% and Europe 43%), and lack of (an extensive periodic medical check-up) and are asked to fill out exercise (Asia 70%). The ‘readiness to change’ score differs from an electronic questionnaire. This provides DSM with region to region and is taken into account in defining action anonymized, tangible and quantitative data on health at work, plans. enabling the company to monitor progress through performance indicators, compare results by region as a basis for defining the Occupational health content and priorities of health promotion campaigns at site and In 2011 a total of 6 occupational health cases were reported (the regional level, and create scorecards at relevant levels in the same as in 2010). Reported cases feature physical ill-health company. (3 compared to 5 in 2010) and psychological ill-health (2 compared to 0 in 2010). One allergic reaction was reported Vitality@DSM fits the company’s mission very well as it creates (1 in 2010). In 2011, DSM continued to increase its employees' ‘brighter lives’ for the employees and addresses one of the global awareness of occupational health issues and to further improve trends (Health and Wellness) defined in DSM’s strategy for the the reporting of all occupational health cases the company years 2010-2015. It was first implemented in the Netherlands in encounters. 2009. In 2010 and 2011 DSM made a start on the global rollAbsenteeism (in %) ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 4 3.8 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 3 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.1 2 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.0 1.1 1.1 1 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.5 0 Netherlands Rest of North America China Rest of Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific the world Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 49 Planet in 2011 Environment Energy efficiency improved by 2% compared to 2010, compensating for a growth in production volume of the same magnitude. The improvement compared to 2008 was 13%. Greenhouse-gas emissions increased slightly compared to 2010, from 4.5 to 4.6 million tons of CO2 equivalents. Compared to 2008, they increased from 4.2 to 4.6 million tons of CO2 equivalents (8%), largely due to increased production volumes at greenhouse-gas intensive production units. Water consumption increased by approximately 9 million m3 (6%) in 2011 compared to 2010, mainly as a result of shifts in production volumes. Significant improvements from 2010 to 2011 were achieved in emissions to air. VOC, NOx and SO2 emissions were all significantly reduced due to structural improvements. For other environmental parameters, the structural changes from 2010 to 2011 were limited. Key environmental indicators, continuing operations 2011 2010 44 44 Water use (x million m3) 157 148 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.6 4.5 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 4.2 6.5 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons) 7.1 7.9 Environmental incidents 306 336 Environmental complaints 24 27 The changes in the reported figures from 2010 to 2011 are mainly the result of improvements achieved in the year 2011, some non-structural deterioration and changes in production volumes. Environmental targets In the framework of its corporate strategy, DSM has defined long-term Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) targets for 2010-2015 and translated these into plans and activities in a Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care (CMP). This CMP gives guidance to the rolling 3-year plans of the business groups. In addition to SHE topics, the CMP 2010-2015 also addresses security as a strategic subject. Quantitative targets have been set for six SHE topics (see table on page 51). For three other SHE topics, improvement programs have been set up. The eco-efficiency targets, representing the main emissions from DSM’s plants, are based on the principle that all DSM sites in the world should as a minimum meet the standards as applied in the European Union or the US. New plants and major plant modifications should meet this requirement right from the start, whereas existing plants should meet it within five years. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 50 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition SHE targets1 2015 2020 Safety at work Reduction in number of serious incidents by 65% Frequency Index of recordable injuries ≤ 0.25 Process safety Reduction in number of process safety Reduction of PSI by 75% incidents (PSI) by 50% Health at work Vitality@DSM target: at least 75% uptake per project done, and ambition to reach 15,000 entries by 2015 Eco-efficiency Reduction of discharges to water: COD 20% Reduction of emissions to air: VOC 40% SO2 70% NOx 30% Reduction of waste: Landfilling non-hazardous waste 15% Energy-efficiency improvement of 20% by 2020 compared to 2008 Reduction (absolute) in GHG emissions of 25% by 2020 compared to 2008 Water availability and use Reduction of water use (preliminary) 15% Final aspiration to be defined in 2012 1 Reductions compared to 2010, unless otherwise stated Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 51 The following table shows the status at year-end 2011 regarding the progress made toward the environmental reduction targets: % Reduction realized in 2011 Reduction target (%, reference compared to reference year1 year-target year) Discharges to water COD 5% 20% (2010-2015) Emissions to air VOC 29% 40% (2010-2015) SO2 66% 70% (2010-2015) NOx 22% 30% (2010-2015) Waste Landfilling non-hazardous waste 6% increase 15% (2010-2015) Climate change Improvement of energy efficiency 13% 20% (2008-2020) Greenhouse gases 8% increase 25% (2008-2020) Water availability and use Total water consumption 5% increase 15% (2010-2015)2 1 Corrected for changes in production volumes and product portfolio relative to the reference year (except greenhouse-gas emissions, which is an absolute target). Acquisitions made during the target period are not taken into account. Divested units, such as DSM Agro, DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, Citrique Belge and DSM Special Products Rotterdam, have been excluded. 2 Final aspiration to be defined in 2012. All environmental targets, except the one for greenhouse-gas the environmental figures during the whole reporting period emissions, are relative targets, that is, emissions and 2008-2011. consumption figures are relative to production volumes per individual production unit. This means that the reduction In addition to the consolidated graphs shown in this chapter, percentages in the table are the result of calculations DSM publishes detailed information on the environmental incorporating changes in production volume. Acquisitions and performance of all its production sites on www.dsm.com. This divestments in the target period are excluded from the information includes emissions, consumption figures and SHE determination of target realization in order to have a like-for-like highlights. comparison. Data reporting by the sites is regularly audited by DSM’s The target for greenhouse-gas emissions is an absolute target. Corporate Operational Audit department. The previously divested units DSM Agro, DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, Citrique Belge, and DSM Special Products Emissions to air Rotterdam were excluded from the base year 2008, but other VOC acquisitions and divestments, including forthcoming ones, will VOC emissions in 2011 were reduced by approximately 2,300 be included in these figures. tons compared to 2010, due to several changes. A major contribution was realized by DSP, mainly due to process The graphs on the following pages show the uncorrected DSM improvements and further implementation of enzymatic totals. This can give rise to some apparent differences with the processes, particularly at the site in Ramos Arizpe (Mexico). The target realization figures. Compared to the figures that were closure of the site in Cairo (Egypt) and the production stop at the reported in 2010, the divested operations (DSM Agro, DSM site in Zhangjiakou (China) since August also contributed to the Melamine, Citrique Belge, DSM Special Products Rotterdam and reduction. DSM Elastomers) are fully excluded from the environmental data for the whole reporting period. Major reductions were also realized by DSM Fibre Intermediates as a result of emission reduction projects at the sites in Nanjing The reported absolute figures are the result of improvements (China) and Augusta (Georgia, USA). achieved in the year 2011, some non-structural deterioration, changes in production volumes, the impact of site closures, as well as some corrections. The most significant correction relates to greenhouse-gas emissions and is elucidated on page 54. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) is fully consolidated in all Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 52 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition VOC SO2 (tons/year) (tons/year) 10,000 2,000 8,000 1,500 6,000 1,000 4,000 500 2,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 NOx Discharges to water and landfilling of waste NOx emissions decreased by approximately 500 tons in 2011 COD compared to 2010, mainly because the two coal-fired steam boilers at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China) were of the degree of pollution of wastewater by organic substances) closed in July. Other, smaller changes were largely due to decreased by approximately 800 tons in 2011 compared to changes in production volumes. 2010. The main reductions were achieved at DSP, particularly due to several changes at the site in Ramos Arizpe (Mexico), the NOx closure of the site in Cairo (Egypt) and the production stop at the (tons/year) site in Zhangjiakou (China) since August. A further reduction occurred at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Augusta (Georgia, USA). 3,000 COD (tons/year) 2,000 8,000 1,000 6,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 4,000 2,000 SO2 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 DSM’s SO2 emissions decreased by approximately 900 tons in 2011 compared to 2010. The main reason for this significant decrease is that the two coal-fired steam boilers at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China) were closed in July. Further Non-hazardous waste reductions were realized at the DSP sites in Toansa (India) and The landfilling of non-hazardous waste increased by Zhangjiakou (China). approximately 900 tons in 2011 compared to 2010. This is the balance of reductions that were achieved at some sites and increases at other sites. Significant increases occurred at two sites of DSM Nutritional Products (Belvidere, New Jersey, USA and Dalry in the UK). Both increases were largely of a nonstructural nature. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 53 Landfilling non-hazardous waste DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at Greenville (North Carolina, USA) (tons/year) has developed an energy efficient lighting retrofit project. The retrofit comprises the replacement of the approximately 12,000 40,000 lights at the facility and is designed to improve light levels and reduce energy consumption and greenhouse-gas emissions of 30,000 DSM by approximately 0.1%. 20,000 Greenhouse-gas emissions 10,000 Compared to 2010, greenhouse-gas emissions increased slightly, from 4.5 to 4.6 million tons of CO2 equivalents. 0 Compared to 2008, they increased from 4.2 to 4.6 million tons 2008 2009 2010 2011 of CO2 equivalents (8%). The most significant change in 2011 compared to 2010 was a shift from scope 1 (direct) to scope 2 (indirect) emissions. This was due to the discontinuation of the Energy and greenhouse gases boilers at DSM Fibre Intermediates in Nanjing (China). Energy consumption Other changes in the period 2008-2011 were largely the result is the same value as in 2010 for the continuing operations. of changes in production volumes, particularly at greenhouseEnergy efficiency improved by 2% compared to 2010, gas intensive production units. compensating for a growth in production volume of the same magnitude. Compared to 2008, energy efficiency improved by Some corrections were applied to DSM’s greenhouse-gas 13%. reporting compared to previous years. The corrections were applied over the whole reporting period 2008-2011. The most significant contribution to the improvement from 2010 to 2011 came from the DSM Fibre Intermediates sites in Nanjing The most significant increase relates to N O emissions from 2 (China) and Augusta (Georgia, USA). At both sites, a combination the caprolactam plants of DSM Fibre Intermediates (Augusta, of higher output from the same equipment and energy saving Georgia, USA; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; and Nanjing, projects resulted in significant improvements. In addition, the China). Extended N2O measurements indicated higher Nanjing site replaced steam supplied from its own relatively emissions than previously reported. inefficient coal-fired boilers with steam supplied from a more This increase is more than outweighed by a decrease resulting efficient external supplier. from a more consistent application of the Greenhouse-Gas Protocol. The most important change is the use of countryEnergy consumption specific factors for the conversion of purchased electricity to (PJ) greenhouse-gas emissions, instead of the global factor that 50 was used before and that was clearly too high. 40 DSM strongly supports the development, adoption and 30 application of joint international standards regarding carbon reduction. Therefore DSM strives for full adherence to the 20 Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Using the same standards and 10 calculation methods is the only way to be able to compare and measure progress. However, there is one important point that 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 DSM wishes to emphasize. Setting standards should be a means to reach a goal. In this case the goal is to support management in decision making with regard to GHG emissions reduction. As the composition of the energy grid in a particular On top of this, new initiatives to improve energy efficiency are country is outside a company's sphere of influence, the use of being developed. For instance, DSM Nutritional Products is country-specific conversion factors needs further interpretation building a new combined heat and power (cogen) unit at its site and review. This is especially important because these countryin Belvidere (New Jersey, USA). This unit will decrease DSM’s specific factors do not take into consideration what the (perhaps energy consumption and greenhouse-gas emissions by about more carbon efficient) composition of the energy grid will be in 0.5%. the longer term (especially in developing countries), while Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 54 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition companies need to base their investment decisions on long-term the various factors affecting water use. Its ambition is to reach a considerations. Just applying the calculations might therefore situation where its operations have no adverse effect whatsoever not always stimulate companies to make the right decisions and on the availability and quality of groundwater or surface water in take the right actions (in terms of investments and energy the regions in which it operates. To achieve this, DSM is working efficiency programs). to: The overall effect of the above-mentioned changes and several Improve its operations other corrections is a reduction in previously reported figures of For the period 2010-2015, DSM has set a global water approximately 0.4 million tons of CO2 equivalents per year over consumption reduction target of 15% (this preliminary target will the whole reporting period 2008-2011. be reviewed in 2012 based on the outcomes of water risk assessments) and a COD reduction target of 20%. In 2011 the Greenhouse-gas emissions company started collecting semi-annual results on its (million tons) performance against these targets. DSM takes water use and ■ direct CO ■ indirect CO ■ N O and other gases 2 2 2 water scarcity into consideration as integral parts of its decision making process to select new plant construction locations. 5 4 Increase awareness and knowledge of local site situations 3 DSM is using the period until the end of 2012 to carry out indepth water risk assessments at the sites located in (extreme) 2 water scarcity regions and to identify mitigating strategies. The 1 mitigating strategies are to be implemented by 2015. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Provide full transparency in reporting water performance DSM publishes location reports of all DSM sites worldwide on the internet, providing external stakeholders with detailed insight Water consumption into local situations. In 2009 DSM signed the CEO Water Mandate and in 2011 it started reporting its water performance The following graph shows DSM’s global water consumption, within the Carbon Disclosure Project for water. split up into surface water, groundwater and potable (tap) water. Total water consumption increased by approximately Promote improvements in the value chain 9 million m3 in 2011 compared to 2010. This is the balance of DSM is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, reductions at some sites and increases at other sites. The most customers and industry peers to create sustainable value chains notable increase occurred at DSM Pharmaceutical Products in by progressively enhancing the eco-footprint (including water Linz (Austria) as a result of changes in production volumes of footprint) of products and processes across each chain. different production plants at this site. Moreover, in the coming years DSM will increasingly require suppliers to commit themselves to targets and assessments Water use similar to those applied by DSM, so as to achieve sustainable (1000 m3, split into different sources) water management in the supply chain. See also the chapter on ■ surface water ■ groundwater ■ potable water stakeholder engagement from page 36. 180,000 To improve the methodology of water footprinting, assessment 150,000 and awareness building, DSM is participating and collaborating 120,000 in associations and partnerships which address this topic. DSM 90,000 has for example joined the World Business Council for 60,000 Sustainable Development’s Water Leadership Group. The 30,000 company also actively participates in UN Global Compact 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 country networks to promote innovations in the process industry, including process intensification or other technologies stimulating the reuse of water. And finally, DSM is contributing to the development of the ISO 14046 water footprint standard. DSM aims to manage its water resources in a sustainable way, taking into account the needs of present and future users and Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 55 Based on the water footprinting exercises conducted so far Union for the Conservation of Nature and the World Business (taking into account the water footprints of DSM’s value chains) Council for Sustainable Development, DSM will revise the DSM has no known water related risk exposures within its supply assessment of these sites in the coming period. chains, has no known significant effects on water withdrawal sources and has no known significant effect on water bodies or Raw materials related habitats due to water discharges. In 2011 approximately 8% of DSM’s total spend on raw materials related to renewable raw materials. This represents an increase With our commitment to sustainability, DSM’s core value, compared to 2010, when this percentage was 7%. Contrary to we are driving economic prosperity, environmental the environmental performance data, the percentages shown in progress and social advances to create sustainable value the graph below represent the actual spend in the pertinent year, for all stakeholders. It is becoming increasingly clear that that is, including all units that have been divested. Martek, which the lack of access to clean water and sanitation in many was acquired in 2011, has not yet been included. parts of the world causes great suffering in humanitarian, social, environmental and economic terms, and seriously The changes from year to year are mainly the result of these undermines development goals. That is why we aim to divestments and changes in the production volumes of the achieve sustainable water management, that is, to manage Materials Sciences businesses compared to the Life Sciences water resources taking into account the needs of present businesses. and future users and applying practices aimed at safeguarding this vital resource. We continue to develop Renewable raw materials water risk assessments to mitigate operational, regulatory, (in % of total raw materials spend) reputation and financial risks and address political, 10 economic, social, technological and environmental considerations, as part of our continuing commitment to the 8 UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate. 6 Feike Sijbesma, CEO of Royal DSM 4 2 Biodiversity 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a more sustainable world. They provide what are known as ecosystem services: by fulfilling basic human needs such as Fines, sanctions, complaints and incidents food, materials, clean water and fresh air, they sustain human Fines and sanctions life. DSM considers the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems an essential part of sustainable development and site. All of these related to non-compliance of the site’s corporate (social) responsibility. It is DSM’s belief that companies wastewater discharge with local regulations. have an important role to play in the conservation of nature. This is a learning process; it starts with building awareness, to be The total amount paid in fines by DSM amounted to followed up with actions to (1) assess DSM’s impact on approximately € 70,000, which is much lower than in 2010 biodiversity and (2) preserve biodiversity wherever such an (€ 670,000) and more in line with previous years. impact occurs. To the best of DSM’s knowledge, no other fines or non-monetary DSM supports the terms of the Convention of Biological sanctions for environmental issues were incurred in 2011. Diversity, being the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of the components of biological diversity and the Environmental incidents and complaints fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the The total number of registered environmental complaints was 24 utilization of genetic resources. This has been embedded in (27 in 2010), of which 13 were about odor, 8 about noise, 1 about DSM’s management systems. At present, DSM has identified flaring and 1 about dust emissions. One complaint fell in the eleven sites that are located at or adjacent to high biodiversity ‘miscellaneous’ category. areas. Together with stakeholders such as the International Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 56 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition The total number of environmental incidents was 306, compared To increase transparency by helping companies provide to 336 in 2010. Of these incidents, 11 were rated as serious (23 stakeholders with information about marketed chemicals in an in 2010). easily understandable format: the GPS Product Safety Summary Process safety incidents As of 2011, DSM follows the European Chemical Industry DSM started to prepare GPS Product Safety Summaries with a Council (CEFIC) guidance in defining which incidents qualify as focus on high volume chemicals. The summaries have been and process safety incidents (PSIs). All such incidents are already will continue to be published on DSM's website and the GPS part of DSM’s incident reporting system and are reported either portal of ICCA. In addition, the company actively participates in as environmental incidents (the majority) or as safety incidents. the ICCA Taskforce on Information Gathering and Sharing that Of the total number of incidents reported, 173 have also been published an ICCA Guidance on Chemical Risk Assessment. classified as process safety incidents. This translates into a Frequency Index for PSIs of 0.58. The number of process safety DSM carefully aligns its GPS and REACH activities by prioritizing related incidents in 2011 was higher than the number reported its GPS initiatives on the basis of REACH deadlines. One of in the 2010 Integrated Annual Report (124). This is due to a DSM’s SHE targets for 2020 is to use GPS company-wide as change in definitions. In 2010 DSM still used its own threshold the tool to communicate on product safety to the outside world. definitions (that is, excluding releases of non-hazardous substances and with lower release thresholds than those applied DSM continuously monitors developments with regard to the UN by CEFIC), whereas in 2011 the company followed the CEFIC Globally Harmonized System (a system for standardizing and guidance (that is, including releases of non-hazardous harmonizing the classification and labeling of chemicals) and the substances, and with higher release thresholds). Applying the EU Regulation on Classification and Labeling and takes the CEFIC guidance to the 2010 incidents would have resulted in necessary actions to ensure compliance. Products have been 193 PSIs and a Frequency Index of 0.68. This is also the baseline relabeled, and revised Safety Data Sheets are provided for DSM’s 2020 target of reducing the Frequency Index for PSIs according to the new requirements. In that process national and by 75%. regional deadlines are respected. DSM employees are informed and trained on the new information. Sharing information on the safe use of chemicals Within the scope of REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances), the European legislation on chemicals, DSM is running a program to share with its peers all available information on the properties and safe use of chemical substances. The importance of REACH cannot be overestimated: companies that fail to comply with REACH will at some point no longer be able to do business in the European Union. Before 2018 all substances that DSM produces in and imports into the European Union have to be registered under REACH. Registration includes providing information on the safety of the substances’ intended use. DSM is on track with its registration process for the next deadline in REACH (2013). DSM has also committed itself to actively participate in the Global Product Strategy (GPS) initiated by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). The aim of the GPS initiative is threefold: To reduce differences in the safe handling of chemical substances between developing, emerging and industrialized countries To ensure the correct handling and use of chemicals across the value chain and across geographical boundaries by providing relevant and reliable information Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 57 Profit in 2011 Financial results Income statement x € million, continuing operations 2011 2010 9,048 8,176 1,296 1,161 866 752 Net finance costs (82) (93) Share of the profit of associates 3 5 Income tax expense (147) (162) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (46) (18) 594 484 Net profit from discontinued operations, excluding exceptional items 21 63 Net result from exceptional items 199 (40) 814 507 14.0 14.6 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations (in %) 14.3 14.2 Net sales Operating costs At € 9.0 billion, net sales from continuing operations in 2011 were Total operating costs of continuing operations before 11% higher than in the previous year. Volume growth accounted exceptional items amounted to € 8.2 billion, € 0.8 billion higher for a 4% increase in net sales. Selling prices were on average than in 2010, when these costs stood at € 7.4 billion. Total 7% higher than in 2010. The positive effect of 1% relating to operating costs in 2011 included cost of sales to an amount of acquisitions and divestments was offset by the negative impact € 6.5 billion (2010: € 6.0 billion); gross margin in % of net sales of exchange rates. The graphs on the following page show the stood at 28% (2010: 27%). development of sales by origin, by destination and by end-use market. Net sales by business segment, continuing operations EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations in 2011 (in %) (in %) ■ Nutrition ■ Pharma ■ Performance Materials ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Corporate activities 25 21.8 20.9 20 1 4 1 5 20 17 15 37 37 10.6 10 5.3 5 31 7 31 9 0 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Materials Intermediates 2011 2010 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 58 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Operating profit Net sales by origin, continuing operations (in %) The operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items increased by € 114 million (15%), from € 752 ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe million in 2010 to € 866 million in 2011. The EBITDA margin ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ Other (operating profit before depreciation and amortization as a 4 4 percentage of net sales) increased from 14.2% in 2010 to 14.3% 11 10 3 3 in 2011. 35 36 15 17 Net profit 1 The net profit from continuing operations before exceptional 1 items increased by € 110 million to € 594 million. Expressed per 29 31 ordinary share, net earnings from continuing operations before 2011 2010 exceptional items increased from € 2.89 in 2010 to € 3.53 in 2011. Net sales by destination, continuing operations (in %) Net finance costs (continuing operations), before exceptional items, stood at € 82 million in 2011, compared to € 93 million in ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan 2010. The decrease was mainly a result of favorable hedge ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world results and lower interest costs. 2 7 2 7 9 9 3 3 2 2 At 19%, the effective tax rate in 2011 was 5 percentage points 29 14 32 lower than in 2010. The lower tax rate was a result of a different 16 geographical spread of results and the application of preferential 7 tax regimes, in countries where DSM is operating. 7 6 5 19 19 The net profit (total DSM) increased from € 507 million in 2010 2011 2010 to € 814 million in 2011, partly due to exceptional items and a lower tax rate. Net profit per ordinary share increased from Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations € 3.03 in 2010 to € 4.86 in 2011. (in %) ■ Health and nutrition ■ Pharmaceuticals ■ Metal / building and construction Exceptional items ■ Automotive/transport ■ Textiles ■ Electrical/electronics Full year exceptional items amounted to € 173 million (€ 199 ■ Packaging ■ Other million after tax), comprising the book profits on the sale of 11 12 Danisco shares, the divestment of DSM Elastomers, the 7 6 38 37 establishment of the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint 8 8 venture, as well as losses regarding the non-recurring value adjustments of inventories in relation to the Martek acquisition, 10 9 restructuring actions at DSM Resins and costs for litigation 8 7 8 8 11 12 settlements and claims. 2011 2010 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 59 Cash flow At € 882 million, cash provided by operating activities (total DSM) was 9.6% of net sales. Cash flow statement x € million 2011 2010 2,290 1,347 Current investments at 1 January 837 7 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,453 1,340 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 1,430 1,226 Changes in operating working capital (260) (19) Other changes (288) (104) 882 1,103 Capital expenditure (477) (416) Acquisitions (929) (61) Sale of subsidiaries 513 363 Disposals 229 14 Change in current investments 748 (832) Other (77) (32) 7 (964) (155) (206) Repurchase of shares (357) Proceeds from re-issued shares 111 95 Other cash from / used in financing activities 59 (50) (342) (161) 58 135 2,058 1,453 Current investments at 31 December 89 837 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 31 December 2,147 2,290 Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) increased by € 0.7 billion in 2011 and amounted to € 11.2 billion at year-end (2010: € 10.5 billion). Equity increased by € 397 million compared to the position at the end of 2010. The increase was due to the profit for the year and proceeds from re-issued shares which were partly offset by the repurchase of shares. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased from 53% at the end of 2010 to 54% at the end of 2011. The current ratio before reclassification to held for sale (current assets divided by current liabilities) decreased from 2.42 in 2010 to 2.24 in 2011. Compared to year-end 2010, Net debt increased by € 426 million. At year-end 2011 it stood at € 318 million. At the end of 2011, € 89 million (2010: € 837 million) had been invested in higher yielding term deposits (duration 3 to 6 months), which are shown in the cash flow statement as ‘current investments'. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 60 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 528 million in 2011 and was above the level of amortization and depreciation. The operating working capital (continuing operations) was € 308 million higher than in 2010 and amounted to 20.2% of annualized net sales (2010: 17.9%). Cash and cash equivalents including current investments decreased by € 143 million and amounted to € 2,147 million. Capital employed by business segment at Equity at 31 December 31 December 2011, continuing operations x € billion (as a % of balance sheet total) 3.0 3 60 55 54 52 53 50 49 2.0 2 40 30 1 0.8 20 0.4 10 0.2 0.2 0 0 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Innovation Corporate 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Materials Intermediates Center activities Balance sheet profile1 in % 2011 2010 16 10 Property, plant and equipment 31 31 Other non-current assets 4 7 Cash and cash equivalents 18 14 Other current assets 31 38 100 100 54 53 Provisions 1 1 Other non-current liabilities 23 25 Other current liabilities 22 21 100 100 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Dividend DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. DSM therefore proposes to increase the dividend by € 0.10 to € 1.45 per ordinary share. This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 11 May 2012. An interim dividend of € 0.45 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2011, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.00 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 15 May 2012. DSM reiterates that for the coming years the company intends to further increase the dividend to at least € 1.50 per ordinary share, barring unforeseen circumstances and assuming that DSM will be able to fulfill its growth aspirations. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 61 Outlook DSM’s outlook for the year is influenced by the uncertain and volatile economic conditions. At this moment DSM is experiencing a weak economic environment, especially in Europe, which is expected to improve in the second half of the year. The high growth economies continue to grow fast, albeit at a slower pace than in previous years. Despite these uncertainties, DSM is confident that it will continue to benefit from its balanced, relatively resilient portfolio in health, nutrition and materials, its broad geographic spread with a significant presence in high growth economies and its strong balance sheet. Nevertheless, in addition to the already announced restructuring initiatives at DSM Resins, DSM is putting in place further cost reduction programs and profit protection plans. In Nutrition, the impact of the substantial strengthening of the Swiss franc in 2011 was mitigated by a € 50 million currency hedge gain, which effect will not occur in 2012. Despite this, DSM anticipates that its Nutrition business will continue to make further progress in 2012. EBITDA is expected to be above 2011. Trading conditions in the Pharma cluster are expected to remain challenging, although DSM anticipates that it will make further strategic progress. EBITDA is expected to improve slightly compared to last year, despite the impact of the 50% deconsolidation of the anti-infectives business. Trading conditions in Materials Sciences continue to be volatile and the end market outlook is uncertain owing to weak consumer sentiment in some of DSM’s key geographies. However, based on current insights EBITDA of the Performance Materials cluster is expected to be somewhat higher than in 2011. For Polymer Intermediates another strong year is expected, at a level above the historical average, but EBITDA will be clearly lower than the exceptional result in 2011. In 2012 three planned turnarounds in caprolactam, one in Q1 2012 and two more in Q3 2012, will also impact the results. Despite macro-economic uncertainties DSM is cautiously optimistic for the year 2012. DSM expects the second half of the year to be stronger than the first half, on its way to achieve the 2013 targets. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 62 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Innovation In innovation, DSM’s ambition now is to go to the next level: from 'building the machine' to doubling innovation output in the period Innovation is a key growth driver and the bridge between Bright 2010-2015. This will be visible, among other things, through: Science and Brighter Living. Innovation is connected with Sustainability in many ways, and both growth drivers reinforce an even higher speed of innovation through the further each other. Innovation is not just about great ideas, state-of-theimplementation of value-creating best practices; art technology and high-tech laboratories. It also involves the implementation of a company-wide approach of moving spotting market trends and opportunities and using from individual projects to innovation platforms; technological capabilities to improve the quality of people's lives a new stretched innovation target whereby DSM aims to in a way that is commercially attractive. increase innovation sales — measured as sales from innovation products launched in the last five years — from In 2005 DSM announced an innovation boost as part of its Vision approximately 12% toward 20% of total sales by 2015; and 2010 strategy. This increased commitment to innovation has an ambitious growth perspective for sales from Emerging significantly paid off, as shown by the achievement of numerous Business Areas of more than € 1 billion by 2020. milestones. Furthermore, DSM has made a big step in improving innovation practices and culture in the company and has DSM will move from pursuing individual and sometimes succeeded in considerably increasing the number of innovation unconnected projects to managing its innovation activities and launches since 2006. portfolios at a platform level. This will allow the company to increase the cohesion between its various projects and/or In addition, two of the Emerging Business Areas have become business development activities and to give even more focus to strong, long-term growth platforms that optimally combine the its innovation efforts. available competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. These innovation platforms draw on DSM’s competences, have Since 2005, DSM’s innovation efforts have significantly real and significant commercial potential and address the key increased. Open innovation tools (such as venturing, licensingglobal trends. They are at various stages of development and in, marketing alliances and R&D collaborations) and small include (but are not limited to) the following: acquisitions in the chosen fields of New Business Development complement in-house activities. Bio-based food and feed processing ingredients Food and feed ingredients with health/performance benefits DSM has expanded its already extensive innovation program by Bio-based clean/green materials for coatings, automotive and setting up an Excellence in Innovation program. This program electronics further builds DSM’s organizational infrastructure and also Materials for life protection and sports expands on the work already done to improve the ‘soft' aspects New business models, for example, the brand licensing of innovation (such as effective behavior, personal leadership strategy of DSM Dyneema skills and teamwork) in order to secure an even more favorable EBAs: DSM Bio-based Products & Services, DSM Biomedical innovation culture at DSM. The Excellence in Innovation program and DSM Advanced Surfaces focuses on five key areas: Opportunities and ideas that could lead to new platforms will be Market understanding gathered in a threefold approach: via the DSM Innovation Center, The innovativeness of the business groups via individual business groups and at the regional level. A form The delivery of DSM's top 50 innovation projects of stage gating, which DSM has been using for many years to Entrepreneurship steer individual innovation projects, will now also be applied to Performance orientation steer platforms. As part of the innovation boost, DSM has formed a Product In addition, DSM will use portfolio management to ensure a good Launch team, part of the DSM Excellence in Marketing and Sales balance between incremental and radical innovation. This will organization, which focuses on all activities related to the launch facilitate discussions on the composition of the innovation of new products. This team has developed a toolkit for the portfolio and will help optimize the mix between incremental and commercialization of innovations within DSM. radical innovation within the company. For the radical part of DSM’s innovation portfolio, a global, company-wide portfolio approach will be adopted. This will secure a long-term focus on Life Sciences and Materials Sciences as the key pillars of DSM’s Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 63 strategy and will help make sure that the cross-fertilization filled pipeline DSM is confident the innovation contribution will between the two fields is actively stimulated. The Managing remain high after 2011. Board will decide on the composition of this portfolio. Research and Development Breakthrough innovation is increasingly happening in high Research and Development (R&D) plays a key role in the growth economies (especially in Asia). Therefore, expanding the realization of DSM’s innovation strategy. Most of the annual R&D innovation drive to include high growth economies will be an expenditure is directed toward business-focused R&D important element in DSM’s innovation efforts in the coming programs. In addition, DSM has a Corporate Research Program years. In 2011 DSM established new Innovation Centers in China in place to build and strengthen the technological competences and India to harvest the opportunities in these countries. This will the company needs to execute development projects. ensure a local influence on the company’s innovation approach. R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), The opening of the DSM China Science and Technology Center continuing operations in Shanghai marks a new stage in the development of DSM in China, where the company has been doing business for nearly x € million 2011 2010 50 years. The Center in Shanghai will be DSM’s main innovation base in China and will form a vital part of the company’s global 200 174 science and technology innovation network. The new Science Pharma 67 62 and Technology Center integrates research and application Performance Materials 128 123 technology activities in the areas of materials sciences, chemistry Polymer Intermediates 18 15 and biotechnology. Along with the DSM China Innovation Innovation Center 42 31 Center, the new Center covers the full range of DSM’s innovation Corporate activities 21 19 capabilities in both science and technology, as well as advanced business development capabilities and the shaping of new 476 424 ventures. Total R&D expenditure as % of net sales 5.3 5.2 Open innovation will continue to be a key driver to speed up Staff employed in R&D activities 2,520 2,281 innovation. DSM will further expand the quality of its open innovation, for example through licensing, which perfectly fits the drive toward new business models in DSM. In addition, DSM will Innovation and R&D in Life Sciences speed up its venturing activities and increase its partnering In the Nutrition cluster, innovation is a key driver of differentiation, activities, not only in its key business areas but also in technology covering the entire product cycle. areas as it aims to broaden and strengthen its technological competence base. DSM opened a state-of-the-art Nutrition Innovation Center in Parsippany (New Jersey, USA). This new center and the centers As an example, in 2011 DSM expanded an alliance with Diadem, already operational in South America, Europe and Asia will an esteemed R&D institute in Moscow (Russia). Diadem will enable DSM to serve the demands of regional customers in produce purified enzyme samples for food application tests and developing tailor-made products that address particular needs phage testing for DSM Food Specialties. In addition, the alliance of specific local markets. gives DSM more access to academia in Russia. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) issued a positive DSM’s broad high-quality technology base will continue to opinion on DSM Nutritional Products’ application pursuant to provide a solid foundation and support for its innovation Article 14 of the Nutrition and Health Claim Regulation on the use activities. DSM will make sure its core competences remain in of Vitamin D to reduce the risk of falling and fractures. On the top shape. basis of the data presented, EFSA concludes that a cause and effect relationship has been established between the intake of In 2011 DSM showed continued strong growth in innovation. vitamin D and a reduction in the risk of falling. Sales from innovation products increased from 16% to 18%. The large diversified portfolio of innovations yields a stable income DSM Nutritional Products’ geniVida® (branded genistein) has profile, which will be complemented by a broad range of new been shown to reduce levels of prostate specific antigen (PSA) launches that the company is currently developing. With its wellin men with early prostate cancer. A study to that effect was published in October 2011. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 64 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition DSM and the University Medical Center Groningen (Netherlands) reduced levels of pesticides and chemicals in the protection of have signed an agreement and will cooperate in research foods. projects on the role of micronutrients, in particular vitamins, in healthy human development and longevity. In 2011 DSM concluded an Agreement of Research Cooperation with East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST). DSM Nutritional Products introduced ß-carotene 10% Emulsion Under this agreement ECUST and DSM Food Specialties will Red for improved performance in food and beverage work together on better ways to design and operate industrial applications. Offering manufacturers an allergen-free route to fermentations, fulfilling economic as well as sustainability needs. colorful beverages, the new easy-to-use liquid emulsion product is suitable for vegetarians and designed to appeal to a wide DSM Biologics introduced the new Kremer Method™ that range of consumers. further optimizes the downstream processing of proteins and monoclonal antibodies. It also reported a new record According to a study published in June 2011 in the Journal of achievement with DSM’s proprietary XD® process technology the American College of Nutrition, free lutein has a better with a CHO cell line producing an Fc-fusion protein. In bioavailability or absorption than lutein esters, enabling a higher combination with DSM's Rhobust® downstream harvesting utilization by the body. Lutein and zeaxanthin, both produced by technology, DSM is growing a unique biomanufacturing DSM, are two dietary carotenoids which accumulate portfolio. physiologically in a specific part of the retina, the macula lutea or 'yellow spot' referred to as the macular pigment (MP). Higher Innovation and R&D in Materials Sciences levels of MP are associated with a decreased risk of age-related DSM Engineering Plastics’ Arnitel® PB500-H has been approved macular degeneration (AMD) and improved visual function. for dirty and clean air ducts for the Fiat Minicargo and for the new Lancia Epsilon. Dirty air ducts convey the air before the air filter, PowerBar has launched ISOMAX – a new high-performance whereas clean air ducts are situated in the engine between the isotonic beverage powder for endurance athletes that contains air filter and the turbo-compressor. DSM’s PeptoPro®. The new formula contains functional ingredients including a mix of five electrolytes, caffeine and DSM Dyneema is investing in a new world-class technical center C2MAX, a carbohydrate blend designed for maximum energy in Singapore, which will house the nation’s first independent delivery. The inclusion of PeptoPro® facilitates efficient amino ballistic testing center and whose technology will support all acid delivery during intense physical exercise, when the body’s DSM Dyneema businesses. The center will be dedicated to digestive capacity is heavily compromised. The new formula serving DSM Dyneema’s growing customer base in the Asia combines optimal functionality with great taste and ease of Pacific region. It is scheduled to be fully operational in the fourth preparation. quarter of 2012. DSM Nutritional Products launched REGU®-FADE, a highIn August 2011 the US Patent and Trademark Office officially performing and fast-acting skin brightener. The ingredient has granted a patent protecting DSM Dyneema’s tape technology. proven its performance in human efficacy studies in which it This is the first in a series of patent applications to be granted in produced visible effects in only two weeks. this field. One of the products from this technology recently introduced into the market is BT10, marketed under the DSM Food Specialties launched Maxavor® YE All Natural – a Dyneema® brand. This product, as well as future developments range of 100 per cent natural savory flavor ingredients. Globally building on this patent, are expected to make a significant certified as natural, it combines the functionality of thermal contribution to life protection, telecommunications and other process flavors (which are no longer considered natural under applications worldwide. new EC regulation) with a natural yeast extract label declaration. The range is the first of its kind to adapt to changing global flavor In the offshore industry, ropes made with Dyneema® are being regulations relating to the term ‘natural’. successfully used to secure rigs, mobile offshore drilling units, buoyant turret mooring systems and similar structures. In these DSM Food Specialties is expanding its food protection activities. applications, the extremely light weight of Dyneema® is At the end of 2011 it successfully concluded initial tests to instrumental in enabling exploration and production from deeper, provide a biologically based solution for pathogen control in more inaccessible sites where conventional mooring systems mushrooms. It will now apply this expertise to the highly using steel wire rope or chains cannot be used or are prone to attractive crop protection market, where DSM can offer solutions failure. to food companies’ and customers’ growing demand for Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 65 Several global customers in the personal protective equipment DSM announced the further optimization of its KhepriCoat™ market have launched new ranges of gloves featuring the solar anti-reflective coating system. The improvements have Dyneema Diamond Technology. These gloves combine comfort already resulted in a significant contribution to the first and dexterity with high levels of cut resistance. Too often, multicrystalline-silicon solar panels in the world to achieve a accidents happen because workers in hazardous occupations conversion efficiency of 17%. remove lesser-performing gloves either because they limit movement or become uncomfortable to wear due to heat or skin Innovation at the crossroads of Life Sciences and Materials irritation. DSM has overcome this, which contributes to worker Sciences safety. Additionally, these new gloves are resistant to industrial Combining DSM’s strengths in Life Sciences and Materials laundry cycles, so they can be washed and re-used several Sciences has led to new innovative products. An example is times. This means they have a significantly lower environmental Pack-Age™, a special cheese ripening solution. Pack-Age™ film footprint than gloves that cannot be washed and re-used. is breathable to moisture but forms a barrier to gases spoiling the product. A life cycle analysis conducted in 2011 shows that In 2011 DSM launched NeoCryl™ B-300, a patented inert solid Pack-Age™ reduces the carbon footprint of cheese production acrylic resin that offers enhanced adhesion properties to plastic by 9%. If a cheese producer with an output of 30 kilotons per substrates to which adhesion is difficult to obtain. It can be used year were to use Pack-Age™ instead of traditional coating for its in energy curable printing inks, overprint varnishes and coatings. entire production volume, the CO2 emissions avoided would be equivalent to 7,000 car trips around the world. Following its successful introduction of outdoor grades of Uralac® EasyCure™ (powder coating resins curing at low DSM and Svelte Medical Systems, Inc., a privately held company temperatures) in 2009, DSM launched the first Uralac® developing next generation endovascular therapies, announced EasyCure™ product designed for indoor applications, Uralac® they have entered into a license and supply agreement granting P 3170, in 2011. Offering good flow, non-blooming properties Svelte the right to use DSM’s proprietary bio-erodible amino acid and good storage stability, the product heralds the next based drug carrier in the design of a non-thrombogenic, nongeneration of low temperature curing resins for indoor inflammatory drug-eluting stent. applications. New test results indicate DSM’s VitroStealth® coating can be DSM launched the composites industry’s first full range of zeroused in the design of biosensors, such as those for continuous styrene resins. These resins, which are suitable for a variety of glucose monitoring. VitroStealth® is a durable and non-fouling market applications, possess excellent resistance to many coating designed to prevent unwanted protein absorption and chemicals, and their styrene emissions during use are close to cellular adhesion on synthetic surfaces. Study data indicates that zero. Some of the products, developed specifically for food VitroStealth® does not inhibit the transport of glucose or oxygen contact applications, have the added benefit of being made in through coated filters. line with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards. DSM started a successful collaboration with vascular catheter DSM introduced its latest composite resin – Atlac® 5200 FC developer and manufacturer PendraCare resulting in the launch developed specifically for use in composite applications that of PRIMUM guiding catheters. involve contact with food and water. This new vinyl ester resin is fully compliant with the European regulations on food contact DSM also entered into a licensing agreement with FH Group, an and made in line with commonly accepted GMP standards for orthopedic device manufacturer and distributor. The agreement the food industry. grants FH Group the use of Bionate® PCU, a proprietary DSM Biomedical polymer, in its LP-ESP® (lumbar) and CP-ESP ® DSM’s eco-friendly line of UVolve Instant Floor Coatings has (cervical) disc replacement products. DSM Biomedical’s received NSF registration for incidental food contact, making it Bionate® PCU was chosen as the material for the disc an efficient and highly sustainable solution for food and beverage replacement elastomer core based on its biocompatibility and facilities where processing, handling, packaging and storage elastomeric quality, enabling the implant to mimic the motion of occurs, including restaurants, grocery stores and cold storage the human disc. areas. NSF registration assures inspection officials and end users that the formulation and labels meet food safety Sustainable innovation regulations. DSM’s Triple P philosophy is about serving the needs of people and the planet in profitable ways. Below are a few illustrative examples of how DSM puts this philosophy into practice. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 66 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition Cradle to Cradle® liters per 100 kilometers, which is significantly less than the Modeled directly on nature’s ability to renew itself cyclically average car. without generating any waste, Cradle to Cradle® manufacturing systems are essentially waste free – they extract raw material, DSM’s composite resin technology has helped make this make use of it, and then place it back into the value chain as a happen. Besides offering high strength and light weight, raw material. Aeronite® can be manufactured very efficiently at room temperature, making manufacturing more energy efficient and ® The Cradle to Cradle philosophy fits perfectly with DSM’s core helping LH Aviation build the Ellipse more quickly than any similar business and sustainability drive. DSM is therefore an ideal aircraft. partner for customers embarking on Cradle to Cradle® as a new way to find solutions for existing and emerging market needs. The rural school of the future, today August 2011 saw the opening of India’s first school made of A number of leading furniture manufacturers, including Giroflex composite materials from DSM. The school, situated in the and Herman Miller, are now adopting Cradle to Cradle® designs. village of Kusgaon, Pune, is a demonstration of DSM’s DSM works with both these manufacturers; Giroflex has commitment to using its bright science to create brighter lives ® selected DSM’s Akulon polyamide 6 for its chair arms, seats, today and for generations to come. backs and bases, and Herman Miller uses Arnitel® in its Mirra office chair. DSM’s collaborations with Giroflex and Herman Miller are examples of how Cradle to Cradle® has become a focal point for entire value chains to work on sustainable products and processes. Achieved only through open and collaborative innovation, teamwork and long-term partnerships, Cradle to Cradle® is a great inspiration on the path toward sustainable systems that are good not only for the environment, but also for business. Faster, more fuel efficient planes The school brings a number of innovations to Indian education. Made of composite materials, its lightweight and modular nature means it can be built within a week by four non-skilled workers without the need for any specialist equipment, saving time, money and impact on the local environment compared to traditional schools made from concrete. Its excellent mechanical properties and attractive design have also created a safe, strong, well-insulated and inspirational learning environment. As the world’s biggest producer of vitamins and micronutrients, DSM has also formulated a nutrition program that will help the students attain their full academic potential. It has been calculated by the Copenhagen Consensus think tank that achieving adequate micronutrient levels in a country’s population DSM has worked with LH Aviation (supported by Magellan can impact its GDP by as much as 2%. Industries) in Melun (France) to develop the LH-10 Ellipse, an exceptionally light two seater aircraft made of DSM’s Aeronite® For Santosh Gaikwad, headmaster of the school, the value DSM resin and carbon fiber. The Ellipse offers shorter production brings to Kusgaon was not limited to the physical structure of times, higher flight speeds and greater fuel efficiency than any the classrooms: “We should not underestimate the role of this similar plane. Flying at 370 kilometers per hour – 150 kilometers school in creating the right conditions for our students to thrive. per hour faster than other planes in its class – it is able to cross With world-class facilities, equipment and nutrition, our model the whole of France (1600 km) in one flight without refueling, school is now ready to educate our country’s next generation.” consuming around 18 liters of fuel per hour. That is less than 5 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 67 Working to combat vitamin D deficiency Patents Vitamin D deficiency is a serious health threat that has been DSM filed more than 300 patents in 2011, compared to about linked to a variety of health problems such as osteoporosis (the 240 in 2010. In addition to filing own patents, DSM strengthened softening of bones), cardiovascular disease, diabetes, asthma, its Intellectual Property position through in-licensing. This is a hypertension and more. logical outcome of DSM's open innovation strategy, in which the company’s own R&D efforts and patent filings are Staggeringly, this problem affects the vast majority of people, complemented by the in-licensing of patents that have been filed even in the developed world. A recent National Intake Survey for by other companies. Germany indicated that 91% of women and 82% of men do not attain their recommended daily intake. The problem is even more DSM Bright Science Awards prevalent in lower income countries in Africa, Asia and Latin DSM is deeply committed to promoting pioneering research that America. leads to products or applications that enhance people's quality of life. That is why the company has a Bright Science Awards Finding a solution to this problem is not as straightforward as it program in place to recognize and reward the achievements of might seem. Making vitamin D supplements or fortifying foods is its own people as well as those of scientists working outside one thing, but figuring out how to get the right quantities of the DSM who have displayed excellence in innovative research. The vitamin into the body in a bioavailable form is a problem that has external awards presented in 2011 are listed below. challenged nutritionists for decades. It is also becoming increasingly important to find sustainable ways of manufacturing Emiel de Smit was awarded first prize in the DSM Science & vitamins. Technology Awards (North) 2011 for his PhD research in the field of Fischer-Tropsch catalysis. Emiel de Smit, who received his doctorate from Utrecht University in the Netherlands, was selected by an international judging committee, chaired by the then DSM Chief Technology Officer Dr. Jos Put. Dr. De Smit has discovered new and important aspects of Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, a reaction that has been known since the 1920s, yet is still very poorly understood mechanistically. As oil prices rise and the need to reduce emissions increases, improvements in Fischer-Tropsch synthesis could form an important part of the solution for meeting the world’s energy needs and chemical demands. French researcher Armelle Corpet was awarded the first prize in the DSM Science & Technology Awards (South) 2011. An DSM, the world’s largest provider of vitamins, collaborated with international judging committee, chaired by Dr. Manfred an important stakeholder, the International Osteoporosis Eggersdorfer, Senior Vice President Nutritional Science & Foundation to create a global map of vitamin D status and Nutrition and Health Advocacy at DSM Nutritional Products, worked with other leading research organizations to initiate selected Dr. Armelle Corpet, who obtained her doctorate from studies on the bioavailability of vitamin D and its metabolites the University Pierre and Marie Curie in Paris, France, for her PhD (such as vitamin D3). research in the field of epigenetics. Dr. Corpet has tackled a key question in mammalian cell division and has investigated the role Using this research and drawing on its Life Sciences expertise, of human histone chaperones in the maintenance of genome DSM Nutritional Products is leading the development and integrity, which is important for long-term health. Besides the provision of vitamin D3 for food, beverage, and dietary new insights it has generated, this research offers the promise supplement manufacturers. of new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for assessing human health and chronic diseases. Quali®-D from DSM is a very pure vitamin D product. It helps meet health-conscious consumers' demands for safe and Cole DeForest was awarded the DSM Polymer Technology convenient products that address the problem of Vitamin D ® Award 2011 for his PhD research in the field of responsive deficiency. Unlike other forms of Vitamin D, Quali -D is polymer hydrogels. A judging committee comprising experts sustainably derived from lanolin taken from the wool of healthy from DSM and from the Polymer Chemistry Division of the live sheep found in Australia and New Zealand. American Chemical Society (ACS POLY) chose the winner from Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 68 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2011 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Sustainability Stakeholder engagement People in 2011 Planet in 2011 Profit in 2011 Outlook Innovation External recognition among four candidates selected as finalists. Cole DeForest has For its movie 'Bright Now', the story behind DSM's Bright developed a synthetic methodology to synthesize novel hydrogel Science. Brighter Living.TM brand, DSM won first prize at the biomaterials whose biochemical and biophysical properties are annual Cannes Corporate Media & TV awards and at the independently tunable in both time and space and can be used European Digital Communication Awards. to direct and probe fundamental cell function. DSM received many more awards and other forms of external The DSM Nutrition Award 2011 for research on Animal Nutrition recognition. These can be found on the DSM website. was granted to Dr. Yves Nys of INRA, the French National Institute for Agricultural Research, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to research in the field of poultry nutrition. In the course of a career spanning several decades, Dr. Nys has pushed the frontiers of poultry nutrition science to develop several novel approaches to enhancing the quality of poultry products, such as poultry meat and eggs, which are a major source of relatively cheap and nutritious animal derived proteins. External recognition In 2011 DSM and its business groups were awarded a variety of awards and other forms of recognition by customers, suppliers, the academic world, non-governmental organizations and trade organizations. A few illustrative examples are given below. During the Global Conference for Social Change at the United Nations in New York, DSM's CEO Feike Sijbesma was awarded the Leaders of Change award in recognition of his visionary and inspirational leadership. According to the Foundation for Social Change, Mr. Sijbesma exemplifies how leadership, creativity and innovation can engage in initiatives that solve social problems. In 2011 the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index ranked DSM No. 1 in the chemical industry sector. This is the third consecutive year that DSM has held this top position in worldwide sustainability and the sixth time in total since 2004. In 2007 and 2008, the two years when DSM was not ranked number one, it was still among the leaders in the sector. DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma received the prestigious George Washington Carver Award for Innovation in Industrial Biotechnology in recognition of his outstanding contribution and vision to the development and innovation in industrial biotechnology. DSM Pharmaceutical Products received the Profiles in Sustainability Award in the category of Product, Process and Green Innovations for its corporate commitment and ongoing innovations in pharmaceutical manufacturing for the sustainable and cost-effective production of active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 69 Review of business in 2011 In 2011 DSM's activities were grouped into four clusters: Nutrition, Pharma, Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates. In addition, DSM reports separately on the DSM Innovation Center and on Corporate activities. Net sales, continuing operations Operating profit (EBIT), continuing operations x € million 2011 2010 x € million 2011 2010 3,370 3,005 577 551 Pharma 677 739 Pharma (8) 3 Performance Materials 2,752 2,507 Performance Materials 162 163 Polymer Intermediates 1,820 1,398 Polymer Intermediates 339 186 Innovation Center 60 50 Innovation Center (69) (64) Corporate activities 369 477 Corporate activities (135) (87) 9,048 8,176 866 752 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization Capital employed at 31 December (EBITDA), continuing operations x € million 2011 2010 x € million 2011 2010 3,019 2,035 735 684 Pharma 802 888 Pharma 36 61 Performance Materials 2,016 1,774 Performance Materials 293 283 Polymer Intermediates 397 354 Polymer Intermediates 380 223 Innovation Center 174 112 Innovation Center (57) (49) Corporate activities 173 101 Corporate activities (91) (41) 6,581 5,264 1,296 1,161 Discontinued operations 204 6,581 5,468 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations in % 2011 2010 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 21.8 22.8 x € million 2011 2010 Pharma 5.3 8.3 Performance Materials 10.6 11.3 950 153 Polymer Intermediates 20.9 16.0 Pharma 87 76 Performance Materials 258 118 14.3 14.2 Polymer Intermediates 81 46 Innovation Center 40 7 Corporate activities 84 51 1,500 451 Discontinued operations 2 25 1,502 476 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 70 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), continuing operations x € million as % of net sales 2011 2010 2011 2010 Nutrition 200 174 5.9 5.8 Pharma 67 62 10.0 8.4 Performance Materials 128 123 4.7 4.9 Polymer Intermediates 18 15 1.0 1.0 Innovation Center 42 31 70.0 62.0 Corporate activities 21 19 5.7 4.0 Total 476 424 5.3 5.2 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 2011 2010 8,329 7,409 Pharma 3,324 4,079 Performance Materials 5,599 4,918 Polymer Intermediates 1,439 1,361 Innovation Center 383 309 Corporate activities 3,150 3,417 22,224 21,493 Discontinued operations 418 22,224 21,911 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 71 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 72 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Life Sciences DSM’s Life Sciences activities are bundled into two clusters: Nutrition and Pharma. In 2011, these two clusters represented 45% of DSM’s net sales from continuing operations. Life Sciences sales (2011) Nutrition Pharma (x € billion) sales by end-market (2011) sales by end-market (2011) (in %) (in %) ■ DSM Nutritional Products ■ Health and Nutrition ■ Pharmaceuticals ■ DSM Food Specialties ■ Agriculture ■ DSM Pharmaceutical Products ■ Other ■ DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals 0.3 1 10 0.4 0.3 3.0 100 89 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 73 I want a brighter world. At DSM we believe Bright Science can take us there. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 74 Review of business in 2011 Review of business in 2011: Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Nutrition Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Continued value growth Net sales € 3,370 m consumer demands for convenient and indulgent products x € million 2011 2010 deepening concern about the health and wellness of rapidly aging populations emerging demand patterns in high growth economies DSM Nutritional Products: sustainability and food safety concerns Animal Nutrition and Health 1,625 1,540 consumers’ growing desire for natural ingredients (‘clean label Human Nutrition and Health 937 923 spirit') Personal Care 168 158 Martek 284 n.a. Sustainability and food safety concerns are leading regulators to 3,014 2,621 apply stricter standards to the oversight of product content, DSM Food Specialties 356 384 claims, processing methods and emissions. This is a development that will impact producers such as DSM. 3,370 3,005 The ‘clean label spirit' in more mature markets, where 577 551 consumers are asking for fewer E-numbers and ‘no artificial Operating profit plus depreciation flavors or preservatives’, is a trend that DSM expects to widen and amortization (EBITDA) 735 684 over the coming years. DSM will address it pro-actively, although Capital expenditure and it will not represent a major part of demand for some time. acquisitions 950 153 Capital employed at 31 December 3,019 2,035 Against the background of the above-mentioned trends, DSM ROCE (in %) 20.6 28.3 expects that the fastest future growth will come from high growth EBITDA as % of net sales 21.8 22.8 economies, and that the established economies remain vital not R&D expenditure 200 174 only as the largest markets but also as the central drivers of product innovation (especially the US and Western Europe). (headcount) 8,329 7,409 What is clear is that future growth in this industry will be partly driven by innovation. The total ingredients sector is growing faster than global GDP. There is also a divergence between wellBusiness and trends established ingredients and forms and more innovative ones. The Nutrition cluster concentrates on the food and beverage, Growth is higher than GDP growth in markets for innovative infant nutrition, dietary supplements, animal nutrition and solutions, such as new enzymes or new forms of established personal care ingredients markets. These markets are ingredients. In more established ingredients, such as ascorbic experiencing many of the same global trends that are impacting acid (generic vitamin C), growth is at or even below GDP growth. DSM as a whole, but also specific business and societal However, this is accompanied by a continuous drive toward developments that are profoundly shaping the future: more quality, reliability, traceability and sustainability, enabling Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 75 premium suppliers such as DSM to further expand their market nutrition market. PC focuses on actives and ingredients in the share. sun care, skin care and hair care industries. DSM Nutritional Products is the only producer who can supply the complete The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products (DNP) range of vitamins, nutritional lipids and carotenoids in the most and DSM Food Specialties (DFS). The nutrition and food suitable forms for a broad range of human and animal ingredients businesses serve the food and beverage, animal applications. nutrition, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. Their activities are based on in-depth knowledge of customer/market In 2011, DSM completed the acquisition of Martek Biosciences, needs. With customized formulation activities in more than 44 making DSM the world’s leading innovator and supplier of algal locations and a marketing and sales presence reaching over 60 DHA omega-3 and ARA omega-6 products. After the integration countries, customer intimacy is a key success factor. of Martek, DNP introduced Category Management focusing on four categories: nutritional lipids (including Martek), carotenoids, The Nutrition businesses’ technical expertise is based on fat soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) and water soluble vitamins application know-how and innovation translating market needs (B and C) and strategically sourced products. into products and services with new benefits. Technologies in the Nutrition cluster are broad, utilizing DSM’s competences in DSM Nutritional Products is involved in all three main steps of biotechnology (including fermentation), chemical process the value chain: the production of pure active ingredients, their technology and particle engineering. incorporation into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes. Being the only fully integrated player allows DSM has the world’s broadest ingredients portfolio and holds DSM to differentiate itself all the way through the chain. leading positions in many large ingredient markets for animal and Managing the interdependencies between active ingredients, human nutrition and health as well as personal care. The forms and premixes, which have important implications for company also has a highly developed ‘local for local’ innovation, logistics and value delivery, is a core competence of infrastructure around the world. The resulting depth and breadth DSM. within and across sizeable markets are the key to resilience in the marketplace. DSM Food Specialties is a leading global manufacturer of food enzymes, cultures, taste ingredients and other specialties for the The total food and beverage, dietary supplements, animal food and beverage industries. In 2011 the business group nutrition and personal care ingredients market is estimated to be realized sales of € 356 million, 10% higher than in 2010, after € 61 billion. DSM has particularly strong positions in vitamins, adjusting for the now captive sales of ARA to DNP (previously to nutritional lipids, enzymes, carotenoids, UV filters and innovative Martek). DSM’s advanced ingredients make a considerable skin care products, which currently constitute an accessible contribution to the success of the world’s favorite food brands market of almost half that amount. New and nature-identical or for the dairy, baking, fruit juice, beer, wine and savory segments. natural nutritional ingredients as well as the expansion of the premix footprint in emerging economies are the main growth DSM Food Specialties is the global market leader in biodrivers in the areas of human and animal nutrition and health. ingredients in food and beverages. It holds leading positions Increasing emphasis on expanding DSM’s strong position in (number one or number two) in the relevant segments of its personal care ingredients offers considerable opportunity for portfolio. The business group’s growth strategy is to exploit accelerated growth, most notably because the personal care opportunities of current businesses via organic growth based on industry is driven by consumers’ desire for innovations. radical innovation, geographical expansion in high growth economies and acquisitions. Strategic context Food processing ingredients represent on average DSM Nutritional Products is organized around three marketapproximately 2% of the cost of the final product (hence a small facing entities: Animal Nutrition & Health (ANH), Human Nutrition percentage of the purchase value for food manufacturers), while & Health (HNH) and Personal Care (PC). ANH realized € 1,625 the added value of the ingredients in terms of taste, texture and million in sales in 2011, HNH € 937 million and PC € 168 million. other functionalities is significant. Differentiation at this level, for The growth rates were 6% for ANH, 2% for HNH and 6% for PC. instance through enzymes or vitamins, directly impacts the differentiation of the end-product. HNH largely addresses the nutritional ingredients part of the food and beverage market and the dietary supplements market. ANH DSM has established leadership positions across all three areas addresses the nutritional additives segment of the animal of the ingredients business: food, animal nutrition and personal Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 76 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities care. It is the world’s largest producer of vitamins. DSM’s bestRespecting the future in-class biotechnology platform has led to the launch of several profitable food enzymes, and DSM has maintained its leadership position in animal nutrition enzymes through continued close DSM is committed to continuously improving the collaboration with Novozymes. sustainability of both its own operations and the value chains in which it operates. The company’s strategy is to In personal care, DSM focuses on sun, hair and skin care, UV provide customers with solutions that enable them to filters and skin actives. The nourishment and health of the skin improve their eco-footprint. are key to overall health. The company uses its deep resins knowledge in Materials Sciences to create innovative new hair DSM Food Specialties is the first DSM business group to care products. have drawn up standardized reports, called Environmental Product Declarations, in which it shares the environmental DSM is a front-runner in terms of product quality and innovation, consequences of its products with its customers. The first regulatory and technical expertise and customer and consumer Environmental Product Declarations concern products understanding. It is also seen as an opinion leader in nutritional (enzymes) that have an eco-footprint of their own, but science. This is becoming a key element in the company’s reduce the customer’s footprint a great deal more. ongoing development. As well as helping to build its own Examples are Brewers Clarex™, which prevents chill haze institutional knowledge and customer and stakeholder formation in beer, and Panamore®, an emulsifier used in confidence, opinion leadership also potentially enables DSM to bread baking. If all the beer produced worldwide in one year actively engage in discussions around nutrition guidelines, policy were stabilized with Brewers Clarex™, the greenhouse-gas and practices with high level decision makers and authorities emissions avoided (compared to the use of classical around the world. powdered beer stabilizers) would be equivalent to the annual carbon footprint of 100,000 Western European DSM Nutritional Products people. And if Panamore® were used by every bakery Key drivers of profitability around the world, the CO2 emissions avoided would be ವ Leadership in global markets: differentiation, innovation, scale, equivalent to the annual carbon footprint of 15,000 people. cost and quality ವ Strong customer value proposition – Quality for Life™ program The purpose of Environmental Product Declarations is ವ Long history of nutrition innovation threefold: they give DSM and its customers insight into the ವ Value strategy eco-footprint of their production activities, they help reduce ವ Premix footprint expansion in high growth economies the overall footprint and they have a commercial appeal. ವ Focus on quality and manufacturing excellence Key success factors The cluster in 2011 ವ Global sales, marketing and distribution network including The Nutrition cluster made steady progress in 2011, with global/regional key account management continued strong business fundamentals. A series of strategic ವ Highly motivated and skilled workforce actions over the past few years have resulted in steady sales ವ Premix plants global footprint growth and, more importantly, a step change in profitability. ವ Innovation (products, concepts and processes) These actions specifically addressed structural changes to the ವ Complete product portfolio and full value chain player competitive landscape and a favorable shift in market dynamics, ವ Strong differentiation while also deepening the company’s offering in terms of quality and customer service. A continued strong focus on operational DSM Food Specialties excellence has underpinned cost control. Key drivers of profitability ವ Innovation in enzymes, savory ingredients and bio-actives The Nutrition cluster has proven its resilience by sustaining ವ Scale and production efficiency EBITDA levels even through the recession in 2008-2009. A focus on value over volume in all areas of the business has boosted Key success factors DSM’s understanding of where it can add value to customers’ ವ Innovation and value differentiation business. This focus also drives DSM’s differentiation strategy, ವ Key customer intimacy ensuring it concentrates on profitable approaches, including ವ Global distribution network activities that take it further down the value chain. ವ Quality and application know-how Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 77 DSM Nutritional Products is a full value chain player and has a In 2011 DSM acquired the premix unit of Fatrom, the leading broad portfolio of micronutrients, with product offerings fully feed premix manufacturer in Romania, following the acquisition anchored in nutritional science, and production and delivery of the feed premix unit of Bayer in South Korea in 2010. Newly executed in a tight framework of quality management. The built premix plants were opened in India, China, Russia, Ecuador company aims to expand the range and scope of available active and Colombia in 2011. ingredients, and to increase the geographical reach of its products. Major progress has been made in these fields through DSM Food Specialties continued its growth path in 2011 with the acquisition of Martek Biosciences and of two companies in further, stronger growth in food enzymes, cultures and savory the field of natural carotenoids: Microbia (Massachusetts, USA) ingredients. The business group has set itself an aggressive in 2010 and Vitatene (Spain) in 2011. growth strategy for 2015: it aims to be the fastest growing force in enzymes, cultures, savory taste and other bio-ingredients by Martek has a strong position in PUFAs (polyunsatured fatty competing aggressively at the highest level, building business in acids) for infant nutrition and an emerging position in food and high growth economies, and helping customers to succeed beverage applications, especially in the US. Its acquisition of through innovation. In 2011 it reaped the first fruits of this Amerifit, a growing business supplying branded dietary strategy with growth percentages of more than 10% in each of supplements with very specific health benefits, provided an its segments. innovative marketing channel for Martek ingredients and is now providing a similar channel for selected DSM ingredients. The focus on bio-ingredients – specialty products based on fermentation processes, such as yeast extracts, cultures and DSM will use its global market reach, technology base and enzymes – continues in the BRIC countries as well as in more application capabilities to further accelerate the growth of traditional markets such as Europe and North America. DSM has Martek’s product portfolio outside of the US as well as in the requisite expertise in enzyme and fermentation technology applications and market segments such as animal nutrition, to take a leadership position in this market. The growth in food food, beverage and dietary supplement applications worldwide. enzymes is expected to continue, as enzymes bring cost savings The acquisition of Martek will drive continued, rapid and and sustainable production closer to the food manufacturer by profitable growth for DSM’s Nutrition business. accelerating certain reactions during production, reducing raw material usage, and reducing waste, emissions and energy Furthermore, Martek’s algal and other microbial-based need. biotechnology platform and its robust biotechnology pipeline, which complements the rest of DSM’s portfolio, are expected to The market for cultures and probiotics is expected to continue deliver new growth opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials to grow as a result of the trend toward health and the growing Sciences. The acquisition was fully integrated in the course of consumption of fermented milk products, while savory 2011. ingredients meet the market demand for natural ingredients and sodium reduction. Under the new flavor legislation that came into The Martek acquisition was included in the results of DSM force in January 2011, all process flavors are by definition no Nutritional Products as of 25 February 2011 and added € 284 longer natural. million to sales and € 88 million to EBITDA. DSM Food Specialties succeeded in strengthening its position DSM’s Human Nutrition & Health (HNH) business is focused on in the various regions in 2011 by developing and producing understanding the intricate relationship between nutrition and products tailored specifically to local markets, and also through human health. At its heart is nutritional science supported by regional co-operation, regional application labs and acquisitions clinical studies aimed at improved micronutrient supply, based and partnerships. around the well-known vitamins, nutritional lipids and carotenoids as well as an array of new nutritional ingredients. In 2011 DSM Food Specialties finalized a joint venture agreement with Jiangsu JieCheng Bio-Engineering Co., Ltd. for the enzyme Ongoing expansion of the network of Animal Nutrition & Health activities of Yixing DiCheng Biotechnology Co., Ltd., creating a (ANH) premix plants into new markets (China, India, South new company, DSM (Jiangsu) Biotechnology Co., Ltd. Through Korea, Romania, Russia, Ecuador and Colombia) has given DSM this venture DSM is further reinforcing its global position in food a closer connection to new customers and access to additional enzymes. The global market for enzymes amounts to € 2 billion geographies and segments. In addition, the franchise operation and is growing by 6-8% per year. The Chinese market for food in China, which was set up to give DSM direct access to smaller enzymes is one of the world's largest and is experiencing growth companies and farmers, was further strengthened. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 78 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities rates well above the global average. DSM holds 85% of the Establishment of new growth platforms in adjacent areas shares of DSM (Jiangsu) Biotechnology Co., Ltd. The aim of this element is to expand the breadth of the cluster’s operations. Within the existing business, personal This joint venture is DFS' next step in strengthening its position care is a good example of a new growth platform. Acquisitions in China. In 2010 it had started a joint venture with Zhejiang are seen as the vehicle to deliver other new growth platforms. Zhongken Biotechnology Co., Ltd. This new joint venture focuses on the production and marketing of gellan gum, a The Nutrition cluster has delivered a CAGR (Compound Annual valuable addition to DSM Food Specialties’ product portfolio and Growth Rate) of 6% over the last five years with net sales a close fit with its biotechnology expertise and process reaching € 3.4 billion in 2011. Overall, DSM continues to see capabilities. strong market conditions in animal nutrition, as high grain and commodity prices increase the importance of feed efficiency. The Nutrition cluster’s performance in 2011 was above that of The human nutrition market includes segments with varying 2010, including the Martek acquisition. Organic sales growth growth potential. For 2015 the Nutrition cluster maintains the was 4% due to higher volumes across all businesses and stable financial targets set in 2010: to grow by 2% above global GDP pricing. The cluster remained focused on its value over volume growth and to operate at an EBITDA margin of at least 20% with strategy. Since DSM Nutritional Products is headquartered in an overall aspiration of 23%. Switzerland, the cluster was impacted by the strong valuation of the Swiss franc, which affected EBITDA performance. Excluding The impact of the substantial strengthening of the Swiss franc in the currency exchange impact, the business would have 2011 was mitigated by a € 50 million currency hedge gain, which delivered another record year. effect will not occur in 2012. Despite this, DSM anticipates that its Nutrition business will continue to make further progress in The Quality for Life™ seal – which stands for quality, reliability, 2012. EBITDA is expected to be above 2011. traceability and sustainability – emphasizes DSM’s commitment to the highest and most comprehensive standards, delivering on customers’ and consumers’ desire for peace of mind. Looking ahead The key elements of the growth strategy for the Nutrition cluster are: Innovation This comprises market driven product, process and system innovation, continued improvements via incremental application-driven innovations and open innovation with key customers and other partners. High Growth Economies This is about securing growth in the high growth economies by developing and producing products tailored specifically to these markets as well as through regional partnerships and acquisitions. Continued strengthening of the core of the business This involves continuous development/improvement in operations and in the supply chain, continuous development of delivery systems and forms technologies, expansion of the premix network and services, strengthening of nutritional science and advocacy, and continuous development and improvement in quality management. In short: building and strengthening capabilities to ensure the cluster delivers more value, more efficiently. Increased leveraging of the cluster’s unique full value chain position This will be done by broadening the portfolio of ingredients. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 79 DSM brings ‘1000 Days’ concept to China Nutrition levels before birth and up to the age of two have a instance soy milk, and it offers an affordable alternative to major impact on a child’s future mental and physical health. poor people or low income parents compared to infant food If a child does not receive the right mix of micronutrients available in the market. (vitamins and minerals) during these ‘1000 days’, it will be stunted for life. In 2009 the China Development Research Foundation used DSM’s Yingyangbao fortified soybean powder in a child Micronutrient deficiencies in children are very common in nutrition intervention program in Qinghai, one of the poorest poor rural areas in China. This ‘hidden hunger’ results in provinces of China. After one year the number of stunted and anemia and slow growth and development. In 2010, the anemic children was found to have been drastically reduced. percentage of anemia in children in these areas was found to Motivated by these positive results, the China Children and be an alarming 40-50%, the overall prevalence of anemia in Teenagers Foundation (CCTF) launched a program in May China being 24-28%. 2011 to provide Yingyangbao to children of between 6 and 36 months in the whole of China. DSM (the main supplier of Until recently, governments and NGOs in China did not Yingyangbao) was chosen as the nutrition partner in this actively address hidden hunger in children, their focus being program. DSM will also support CCTF in expanding the on general education and on combating serious diseases. program to include children up to the age of 6 and eventually But in 2008 the Chinese government created a new standard all target population groups in China. for infant food and approved DSM’s Yingyangbao, as it is called in Chinese, which means ‘A Bag full of Nutrients’for DSM’s Nutrition Improvement Program (NIP) has been babies of 6-36 months. DSM, along with other parties, had actively working with all parties to focus attention on for many years been actively promoting the importance of children’s micronutrient deficiencies and to develop policies micronutrients for the proper development of babies. and product standards. A global team of NIP experts supports local organizations by sharing experiences and Yingyangbao is very suitable for children of 6-36 months, know-how and solving issues that arise in the field. because it is a nutritious meal in itself when dissolved in for Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 80 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 81 I want a brighter world. At DSM we believe Bright Science can take us there. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 82 Review of business in 2011 Review of business in 2011: Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Pharma Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Leveraging partnerships for growth Net sales € 677 m of beta-lactam active pharmaceutical ingredients with a global x € million 2011 2010 presence, using cutting-edge low eco-footprint manufacturing technology. DSM Pharmaceutical Products 409 392 The pharmaceutical market is facing a range of trends and DSM Sinochem dynamics that are putting existing business models into question Pharmaceuticals1 268 347 and are leading to some fundamental changes in the industry, but which are also providing a number of future growth 677 739 opportunities for DSM's Pharma activities. (8) 3 For DPP's customers, innovative pharmaceutical companies, it Operating profit plus depreciation is becoming more difficult to discover new active molecules and amortization (EBITDA) 36 61 which have sufficient additional patient benefits and an Capital expenditure and acceptable risk profile and which can get approved by the US acquisitions 87 76 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory Capital employed at 31 December 802 888 bodies. The cost of developing such molecules is rising, while at ROCE (in %) (1.0) 0.4 the same time health service providers – governments or EBITDA as % of net sales 5.3 8.3 insurance companies – are under enormous pressure to reduce R&D expenditure 67 62 cost. Medicines are becoming an increasingly important element of total healthcare costs, typically accounting for around 10% of total healthcare spend. As a consequence, both governments (headcount) 3,324 4,079 and insurance companies are looking to save costs, putting pressure on the total healthcare value chain, including custom 1 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, in which DSM has a 50% interest, has been manufacturing companies. proportionally consolidated from 1 September 2011 Pharmaceutical companies are consolidating, reviewing their business models and product ranges, and competing to develop Business and trends increasingly ‘niche’, narrow spectrum and specialized drugs, The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM which are often difficult-to-administer drugs and Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world’s leading biopharmaceuticals used only in hospitals. Although these can custom manufacturing suppliers to the pharmaceutical industry. be high value, volumes are lower. Many of today’s medicines around the world contain ingredients produced by DPP. The cluster also includes DSM's 50% interest However, the intensity of cost pressure and the need to review in the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture (DSP). DSP business models across the pharmaceutical industry is likely to was formed from the former DSM business group DSM Antiresult in above-GDP growth in the pharmaceutical outsourcing Infectives (DAI). DSP is one of the few producers and marketers market, especially for drugs nearing the end of their (patented) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 83 life cycle. The imperative for pharma companies to optimize their services for biopharmaceutical companies based on unique asset base is expected to lead to a greater focus on finding technological strengths and technology licensing); DSM experienced and highly qualified partners to take on Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (DPI) (offering manufacturing services for manufacturing challenges as a supplier. DPP, with its broad final dosage with a strong competence in sterile operations); and service offering including regulatory services, is well equipped to DSM BioSolutions (focusing on custom manufacturing services meet these market demands. based on microbial fermentation). In most countries increased attention is being paid to the overall DSM Pharmaceutical Products’ facilities have been approved by consumption of antibiotics. Infectious diseases continue the FDA, similar agencies in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and however to be a major life threat, especially in high growth Japan. DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is licensed by the US Drug economies, and the beta-lactam anti-infectives – DSP’s area of Enforcement Administration to manufacture scheduled drugs. leadership – continue to be most physicians’ first choice of cure. As healthcare coverage and quality expands in these economies DSP is the global market leader in beta-lactam active and these products are very safe and cost-effective, DSP sees pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) such as semi-synthetic healthy growth rates – around 5-7% per year – coupled with an penicillins and semi-synthetic cephalosporins, which represent increasing focus on patient safety. DSP is seen as an industry the biggest class of APIs in anti-infectives, and other active leader with clear market advantages, communicated via the ingredients such as nystatin. The joint venture manufactures DSMPureActives™ brand. nearly all its beta-lactam APIs and the related intermediates using proprietary biotechnology. This reduces energy use and DSM's Pharma presence in Asia gives the joint venture a clear minimizes the need for solvents, making DSP an industry leader head start in the world’s fastest growing markets for the in terms of both cost and sustainability. Emissions are manufacture of generic pharmaceuticals in general, and anticonsiderably lower than with conventional technology, while infectives in particular. The Asian market currently represents product quality is higher. The opening of the new 6-APA plant in only about 6-7% of total global pharmaceutical spend, but this China in the beginning of 2012 will mark the completion of this is estimated to rise to 20% by 2020 (Source: Credit Suisse/IMS). technology roll-out across all of DSP’s production facilities DSM is well positioned to take advantage of this, with its antiaround the world. infectives business having two production sites in China and one in India, supported by a network of sales offices. One of the quality advantages of the APIs produced via these proprietary biotechnology routes is that patients benefit from the Strategic context higher purity of the products. To further enhance its ecoDSM Pharmaceutical Products (DPP) is a leading provider of footprint, DSP is cutting down on the use of scarce resources high-quality custom manufacturing and development services to where possible and is actively implementing the use of the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and crop protection renewable energy sources in its operations. industries. Customers around the world are serviced from two research and development sites and six manufacturing sites with DSP saw its sales decrease from € 347 million in 2010 to € 268 a range of clinical to commercial capacity in the US and Europe. million in 2011. DSM proportionally consolidates its share in the Among these customers are nine of the top ten pharmaceutical joint venture of 50% with effect from 1 September 2011. companies a well as the top three crop protection companies. Reported net sales decreased by € 63 million as a result of the In addition, DPP serves a large number of biotech, specialty and deconsolidation. emerging pharma companies across the globe. In 2011 DPP’s sales amounted to € 409 million (up 4% from 2010) with high DSM Pharmaceutical Products growth in biopharma revenues. Key drivers of profitability ವ Focus on end-of-lifecycle drugs and new products pipeline in The business group focuses on the innovative and generic pharma industry pharmaceuticals, biologics and biosimilars, pharma/agro ವ Innovative technologies for the future of pharma chemical, and bio-industrial markets. DSM Pharmaceutical manufacturing Products includes DSM Pharma Chemicals (DPC) (custom ವ Expansion of proprietary product portfolio chemical manufacturing services for complex registered intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) as Key success factors well as their own registered products), and DSM Exclusive ವ Strong pipeline of service contracts based on large strategic Synthesis (which caters to various fine-chemical customers customer partnerships outside of the pharma industry); DSM Biologics (focusing on Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 84 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities ವ Continued demonstration of sustainable and innovative DSM is recognized as a trusted and high quality provider, with solutions for customers an excellent track record in regulatory affairs and with ವ Increased presence in Asia and high growth economies outstanding R&D and manufacturing capabilities. More than this, ವ Commitment to DSM Quality for Life™ standards customers see DSM as a company that understands the intricacies of technology transfer and asset optimization well. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Key drivers of profitability In 2011 DPP adopted the Quality for Life™ seal. This seal, which ವ Basic penicillin (PEN) price stands for quality, reliability, traceability and sustainability, ವ Access to regulated markets emphasizes DSM’s commitment to the highest and most ವ Currency exchange rate comprehensive standards, delivering on customers’ and ವ PEN production cost consumers’ desire for peace of mind. ವ Conversion margins from PEN to semi-synthetic penicillins (SSPs) and semi-synthetic cephalosporins (SSCs) All of these strengths mark DSM out as a leading player in the outsourcing market who is able to successfully manage and Key success factors deliver complex manufacturing solutions. In other words, DSM ವ Market access through global presence and alliances is now a quality leader in a market that is increasingly driven by ವ New technologies cost. ವ Access to China ವ Product differentiation and brand value DSM is committed to continuous innovation to provide ever more ವ Operational excellence efficient and sustainable alternatives for the manufacturing of ವ Access to quality-oriented customers pharmaceuticals. The company’s sustainability drive includes both small and large molecule production. Route scouting is part The cluster in 2011 of DSM’s ‘green chemistry toolbox’, which also integrates The same global trends as outlined earlier are also impacting process intensification activities, such as micro-reactor DSM Pharmaceutical Products, bringing rapid change to the technology, that increase yield and reduce waste for small pharmaceutical outsourcing market. Although outsourcing is molecules. Similar concepts are applied in biotechnological becoming increasingly common, the business remains manufacturing with DSM’s XD® and Rhobust™ technologies, inherently volatile. Customer demand fluctuates, sometimes which minimize production volumes and process steps, resulting quite violently, as customers take manufacturing back in house in higher plant utilization and less labor. to fill their own capacity, or see planned production phases delayed by the FDA or because of business challenges. The rise Over the past few years, DSM has decisively tackled the of competitors from Asia is particularly keenly felt in the domain challenging issues that were hampering the anti-infectives of DSM Pharma Chemicals. business. It has taken tough but necessary decisions to rationalize the site portfolio, and by 2012 it will have completed There has been a sharp increase in the manufacturing volume its asset base turnaround with the opening of a new 6-APA plant outsourced to the high growth economies, although this has in China. This will not only significantly increase DSM’s exposure tended to remain at the level of ingredients (now moving toward to high growth economies, but also make the business less regulated active ingredients) rather than final dosage products. dependent on external penicillin sources. As a result, the number of players in the industry has increased over the past few years. The anti-infectives joint venture with Sinochem was finalized in 2011. As part of the joint venture agreement, Sinochem Group The changing nature of global regulations is creating increased took a 50% equity interest in DSM Anti-Infectives for a total cash opportunities for biosimilar and bio-better production. DSM consideration of € 210 million on a cash and debt free basis. The Biologics is well equipped to seize these opportunities. joint venture includes all of the DSM Anti-Infectives activities across the world. The market context has fundamental implications for DSM Pharmaceutical Products. The biggest opportunities now lie The joint venture with Sinochem is fully in line with DSM’s stated where DSM’s pharmaceutical customers expect the greatest strategy for its Pharma cluster: creating value via partnerships. cost pressure, that is, innovative drugs nearing the end of their The combination of DSM's strong global market position in antipatent protection and support in rationalizing supply chains. infectives and Sinochem's significant sales infrastructure presents exciting future growth opportunities through combined technologies and access to the fast growing Asian economies. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 85 DSP, the global leader in beta-lactam antibiotics, is successfully applying its highly innovative biotechnology knowledge to improve and transform its business. Both companies are convinced that together they will be better able to seize the growth opportunities in China and other high growth economies, combining DSM’s proprietary technology position and global production footprint and Sinochem’s distribution and sales capabilities and global growth ambition in biopharmaceuticals. Organic sales growth of the Pharma cluster in 2011 was 3% due to higher volumes at DSM Pharmaceutical Products and slightly lower volumes at DSP. Overall sales decreased by 8%, mainly as a consequence of the proportional consolidation of DSP. The cluster’s profitability was reduced by tougher market conditions in 2011 in the anti-infectives markets and the proportional consolidation of DSP. Looking ahead DSM's strategy for both DPC and DPI is to focus on midsize to large pharmaceutical companies, where they will move from a pure service model to a product and service model and increasingly offer solutions for the full supply chain, including regulatory services. For DPC and DPI DSM is looking to further increase efficiency and to balance the activities toward the east to be more active in end-of-lifecycle products. DPP wants to accelerate its growth and transformation via a partnership. DSM Biologics continues to develop its technology and will open the first commercial scale biopharmaceutical manufacturing site in Australia in 2013, funded by the Australian government. DSM expects the DSP joint venture to increase its sales to over € 600 million by 2015, generating EBITDA margins in excess of 15%. For 2012, trading conditions in the Pharma cluster are expected to remain challenging, although DSM anticipates that it will make further strategic progress. EBITDA is expected to improve slightly compared to last year, despite the impact of the 50% deconsolidation of the anti-infectives business. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 86 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Materials Sciences DSM's Materials Sciences businesses comprise the Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates clusters. In 2011 the two clusters represented 51% of DSM’s total net sales from continuing operations. Materials Sciences sales Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates (2011) sales by end-market (2011) sales by end-market (2011) (x € billion) (in %) (in %) ■ DSM Engineering Plastics ■ Metal / building and construction ■ Metal / building and construction ■ DSM Dyneema ■ Automotive/transport ■ Automotive/transport ■ DSM Resins ■ Textiles ■ Textiles ■ DSM Fibre Intermediates ■ Electrical/electronics ■ Electrical/electronics ■ Packaging 23 ■ Packaging 11 11 1.2 ■ Other 27 16 15 1.8 0.2 14 17 1.3 16 3 47 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 87 I want a brighter world. At DSM we believe Bright Science can take us there. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 88 Review of business in 2011 Review of business in 2011: Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Growing via sustainable, innovative solutions Net sales € 2,752 m Climate change and the adverse effects of over-dependence on x € million 2011 2010 fossil fuels continue to be the most important trends driving the materials industry. DSM’s customers in virtually every sector are seeking products that reduce energy use or emissions in their DSM Engineering Plastics 1,249 1,045 own operations or, even more importantly, throughout their value DSM Dyneema 234 288 chains. In many cases DSM is active in the business of replacing DSM Resins 1,269 1,174 metals with lighter alternatives, and supports customers who are increasingly seeking polymer solutions that are based on 2,752 2,507 renewable (rather than fossil-based) raw materials and solventfree products and processes that can help create more 162 163 sustainable value chains. Resource scarcity, which also impacts Operating profit plus depreciation costs, is increasingly contributing to these developments. and amortization (EBITDA) 293 283 Capital expenditure and Energy reduction is key. This means not only finding new, less acquisitions 258 118 energy-intensive ways to manufacture DSM’s own products, but Capital employed at 31 December 2,016 1,774 also enabling energy savings in the application of these ROCE (in %) 8.6 9.5 products, for example by developing resins systems that require EBITDA as % of net sales 10.6 11.3 less energy for curing. By providing lighter weight solutions than, R&D expenditure 128 123 for instance, conventional metal structures, DSM products help reduce energy consumption during use as well, thus making a significant contribution to the reduction of energy and carbon (headcount) 5,599 4,918 footprints across the planet. An important field of application of performance materials is Business and trends workplace health and safety. Demand in this area is increasing The Performance Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering because workplace health and safety standards are becoming Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins. These business more common across the world as prosperity grows. Another groups specialize in the manufacture of technologically field of application is health and wellness. Here, the main focus sophisticated, high-quality products that are tailored to meet is on meeting the needs of an increasing elderly population. customers’ performance criteria. DSM Engineering Plastics is a These needs require new thinking, and new applications. global supplier of high-performance engineering thermoplastic Urbanization is an important driver for building and construction solutions. DSM Dyneema is the global supplier of Dyneema®, the – one of the areas in which DSM plays an important role with world’s strongest fiber™. DSM Resins is a global supplier of innovative resins solutions. And finally, concerns about personal innovative high-quality resins solutions for paints and coatings, safety and global threats have not diminished, which means composite materials and fiber optic coatings. there is a continuing demand for innovative protective materials. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 89 The world has become multi-polar and more difficult to predict, up-grade material of choice enabling the replacement of with rapidly growing prosperous middle classes in many formerly traditional materials that have a less desirable environmental ‘emerging’ countries. Demand for plastics and resins is high and footprint. increasing in these markets, not only because manufacturers are seeking to meet growing local needs, but also because global DSM Resins ranks among the global leaders in the markets for manufacturing has shifted to these countries. resin systems for industrial coatings and decorative coatings. As a leader in sustainable solutions, DSM is recognized as a frontOn the safety and sustainability front, the replacement of runner in the development and production of environmentally halogen-based flame retardants in consumer electronics and the friendly resins such as waterborne coating resins and powder replacement of solvent-based resins by water-based resins coating resins. DSM Resins is the European market leader in continues. unsaturated polyester resins and is rapidly building a position in Asia. DSM is a niche player in functional materials, with a global DSM’s Performance Materials cluster has expanded in the last leadership position in fiber optic coatings, protecting more than two decades from just over € 0.5 billion in sales in 1990 to € 2.8 one billion kilometers of fiber optic cables around the world. billion in 2011. With major investments in high growth economies such as China and India, the Performance Materials cluster is DSM Engineering Plastics making a significant contribution to DSM’s growth in Asia. Key drivers of profitability ವ Market growth in key segments and regions With the great majority of its innovations driven by sustainability, ವ Sustainable solutions driving innovation: green materials, DSM’s Performance Materials cluster is recognized as a frontweight reduction (replacing metal, fuel efficiency, reduced runner in creating and introducing sustainable innovative emissions), driving innovation solutions. During the last two decades, DSM’s portfolio in ವ Drive for miniaturization, functionality and performance Performance Materials has clearly evolved toward more ವ Growth in market share in high-end innovative applications specialized, higher-value-added businesses. Innovations, branding and continued operational excellence programs in the Key success factors more mature part of the portfolio have contributed to a ವ Global market leadership in chosen markets continuous increase in gross margin. ವ Global presence (follow customers) ವ Cost position The businesses in the Performance Materials cluster have ವ The right portfolio of engineering plastics matching needs in achieved strong leadership positions in chosen segments of the chosen markets global markets for advanced materials. DSM Engineering ವ Ability to commercialize market-driven innovations Plastics has a focused portfolio and has achieved global ವ Product, application and value chain know-how leadership positions with many of its products. It is the global number 3 in the overall market for semi-crystalline engineering DSM Dyneema plastics and the global market leader in high-temperature Key drivers of profitability polyamides. In polyamide 6 and thermoplastic copolyester ವ Market growth and penetration into existing applications elastomers DSM holds a number 2 position. ವ Success of innovations, new launches ವ Dyneema® and Dyneema Purity® brands An important factor underlying DSM Engineering Plastics’ leadership and growth is its strong upstream integration with a Key success factors leading caprolactam player, DSM Fibre Intermediates. ವ Capability to manage growth, both in hardware and in people ವ Ability to commercialize market driven innovations Dyneema® is respected as the global premium brand for ultra ವ Product, application and value chain know-how high molecular weight polyethylene fiber. DSM Dyneema ವ Strong, healthy IP position (patents and trademarks) manufactures and sells products in several forms including fiber, ವ Brand value (trust and innovation) tape and uni-directional (UD) sheets. The powerful Dyneema® brand is licensed for use in a wide and ever-increasing range of DSM Resins applications such as medical sutures, commercial fishing and Key drivers of profitability aquaculture nets, ropes, slings, high-performance fabrics such ವ Market growth in key segments and regions as cut-resistant gloves and apparel, as well as vehicle and ವ Sustainable solutions: lighter materials and environmentally personal ballistic protection. DSM Dyneema focuses on friendly, safer, solvent free paints sustainable innovation. Dyneema® is increasingly seen as the ವ Growth in market share in high-end innovative applications Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 90 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Key success factors best-performing green polymer available, and has a zero carbon ವ Global market leadership and presence footprint (cradle to gate). Also, with Palapreg® ECO, DSM has ವ Brand value (differentiation, reliability) created a resin with 55% biorenewable content (the highest bioವ Ability to commercialize market driven innovations based content in resins on the market) which has excellent ವ Leading low-footprint technology platforms geared toward properties while simultaneously supporting sustainability in the markets value chain. Many of DSM’s customers are looking for materials with high Nuna6 recyclability to improve the Life Cycle Assessment scores of their own products. DSM Engineering Plastics is leading the response to this need. Recognizing the growing interest in recycling with the ultimate goal of achieving closed-loop systems, DSM has adopted the Cradle to Cradle® concept as part of its sustainability strategy. In 2011 DSM received Silver certificates for a number of its materials, meaning these grades can be recycled safely in a closed loop Cradle to Cradle® business model. DSM Engineering Plastics is also actively replacing other materials, particularly by introducing halogen free flame retardant solutions, such as Arnitel® XG (used in consumer electronics cables), Stanyl® ForTii™ (especially in electronic connectors), and Arnite® XG (used in electrical insulation in white goods). The World Solar Challenge – which in 2011 saw 37 solar In Russia, DSM and KuibyshevAzot OJSC (KA) commenced their powered cars from around the globe racing 3,000 strategic cooperation. DSM Engineering Plastics now has two kilometers under the Australian sun – requires a joint ventures with KA and holds a majority share in both. In combination of speed, endurance and strength. To do well addition, KA has received a license under DSM Fibre in the race, teams have to reduce the energy consumption Intermediates’ technology for the production of cyclohexanone. of their vehicles by making them as aerodynamic and lightweight as possible, while ensuring that they are strong The two joint ventures of DSM Engineering Plastics and KA relate and reliable enough to survive a race across the outback. to the marketing and sale of engineering plastics in Russia and the production of engineering plastics compounds in a plant DSM is an innovation partner of the Nuon Solar Team. For located in Togliatti (Russia). The license granted to KA for using the 2011 World Solar Challenge, DSM’s Turane resins DSM’s proprietary cyclohexanone technology at the Togliatti helped to make Nuna6, the team’s car, 10% lighter than its caprolactam plant will increase KA’s capacity to meet the predecessor while also increasing its rigidity by 25%. Nuna6 growing demand for this polyamide 6 intermediate. crossed the finishing line in only 5 days, behind the winning team from Japan, leaving a further 35 solar powered cars DSM Dyneema completed the acquisition of a majority share of from around the world in its wake. 91.75% in Shandong ICD High Performance Fiber Co., Ltd. (ICD), based in Laiwu, Shandong province, China. ICD is a manufacturer of UHMWPE (ultra high molecular weight The cluster in 2011 polyethylene) fiber and a strong player in the high-performance DSM Engineering Plastics offers an industry-leading portfolio of fiber market in China. The acquisition brings complementary sustainable thermoplastic technologies. Its leadership in manufacturing and technology assets to DSM Dyneema and sustainable solutions is demonstrated by its complete portfolio substantially strengthens the company’s presence in this key of halogen free flame retardant solutions, developed for a wide market. range of high-performance applications. This has been further strengthened by the successful launch of new innovations. The Dyneema® brand is well known in the industries served, and DSM Dyneema has implemented a comprehensive brand DSM strives to further improve the environmental performance licensing strategy which will result in a number of new licensees of its products. The most innovative developments in this field and enhanced control of the brand. This strategy is particularly are new bio-based polymers and bio-based building blocks. targeted at supporting key customers and other value chain DSM is making good progress in this area: EcoPaXX™ is the partners. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 91 DSM Resins’ waterborne coatings range already delivers Despite tough economic conditions in Q4 and weakness in the significant advantages to its paint customers, who are faced with tender driven vehicle protection business at DSM Dyneema, the regulatory pressures and social responsibility demands. DSM's cluster posted a higher result for the year. resins also deliver considerable advantages in creating lightweight composites used in containers, cars, trucks and Looking ahead trains, wind-turbine blades and a range of other applications DSM’s businesses in the Performance Materials cluster aim to related to improving energy efficiency. DSM will further increase achieve faster growth than the sector averages by (1) focusing the flow of radical innovations. DSM Resins’ ongoing focus on investment, marketing and business development on high and commitment to both customers and innovation gives DSM growth economies, (2) utilizing their understanding and a strong competitive advantage. technology lead in sustainable solutions to meet rapidly developing customer needs (lighter, stronger, more recyclable, In 2011 construction started on the new Jinling DSM Resins and bio-based) and (3) deepening their innovation leadership facility in China. The new facility will be one of the largest position in materials by getting great ideas to market even more manufacturing plants for composite resins in the world. Focusing quickly. DSM foresees continued growth for sustainable and on the continued strong demand for high-end resins in all the innovative solutions, and its sales and profit aspirations for the application segments, the new facility will boost the sustainable cluster are as follows: sales growth at double GDP growth level development of the composite resins industry in China. and an EBITDA margin above 17% by 2015. DSM acquired a 51% stake in AGI Corporation of Taiwan (AGI) For 2012, trading conditions are expected to continue to be in 2011. The company offers a broad range of environmentally volatile and the end market outlook is uncertain owing to weak friendly UV (ultraviolet) curable resins and other products. These consumer sentiment in some of DSM's key geographies. products are used in coatings and inks for wood, flooring, plastic However, based on current insights EBITDA of the cluster is and graphic arts applications. Due to the accident that occurred expected to be somewhat higher than in 2011. on DSM-AGI’s site in Xinhua on 28 July 2011, production was suspended on this site. Part of the site will be rebuilt. DSM-AGI is finalizing the construction of its new manufacturing site in Changwa, which will create approximately 75 new jobs. DSM also announced a joint venture with Kemrock Industries in India for the production of specialty composite resins in this country. DSM and Kemrock will together invest USD 25 million in the joint venture, which will be based in Pune. Through this partnership DSM will structurally strengthen its presence in India, capitalizing on its technological knowledge and global customer relationships. DSM’s share in the joint venture will be 51% and Kemrock’s will be 49%. In addition to the joint venture, DSM has established its own local marketing and sales company for composite resins to serve the Indian domestic market. The building and construction markets in Europe and the US continue to be depressed and this is negatively affecting DSM Resins’ results. In order to achieve its objectives, including accelerating its switch to highly innovative and sustainable products (styrene free, powder, waterborne and UV curable), the business group will optimize and streamline its global organization. Therefore, DSM Resins will close a few smaller operations in the UK and Taiwan (90 fte) and reduce its global staff by 210 fte, of which 130 are in the Netherlands. Organic sales growth for the cluster in 2011 was 9%. Higher prices at DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins were partly offset by lower volumes at DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 92 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 93 I want a brighter world. At DSM we believe Bright Science can take us there. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 94 Review of business in 2011 Review of business in 2011: Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Strengthening backward integration for DSM Engineering Plastics Net sales € 1,820 m reputation of DFI. This technology leadership is the pillar of its x € million 2011 2010 commercial success and will be even more important in the future, when polyamide 6 will be used in increasingly demanding applications with stricter performance requirements. DSM Fibre Intermediates 1,820 1,398 Caprolactam’s key outlet is polyamide 6, of which approximately 1,820 1,398 4 million tons per year are produced worldwide. The applications of polyamide 6 are very diverse and cover many end-markets, 339 186 from carpets and textiles to cars, electrical devices and Operating profit plus depreciation packaging film. Some of these applications are sensitive to the and amortization (EBITDA) 380 223 larger economic cycle (automotive, housing, luxury electronics), Capital expenditure and while others (such as textiles) are quite stable. acquisitions 81 46 Capital employed at 31 December 397 354 With its local presence and production facilities, DFI has ROCE (in %) 90.3 50.5 established a strong caprolactam position in China, resulting EBITDA as % of net sales 20.9 16.0 from excellent and crisis-proof partnerships with winning R&D expenditure 18 15 customers in the downstream polyamide 6 industries. DFI supplies key intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics (headcount) 1,439 1,361 (DEP). In this way, DFI has a secured base load and DEP enjoys security of supply. Thanks to this integration, DFI contributes to the success of DEP. Business and trends Caprolactam By keeping a strong focus on the potential of high growth DSM Fibre Intermediates (DFI) is the global leader in the economies, sustainability and technological innovation and by production and supply of caprolactam, the raw material for showing an unwavering commitment to its customers, DFI has polyamide 6. It has production facilities on three continents strengthened its global leadership position in caprolactam. (Europe, North America, Asia) with a total production capacity of nearly 700 kilotons per year. DSM supplies around 20% of the Acrylonitrile merchant market. DFI offers caprolactam of world-class quality With its market share of 25%, DFI is the leading supplier in the with a high level of service to build long-term valuable European merchant acrylonitrile market while globally it ranks partnerships with customers. third. Acrylonitrile is produced at the Chemelot site in SittardGeleen (Netherlands) in two identical plants, with a total capacity Over 40% of all caprolactam produced globally is made using of 275 kilotons per year. The feedstocks for the production of DSM’s proprietary technology. The fact that even DSM's acrylonitrile are air, propylene and ammonia. The on-site competitors use this technology is proof of the leadership availability of these raw materials results in a high level of Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 95 efficiency. Even the recovered by-products of the production at the existing DNCC manufacturing site in Nanjing Yanjiang process increasingly contribute to profitability. Industrial Development Zone. It is expected to come on stream in Q3 of 2013 and to be operating at full capacity in 2014. As DFI, with its distinguishing focus on reliability and responsiveness, continues to shift its customer portfolio toward Looking ahead the strongest European market segments, it is able to sustain its The future of the caprolactam industry looks bright. Strongly sound financial performance. driven by the growth of engineering plastics and film applications of polyamide 6, the global caprolactam market is estimated to DFI’s production of acrylonitrile involves the efficient recovery of grow by more than 3% annually over the next five years. In the by-products (hydrogen cyanide, ammonium sulfate and Chinese region, consumption of polyamide 6, and therefore acetonitrile) and the efficient use of energy and raw materials. A demand for caprolactam, will grow rapidly in the coming years. Life Cycle Analysis of acrylonitrile in 2010 revealed that DFI has The region will consume half of the world’s caprolactam by 2015. the lowest carbon footprint in the industry. Currently, China is largely dependent on imports to satisfy the demand for polyamide 6. Acrylonitrile is a key ingredient for fashionable acrylic textile and carpet fibers and for materials (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, The new capacity that is scheduled to come online in the coming ABS and styrene-acrylonitrile, SAN) for automobile components, years will cover the growth in demand. In addition to DNCC’s electronic devices, toys and sports equipment. The application 200 kiloton second line in China in 2014, 400 kiloton of capacity of acrylonitrile in a wide range of valuable specialty products (for is under construction, including some smaller debottlenecking example carbon fibers, water treatment additives, enhanced oil projects, and will start up between 2012 and 2014. As the global recovery, detergents) is rapidly growing. demand is expected to grow by more than 3% annually, global utilization rates are expected to stay at a healthy level. DSM Fibre Intermediates Key drivers of profitability DFI has a uniquely strong starting point to make the best of these ವ Global growth of engineering plastics opportunities via global and Chinese growth. Its global market ವ Exposure to high growth Asian markets position, a solid partnership in China, excellent performance, ವ High utilization rates technological leadership and a growing secured supply to an ambitiously growing DEP provide the foundations for building a Key success factors second caprolactam line in Nanjing (China). ವ Low-cost operations ವ Security of sales (excellent global coverage) Besides doubling caprolactam capacity in Nanjing, DFI will ವ Reliable supply, consistently good product quality continue to improve its existing assets by means of projects to ವ Technology leadership extend asset life time and to reduce variable costs, while maintaining a firm commitment to sustainability. Sustainable and The cluster in 2011 innovative solutions are an integral part of the production DFI achieved organic sales growth of 32% compared to 2010. process. With innovative technologies, the Nanjing facility will The business continued to benefit from the high global utilization reduce energy consumption by 30% while doubling capacity. rate, resulting in excellent pricing. Prices were 21% above the 2010 level. Volumes were higher than in 2010 due to yield For acrylonitrile, the global demand will grow roughly along with improvements in operations in both caprolactam and the global economy. Current global annual demand being acrylonitrile. The cluster continued to show a substantial EBITDA approximately 5 million tons, and GDP growth being 2% per increase compared to 2010. Continued pricing strength and year, the additional demand for acrylonitrile each year will be 100 higher margins, combined with higher sales volumes and an kilotons. excellent manufacturing performance, drove the result to a new record high. Global acrylonitrile capacity in 2011 was close to 6 million tons per year. The market is expected to remain tight, as there is only DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd (DNCC), jointly owned by DSM, one major acrylonitrile expansion project underway: a 200 kiloton Sinopec Nanjing Chemical Industry Company and Jiangsu per year plant being built in Asia. Guoxin Group, started an expansion project to double its caprolactam capacity to 400 kilotons, making it the largest An up-to-date industrial infrastructure and the availability of lowcaprolactam plant in the world. The investment will be cost raw materials make the European acrylonitrile producers approximately USD 300 million. The new facility is to be located the global cost leaders. With their excellent competitive Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 96 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities positions, they outperform their US and Chinese competitors. This situation is expected to continue into the coming years. Being a European player, DFI does not strive to expand its acrylonitrile business to Asia. However, to keep a strategic ‘window on Asia’, it supplies some customers in Asia through swaps with acrylonitrile producers in the US and Japan. For the cluster another strong year is expected, at a level above the historical average, but EBITDA will be clearly lower than the exceptional result in 2011. In 2012 three planned turnarounds in caprolactam, one in Q1 2012 and two more in Q3 2012, will also impact the results. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 97 I want a brighter world. At DSM we believe Bright Science can take us there. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 98 Review of business in 2011 Review of business in 2011: Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Innovation Center Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities The brightest science for the best solution Net sales € 60 m Innovation Center. In addition to direct investments DSM x € million 2011 2010 Venturing is also involved in a number of venture capital funds. 60 50 In 2011 DSM Venturing made a follow-up investment in GermanOperating profit (69) (64) based SkySails GmbH & Co. KG, the market and technology Operating profit plus depreciation leader for automated towing kite systems for ships. and amortization (EBITDA) (57) (49) Capital expenditure and DSM also made an investment in NanoHoldings LLC, a company acquisitions 40 7 that specializes in breakthrough nanotechnology discoveries in R&D expenditure 42 31 the field of energy. Based in Rowayton (Connecticut, USA), Workforce at 31 December NanoHoldings finds, nurtures and commercializes breakthrough (headcount) 383 309 materials sciences discoveries through partnerships with worldclass universities and their leading scientists. Nanomaterials have very interesting intrinsic mechanical as well as electrical and The Innovation Center is an element of the strategy DSM in thermal properties that can be leveraged in a broad range of motion: driving focused growth that was announced in 2010. applications. The cluster contains the activities of the DSM Innovation Center (including DSM Venturing) and the Emerging Business Areas And finally, DSM made an investment in Cambrios, an electronic (EBAs). Until 2010 both were reported in Other activities. materials company that develops proprietary electrically conductive coatings using nano silver wires. DSM Innovation Center In September 2010 DSM announced that it would shift its focus The DSM Innovation Center was originally set up in 2006 to to other EBAs, and that the Specialty Packaging activities and facilitate the Vision 2010 0 change program toward an intrinsically the Personalized Nutrition activities were to be partnered, exited innovative organization. It has a business development role, with or transferred to other parts of DSM. In 2011 DSM sold part of its Business Incubator and Emerging Business Areas, as well as its majority shareholding in DSM TCG B.V. (currently: Qalpac a leading role in enabling and accelerating innovation within B.V.), part of the Specialty Packaging EBA, to MocoLabs, Inc. It DSM. also sold the business of DSM Personalized Nutrition, LLC to Viocare, Inc. in Princeton (New Jersey, USA). DSM will remain DSM Venturing involved in both businesses as a minority shareholder through DSM Venturing actively invests in start-up companies that create DSM Venturing. innovative products and services in health, nutrition and materials. DSM Venturing plays an important part in DSM’s open DSM Licensing innovation policy and invests in activities that are of immediate DSM Licensing aims to create value by assisting DSM business or potential relevance to DSM business groups and/or the DSM groups and DSM Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) with the initiation and management of collaboration on the basis of Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 99 intellectual property (IP), including patents and know-how. DSM C5 Yeast Company has developed a key yeast technology and approaches licensing as a completely integrated, powerful way extensive patent position with its team of R&D experts. The of creating shared value with partners. In all of DSM's EBAs acquisition of C5 Yeast Company adds additional technology for licensing will be one of the most important ways in which the the conversion of specific fractions of biomass (C5 sugars/ company enhances its value proposition and speed to the arabinose) to DSM’s portfolio, allowing DSM to further optimize market. DSM Licensing has been established in the DSM its yeast technology. Innovation Center to facilitate such IP intensive collaborations and to serve as a center of excellence for IP-based business. In January 2012 DSM and POET, LLC, one of the world’s largest ethanol producers, announced a joint venture to commercially Emerging Business Areas demonstrate and license cellulosic bio-ethanol, the next step in the development of biofuels, based on their proprietary and DSM's Emerging Business Areas provide strong, long-term complementary technologies. The joint venture, POET–DSM growth platforms that optimally combine the available Advanced Biofuels, LLC, is scheduled to start production in the competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. The second half of 2013 at one of the first commercial-scale cellulosic company currently has three Emerging Business Areas: DSM ethanol plants in the US. Bio-based Products & Services, DSM Biomedical and DSM Advanced Surfaces. The two partners will produce cellulosic bio-ethanol from corn crop residue through a biological process using enzymatic DSM Bio-based Products & Services hydrolysis followed by fermentation. The first commercial DSM Bio-based Products & Services is a front-runner in demonstration of the technology will be at Project Liberty, which contributing to a bio-based, sustainable future. Major is currently being constructed adjacent to POET’s existing corn biotechnology advances are opening up opportunities in the ethanol plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). production of advanced biofuels and bio-based materials. Recent DSM breakthroughs will enable the competitive The joint venture intends to replicate and license the technology manufacturing of advanced biofuels and bio-based chemicals to additional plants to be built at the other 26 corn ethanol and materials. Furthermore, DSM's efforts to develop facilities in POET’s network and license it to other producers in technological solutions for biorefineries are set to optimize the US and the rest of the world. The US Environmental biorefinery operation and output. Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that in the US as many as 350-400 new biorefineries will have to be constructed by 2022 In 2011 DSM acquired C5 Yeast Company B.V. (Bergen op to meet the volume requirement of 16 billion gallons/year of Zoom, Netherlands) from Royal Cosun. The acquisition allows cellulosic bio-ethanol under the Renewable Fuel Standard. DSM to combine C5 Yeast Company’s business with its own advanced yeast and enzyme technologies for advanced DSM and POET will each hold a 50% share in the joint venture, biofuels, thus further increasing its leadership position in this which will be headquartered in Sioux Falls (South Dakota, USA). field. The initial capital expenditure by the joint venture in Project Liberty will amount to about USD 250 million. The closing of the DSM already has a unique position in the development of joint venture is subject to regulatory approvals and other advanced biofuels (cellulosic bio-ethanol derived from customary closing conditions. agricultural residues and non-edible crops), being the only company capable of offering both enzyme and yeast DSM and the French starch and starch derivatives company fermentation technologies to increase conversion rates to make Roquette Frères are building a commercial scale plant for the the technology commercially viable. Micro-organisms such as production of bio-based succinic acid. This is the first non-fossil yeast are essential to the biofuel production process as they are feedstock derived chemical building block that allows customers needed to convert the fermentable sugars liberated by enzymes in the chemical industry to choose a bio-based alternative with from biomass into ethanol. a lower eco-footprint for a broad range of applications, from packaging to footwear. With a capacity of up to 10 kilotons per There are two primary classes of fermentable sugars that are year, the plant will be Europe’s largest bio-based succinic acid liberated from cellulosic biomass during hydrolysis; six-carbon facility. It is expected to come on stream in the second half of sugars (C6) and five-carbon sugars (C5). Typically yeasts only 2012 on the premises of Roquette in Cassano Spinola (Italy). consume C6 sugars, but DSM’s advanced yeast technology is capable of converting both C6 and C5 sugars to ethanol. Succinic acid is a chemical building block used in the manufacture of polymers, resins, food and pharmaceuticals, Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 100 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities among other products. Bio-based succinic acid, a renewable Of all the businesses with a presence in the polymer-based and versatile chemical building block, is an alternative to biomedical materials and solutions market, DSM is the only petroleum-derived chemical building blocks such as adipic acid. company with products covering all the major applications, from As a result of its price competitiveness and its renewable nature, implants and coatings to drug delivery systems and sutures. bio-based succinic acid is addressing a larger market than fossil DSM technology/product pillars are: Dyneema Purity®, medical feedstock based succinic acid. coatings, polyurethane, UHMWPE, silicone hydrogels, and drug delivery systems. The commercial scale bio-based succinic acid plant is another important step in the successful cooperation between DSM and Furthermore, the combination of these products allows Roquette that started in 2008. If the market develops as DSM customers to use the synergies between them. Examples of and Roquette expect, an even larger facility will be considered in such combinations are Dyneema Purity® (suture) and the future. polyurethane for various orthopedic devices and Dyneema Purity® (balloon) and Trancerta® (drug eluting stent) for It is DSM’s ambition to further strengthen its portfolio in cardiovascular stents. In addition, the broad portfolio enables renewable bio-based chemicals and materials. Bio-based adipic customers to choose between multiple alternatives from the acid is a high-potential chemical building block. The adipic acid same source, e.g. polyurethane and UHMWPE for lumbar discs market is currently worth USD 5 billion; adipic acid is used for and hip implants. the manufacture of polyamide 6,6 (used in engineering plastics and textiles) as well as polyurethanes, plasticizers, solvents and To achieve its objective, DSM will rely on organic growth, resins. strategic alliances and partnerships, and acquisitions. The EBA Biomedical is building a healthy portfolio of emerging businesses The Emerging Business Area continues to see huge through internal incubation (for example Dyneema Purity®, opportunities in the move toward a bio-based economy, medical coatings) and acquisitions (such as PTG), and through particularly in bio-energy and bio-based building blocks and venturing opportunities such as Actamax, the DSM-DuPont joint materials. DSM is confident that the EBA Bio-based Products & venture addressing unmet needs in the area of adhesion barriers Services will continue to grow at a steep rate. and sealants/hemostats. DSM Biomedical DSM Advanced Surfaces DSM has a history of more than 10 years in the field of biomedical DSM Advanced Surfaces provides solutions for the development materials. It all started with research and development efforts to and application of smart coatings. While current products are bring Dyneema® to the medical field, leading to the introduction designed for glass, the EBA aims to expand this range into smart of Dyneema Purity® as a new material of choice for orthopedic coatings for plastics and films. DSM’s coatings enable glass to sutures. In 2006 the EBA Biomedical was established, followed transmit more light, instead of reflecting it, thus boosting by the acquisition of The Polymer Technology Group (PTG) in performance and/or improving aesthetics across a wide range 2008 and more recently the Actamax joint venture with DuPont. of industries and applications, including the solar energy In 2011 DSM Biomedical's headquarters was moved to the US industry, horticultural and agricultural greenhouses, picture in order to be more closely connected to customers and framing and in-store displays, TV and computer screens and the innovation activities. lighting industry. Building on its broad technology portfolio and its understanding To date, DSM Advanced Surfaces has successfully developed of specific market needs, DSM Biomedical’s strategy is to focus and brought to the market KhepriCoat™, the best-performing on cardiovascular, orthopedic and ophthalmic markets. Other anti-reflective coating technology for solar cover glass. By markets such as urinary, general surgery or wound care are also reducing the amount of sunlight that is simply reflected back off addressed whenever required by key customers. the panels, KhepriCoat™ ensures that more of the sun’s energy is captured – and therefore more energy is produced by each DSM’s strategy in the biomedical field in these focused areas is solar panel. This is an important sustainability advantage – and to expand its offering through new products based on a broad a great example of how DSM is using its technology to help technology portfolio, to establish a presence in the field of drug address climate change. For KhepriCoat™ license agreements delivery based on licensed-in technology from MediVas, and to were signed in 2011 with Berliner Glas and Interfloat. explore opportunities in the promising fields of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 101 Looking ahead The DSM Business Incubator serves as the cradle for future Emerging Business Areas. Within the Business Incubator, DSM explores opportunities in new areas where its technologies can meet current and future market demands. Platforms are created within the scope of securing food, health and energy requirements of society. This journey is made in close collaboration with industry partners and (potential) customers. For the three EBAs combined, DSM aspires to achieve sales of more than € 1 billion with an above average profitability in 2020. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 102 Review of business in 2011 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate activities Corporate activities Defined benefit plans As part of the new Collective Labor Agreement in the Corporate activities comprises various activities and businesses Netherlands, DSM changed its Dutch pension plan from a that do not belong to any of the four reporting clusters or the defined benefit plan into a defined contribution plan. In the new Innovation Center. It consists of both operating and service scheme all risks related to the pension plan will be carried by the activities and also includes a number of costs that cannot be pension plan foundation and all of its participants. DSM’s logically allocated to the clusters. Corporate activities includes contribution to the plan is fixed and covers the current service the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business, DEX Plastomers costs of the plan. As a consequence, DSM now recognizes the and a number of other activities such as Sitech Services, DSM actual cash contribution to the plan in its income statement. Insurances and part of the costs of corporate departments. The segment normally has a negative operating result. The Dutch pension plan contributions will from now on (starting with the year 2011) be directly reported in the individual clusters. The cluster results for 2010 have been brought in line with this x € million 2011 2010 new presentation as if in 2010, too, a defined contribution plan had been applicable. For 2010, the difference (€ 33 million) 369 477 between the defined contribution plan costs and the costs based on Projected Unit Credit Method is presented on a separate line (135) ( 87) in the specification of EBITDA of the Corporate activities (IFRS Operating profit plus depreciation pension adjustment). In accordance with the above, the defined and amortization (EBITDA) (91) (41) benefit contributions to the non-Dutch plans (which for of which IFRS pension consistency reasons were also included in Other activities in adjustment 33 2010) will also be reported in the respective clusters. Capital expenditure and acquisitions 84 51 As from 2011 the total costs of the Corporate Research program R&D expenditure 21 19 are reported under Corporate activities. In 2010 50% of these costs were reported under Other activities and the remaining 50% in the results of the clusters Nutrition, Pharma, Performance (headcount) 3,150 3,417 Materials and Polymer Intermediates. The comparative information for 2010 has been aligned with the new allocation method. Other activities Various holding companies and corporate overheads are Associates reported in Corporate activities. The most important cost elements included under this heading are corporate DSM has a share in a limited number of associates. Their departments and share-based compensations for the group. contribution to the result was negligible in 2011. DEX Plastomers reported a lower result for 2011, whereas the results of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business were Discontinued and deconsolidated activities stable. In the second quarter of 2011 DSM completed the sale of DSM Sitech Services Elastomers (Keltan®) to LANXESS for € 338 million on a cash and Sitech Services provides services such as manufacturing debt-free basis. In view of the divestment, the related activities services, park services and Safety, Health & Environment are reported as discontinued operations and comparatives have services for the Chemelot industrial site in Sittard-Geleen been re-presented. (Netherlands) and the site of DSM Pharma Chemicals in Venlo (Netherlands). DSM Insurances DSM retains a limited part of its property damage and business interruption and product liability risks via a captive insurance company. Damages incurred in 2011 were limited. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 103 Financial and reporting policy Financial policy It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and receivables and payables. In addition, operating companies may to ensure that the company will be able to pursue its strategies – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from even during periods of economic downturn, DSM retains a firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies strong balance sheet and limits its financial risks. giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed The current strategy, DSM in motion: driving focused growth, and hedged when appropriate. has ambitious strategic and financial targets. For 2013 DSM aims to achieve an increase in EBITDA to a level of € 1.4 billion Important acquisition criteria are strategic fit and financial to € 1.6 billion and an increase in return on capital employed to condition. A business or partner should add value to DSM in more than 15%. DSM targets a gearing which is below 30% of terms of technological and/or market competences. Acquired equity plus net debt, and an operating profit before amortization companies are in principle required to contribute to DSM's cash and depreciation (EBITDA) which is at least 8.5 times the balance earnings per share from the very beginning and to earnings per of financial income and expense. Under certain circumstances share from year two. In addition, they are required to meet the the gearing could be raised to a level between 30% and 40%, company's profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. provided that the boundaries of the desired Single A credit rating There are, however, exceptions to this rule; a requirement may remain attainable. Furthermore, funds from operations need to for instance not be appropriate in the case of small innovative be at least 30% of net debt in accordance with the definitions of growth acquisitions. the major credit rating agencies. This underlines the company's aim of maintaining its Single A long-term credit rating. DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through optimum protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms important role in business steering. and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of Reporting policy outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. Reporting policy and justification of choices made DSM has a commercial paper program of € 1,500 million and In this report financial and sustainability reporting are fully two committed credit facilities totaling € 900 million, consisting integrated. In the period from 1993 to 2001, in addition to of € 500 million until September 2018 and € 400 million until April financial reporting in the annual report and the financial 2013. statements, DSM reported on safety, health and environment (SHE) in its Responsible Care Progress Report. From 2002 An important element of DSM’s financial policy is the allocation onwards, SHE reporting was integrated into DSM’s Triple P of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments Report, which consolidated the company’s reporting on People, aimed at strengthening its business positions and to dividend Planet and Profit. payments to its shareholders. The cash flow is further used for Acquisitions & Partnerships to strengthen DSM's competences Since 2010 the Triple P Report has been integrated into an and market positions in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences Integrated Annual Report as sustainability is an integral part of supported by the other three strategic growth drivers: High DSM’s business and one of the key growth drivers in DSM’s Growth Economies, Innovation and Sustainability. As the strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. occasion arises, the company may choose to return cash to shareholders if excess cash is available over a longer period to In the sustainability information in this Integrated Annual Report, such an extent that the above-mentioned cash flow priorities can DSM explains its vision and policy with respect to a sustainable be satisfied without an increase in gearing toward a level of 30%. enterprise and reports on its activities in this field during 2011. Besides presenting developments and data for the three DSM aims to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. categories of People, Planet and Profit, DSM reports on its sustainability strategy, its stakeholder engagement activities, In order to avoid dilution of earnings per share as a result of the and the organization of sustainability at DSM. Furthermore, DSM exercise of management and employee options, DSM buys back discusses the global trends that drive its strategy. shares insofar as this is desirable and feasible. The 2011 share repurchases were initiated for this purpose. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 104 Financial and reporting policy Financial policy Reporting policy It is DSM’s policy to proactively canvas the views of its Quality of data employees on issues of material importance to the company. The data for the sites are based on these sites’ own The preparation of this report was facilitated by experts who measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, were supported by a review group comprising employees methods and procedures established at corporate level. The selected from across the DSM organization. year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements that have Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) been made in the measurement and recording systems at the DSM bases its sustainability reporting on the GRI guidelines. For various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the this report, the company used the GRI matrix G3. DSM believes, report. See page 54 for a restatement on greenhouse-gas as was verified by Ernst & Young, that this report merits emissions. G3 level A+. For the GRI matrix for 2011, see www.dsm.com. Whenever a restatement of data is required, DSM includes all Assurance relevant years in the restated data. See also page 224 for an DSM asked Ernst & Young to provide limited assurance on the explanation of some concepts and ratios, and page 226 for a sustainability information in this Integrated Annual Report. See list of abbreviations. Details for the individual sites are published page 216 for Ernst & Young's assurance report. on www.sustainability.dsm.com, together with an explanation of the definitions used. Selection of topics The topics covered in this report were selected on the basis of Manner of reporting input from stakeholders, GRI guidelines and DSM’s own Quantitative data are reported per site. All data are consolidated management systems and their relevance and impact for DSM at corporate level by the relevant departments. The qualitative and its various stakeholders. On the basis of the principle of reports on various subjects were provided by experts throughout materiality, DSM has attempted to make a distinction between the organization. topics whose importance warrants publication in the printed version (these are topics that are relevant to both DSM and its stakeholders) and topics whose importance warrants publication on the Internet (these are topics that are important to either DSM or its stakeholders). As in the 2010 report, DSM groups relevant awards and external recognition received by DSM in a separate section. DSM also reports separately on its progress in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact; see page 35. Scope The People data in this report cover all entities that belong to the consolidation scope of the consolidated financial statements. The environmental information is collected from all production sites that are controlled by DSM. Acquisitions and divestments The personnel data for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. Historical personnel data are not restated for divestments. The planet data for newly acquired companies are reported in the year following the first full year after the acquisition. This is because these companies’ reporting procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. Acquired and divested units are excluded from the evaluation of progress on environmental targets but are included in absolute figures (unless stated otherwise). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 105 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction1 departments are contracted by the business groups on an arm's length basis. Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by shares listed on NYSE Euronext, with a Managing Board and an Managing Board independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing The Managing Board consists of three or more members to be Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter Supervisory Board and Managing Board starting on page 130. Since 2005, The Managing Board is responsible for the company's strategy, members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a its portfolio policy, the deployment of human and capital maximum period of four years. resources, the company’s risk management system and the company's financial performance. The Supervisory Board The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible supervises the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties and the collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks company's general course of affairs, taking account of the and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as interests of all the company's stakeholders. The annual financial well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual statements are approved by the Supervisory Board and then members. submitted for adoption to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an explanation by the The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is Supervisory Board of how it carried out its supervisory duties determined by the Supervisory Board based on the during the year concerned. remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of Association, which can be consulted at the DSM website The functioning of and decision making within the Managing (www.dsm.com). The General Meeting of Shareholders decides Board are governed by the Regulations of the Managing Board, on an amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute which have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of governance code and can be found on the company’s website. Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing Board, subject to approval of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found on the way the company is managed and the company's page 130. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue a maximum of three four-year terms. with its shareholders and other stakeholders. All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around in accordance with the Best Practice provisions of the Dutch business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term corporate governance code. The remuneration of the members and long-term business functions. At the operational level, the of the Supervisory Board is determined by the General Meeting business groups are the primary organizational and of Shareholders. entrepreneurial building blocks. The business groups are grouped into clusters. Business groups within a cluster report to The functioning of and decision making within the Supervisory one and the same member of the Managing Board. The clusters Board are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory are the main entities for external strategic and financial reporting. Board, which have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the company’s This structure ensures a flexible, efficient and fast response to website. market changes. DSM has a number of functional and regional organizations to support the Managing Board and the business In line with the Dutch corporate governance code the groups. Intra-group product supplies and the services of a Supervisory Board has established from among its members an number of shared service departments and research Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration 1 This chapter contains, among other things, the information regarding corporate governance as referred to in Section 2 of the Dutch governmental decree of 23 December 2004 establishing further instructions concerning the content of the annual report (Besluit van 23 december 2004 tot vaststelling van nadere voorschriften omtrent de inhoud van het jaarverslag, Staatsblad d [Bulletin of Acts and Decrees] 2004, 747) as amended in April 2009 (Staatsbladd 2009, 154) and December 2009 (Staatsblad d 2009, 545) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 106 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Committee and a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. adopted. Furthermore, the proposed amendment to the Articles The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making of Association was approved. The amendment included an of the Supervisory Board. The functioning and tasks of these adaptation of the company’s objective to bring it in line with the committees are governed by charters that have been drawn up transformation of the company in recent years. Further details in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be can be found on the company’s website. found on the company’s website. Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 General Meeting of Shareholders With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which to: is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following can be reported: the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board; Information on major shareholdings can be found below approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; (Distribution of shares). approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of the adoption of the annual financial statements and the company. declaration of dividends; There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s release from liability of the members of the Managing Board shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders and Supervisory Board; the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or Code. cancellation of shares; The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and amendments to the Articles of Association; and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. Association are set forth above. The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six repurchase of shares in the company can be found below months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, (Issue of shares, Repurchase of own shares). if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, Other information can be found in the notes to the any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the consolidated financial statements (16 Equity, 19 Borrowings, Supervisory Board and any of the other topics mentioned above. 27 Share-based compensation) and in the chapters Information on the DSM share and Other information. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the Issue of shares Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing explanatory notes are published on DSM’s website. Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be Shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least one determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of percent (1%) of the issued capital have the right to request the Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of Managing Board or the Supervisory Board that items be placed the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the on the agenda. Such requests need to be received in writing by future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 28 April the chairman of the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board 2011 this power was extended up to and including 28 October at least sixty days before the date of the Annual General Meeting 2012, on the understanding that this authorization of the of Shareholders. Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at the time On 28 April 2011 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued capital at the was held. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of a previous years. Mr. Stefan Doboczky was appointed as member merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's strategy as of the Managing Board. Mr. Stephan Tanda was reappointed as published on DSM’s website. The issue price will be determined member of the Managing Board. Mrs. Pauline van der Meer Mohr by the Managing Board and shall as much as possible be was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board. An calculated on the basis of the trading prices of ordinary shares amendment to the remuneration of the Supervisory Board was on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 107 Distribution of shares Board to be directly involved in preparing decisions taken by the Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, full Board, also in view of the role played by the Supervisory shareholdings of 5% or more in any Dutch company must be Board Chairman vis-à-vis the Managing Board. This exception disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets to the code was discussed in the Annual General Meeting of (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the following Shareholders in 2005, where it met with no objections. Upon the shareholders had disclosed that they owned between 5 and retirement of Mr. Cor Herkströter as Chairman of the Supervisory 10% of DSM’s total share capital on 1 January 2012: Board as announced at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 28 April 2011, the Supervisory Board decided ವ ASR Nederland B.V. to appoint Supervisory Board member Mr. Ewald Kist as his ವ Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. successor as chairman of the Remuneration Committee. ವ Delta Lloyd N.V. With respect to Best Practice provision II.1.8 it is to be reported Repurchase of own shares that Mr. Nico Gerardu, member of the Managing Board, acted The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a as the chairman of the Supervisory Board of a listed company decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of until 11 July 2011 (see page 131). On that date he resigned the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one from the Supervisory Board of this listed company. tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing Meeting of Shareholders of 28 April 2011 the Managing Board Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice from said date. In 2011, 9 million ordinary shares were since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. repurchased in order to cover existing management and personnel options. Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction of said code, the current chairman of the Managing Board will Dutch corporate governance code remain appointed for an indefinite period. DSM supports the amended Dutch corporate governance code With respect to the Dutch corporate governance code it should 2008 (Frijns Code), which can be found on be noted that any substantial change in the corporate www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. governance structure of the company and in the company's compliance with the code shall be submitted to the General Following the publication of the amended Dutch corporate Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda governance code in December 2008, DSM has reviewed all item. Principles and Best Practice provisions of the amended code and has, where applicable, taken measures to implement the All documents related to the implementation at DSM of the Dutch amended Principles and Best Practice provisions. The corporate governance code can be found in the Governance Regulations of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board section of the corporate website (www.dsm.com). and the Charters of the Supervisory Board committees have been brought in line with the amended code. The Governance framework implementation of the amended code within DSM was a separate agenda item at the Annual General Meeting of Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s Shareholders of 31 March 2010. organization; they have integral long-term and short-term business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions In view of this, DSM can confirm that it applies all of the amended that are crucial to their business success. The business groups code’s 113 Best Practices. Until 29 April 2011 there was an within a specific cluster report to one and the same member of exception with respect to Best Practice III.5.11, which stipulates the Managing Board. This Board member manages the that the remuneration committee shall not be chaired by the coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within chairman of the Supervisory Board. As reported in the past, DSM the cluster and is accountable for the overall performance of the considers remuneration to be an integral part of its nomination cluster within limits defined by the collective responsibility of the and retention policy and hence of its human resource total Managing Board for the overall management of the management policy for its senior management. DSM therefore company. The clusters are the main entities for external strategic considered it desirable for the Chairman of the Supervisory and financial reporting. In order to ensure sufficient Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 108 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board independence with regard to financial management, the Chief Corporate Staff departments: small, high level groups, Financial Officer has no business groups reporting to him. supporting the Managing Board and reporting directly to a Managing Board member (in most cases CEO or CFO); The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance Functional Excellence departments, in which expert framework and the most important governance elements and capabilities in selected functions are concentrated and regulations at each level. which are steered by Functional Excellence Advisory Boards, chaired by a Managing Board member; the Director of a Functional Excellence department reports to a Shareholders Managing Board member; and Articles of Association Shared Service departments, in which selected service functions are leveraged and which are steered by Shared Service Boards, chaired by a business group director. The Supervisory • Regulations of the Supervisory Board Board • Charter of the Audit Committee director of a Shared Service department reports to a • Charter of the Nomination Committee Managing Board member, who is also a member of the • Charter of the Remuneration Committee • Charter of the Corporate Social Responsibility Shared Services Board. Committee The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In 2010 such a Corporate Managing • Regulations of the Managing Board Board / • Management Framework for the corporate level Strategy Dialogue was executed, resulting in the current Corporate • DSM Code of Business Conduct strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. As part of this strategy, the regional functions have been further strengthened, especially in the high growth economies. Operational Management Framework for operational units units Regional management reports directly to a Managing Board member. Note: all internal regulations apply in addition to applicable national and international laws and regulations. In cases where internal regulations are incompatible with ವ The operational units conduct their business within the national or international laws and regulations, the latter prevail. parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. This implies among other things that they: For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and establish the strategy and objectives of their business operational level is given here: according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, in which process various scenarios and related risk profiles are ವ The Managing Board adheres to the Regulations of the investigated; Managing Board. implement risk management actions according to an Annual ವ In addition, the Managing Board works according to the Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies Management Framework for the corporate level. This implies and multi-year plans in several functional areas; among other things that it adheres to the DSM Code of comply with the Corporate Requirements and Directives; Business Conduct and applicable corporate policies and and requirements. monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and ವ The Management Framework for the corporate level further internal control system and regularly discuss the findings provides a description of the most important (decisionwith the Managing Board. making) processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at the Managing Board, functional and regional levels and On average once every three years, the operational units are includes the governance relations with the next-higher levels audited by Corporate Operational Audit (COA). The director of (Supervisory Board and Shareholders) and the operational COA reports to the chairman of the Managing Board and has units. In particular, the framework defines the roles of access to the external auditor and the chairman of the Audit corporate staff, functional excellence and shared service Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the director departments as follows: of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to inside information and is the chairman of the DSM Alert Committee, which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower policy, systems and processes. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 109 In the Fraud Committee, relevant corporate functions participate environment) and Profit (principles regarding fair and ethical under the chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the business practices). The worldwide implementation of the Code committee is to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with is ongoing. It is being supported by the distribution of a booklet the aim of reducing fraud risks. in 17 languages, an intranet site and an e-Learning course for all employees. Risk management Objective setting and risk identification, assessment and The Managing Board is responsible for risk management in the response company and, supported by the Corporate Risk Office, has In line with the mandatory risk management process, business designed and implemented a risk management system and a groups that updated their strategy in 2011 performed a business risk management organization. The system and the organization risk assessment to identify and assess the implementation risks are documented in the DSM risk management policy, the DSM of the chosen strategy and agree on responses. At mid-year and Code of Business Conduct, DSM policies in several functional toward year-end, all business groups updated their risk areas and the DSM Corporate Requirements and Directives. The assessments as part of the semi-annual risk reporting process. aim of the system is to ensure that the extent to which the Additionally, risk assessments were performed by a number of company’s strategic and operational objectives are being central functions and on major projects and programs. achieved is understood, that the company’s reporting is reliable and that the company complies with relevant laws and In 2011, the Managing Board updated the Corporate Risk regulations. Assessment (CRA). Based on the results of the CRA conducted in 2010, internal risk and incident reports and risk information The DSM risk management system is based on the COSO-ERM from external sources, the Managing Board, facilitated by the framework. It has been designed to achieve maximum Corporate Risk Office, identified the risks that are relevant in integration of the risk management process in the normal relation to the achievement of the targets of the strategy DSM in business processes. It provides for risk assessment tools, motion: driving focused growth. This strategy is described on controls for risks that commonly occur in the company and pages 28-32 of this report and in the individual business group monitoring and reporting procedures and systems. The internal reports. Board members individually identified and assessed controls for the goods and money flows have been ‘built into’ risks, and during a Managing Board session they reached business processes, and tools have been developed to support consensus on these risks and identified any necessary their implementation and to monitor their effectiveness in responses to be made in addition to the mitigating actions operation. In this way, a high level of internal control is achieved already in place. efficiently. Simultaneously with the publication of this Integrated Annual Report, an updated version of the full description of In the CRA, responses were chosen to bring the risks within DSM’s risk management system and process will be placed on DSM’s risk appetite. This risk appetite cannot be captured in one the company’s website. This description is to be considered an figure or formula, but varies per category of risks. The main integral part of this Integrated Annual Report. characteristics of DSM’s risk appetite can be described as follows: The functioning of the system in 2011 ವ To fulfill its strategic intent (growth through the four growth The important events in risk management in 2011 are reported drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability below. This section is structured according to the elements of and Acquisitions & Partnerships) DSM is prepared to accept the COSO-ERM risk management framework. the considerable risks involved. These risks will, however, always be limited by well-defined hurdle criteria and rigorous Internal environment for risk management implementation programs. Values and business principles are an important element of the ವ DSM takes a conservative approach to managing financial internal environment for risk management. Directly related to its risks. mission to create brighter lives for people today and generations ವ Through dedicated quality, technology and business to come, DSM has chosen sustainability as its one core value. continuity management, DSM aims to limit its operational DSM's business principles, which are defined in the DSM Code risks. DSM’s safety and health policies are aimed at achieving of Business Conduct, are based on this core value. The DSM zero injuries and work-related illnesses. The financial impact Code of Business Conduct, which is available on the company’s of operational mishaps is further limited by several insurance website, describes principles in the areas of People (social and policies. humanitarian standards), Planet (principles with regard to the Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 110 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board ವ With regard to legal compliance issues and unethical business The company’s top risks conduct, DSM takes a zero tolerance approach. The CRA identifies the likelihood and impacts of events that ವ Risk tolerance in the areas of stakeholder relations, reputation, could jeopardize the achievement of the targets for 2013, 2015 sustainability and social responsibility is low. Advanced and 2020 set in the DSM in motion: driving focused growth policies and implementation programs are in place in an effort strategy. In setting these targets, assumptions were made about to turn risks in these areas into opportunities. the macro-economic and global financial developments (basic scenario). Since the recession in 2008 DSM has improved its Elsewhere in this chapter and in the description of risk categories early warning and forecasting processes. It has also proven to on the website, the risk appetite is quantified for several risk be able to adjust quickly to sudden adverse market conditions. areas. If an economic downturn were to occur again, however, this could have a significant detrimental effect on the achievement of The preliminary outcomes of the CRA were reported to and the targets. This effect could be aggravated by volatility in discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in currencies. The sensitivities to variations in several key the meeting of 12 December 2011. These 'top-down' outcomes currencies are given in note 23 'Financial instruments and risks' were compared with the risks and incidents as reported 'bottomfrom page 187. up' by the operational units in their Letters of Representation and with findings from internal and external audits. The final risk The table below shows the most important risks for DSM profile was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee achieving its targets under the basic scenario, and the remedial of the Supervisory Board on 27 February 2012. It is the basis for actions to mitigate them. the main risks and responses as reported on the following pages. The top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risk Mitigating actions People, organization and culture The implementation of the strategy is supported by organizational The following mitigating actions are being taken: measures to enhance regional and functional effectiveness. These Setting up and implementing an overall program for filling leadership measures may lack sufficient clarity and/or speed, resulting in positions worldwide. inadequate collaborative and result-oriented behavior and/or insufficient Implementing clear charters, especially for the regional resources. speed in achieving the projected diverse and international human Implementing programs for increased diversity of the workforce. resource base. Acquisitions and partnerships DSM has successfully acquired and integrated several activities, most For acquisitions, resources are being focused and decision making is being notably Martek. It may, however, have difficulties in implementing optimized by continuous prioritization and direct involvement of the sufficient additional value adding acquisitions to fulfill its growth targets. Managing Board. Innovation Within the Emerging Business Areas, DSM has made Biomedical and Within the areas of focus, DSM will further concentrate its efforts, reinforce Bio-based Products & Services its main areas of focus. Developments the talent base and make sure to fully capitalize on this talent. in these fields are subject to the uncertainties inherent in new technologies and markets. Growth and profitability in the Pharma cluster DSM has made a successful start with its partnering strategy in the Maximum attention will continue to be given to successfully implementing Pharma cluster, but there remain considerable uncertainties in realizing the Pharma partnering strategy. the desired growth and returning to adequate profitability levels in this business area. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 111 Other important risks placed on the company’s website (Governance section under In addition to the top risks, the most recent risk assessment and Risk Management). This description is to be considered an reports show the following risks as being most important: integral part of this Integrated Annual Report. Additionally, information on the risks related to financial instruments is also Raw material and energy price and availability risks provided in the Financial statements in the section Financial DSM implements various policies to avoid supply chain instruments and risks. disruptions (e.g. multiple supplier strategy) and decrease price volatility (e.g. commodity hedging). Nevertheless, the For the management of all these categories of risks, strategies, increasing complexity and interdependence of worldwide controls and/or mitigating measures have been put in place as supply streams as well as increasing (perceived) pressure on part of DSM’s risk management practices. These nevertheless the availability of resources may lead to price fluctuations and involve uncertainties that may lead to the actual results differing availability issues, influencing DSM’s profitability and/or from those projected. There may also be risks that the company business continuity. has not yet fully assessed and that are currently qualified as Intellectual property (IP) risks ‘minor’ but that could have a material impact on the company's The policy of accelerated growth through speeding up performance at a later stage. The company's risk management innovation and expansion in high growth economies holds the and internal control system has been designed to identify and risk of increased exposure in the IP area. Measures will respond to these developments on time, but 100% assurance continue to be taken to contain these risks, but these may not can never be achieved. always be completely effective in mitigating IP risks. Security (including information security) Control activities Especially in the area of the security of and access to data in Each business group and each major operational service unit ICT systems a continued focus on monitoring and mitigating has an Audit Committee which, under the direction of the actions is required, given the increasing tension between the director of the group or unit, sets up annual risk management growing professionalism of cybercrime and widespread use of plans, monitors their implementation and reviews risk (mobile) IT. management issues on a regular basis. During the year under Business continuity risks review, major risk management events, such as business risk Major disruptions, especially in the supply chain, in assessments, audits and the occurrence of control failures or manufacturing and in the ICT environment, remain a low weaknesses, were discussed with the responsible Managing likelihood but possibly high impact risk. Actions are being Board member. continued to recognize and prepare for the most important scenarios. Commonly occurring risks are mitigated through the Safety, health and environmental (SHE) risks implementation of the Corporate Requirements and process After a number of fatalities, DSM has enhanced its already controls in the business processes. The operational units strict safety policies even further, among other things by regularly test compliance with these requirements and the strengthening the implementation of the Life Saving Rules. effectiveness of the controls. Deviations from Corporate Nevertheless, SHE risks cannot be excluded altogether and Requirements are only allowed temporarily, if sufficient any accidents may have a deep impact in terms of human alternative controls are in place and after approval by the suffering and (reputation) damage to the company. responsible Board member. A limited number of waivers have Product liability risks been granted. To reduce product liability risks, product risk evaluations have been carried out, contractual and quality procedures have As reported last year, a special project was initiated at DSM been updated and insurance policies have been reviewed. Nutritional Products (DNP) to bring the unit into compliance with Unexpected effects of or undetected flaws in DSM's products the DSM Corporate Requirements. It can now be confirmed that or services may, however, still cause considerable product by year-end 2011 this special project had been completed and liability exposures. material gaps had been closed. For the same reason, critical controls within DNP are checked with a special tool. The Overview of risk categories outcomes of these checks, too, were satisfactory. On the next page, an overview is given of all risk categories that have been identified as potentially important and from which the main risks described above have been derived. Simultaneously with the publication of this Integrated Annual Report, an updated version of the full description of DSM’s risk categories will be Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 112 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Information and communication Generic/strategic risks A continuous effort is being made to inform people about the DSM risk management system and train them in its use. A ವ Global financial and economic development risks special version of the risk management training course was ವ Risks related to high growth economies conducted for financial staff in China. To increase general ವ Risk of competition and commoditization in existing awareness of risk management, a video was produced featuring markets the CEO, the CFO and many other top executives of the ವ Political and country risks company. Finally, new booklets were distributed, containing the ವ Risks related to divestments, acquisitions and joint purpose and summaries of the Corporate Requirements. ventures ವ Innovation risks (new markets, products and Monitoring and reporting technologies) Information on the functioning of the system was collected on a ವ People, organization and culture risks continuous basis. Business groups tracked compliance with ವ Intellectual Property protection risks Corporate Requirements and follow-up of actions arising from ವ Raw material / energy price and availability risks risk assessments; they conducted assessments on the ವ Sustainability risks effectiveness of their internal controls and reported and investigated incidents. Independent audits on the effectiveness Operational risks of risk management implementation were executed by the Corporate Operational Audit department according to a program ವ Reputation risks agreed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. If ವ Customer risks applicable, information coming in via the DSM Alert whistleವ Production-process risks blowing channel was also used as a source for reviewing the ವ Business-continuity risks effectiveness of the risk management system. Any critical ವ Product-liability risks findings were addressed immediately. ವ ICT risks ವ Program and Project Management risks By signing an affidavit, the business group controllers confirmed, ವ (Information) security and Internal Control related risks among other things, that the quarterly financial statements had ವ Industrial relations risks been produced according to the internal accounting rules and ವ Safety, health and environmental risks reporting procedures. Financial and reporting risks Based on developments within and external to the company, as well as findings from the various risk assessments, audits and ವ Liquidity and market risks monitoring and reporting efforts, the Corporate Risk Office drew ವ Currency risks up a consolidated risk report, including recommendations for ವ Pension risks further improvement of the risk management system. These ವ Other financial risks recommendations were integrated into an update of the ವ Reporting integrity risks Corporate Risk Management Plan 2011-2015. Legal and compliance risks In the May 2011 meeting of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board the most important enhancements to the risk ವ Risks of non-compliance with the DSM Code of Business management system and developments in the risk profile were Conduct, Policies, Requirements and Management discussed. The enhancements are described in the next section. Directives ವ Risks of legal non-compliance At the end of the second quarter, the operational units were ವ Risks related to regulatory developments asked to provide an update of their material risks and incidents over the first half of 2011 and the status of the mitigation of the See www.dsm.com, Governance section. risks reported over 2010, and to specify any material risks or uncertainties for the rest of the year. The consolidated overview of these risks, incidents and mitigation measures was the basis for the risk section and the statements of the Managing Board as provided with the first-half figures in accordance with the requirements of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 113 Together with the annual financial accounts, the directors of all entities reporting to the Managing Board reported on any material strategic, operational, reporting and compliance risks or incidents over the year 2011 in their Letter of Representation. The Corporate Risk Office consolidated the reported risks and incidents and compared them with the outcome of internal and external audits and of the Corporate Risk Assessment. The findings were reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in its meeting on 27 February 2012. Enhancements to the risk management system Initiatives to further enhance controls in the area of product liability, project management, (information) security and safety, health and environment were continued. In order to support strategic developments within DSM, special attention was given to the high growth economies (enhancement of local risk management capabilities and region specific risk assessment, starting in China), sustainability (improvement of reporting controls, inclusion of sustainability risks in the risk register and risk assessments), and acquisitions and partnerships (improvement of risk management practices in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures). Finally, new, more flexible concepts for control and continuous control monitoring were developed. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 114 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Statements of the Managing Board On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year under review and that there are no indications that they will not continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the company’s financial condition and the results of the company’s operations and provide the required disclosures. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Heerlen, 27 February 2012 The Managing Board Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Stefan Doboczky Nico Gerardu Stephan Tanda Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 115 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report The DSM Supervisory Board (from left to right): Claudio Sonder, Rob Routs (Chairman), Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Tom de Swaan, Ewald Kist (Deputy Chairman) and Pierre Hochuli. Introduction/general Supervisory Board by the Annual General Meeting of The DSM Supervisory Board is in charge of supervising and Shareholders on 28 April 2011. advising the DSM Managing Board in setting and achieving the company’s objectives, strategy and policies. In 2011 this task Mr. Cor Herkströter, Chairman since March 2002 and member was fully focused on the strategy DSM in motion: driving focused of the Supervisory Board since April 2000, stepped down after growth. In DSM's two-tier corporate structure under Dutch law, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 28 April the Supervisory Board is a separate body operating fully 2011. During his chairmanship DSM completed its independently of the Managing Board. Members of the transformation from a chemical company into a Life Sciences Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are (re)appointed and Materials Sciences company. The Supervisory Board as well by the General Meeting of Shareholders. as the Managing Board would like to express their deep gratitude to Mr. Cor Herkströter for his guidance and support in this Composition of Supervisory Board transformation process. Mr. Rob Routs, member of the DSM The composition of the Supervisory Board is always such that Supervisory Board since March 2010, was appointed by the its members are an appropriate and diverse mix of knowledge, Supervisory Board to succeed Mr. Cor Herkströter as its new experience and understanding of the markets in which DSM Chairman. operates. For a more detailed description, see the profile posted on the DSM website. Mrs. Pauline van der Meer Mohr was More information regarding the Supervisory Board profile, its nominated to succeed Mrs. Louise Gunning-Schepers (who had members, Mr. Rob Routs, Mr. Pierre Hochuli, Mr. Ewald Kist, stepped down in 2010) because of her broad human resource Mr. Claudio Sonder, Mr. Tom de Swaan and Mrs. Pauline van management and international business experience, among der Meer Mohr, and the established Audit Committee, other things. She was appointed as a new member of the Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 116 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, can be found in the submission to the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Governance part of the DSM website. Shareholders. In addition, an amendment to the Articles of Association was proposed to the 2011 Annual General Meeting Mid 2011 it was decided to elect another two Supervisory Board of Shareholders. The Annual General Meeting approved both members. Mrs. Victoria Haynes and Mrs. Eileen Kennedy, who proposals. are both US nationals, were selected and are available to join the Supervisory Board in 2012. Their appointment will be proposed The Supervisory Board was able to obtain in-depth background at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on information about all financial and business results. 11 May 2012. Mrs. Victoria Haynes has a broad and in-depth applied technological knowledge in the fields of materials During all meetings the Supervisory Board discussed the sciences, life sciences and biotechnology, which will be progress of the implementation of the DSM strategy to keep the important for DSM in achieving its ambitions as a leading company in motion to drive focused growth in Life Sciences and innovative company. Mrs. Eileen Kennedy has a broad and inMaterials Sciences using four growth drivers: High Growth depth nutrition knowledge, which will be of key importance for Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & DSM’s growth and development. Partnerships. The Supervisory Board got the opportunity to challenge the progress and results and to provide advice. Composition of the Managing Board Various acquisitions and partnerships were discussed and Early in 2011 the Supervisory Board agreed with the Managing approved, including the acquisition of Martek Biosciences Board’s proposal to have the number of Managing Board Corporation and the anti-infectives joint venture with Sinochem, members increased to five. Mr. Stefan Doboczky was proposed which both fit in with DSM’s growth strategy. as an additional Member of the Managing Board and was appointed by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on In 2011 the Supervisory Board invited DSM management to 28 April 2011. With effect from 1 May 2011 he took over explain more in-depth the following corporate staff or shared Mr. Stephan Tanda’s responsibility for DSM’s Pharma cluster service departments: Sourcing, Corporate Human Resources and the corporate responsibility for DSM’s activities in Asia. The and Treasury. In addition, developments and roadmaps to Annual General Meeting of Shareholders reappointed business growth in High Growth Economies (especially Russia, Mr. Stephan Tanda as a Member of the Managing Board for a India, China and Latin America) were explained by the Country second term of four years. Mr. Stephan Tanda remained Presidents and discussed with the Supervisory Board. responsible for the Nutrition cluster and kept corporate Furthermore, one of the meetings was held in the US, and was responsibilities for DSM’s activities in the Americas and followed by two site visits: to DSM’s Greenville site and to the Switzerland. Information regarding all Managing Board Research and Development facilities of the newly acquired members, Mr. Feike Sijbesma (CEO), Mr. Rolf-Dieter Schwalb Martek Biosciences Corporation. Through well-prepared (CFO), Mr. Nico Gerardu, Mr. Stephan Tanda and Mr. Stefan presentations and plant and laboratory visits, the Supervisory Doboczky, can be found in the Governance part of the DSM Board got the opportunity to learn about and see part of DSM’s website. operational activities. Financials and business With input from the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board held seven meetings with the Managing reviewed and discussed the DSM Corporate Risk Assessment Board. In four meetings, one or two Supervisory Board members 2011 and related risk responses and actions. The final risk profile were excused; they gave their input in advance and designated was reported to and discussed with the Supervisory Board on other Supervisory Board members to proxy for them. 28 February 2012. For more information on Risk Management see page 110. During all meetings the Supervisory Board was updated on the highlights, lowlights and news regarding the company and its With the external auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants, financial and business performance. discussions were held about the financial statements for 2010 and 2011. The Report by the Managing Board and the financial The 2010 annual results were discussed in the presence of two statements for 2011 were submitted to the Supervisory Board Ernst & Young auditors. The Supervisory Board discussed and by the Managing Board, in accordance with the provisions of approved the (Revised) Capital Expenditure Plan and the Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently Financing and Guarantee Plan for 2011. The Supervisory Board approved by the Supervisory Board in its meeting on 28 February discussed the proposal to pay out the dividend per ordinary 2012. The financial statements were audited by Ernst & Young share in cash or in ordinary shares, and approved it for Accountants, who issued an unqualified opinion (see the Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 117 Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements on In addition, the Nomination Committee discussed a further page 217 of this report). The Supervisory Board concluded that extension of the Supervisory Board to improve its composition the external auditor was independent of DSM. and quality in view of the company’s new strategy and its size, portfolio, nature, culture and geographical spread. The Financial statements 2011 Committee considered it desirable to appoint two new The Supervisory Board will submit the 2011 financial statements Supervisory Board members. Two new prospective members to the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will were selected, both of them being US nationals with a propose that the shareholders adopt them and discharge the background in technological areas that are key to DSM’s Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial development. A proposal to extend the Supervisory Board by activities and the Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of appointing these two new members was submitted to the full its supervision of the Managing Board. Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board discussed the proposal and agreed with the Committee that the prospective The profit appropriation as approved by the Supervisory Board new members' additional knowledge and experience will be is presented in the section Profit appropriation on page 218. The important for DSM in achieving its ambitions as a leading year 2011 was another strong year for DSM despite the innovative company. Their appointment will be proposed to the challenges of the global economy, adverse currency movements Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 11 May and high raw material costs. DSM made significant steps in the 2012. first year of implementing its growth strategy. The Supervisory Board wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the results The Supervisory Board further had extensive discussions on the achieved and would like to thank the employees and the succession planning for the Managing Board and the DSM Managing Board for their efforts. Leadership Council positions. Nomination Committee At the end of 2011 a Supervisory Board effectiveness To periodically assess the size and composition of the Managing assessment was performed. A questionnaire filled in by all Board and the Supervisory Board, to prepare proposals for the individual Supervisory Board members in combination with (re)appointment of Board Members and to assess the individual interviews with the Chairman, in the presence of the functioning of individual Board Members, the Supervisory Board Company Secretary, was used to review the functioning and has established a Nomination Committee. Until 28 April 2011, effectiveness of the Supervisory Board and its members. The Mr. Cor Herkströter (Chairman), Mr. Pierre Hochuli and Mr. functioning of the Chairman was reviewed by the Supervisory Ewald Kist were members of this Committee. As Mr. Cor Board in a meeting chaired by the Vice-Chairman, Mr. Ewald Herkströter resigned from the Supervisory Board on 28 April Kist, in the absence of the Chairman. The results of the 2011, he was replaced by Mr. Rob Routs, who was also assessment were discussed by the full Supervisory Board in appointed as Chairman as of that date. December 2011, in the absence of the Managing Board. In 2011 the Nomination Committee met five times; on one Remuneration Committee occasion one member was excused. Minutes were taken at all To prepare proposals for and updates of the remuneration policy meetings and these minutes were shared with the full and the remuneration of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. Proposals were prepared to advise the full Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board has established a Supervisory Board on the reappointment of Mr. Stephan Tanda Remuneration Committee. Until 28 April 2011, Mr. Cor as a Managing Board Member, the appointment of Mr. Stefan Herkströter (Chairman), Mr. Pierre Hochuli and Mr. Ewald Kist Doboczky as a new Managing Board Member and the were members of this Committee. As Mr. Cor Herkströter appointment of Mrs. Pauline van der Meer Mohr as a new resigned from the Supervisory Board on 28 April 2011, he was Supervisory Board member. Mr. Sijbesma and the Executive replaced by Mr. Rob Routs; Mr. Ewald Kist was appointed as Vice President of the Corporate Human Resources department Chairman of this Committee as of that date. were involved in the discussion and selection of the new Board members. All proposals were discussed by the full Supervisory In 2011 the Remuneration Committee met six times; on one Board and accepted to be proposed to the Annual General occasion one member was excused. Minutes were taken during Meeting of Shareholders held on 28 April 2011. After their all meetings and these minutes were shared with the full appointment, both Mr. Stefan Doboczky and Mrs. Pauline van Supervisory Board. Topics included the remuneration of the der Meer Mohr received an introduction program. Managing Board and of the Supervisory Board. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 118 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Furthermore, the Committee prepared the advice regarding the included in the Integrated Annual Report 2010. The second realization of the individual 2010 targets of the Managing Board meeting was used to discuss DSM’s sustainability strategy as members, which was reported to and adopted by the full part of the company's overall strategy and its implementation in Supervisory Board. the DSM organization. The CEO, the Managing Board member responsible for Corporate Operations & Responsible Care, the Based on an external benchmarking performed by Towers Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs and the Director Watson, which highlighted that the DSM Supervisory Board fees Sustainable Development were present during both meetings. (both general and committee fees) were considered low compared to relevant peers, the Committee proposed to the full In view of its supervision of corporate social responsibility issues Supervisory Board to amend the remuneration of the relevant to the company, the sections 'Sustainability’, Supervisory Board. The full Board concluded that an adjustment 'Stakeholder engagement', ‘People in 2011' and ‘Planet in was desirable and agreed to propose an amendment to the 2011’ (the Sustainability Information) in the Integrated Annual Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 28 April 2011, Report 2011 were reviewed and subsequently discussed by the which was approved. Supervisory Board during its meeting on 28 February 2012. Taking into consideration the Independent Assurance Report on At the end of 2011, based on benchmarking, a further increase People and Planet by Ernst & Young included on page 216 of in the Supervisory Board remuneration (both general and this Integrated Annual Report, the full Supervisory Board committee fees) and the allowance of an intercontinental travel approved the reporting in these sections. The Sustainability fee was discussed and proposed to the full Supervisory Board Information is in compliance with the sustainability reporting in order for DSM to be able to retain and attract highly qualified guidelines of GRI (G3) and the internal reporting criteria of DSM international Supervisory Board members. This increase will be included on page 104 of this Integrated Annual Report. proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 11 May 2012. Audit Committee Until the Annual General Meeting of 28 April 2011, the Audit During 2011, the Remuneration Committee discussed Committee consisted of Mr. Tom de Swaan (Chairman), alternatives to bring the Managing Board's remuneration closer Mr. Claudio Sonder and Mr. Rob Routs. After this meeting to the median of the labor-market peer group. Given the Mr. Rob Routs was replaced by Mrs. Pauline van der Meer Mohr. uncertain economic conditions, the Supervisory Board agreed, All other Supervisory Board members had a standing invitation at the request of the CEO and the members of the Managing for the Audit Committee meetings; Mr. Rob Routs attended all Board, not to change the current remuneration policy for now the Audit Committee meetings and all others made use of this and not to increase base salaries for the Managing Board until invitation at least once. The Committee held six meetings in mid 2013. 2011. During two meetings one of the members was excused but replaced by another Supervisory Board member, and one Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meeting was held between two members. To prepare discussions on the supervision of the Managing Board with respect to formulating, developing, implementing, Minutes were taken at all meetings and these minutes were monitoring and reporting on the company’s social and shared with the entire Supervisory Board. Three meetings were environmental policies in line with the DSM Code of Business specifically devoted to discussing and approving the content of Conduct, the Supervisory Board has established a Corporate press releases on financial results. The Audit Committee had its Social Responsibility Committee. All Supervisory Board regular private discussion with the auditors without members of members are a member of this Committee. After Mrs. Louise the Managing Board being present. In addition to these private Gunning stepped down from the Board in September 2010, discussions, meetings were held in the presence of the CFO and Mr. Cor Herkströter was appointed as interim Chairman of the other relevant responsible managers. One meeting was mainly Committee. After he resigned from the Supervisory Board on focused on the operation and development of the internal risk 28 April 2011, he was replaced as Chairman of this Committee management and control systems, including the supervision of by Mrs. Pauline van der Meer Mohr. the enforcement of the relevant legislation and regulations. In another meeting the Audit Committee discussed ICT security. In 2011 the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met two times. In one meeting one member was excused, and minutes The review of strategic and operational risks reported by the were taken at both meetings. One meeting was used to business groups was discussed, as were the follow-up actions formulate a recommendation to the Supervisory Board regarding following the Corporate Risk Assessment 2010. The system and the approval of the reporting of the Sustainability Information as status of the Letters of Representation issued by the managers Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 119 directly reporting to the Managing Board were evaluated with a stakeholders as well as a balance between the company’s focus on monitoring progress on identified risks and related risk short-term and long-term strategy. As a result, the structure responses. of the remuneration package for the Managing Board is designed to balance short-term operational performance with The Committee discussed the work of the Corporate Operational the medium and long-term objective of creating sustainable Audit department and endorsed its audit plan. value within the company, while taking account of the interests of its stakeholders. The Audit Committee was regularly updated on DSM Alert cases To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives submitted under DSM’s whistleblower policy and mitigating can be attracted and retained, DSM aims for a total actions to prevent recurrence of fraud. remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are The Audit Committee discussed and endorsed the dividend similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. proposals for the years 2010 and 2011. Further, the Audit The remuneration policy for the members of the Managing Committee discussed among other things the adoption of the Board is aligned with the remuneration of other senior group’s financial statements, the 2011 Financing and Guarantee executives of DSM. Plan, the auditor's audit plan, the management letters issued by In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the the external auditor (including management's follow-up) and Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into auditor independence. account the relevant provisions of statutory requirements, amended Dutch corporate governance clauses, societal and In addition, the Audit Committee started the evaluation of the market trends and the interests of stakeholders. performance of the external Auditor, using a questionnaire, DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct individual interviews and a comparison with peers. The outcome compensation approaching the median of the labor-market of this evaluation will be used for a decision to continue with the peer group. current external auditor or to propose the appointment of a new external auditor. This proposal will be addressed in the 2013 Labor-market peer group Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current Remuneration policy regarding the Board members, DSM will take external reference data into Managing Board and the Supervisory account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this Board purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined which consists of a number of Dutch and European companies This chapter comprises two parts. The first part outlines the that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting international scope and business portfolio. The Supervisory of Shareholders. The second part contains details of the Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that its remuneration in 2011 and changes expected in 2012. composition is still appropriate. Remuneration policy The labor-market peer group currently consists of the following The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, eleven companies: motivate and retain qualified and expert individuals that the company needs in order to achieve its strategic and operational objectives, whilst acknowledging the societal context around Aegon Nutreco remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's AkzoNobel Solvay1 stakeholders. The following elements are taken into Clariant Syngenta consideration: Heineken TNT Express KPN Wolters Kluwer DSM strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability LANXESS and aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, respect for people and concern for the environment in line with 1 Compared to the 2010 Integrated Annual Report, Rhodia has been eliminated from the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the the peer group as it was acquired by Solvay DSM Code of Business Conduct. The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the interests of DSM’s main Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 120 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its potential of the variable income (Short-Term and Long-Term remuneration package against the packages offered by the Incentives) will be 100% of base salary. labor-market peer group once every three years. In addition, the company will apply a yearly increase to the package based on The parameters relating to the various elements of the variable the ‘general increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in income part of the remuneration are established and where the Netherlands. The remuneration policy was benchmarked necessary adjusted by and at the discretion of the Supervisory against the peer group in 2011. Board, taking into account the general rules and principles of the remuneration policy itself. Total Direct Compensation (TDC) The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists Distribution of variable income (on target): of the following components: (I) Base salary A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) 50% (II) Variable income B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI) 50% Performance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) Performance-related Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Total variable income as % of base salary 100% In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for Short-Term Incentive (STI) DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other Managing Board members are eligible to participate in a Shortbenefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. Term Incentive (STI) scheme. The scheme is designed to reward short-term operational performance with the long-term objective As a matter of policy, the balance between fixed income and of creating sustainable value, taking account of the interests of variable income (Short-Term plus Long-Term Incentive) within all stakeholders. total direct compensation (on target) will be 50% 50%. The Short-Term Incentive opportunity amounts to 50% of the Value in % of Total Direct Compensation (on target): annual base salary for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent performance). The part of the STI that is related to financial targets accounts for 25% of base salary and the other A: Base Salary 50% 25% relates to sustainability and individual targets. B: Variable income (STI + LTI) 50% Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% Target areas Distribution Shared Individual Financial 25% 25% 0% Base salary Sustainability and On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a individual 25% 20% 5% base salary that is comparable with the median of the labormarket peer group. Every year, base salary levels are reviewed Total 50% 45% 5% based on a three-year remuneration benchmark. Adjustment of the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the company will, when appropriate, apply a yearly Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to financial targets increase to the package based on the ‘general increase’ (market The part of the STI that is linked to financial targets (25%) movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. includes elements related to operational performance, being EBITDA before exceptional items, gross free cash flow and net Variable income sales growth (organic), reflecting short-term financial results. The variable income part of remuneration consists of the ShortTerm and Long-Term Incentives. As a matter of policy, the The weighting given to the individual financial elements in the distribution between Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for bonus is as follows: EBITDA 10%, gross free cash flow 7.5% and (on target) performance has been fixed at 50% 50%. This organic net sales growth 7.5% of annual base salary for onresults in a balance between short-term result and long-term target performance. value creation. As indicated above, the on-target incentive Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 121 Energy-efficiency improvement Target areas On-target pay-out Reduction of the amount of energy that is used per unit of (% of base salary) product (known as energy efficiency) on a 3 year rolling Financial targets average basis. EBITDA1 before exceptional items 10 Employee Engagement Index Gross free cash flow 7.5 An Employee Engagement Survey is conducted annually, Organic net sales growth2 7.5 focusing on a combination of perceptions that have a consistent impact on behavior and create a sense of Total 25 ownership. Research has consistently shown that the four key elements (satisfaction, commitment, pride and advocacy) 1 Since 2011, in line with the targets established for the current DSM strategy define engagement and link engagement to business 2 Excluding currency fluctuations, divestments and acquisitions performance metrics. In addition to shared sustainability targets (20%), a limited The three financial-target-related Short-Term Incentive elements number of individual non-financial targets (5%) will apply. can be derived from the financial statements. Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to sustainability and individual Target area On-target pay-out targets (% of base salary) The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25%) Non-financial targets relates to sustainability and individual targets. Sustainability 20 Individual 5 For 2010/2011 three ‘first tier’ value-creating-performance measures were defined in the area of sustainability. The Total 25 distribution over these three targets was set by the Supervisory Board. On a regular basis, following proper evaluation, further refinement/adaptations of performance measures in the area of The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, sustainability and their weight will take place. based on historical performance, the operational and strategic outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of The following shared targets linked to sustainability were defined the company’s management and stakeholders, among other for the STI: things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective of long-term value creation. ECO+ products − percentage of successful product launches that meet ECO+ criteria The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they Energy-efficiency improvement − linked to target of 20% qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full increase in energy efficiency in 2020 compared to 2008 transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. Target Employee Engagement Index − related to the High setting and realization are audited by external auditors. Performance Norm in industry Long-Term Incentives (LTI) The STI targets on sustainability are defined as follows: The Managing Board members will be eligible to receive performance-related shares. ECO+ products ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when Under the performance share plan, shares will conditionally be considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological granted to Managing Board members. Vesting of these shares benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) is conditional on the achievement of certain predetermined compared to the mainstream solutions they compete with. performance targets during a three-year period. These ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle − from raw material through manufacturing and use to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with less environmental impact. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 122 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Two performance targets will apply for the vesting of Granting date performance shares: The shares are granted on the first ‘ex-dividend’ day following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders at which DSM’s Comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance financial statements are adopted. versus a peer group Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume TSR as a performance measure related revenue DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR performance of a set of predefined peer companies. The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: Total shareholder return (TSR) The TSR peer group for 2011 consists of the following This is used to compare the performance of different companies:1 companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return AkzoNobel Kerry to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market BASF LANXESS perception of overall performance relative to a reference Clariant Lonza Group group. DuPont Novozymes Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction EMS Chemie Holding Solvay The definition of greenhouse gases (GHG) according to the Kyoto Protocol includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, 1 Danisco and Rhodia have been eliminated from the peer group due to the de-listing nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons of these companies and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE reduction is as follows: The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on site or from DSM assets) benchmarks for DSM. mainly comprise CO2 and N2O (scope 1). (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf The peer group is verified by the Supervisory Board each year of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of based on market circumstances (such as mergers and energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). composition of the performance peer group. (III) DSM does not report in detail on scope 3 emissions (catch-all for remaining emissions that result from GHGE reduction as a performance measure activities of the company (e.g. business travel)). GHGE reduction over volume-related revenues in percentage points (over a 3-year period) will be used as a basis for the vesting In the LTI plan, 50% of the performance-shares grant is linked of 50% of the performance shares. to relative TSR, while 50% is based on GHGE reduction. The policy level for the value of the Long-Term Incentive is set Performance Incentive Zones (on target) at 50% of base salary (75% in the case of excellent The number of shares that become unconditional after three performance). The number of conditionally granted shares is set years ('vesting') is determined on the basis of two equally by dividing the policy level (50% of base salary) by a share price weighted factors: DSM's performance relative to the average at the beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual TSR performance of the peer group and DSM's GHGE reduction grant level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism. over volume-related revenue. In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, the Supervisory Board takes into account a discounted face value of shares. This method incorporates the actual share price and a fixed vesting probability multiplier. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 123 The following vesting schemes will apply: Notice period Termination of employment by a member of the Managing Board is subject to three months’ notice. A notice period of six months TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme will for legal reasons be applicable in the case of termination by DSM performance % of DSM GHGE % of the company. minus peer-group shares that reduction over shares performance vest volume-related that vest Severance arrangement in % points revenue in % points There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for the members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January ≥ 30 100 5.27 100 2005. Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is ≥ 25 and < 30 89 4.68 89 appropriate for these Board members, the Remuneration ≥ 20 and < 25 78 4.09 78 Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The ≥ 15 and < 20 67 3.50 67 Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account ≥ 10 and < 15 56 2.91 56 usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable ≥ 5 and < 10 45 2.32 45 laws and corporate governance requirements. ≥ 0 and < 5 34 1.73 34 <0 0 <1.73 0 The employment contracts of newly appointed members of the Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) include an exit-arrangement provision which is in accordance with the The retention period for performance shares expires five years Dutch corporate governance code (that is, a sum equivalent to after the three-year vesting period or at termination of the fixed annual salary, or if this is manifestly unreasonable in the employment if this occurs earlier. case of dismissal during the first term of office, two times the fixed annual salary). The final TSR performance of DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a bank and audited by the external Claw back / change in control auditor at the end of the vesting period. In the course of 2011 the appropriate claw-back and change-incontrol provisions were introduced in the employment Pensions agreements of the members of the Managing Board as well as The members of the Managing Board are participants in the in the LTI rules. Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM Share ownership companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is The Supervisory Board will encourage the Managing Board to equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM hold shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. strategy and the company. Employment contracts Loans Term of employment DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing The employment contracts of the members of the Managing Board. Board appointed before 1 January 2005 have been entered into for an indefinite period of time. Newly appointed members of the Scenario analysis Managing Board are also offered an employment contract for an The amended Dutch corporate governance code requires that indefinite period of time. The employment contract ends on the the Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the date of retirement or by notice of either party. variable income components and the effect on Managing Board remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least Term of appointment every three years. Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. New members of the Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) are appointed for a period of four years. Newly appointed members are subject to reappointment by the shareholders after a period of four years. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 124 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Remuneration in 2011 Number of stock incentives granted Remuneration of Managing Board in 2011 As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM Performance shares will benchmark its remuneration package against the packages offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. Feike Sijbesma 24,000 Benchmarking of the Managing Board remuneration policy was Stefan Doboczky 16,000 conducted in Q1 2011 and clearly showed that the remuneration Nico Gerardu 16,000 of the members of the Managing Board, particularly the variable Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 16,000 part, was well below the median at target level of the peer group. Stephan Tanda 16,000 Base salary in 2011 Managing Board base salaries were last increased in 2008. For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and Therefore the Supervisory Board agreed to increase the base performance shares see note 10 from page 213. salaries with effect from mid 2011. Pensions in 2011 Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2011 The members of the Managing Board are participants in the STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM performance targets are influenced by the operational and companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. beginning of the year for each Board member. As already mentioned in the 2010 annual report, for DSM in the Target STI level and pay-out Netherlands a new pension plan has been agreed with Labor When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members Unions with effect from 1 January 2011. The plan comprises the receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. following elements: Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% of the annual base salary. ವ Career-average pay plan, with annual accrual of pension rights (old-age pension) over base salary exceeding € 12,898 The 2011 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term (reviewed annually) at a rate of 2%. The old pension plan was Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved a final pay plan. in 2011. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2012. ವ Retirement age 65 years for accrual until 2012. From 2012 onwards the accrual will be linked to a pensionable age of 66 The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the years. targets for 2010 were achieved. The realization of the 2011 ವ The scheme includes a partner pension as well as a disability financial STI targets has been reviewed by Ernst & Young pension. Accountants. Furthermore, Ernst & Young has reviewed the ವ Employee's contribution of 3.5% of base salary up to € 57,499 process with respect to the target setting and realization of the and 7.5% of pensionable salary above this amount (reviewed non-financial STI targets. The average realization percentage annually). was 79.83% of base salary. This reflects a prudent interpretation ವ Collective defined contribution: indexation of pensions and of the realization of the targets. pension rights, depending on PDN's coverage ratio. See the next page for a tabular overview of the actual Short-Term The new pension plan also applies to the Managing Board. Incentive pay-out per individual Board member in 2011. For participants who started participating before 2006, Performance shares in 2011 transitional arrangements related to the plan changes in 2006 In 2011 performance shares were granted to the Managing apply. Board on 28 April 2011. The following table shows the number of performance shares granted to the individual Board members: Board members participate in the revised PDN pension plan 2011. For Mr. Sijbesma and Mr. Gerardu, who both started participating before 2006, the transitional arrangement applies, as it does for all employees participating before 2006. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 125 For Mr. Sijbesma, who was already a Board member before Short-Term Incentives 2006, a specific transitional arrangement applies. This arrangement, too, has now been adjusted, related to the plan in € 20111 20102 changes as of 2011, leading to earlier accrual of an extra old age pension in 2011 and 2012 of € 41,563. This accrual has no 657,460 683,655 funding implications as the premium was already paid under the Stefan Doboczky 279,3153 n.a. specific pension plan operated before 2006. Nico Gerardu 431,485 464,463 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 423,580 444,103 Loans Stephan Tanda 411,722 451,738 DSM did not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board in 2011. 1 Based on results achieved in 2011 and therefore payable in 2012 2 Short-Term Incentives paid in 2011 based on results achieved in 2010 3 For the period from 1 May 2011, the date of appointment of Mr. Stefan Doboczky as Purchasing shares Managing Board Member All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the company. These share purchases are private transactions Pensions with private money. At 1 January 2012 the members of the Managing Board together held 117,512 shares in Koninklijke Pension costs Accrued pension DSM N.V., compared to 77,512 at 1 January 2011. More (employer) information can be found in the chapter Information about the in € 31 Dec. 31 Dec. DSM share starting on page 134. 2011 2010 2011 2010 Total remuneration Feike Sijbesma 110,595 113,292 416,5841 376,283 The total remuneration paid to the Managing Board (including Stefan Doboczky 49,386 n.a. 6,615 n.a. pension costs relating to current and former Board members) Nico Gerardu 74,755 76,027 336,220 313,802 amounted to € 5.5 million in 2011 (2010: € 3.7 million). This was Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 74,755 76,027 53,613 42,201 largely due to the expansion of the Managing Board from four to Stephan Tanda 74,755 76,027 71,605 59,580 five members. 1 This includes € 9,565 at retirement age 66 Overview of remuneration awarded to the Managing Board in 2011 The tables below show the remuneration awarded to the Changes expected to the remuneration of the Managing Managing Board in 2011. Board in 2012 Since a benchmark exercise had indicated that the remuneration Fixed annual salary of the members of the Managing Board was below the median of the labor market peer group, in 2011 the Remuneration in € 1 July 2011 1 July 2010 Committee looked at a number of alternatives to bring this remuneration closer to the median. These alternatives included 840,000 766,000 an increase in the STI potential. Stefan Doboczky 545,000 n.a. Nico Gerardu 545,000 509,000 Given the uncertain economic conditions, the Supervisory Board Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 545,000 509,000 has agreed, at the request of the CEO and the members of the Stephan Tanda 545,000 509,000 Managing Board, not to change the current remuneration policy for now and not to increase base salaries for the Managing Board until mid 2013. As the TSR peer group was reduced to ten members in 2011 (Danisco and Rhodia were delisted), Arkema and Christian Hansen will be added to the TSR peer group as from 2012. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 126 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Long-Term Incentives (LTI) For 2012, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares under the LTI program will be: Chairman 31,000 Members 20,000 Supervisory Board remuneration in 2011 Remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 2012 As Supervisory Board fees were last increased in 2005, the 2011 Annual General Meeting agreed with the proposal to moderately increase the fees of the Supervisory Board members. In accordance with good corporate governance, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is not dependent on the results of the company. This implies that neither stock options nor shares are granted to Supervisory Board members by way of remuneration. Based on benchmarking in 2011 the Supervisory Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 11 May 2012 an appropriate increase in the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members in order for DSM to be able to retain and attract highly qualified international Supervisory Board members. This will also include a proposal for an allowance for Supervisory Board members for intercontinental travel to attend meetings. The current remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee-membership fee. The fixed fee for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 55,000. The members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 40,000. Audit Committee membership is awarded € 7,000 per member and € 10,000 for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Remuneration Committee membership is awarded € 3,500 per member and € 5,000 for the Chairman. If any shares in DSM are held by Supervisory Board members, they serve as a long-term investment in the company. At year-end 2011 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. (same as in 2010). DSM does not provide any loans to its Supervisory Board members. Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2011 In the following tables an overview is given of the remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2011. Annual Supervisory Board remuneration till 29 April 2011 Fee in € Supervisory Audit Corporate Social Nomination Remuneration Total Board Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Cor Herkströter, chairman1 50,000 3,750 3,750 57,500 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 35,000 2,500 2,500 40,000 Pierre Hochuli 35,000 2,500 2,500 40,000 Pauline van der Meer Mohr2 Claudio Sonder 35,000 5,000 40,000 Tom de Swaan 35,000 7,500 42,500 Rob Routs 35,000 5,000 40,000 Total 225,000 17,500 8,750 8,750 260,000 1 Chairman till 29 April 2011 2 As from 28 April 2011 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 127 Annual Supervisory Board remuneration as of 29 April 2011 Fee in € Supervisory Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Total Board Committee Social Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Rob Routs, chairman1 55,000 3,500 5,000 3,500 67,000 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 40,000 3,500 3,500 5,000 52,000 Pierre Hochuli 40,000 3,500 3,500 3,500 50,500 Pauline van der Meer Mohr2 40,000 7,000 5,000 52,000 Claudio Sonder 40,000 7,000 3,500 50,500 Tom de Swaan 40,000 10,000 3,500 53,500 Total 255,000 24,000 22,500 12,000 12,000 325,500 1 Chairman as from 29 April 2011 2 As from 28 April 2011 For information on remuneration paid out to the members of the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 2010 please refer to Note 11 Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board in the Parent company financial statements. DSM did not provide any loans to its Supervisory Board members in 2011. Heerlen, 28 February 2012 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Pierre Hochuli Pauline van der Meer Mohr Claudio Sonder Tom de Swaan Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 128 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy regarding the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 129 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), chairman First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2014. Position: retired; last position held: executive director Downstream and member of the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V., member of the Supervisory Board of Royal KPN N.V., member of the Board of Directors of Canadian Utilities Ltd., A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group and UPMKymmene Corporation. Ewald Kist (1944, m), deputy chairman First appointed: 2004. End of current term: 2012. Position: retired; last position held: chairman of the Managing Board of the ING Group. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Boards of De Nederlandsche Bank N.V., Royal Philips Electronics N.V., Stage Entertainment and Moody’s Investor Services, member of the Board of Governors of the Peace Palace in The Hague (Netherlands). Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2013. Position: retired; last position held: chairman of the Board of Directors of Devgen N.V. Nationality: Swiss. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Board of Directors of Domes of Silence Holdings Ltd. Pauline F.M. van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2015. Position: President of the Executive Board of Erasmus University Rotterdam. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Board of ASML N.V., chair of the Supervisory Board of the Rotterdam School of Management, member of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse School voor Openbaar Bestuur, director of the Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen, member of the Economic Development Board of Rotterdam and member of the Duisenberg School of Finance Board. Claudio Sonder (1942, m) First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2013. Position: retired; last position held: chairman of the Managing Board of Celanese. Nationality: Brazilian and German. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: chairman of the Board of Lojas Renner S.A., member of the Supervisory Boards of Companhia Suzano de Papel e Celulose S.A., RBS S.A. Media Group, Hospital Albert Einstein, OGX S.A. and Executive Vice President of Suzano Holding S.A. Tom de Swaan (1946, m) First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2014. Position: retired; last position held: member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer / Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: non-executive director of the Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc and of the Board of Zurich Financial Services, chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers N.V., vice chairman of the Supervisory Board of Royal Ahold N.V., board member of Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and member of the Board of Trustees of Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 130 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/chairman Position: CEO/chairman of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2007; member of DSM’s Managing Board since July 2000. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: board member of CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council), member of the Advisory Board of RSM Erasmus University and of ECP-EPN (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands). e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (1952, m), CFO Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board and CFO since October 2006. Nationality: German. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: none. e-mail: rolf-dieter.schwalb@dsm.com Stefan Doboczky (1967, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2011. Nationality: Austrian. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: none. e-mail: stefan.doboczky@dsm.com Nico Gerardu (1951, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board since April 2006. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Board of Voestalpine Polynorm N.V. and the Bonnefanten Museum in Maastricht (Netherlands) and board member of VNCI (Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry). e-mail: nicolaas.gerardu@dsm.com Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2007. Nationality: Austrian. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: chairman of EuropaBio (European Biotechnology Industry Association), board member of scienceINDUSTRIES (Swiss association for the chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech industries) and BIO (US Biotechnology Industry Organization). e-mail: stephan.tanda@dsm.com Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 131 What still went wrong in 2011 DSM strives to continuously improve its performance in the field At DSM Dyneema in Greenville (North Carolina, USA) a of safety, health and environment (SHE). However, there is mechanical failure of the closure of a roll-off container caused always the possibility of something going wrong. a spill which was only partly contained and approximately 100 gallons of solvent ran into the storm drain. It is with deep regret that DSM reports the tragic death of a At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) contractor employee in 2011. On 13 September an electrician the spilling of approximately 1500 kg of phenol in a secondary from Austin Industrial lost his life while working on a high voltage containment (tank pit) due to a leaking flange caused substation at the recently acquired DSM South Center property nuisance. in Augusta (Georgia, USA). Serious near-miss: at DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands), mechanical failures in a roof structure created On 28 July a vapor cloud explosion followed by a fire occurred a situation of immediate danger. at the DSM-AGI Xinhua plant in Tainan (Taiwan). As a result, Serious near-miss: At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittardseven employees were injured, two of them seriously. These Geleen (Netherlands), hydro-leak testing during start-up tragic accidents, together with a number of other serious showed leakages on a column. This could have led to the incidents in 2011, led DSM to organize a Safety Day for all release of hazardous substances. employees worldwide. On this day, all DSM employees discussed their safety situation and ways to further improve it. Q3 The following list summarizes the most important other incidents At DSM Resins in Nanjing (China) an employee was very in 2011. In line with DSM’s reporting policy the overview also seriously injured in a traffic accident. On his way in a contains some serious near-misses. These are incidents that did customer’s car visiting another customer the car was hit by a not result in an injury, illness or damage but had the potential to truck. Three people were in the car, one of whom died do so and are therefore used as a learning opportunity. instantly. At DSM Nutritional Products in Lalden (Switzerland) an Q1 operator burned his feet with hot condensate when opening a coupling. At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands) a At the DSM Nutritional Products ANH Premix Asia site in contractor employee lost a fingertip when it became pinched Amberthan (India) an employee suffered a serious injury to his between a belt and a pulley. right hand, resulting in the amputation of his index finger and A driver of DSM Fibre Intermediates was one of the victims in the top of his thumb, when he came in contact with a a terrorist attack in January 2011 in Moscow (Russia). He was motorized rotary seal in the dust collection system. seriously injured. At DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) At DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Greenville (North an operator lost his balance when climbing onto a platform. Carolina, USA) 25 gallons of nitric acid were spilled. He fell to the ground, resulting in multiple bone fractures. Serious near-miss: At the DSM Anti-Infectives site in Toansa At DSM Resins in Shunde (China) a thermal heater exploded. (India) a boiler chimney got tilted. Five segments with a total This was followed by a fire that damaged the oil heater and a length of 35 meters fell down during a heavy storm. steam boiler. DSM employees were near, but fortunately they were not hit by fragments. No personal injuries occurred. Q2 Q4 At DSM Nutritional Products in Venlo (Netherlands), a truck driver was hit on the head by an empty pallet (used for load At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands) a piece securing on top of the load) when he released the lashing of pipe fell on a contractor employee's hand from a height of straps at the back of his trailer. He suffered a concussion. approximately 1.70m, resulting in a serious injury. At DSM Resins in Nanjing (China) a maintenance contractor At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) an was caught between a fork lift truck and his van. He was operator suffered serious thermal burns to his forearm when repairing the brakes of the fork lift truck. Suddenly the fork lift he was unplugging a pump. truck started to move, resulting in multiple injuries. At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland) a starting At DSM's site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) a contractor fell explosion occurred in one of the reaction steps of a vitamin while carrying a heavy hoisting beam and broke his leg. production process. This scenario had been identified in the At the DSM site in Linz (Austria) a contractor fell from a (fixed) safety studies and had been safeguarded against. This part of ladder, which resulted in a fracture. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 132 What still went wrong in 2011 the installation is pressure resistant and has been closed off by an explosion suppression system. The safety measures worked as intended and nobody got hurt; only the installation was damaged. At DSM Nutritional Products in Chengdu (China) a flash fire occurred when an operator was discharging raw material from a bag to a silo. Nobody was injured and no facility damage resulted from the incident. A DSM ICT Site Support engineer was involved in a car accident while travelling from the DSM site in Zwolle to DSM Groningen (both in the Netherlands). The employee was taken to a hospital for treatment. Two contractor employees at DSM Fibre Intermediates, Nanjing (China) suffered burns to their faces and arms as a result of electric sparks due to a short-circuit that occurred while they were working on a 380 V cabinet. This incident was dealt with as a serious near-miss. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 133 Information about the DSM share Shares and listings Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Euronext.liffe). In the US a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by Citibank NA (Cusip 780249108), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference shares A are in issue, which are not listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder by virtue of the law. The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2011 was 165,566,944. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2011 the company had 163,257,388 ordinary shares outstanding. Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2011 2010 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 14,957,368 166,467,632 163,037,329 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (3,568,018) 3,568,018 3,428,094 Repurchase of shares 9,000,000 (9,000,000) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,221,738) 2,221,738 Other 2,209 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 18,167,612 163,257,388 166,467,632 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 46.82 42.85 Lowest closing price 30.54 30.43 At 31 December 35.85 42.61 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 6,504 7,730 1 Source: Bloomberg Optional dividend program for shareholders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. DSM offers an optional dividend program. As a result of this, shareholders have the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. DSM proposes to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for the total dividend for the financial year 2011 to be € 1.45 per ordinary share. An interim dividend of € 0.45 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2011, the final dividend would then Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 134 Information about the DSM share amount to € 1.00 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares, at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 15 May 2012. DSM reiterates that for the coming years the company intends to further increase the dividend to at least € 1.50 per ordinary share, barring unforeseen circumstances and assuming that DSM will be able to fulfill its growth aspirations. The Dividend Reinvestment Plan previously provided by Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. was withdrawn in 2011. DSM Managing Board holdings of DSM shares The cumulative holdings of the five DSM Managing Board members increased in 2011 from 77,512 to 117,512 shares (situation on 1 January 2012). These shareholdings serve as a long-term investment in the company. These holdings include share purchases with private money and vested performance shares. 1 January 2012 1 January 2011 Board member Shares Vested Total Shares Vested Total purchased performance holdings purchased performance holdings with private shares with private shares money money Feike Sijbesma, CEO/chairman 30,500 19,500 50,000 27,500 12,000 39,500 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO 8,000 12,000 20,000 7,000 6,000 13,000 Stefan Doboczky 5,000 5,000 n.a. Nico Gerardu 8,556 16,000 24,556 5,056 10,000 15,056 Stephan Tanda 8,000 9,956 17,956 6,000 3,956 9,956 Total holdings 60,056 57,456 117,512 45,556 31,956 77,512 Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and (excl. cumprefs A) Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2011 in € in % 2011 2010 DSM AEX Index Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index 23 21 50 United Kingdom 19 20 North America 22 27 45 Germany 9 10 Switzerland 5 4 France 7 4 40 Belgium and Luxemburg 3 3 Other countries 12 11 35 30 25 01/11 04/11 07/11 10/11 11/11 12/11 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 135 Trading volume DSM shares 2011 x million shares 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 136 Information about the DSM share Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 137 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting Segmentation policies Segment information is presented in respect of the group’s operating segments about which separate financial information Basis of preparation is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in decision maker. DSM has determined that the Nutrition, Pharma, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates clusters (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The accounting represent reportable segments in addition to Innovation Center policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the and Corporate activities. The Managing Board decides how to pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting allocate resources and assesses the performance of the Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2011. clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to the level of operating profit before exceptional items. The clusters Consolidation are organized based on the type of products produced and the The consolidated financial statements include Royal DSM and nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies that its subsidiaries as well as the proportion of DSM’s ownership of are applied for these consolidated financial statements are also joint ventures (together ‘DSM’ or ‘group’). A subsidiary is an applied by the operating segments. Prices for transactions entity over which DSM has control. Control is the power to between segments are determined on an arm’s length basis. govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly obtain benefits from its activities. The financial data of attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Non-controlling interests in and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a country the group’s equity and profit and loss are stated separately. A and regional basis is provided in addition to the information about joint venture is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and operating segments. which is jointly controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement. Joint ventures are Foreign currency translation included in the consolidated financial statements according to The presentation currency of the group is the euro. the method of proportionate consolidation. Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet Subsidiaries and joint ventures are consolidated from the items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the control or joint control, respectively. From the acquisition date spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items transferred. In such cases a value adjustment for impairment of are recognized in the income statement. the asset is recognized. Non-monetary assets denominated in a currency other than the Business combinations functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries and joint toward the former owners, measured at acquisition date fair ventures whose functional currency is not the euro are translated value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the into euro at the closing rate. The income statements of these acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the As of the acquisition date identifiable assets acquired, liabilities functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired a functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair comprehensive income (Translation reserve). The same applies value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it to exchange differences arising from borrowings and other measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value financial instruments in so far as they hedge the currency risk or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net related to the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a assets. functional currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 138 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM differences relating to the translation of the net investment are Property, plant and equipment recognized in the income statement. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Distinction between current and non-current impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next date. turnaround. Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of as follows: for buildings 10-50 years, for plant and machinery associates is included in the carrying amount of these 5-15 years, for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not associates. Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment depreciated. annually and when there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to relating to the entity sold. arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in the Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are income statement. recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which Leases vary from 5 to 15 years. Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are Acquired licenses, patents and application software are carried capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased at historical cost less straight-line amortization and less any property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 10 payments. All other leases are operating leases. years. Costs of software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance development of application software is recognized as an charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. (5-8 years). Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the asset, that the entity intends to complete the asset, that the entity Associates is able to sell the asset, that the asset is capable of generating An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant future economic benefits, that adequate resources are available influence but no control, usually evidenced by a shareholding to complete the asset and that the expenditure attributable to that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity amortized over the asset’s useful life from the moment the method, which involves recognition in the income statement of product is launched commercially. The carrying amount of DSM’s share of the associate’s profit or loss for the year. DSM’s assets arising from development expenditures is reviewed for interest in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at its share impairment at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication in the net assets of the associate together with goodwill paid on of impairment. Development assets in use are tested for acquisition, less any impairment loss. impairment when there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. Any impairment losses are When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate exceeds the recorded in the income statement. carrying amount of the associate, including any other receivables, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 139 losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for in the income statement. Impairment losses for goodwill and obligations relating to the associate. other participations will never be reversed. Other financial assets Inventories Other financial assets comprise other participations, other Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable receivables and other deferred items. value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes available-for-sale securities. These other participations are directly attributable costs and related production overhead measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs interest below cost represents an impairment, which is necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost recognized in the income statement. On disposal, the cumulative cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are fair value adjustments of the related other participations are stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for released from equity and included in the income statement. If a selling and distribution efforts. reliable fair value cannot be established, the other participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other Current receivables participations and the gain or loss upon their disposal are Current receivables are stated at amortized cost, which generally recognized in the income statement. corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon Current investments initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if Deposits held at call with banks with a remaining maturity necessary after deduction of a value adjustment for bad debts. between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. The proceeds from these assets and the gain or loss upon their They are measured at amortized cost. Proceeds from these disposal are recognized in the income statement. deposits are recognized in the income statement. Impairment of assets Cash and cash equivalents When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonCash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an nominal value. asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market interest sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally rates and the risks specific to the asset. through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its are usually met as from the date on which a first draft of an recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in agreement to sell is ready for discussion. Non-current assets the income statement. An impairment loss is reversed when held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current determination of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For the impairment loss was recognized. sake of clarity, non-current assets and disposal groups that will be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is other assets and liabilities held for sale. objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 140 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Discontinued operations Revenue recognition Discontinued operations comprise those activities that have Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the been disposed of during the period or which have been classified significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the as held for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate buyer. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly rebates and cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income on an Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are agreements. Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. The price paid for basis using the effective interest method. Dividend income is repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from recognized when the right to receive payment is established. Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares are canceled or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative Government grants preference shares is recognized as a liability when the Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is Provisions initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions liabilities and then released to the income statement over the are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of amounts. economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Share-based compensation The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is value of the options on the date on which the options are discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price passage of time is recognized as interest costs. However, the of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in interest costs relating to pension obligations are included in the income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the pension costs. vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity (Reserve for share-based compensation) in the case of equity Borrowings settled options or Other non-current liabilities in the case of cashBorrowings are initially recognized at cost, being the fair value of settled options (Share Appreciation Rights). No expense is the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for borrowings are stated at amortized cost using the effective options whose vesting is conditional upon a market condition, interest method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the account any discount or premium. Interest expenses are market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance accrued and recorded in the income statement for each period. conditions are met. Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is Performance shares are granted free of charge and vest after hedged, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value The cost of performance shares is measured by reference to the of the interest component of the loan. fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the performance shares were granted and is recognized in the Other current liabilities income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting Other current liabilities are stated at amortized cost, which period, together with a corresponding increase in equity generally corresponds to the nominal value. (Reserve for share-based compensation). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 141 Emission rights Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is the foreseeable future. recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. presented net when there is a legally enforceable right to set off, and the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the Exceptional items same taxation authority. Exceptional items relate to material non-recurring items of income and expense arising from circumstances such as: Financial derivatives The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency write-downs of inventories to net realizable value or of forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. as reversals of such write-downs; Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet non-recurring inventory value adjustments related to business at fair value including transaction costs and subsequently combinations; measured at their fair value on each balance sheet date. restructurings of the activities of an entity; Changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement releases of provisions; unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge disposals of property, plant and equipment; accounting is applied. disposals of associates or other financial assets; book results on discontinued operations; Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and onerous contracts; qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other litigation settlements. comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or To provide a better understanding of the underlying results of the liability the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the period, exceptional items are reported separately if the Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the aggregate amount of the event or project exceeds € 10 million. hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is Income tax expense transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Translation within other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused by changes in currency exchange rates. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income Accumulated gains and losses are released from the Translation for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, reserve and are included in the income statement when the net and any adjustment to tax payable in respect to previous years. investment is disposed of. Changes in the fair value of financial Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges are expected tax consequences of temporary differences between immediately recognized in the income statement, together with the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates attributable to the hedged risk. and under the tax laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply Pensions and other post-employment benefits when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred For defined benefit plans, pension costs are determined using tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax assets, including assets the projected-unit-credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are arising from losses carried forward, are recognized to the extent recognized in Other comprehensive income in the period in that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available which they occur. Prepaid pension costs relating to defined against which the deductible temporary differences and unused benefit plans are capitalized only if they lead to refunds to the tax losses can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are employer or to reductions in future contributions to the plan by stated at nominal value. the employer. Prepaid pension costs that do not meet this Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 142 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM recoverability criterion are charged to Other comprehensive financial position or performance because it only affects income in the period in which they occur and are recognized as disclosures. effects of the asset ceiling. Payments to defined contribution plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. IFRS 9, 'Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement', applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets Effect of new accounting standards and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39. The standard The IASB and IFRIC have issued new standards, amendments represents the first phase in the work of the IASB to replace IAS to existing standards and interpretations, some of which are not 39. Since the standard has not yet been endorsed by the yet effective or have not yet been endorsed by the European European Union, it is uncertain when it needs to be applied by Union. DSM has introduced standards and interpretations that DSM. The remaining uncertainty with respect to the subsequent became effective in 2011. The adoption of these standards and phases of the project makes it impossible to quantify the impact interpretations did not have a material effect on the group's of the new standard on DSM’s financial position or performance. financial performance or position. IFRS 10, 'Consolidated Financial Statements', establishes a The amendment to IAS 24, 'Related Party Transactions', clarifies single control model that applies to all entities, including special the definitions of a related party. Furthermore, the amendment purpose entities. Management will have to determine which introduces an exemption for transactions with government and entities meet the new criteria for control and therefore have to government controlled entities. The adoption of the amendment be consolidated. The standard becomes effective for annual had no material effect on DSM’s financial position or periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 but has not yet performance. been endorsed by the European Union, which means that its introduction may be delayed. The amendment to IAS 32, 'Financial Instruments: Presentation', alters the definition of a financial liability and enables the IFRS 11, 'Joint Arrangements', removes the option to apply classification of certain rights issues, options and warrants as proportionate consolidation for joint ventures and mandates the equity instruments. The adoption of the amendment had no use of the equity method for jointly controlled entities that meet effect on DSM’s financial position or performance because the the definition of a joint venture. The introduction of this new company presently does not have these instruments. standard will change DSM’s financial position. Information on joint ventures that are affected is provided in note 28: Interests The amendment to IFRIC 14, 'Prepayments of a Minimum in joint ventures. The standard becomes effective for annual Funding Requirement', addresses the interaction between periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 but has not yet minimum funding requirements and early payments to cover been endorsed by the European Union, which means that its such requirements. It permits a prepayment of future service introduction may be delayed. costs to be recognized as a pension asset. The adoption of the amendment had no material effect on DSM’s financial position IFRS 12, 'Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities', provides or performance. disclosure requirements with respect to interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities. It is the The IASB's annual improvement projects resulted in minor complement of the two new standards discussed in the amendments to several existing standards. These amendments preceding paragraphs and will become effective at the same were implemented on their respective effective dates and did not time as these standards. have a significant impact on the financial statements. IFRS 13, 'Fair Value Measurement', becomes the single source Effect of forthcoming accounting standards of guidance in IFRS for all fair value measurements. The standard The following new standards and amendments to existing becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 standards are not yet applied by DSM. January 2013 but has not yet been endorsed by the European Union, which means that its introduction may be delayed. The IFRS 7, 'Financial Instruments: Disclosures Enhanced impact of this standard on DSM’s financial position and Derecognition Disclosure Requirements', requires additional performance is being assessed but is not expected to be disclosures about financial assets that have been transferred but material because the standard further clarifies requirements that not derecognized. Furthermore, the amendment requires already exist. disclosures about continuing involvement in derecognized assets. The amendment becomes effective for annual periods New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material beginning on or after 1 July 2011 and has no impact on DSM’s effect on the consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 143 Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 9,048 9,048 145 9,193 Cost of sales 4 (6,479) (48) (6,527) (98) (6,625) Gross margin 2,569 (48) 2,521 47 2,568 Marketing and sales (882) (882) (10) (892) Research and development (378) (378) (3) (381) General and administrative (474) (13) (487) (6) (493) Other operating income 71 13 84 112 196 Other operating expense (40) (29) (69) (1) (70) 4 (1,703) (29) (1,732) 92 (1,640) Operating profit 866 (77) 789 139 928 Interest costs 5 (99) (99) (99) Other financial income and expense 5 17 140 157 157 Share of the profit of associates 3 3 3 Profit before income tax expense 787 63 850 139 989 Income tax expense 7 (147) 25 (122) (7) (129) Profit for the year 640 88 728 132 860 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of 111 111 (111) Total 640 199 839 21 860 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 46 46 46 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 594 199 793 21 814 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 594 199 793 21 814 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 584 199 783 21 804 Earnings per share, continuing operations (in € ): Basic 4.06 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Diluted 4.03 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Earnings per share, total DSM (in € ): Basic 4.86 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Diluted 4.82 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 144 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 8,176 8,176 874 9,050 Cost of sales 4 (5,953) 29 (5,924) (674) (6,598) Gross margin 2,223 29 2,252 200 2,452 Marketing and sales (793) (793) (63) (856) Research and development (314) (14) (328) (10) (338) General and administrative (366) (366) (14) (380) Other operating income 43 55 98 37 135 Other operating expense (41) (58) (99) (112) (211) 4 (1,471) (17) (1,488) (162) (1,650) Operating profit 752 12 764 38 802 Interest costs 5 (102) (102) (102) Other financial income and expense 5 9 9 9 Share of the profit of associates 5 5 5 Profit before income tax expense 664 12 676 38 714 Income tax expense 7 (162) (4) (166) (23) (189) Profit for the year 502 8 510 15 525 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (48) (48) 48 Total 502 (40) 462 63 525 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 18 18 18 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 484 (40) 444 63 507 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 484 (40) 444 63 507 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 474 (40) 434 63 497 Earnings per share, continuing operations (in € ): Basic 2.94 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Diluted 2.92 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Earnings per share, total DSM (in € ): Basic 3.03 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Diluted 3.01 (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 145 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal reserves Actuarial Other controlling gains and interests losses 2010 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 294 294 7 301 Related income tax expense 39 39 39 Change in Actuarial gains and losses (186) (186) (186) Related income tax expense 47 47 47 Change in Asset ceiling (171) (171) (171) Related income tax expense 44 44 44 Change in Fair value reserve 33 33 33 Related income tax expense (13) (13) (13) Change in Hedging reserve 45 45 45 Related income tax expense (9) (9) (9) Other comprehensive income 389 (266) 123 7 130 Profit for the year 507 507 18 525 Total comprehensive income 389 (266) 507 630 25 655 2011 Change in Dutch pension plan 765 (765) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 47 47 10 57 Related income tax expense 6 6 6 Change in Actuarial gains and losses (41) (41) (41) Related income tax expense 10 10 10 Change in Asset ceiling 1 1 1 Related income tax expense 0 0 0 Change in Fair value reserve (85) (85) (85) Related income tax expense 20 20 20 Change in Hedging reserve (120) (120) (120) Related income tax expense 24 24 24 Other comprehensive income (108) 735 (765) (138) 10 (128) Profit for the year 814 814 46 860 Total comprehensive income (108) 735 49 676 56 732 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 146 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December x € million Notes 2011 2010 Assets 8 1,786 1,070 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,405 2,943 Deferred tax assets 7 292 326 Prepaid pension costs 24 1 Associates 10 35 25 Other financial assets 11 135 270 5,653 4,635 Current assets 12 1,573 1,340 Trade receivables 13 1,551 1,361 Other receivables 13 153 116 Financial derivatives 23 50 134 Current investments 14 89 837 Cash and cash equivalents 15 2,058 1,453 5,474 5,241 Assets to be contributed to joint ventures (100% basis) 317 Other assets held for sale 30 287 5,504 5,845 Total 11,157 10,480 Equity and liabilities 16 Shareholders' equity 5,784 5,481 Non-controlling interests 190 96 5,974 5,577 Non-current liabilities 7 192 155 Employee benefits liabilities 24 322 297 Provisions 18 116 93 Borrowings 19 2,029 1,992 Other non-current liabilities 20 69 33 2,728 2,570 Current liabilities 24 6 24 Provisions 18 43 33 Borrowings 19 160 105 Financial derivatives 23 326 219 Trade payables 21 1,348 1,277 Other current liabilities 21 557 512 2,440 2,170 Liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures (100% basis) 104 Other liabilities held for sale 15 59 2,455 2,333 Total 11,157 10,480 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 147 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves Actuarial Other controlling Equity gains and interests losses Balance at 1 January 2010 489 (637) (2) (381) 5,142 4,949 62 5,011 Dividend paid (206) (206) (1) (207) Options / performance shares granted 10 10 10 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (16) 19 3 3 Proceeds from reissued shares 95 95 95 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 15 15 Reclassification to held for sale (5) (5) Total comprehensive income 389 (266) 507 630 25 655 Balance at 31 December 2010 338 489 (542) 381 (647) 5,462 5,481 96 5,577 Dividend paid (242) (242) (4) (246) Options / performance shares granted 19 19 19 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (18) 24 6 6 Proceeds from reissued shares 201 201 201 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 42 42 Reclassification to held for sale Repurchase of shares (357) (357) (357) Total comprehensive income (108) 735 49 676 56 732 Balance at 31 December 2011 338 489 (698) 274 88 5,293 5,784 190 5,974 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 148 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated cash flow statement (note 26) x € million 2011 2010 Operating activities Profit for the year 860 525 Income tax 129 189 Profit before income tax expense 989 714 Share of the profit of associates (3) (5) Net finance costs Before exceptional items 82 93 Exceptional items (140) Operating profit 928 802 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 424 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 1,430 1,226 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (201) 37 Change in provisions 23 (63) Defined benefit plans (33) (79) (211) (105) Interest received 103 61 Interest paid (161) (150) Income tax received 7 5 Income tax paid (95) (68) Other 41 61 Changes, excluding working capital (316) (196) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 1,114 1,030 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (112) (108) Trade receivables (123) (160) Trade payables (25) 249 (260) (19) Changes in other working capital 28 92 Changes in working capital (232) 73 Cash provided by operating activities 882 1,103 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 149 Consolidated cash flow statement (note 26) continued x € million 2011 2010 Cash provided by operating activities 882 1,103 Investing activities Capital expenditure for: Intangible assets (54) (46) Property, plant and equipment (423) (370) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 7 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (929) (61) Cash from net investment hedge (77) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 513 363 Change in fixed-term deposits 748 (832) Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (3) (8) Change in loans granted 3 (24) Proceeds from disposals 221 7 Cash from / used in investing activities 7 (964) Financing activities Loans taken up 35 5 Repayment of loans (50) (14) Change in debt to credit institutions, commercial paper and current investments 74 (41) Dividend paid (155) (206) Proceeds from reissued shares 111 95 Repurchase of shares (357) Cash used in financing activities (342) (161) Change in cash and cash equivalents 547 (22) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,453 1,340 Exchange differences relating to cash held 58 135 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2,058 1,453 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 150 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'exceptional', the identification of cash generating units and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (note 24), income taxes (note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (note 23) and for share-based compensation (note 27). Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and other assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2011 2010 2011 2010 US dollar 1.29 1.33 1.39 1.33 Swiss franc 1.22 1.25 1.23 1.38 Pound sterling 0.84 0.86 0.87 0.86 100 Japanese yen 1.00 1.08 1.11 1.17 Chinese renminbi 8.24 8.77 9.00 8.98 Presentation of consolidated income statement From 2010 onwards DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to new individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing cost (including raw materials and energy) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 151 Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; development, which is defined as application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. Segment reporting With effect from 2011 DSM presents business segments and geographical information in accordance with the strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. Geographical information is provided for Western Europe, Eastern Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia and rest of the world, with separate specifications for the Netherlands, China, India and Japan. Furthermore, the segment Innovation Center was introduced, containing the activities of the DSM Innovation Center and the Emerging Business Areas. Information on the activities, products and services of the segments is available in the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Information for 2010 is presented in accordance with the new segment structure. Event after the reporting period In January 2012 DSM and POET, LLC, one of the world’s largest ethanol producers, announced a joint venture to commercially demonstrate and license cellulosic bio-ethanol, the next step in the development of biofuels, based on their proprietary and complementary technologies. The joint venture, POET–DSM Advanced Biofuels, LLC, is scheduled to start production in the second half of 2013 at one of the first commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol plants in the US. Further information on the new joint venture is provided in the section Review of business in 2011: Innovation Center starting on page 98. The formation of the joint venture is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. DSM will apply proportionate consolidation for the new joint venture once it is established. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 152 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2011 In February, DSM acquired 100% of the shares of Martek Biosciences Corporation (Martek), for a total consideration of € 789 million. The goodwill of € 337 million primarily results from the know-how of the employees, the ability to retain these employees and DSM specific synergies, notably the ability to cross-sell Martek's technology through the DSM network. Martek has annual sales of approximately USD 450 million and employs about 600 people. In consolidation, a part of the additional Martek sales is offset by the shift of ARA sales from DSM Food Specialties to Martek from external sales to internal supplies. The impact of the acquisition of Martek on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is shown in the following table. Carrying Adjustments Opening amount to fair balance sheet DSM value Assets Intangible assets 124 119 243 Property, plant and equipment 150 (19) 131 Other non-current assets 10 10 Inventories 75 13 88 Receivables 55 55 Cash and cash equivalents 60 60 Total assets 474 113 587 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 45 34 79 Current liabilities 48 8 56 Total liabilities 93 42 135 Net assets at fair value 381 71 452 Acquisition price (in cash) 789 Acquisition price (payable) Consideration 789 Goodwill 337 The acquisition of Martek contributed € 284 million to net sales. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2011, additional net sales would have been approximately € 335 million. The acquisition of Martek contributed € 19 million to the profit before tax and before exceptional items. Martek related exceptional items amounted to € 46 million before tax (for further information on exceptional items see note 6 Exceptional items). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 153 DSM acquired a 51% stake in AGI Corporation of Taiwan in July 2011, through a subscription for newly issued shares combined with a public tender offer, for a total consideration of € 41 million. AGI has annual sales of around € 100 million and employs more than 300 people. The impact of the acquisition of AGI Taiwan on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is shown in the following table. Carrying Adjustments Opening amount to fair balance sheet DSM value Assets Intangible assets 0 10 10 Property, plant and equipment 37 8 45 Other non-current assets 4 4 Inventories 13 13 Receivables 29 29 Cash and cash equivalents 11 11 Total assets 94 18 112 Non-controlling interests 19 7 26 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 10 6 16 Current liabilities 39 4 43 Non-controlling interests and liabilities 68 17 85 Net assets at fair value 26 1 27 Acquisition price (in cash) 41 Acquisition price (payable) Consideration 41 Goodwill 14 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 154 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In October, DSM acquired a majority share of 91.75% in Shandong ICD, High Performance Fiber Co., Ltd., based in Laiwu, China. Shandong ICD is a manufacturer of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene and employs about 300 people. The impact of the acquisition of Shandong ICD on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is shown in the following table. Carrying Adjustments Opening amount to fair balance sheet DSM value Assets Intangible assets 11 4 15 Property, plant and equipment 34 34 Other non-current assets 0 0 Inventories 8 8 Receivables 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 0 0 Total assets 56 4 60 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 0 0 Current liabilities 1 1 Non-controlling interests and liabilities 5 5 Net assets at fair value 51 4 55 Acquisition price (in cash) 48 Acquisition price (payable) 30 Consideration 78 Goodwill 23 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 155 The impact of all acquisitions made in 2011 on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Martek AGI Taiwan Shandong ICD Other Opening acquisitions balance sheet DSM Assets 243 10 15 24 292 Property, plant and equipment 131 45 34 31 241 Other non-current assets 10 4 0 1 15 Inventories 88 13 8 1 110 Receivables 55 29 3 2 89 Cash and cash equivalents 60 11 0 1 72 Total assets 587 112 60 60 819 Non-controlling interests 26 4 0 30 Liabilities 79 16 0 1 96 Current liabilities 56 43 1 6 106 Non-controlling interests and liabilities 135 85 5 7 232 Net assets at fair value 452 27 55 53 587 Acquisition price (in cash) 789 41 48 61 939 Acquisition price (payable) 30 5 35 Consideration 789 41 78 66 974 Goodwill 337 14 23 13 387 The acquisitions in 2011 contributed € 316 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2011, additional net sales would have been approximately € 400 million. The acquisitions in 2011 contributed € 17 million to the profit before tax and before exceptional items; this would also have been approximately € 17 million if they had all occurred on 1 January 2011. Other acquisitions comprise C5 Yeast Company, Vitatene, the premix unit of Fatrom and Volgaplast. 2010 Acquisitions, both individually and in aggregate, were immaterial with respect to IFRS disclosure requirements. In view of reductions in contingent consideration for certain acquisitions from earlier years, related liabilities and goodwill were reduced by € 8 million. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 156 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Disposals 2011 In the second quarter of 2011 DSM completed the sale of DSM Elastomers (Keltan®) to LANXESS for € 338 million on a cash and debt-free basis. In view of the disposal the related activities are reported as discontinued operations and comparatives have been re-presented. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM financial statements is presented in the following table: Assets Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment (132) Other non-current assets (5) Inventories (84) Receivables (50) Cash and cash equivalents (40) Total assets (311) Non-controlling interests 5 Liabilities Non-current liabilities (2) Current liabilities (37) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (34) Net assets at fair value (277) Consideration, net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt 387 Book profit 110 Income tax 1 Net book profit 111 Before disposal the business was classified as assets and liabilities held for sale. The impact of the disposal on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: 2011 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities (14) 60 Net cash used in investing activities (3) (8) Net cash used in financing activities 0 0 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (17) 52 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 157 In the third quarter of 2011 DSM completed the formation of the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture, which is consolidated on a 50% proportionate basis from 1 September 2011 onwards. As a consequence of the transaction 50% of the assets and liabilities of the business were effectively sold to the joint venture partner. DSM continues to account for the assets and liabilities that are retained in the business on the basis of existing book values. In view of DSM's continuing involvement with the business the related activities remain part of continuing operations. The impact of the 50% disposal is presented in the following table: Assets Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment (72) Other non-current assets (17) Inventories (41) Receivables (67) Cash and cash equivalents (17) Total assets (214) Non-controlling interests (4) Liabilities Non-current liabilities (26) Current liabilities (92) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (122) Net assets at fair value (92) Consideration, net of selling costs and translation differences 166 Impairment (62) Book profit 12 Income tax 17 Net book profit 29 Before disposal the business was classified as asset/liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures. 2010 In the second quarter of 2010 DSM completed the disposal of DSM Agro and DSM Melamine to Orascom Construction Industries and in the fourth quarter of 2010 it completed the disposal of Citrique Belge N.V. to Adcuram, the disposal of the Sarlink® Business unit to Teknor Apex and the disposal of DSM Special Products B.V. to Emerald Performance Materials. In view of the fact that the entities disposed of represented major lines of business the related activities of DSM Agro and DSM Melamine, S.A. Citrique Belge N.V. and DSM Special Products B.V. are reported as discontinued operations and comparatives have been restated. In view of the disposal of Sarlink® and the reclassification of Keltan® as held for sale, the activities of DSM Elastomers, which represented a major line of business, are also presented as discontinued operations. The impact of these disposals on the DSM financial statements is presented in the following tables. The impact of other disposals is immaterial. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 158 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Impact on balance sheet DSM Agro / Citrique DSM Special Sarlink® Total DSM Melamine Belge Products Assets (262) (39) (36) (21) (358) Other non-current assets (19) (8) (27) Inventories (56) (23) (11) (16) (106) Receivables (57) (21) (20) (1) (99) Cash and cash equivalents (71) (2) (73) Total assets (465) (91) (67) (40) (663) Non-controlling interests 12 12 Liabilities (29) (6) (1) (36) Other non-current liabilities 9 (2) 7 Current liabilities (124) (16) (15) (5) (160) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (132) (22) (18) (5) (177) Net assets at fair value (333) (69) (49) (35) (486) Consideration, net of selling costs 311 30 50 45 436 Book result (22) (39) 1 10 (50) Income tax 2 (5) (3) Net book result (20) (39) 1 5 (53) Impact on cash flow statement DSM Agro / Citrique DSM Special Sarlink® Total 2010 DSM Melamine Belge Products Net cash provided by operating activities (41) (22) (12) (0) (75) Net cash used in investing activities 10 2 2 14 Net cash used in financing activities Net change in cash and cash equivalents (31) (20) (10) (0) (61) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 159 Other assets and liabilities held for sale 2011 In view of the expected disposal of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business of DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria), this business continues to be classified as held for sale. 2010 In view of the announced agreement regarding the sale of the remaining part of DSM Elastomers (Keltan®) and the expected disposal of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business of DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria), these businesses were reclassified as held for sale. Before reclassification these activities were reported in the segment Base Chemicals and Materials, which has ceased to exist, and Pharma. Major classes of assets and liabilities held for sale consisted of property, plant and equipment to an amount of € 141 million and working capital to an amount of € 80 million. Deconsolidation 2011 As a result of the divestment of DSM Elastomers, DSM's interests in Sitech Manufacturing Services C.V., Sitech Utility Holding Beheer B.V. and Sitech Utility Holding C.V. were also reduced. At the end of June DSM only retained significant influence on the financial and operating policy decisions of these companies and therefore consolidation was terminated. The remaining investments in these entities were recognized at their fair value at the time when consolidation was terminated and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. The impact of the derecognition on the balance sheet and on the result was immaterial. 2010 As a result of the divestment of DSM Agro and DSM Melamine in 2010 DSM's interests in Utility Support Group B.V. (USG) and in EdeA v.o.f. were also reduced. At the end of June 2010 DSM only retained significant influence on the financial and operating policy decisions of both companies and therefore consolidation of USG and proportionate consolidation of EdeA was terminated. The remaining investments in both entities were recognized at their fair value at the time when (proportionate) consolidation was terminated and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. The impact of the derecognition on the balance sheet and on the result was immaterial. Other changes 2011 In 2011 the following changes in DSM's share in subsidiaries occurred without impacting the classification of the participations. DSM share Old New1 Sitech Services B.V. 77% 70% Sitech Manufacturing Services Beheer B.V. 77% 70% Sitech IAZI B.V. 77% 70% Sitech Site Services B.V. 77% 70% 1 All as a result of the disposal of DSM Elastomers Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 160 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2010 In 2010 the following changes in DSM's share in subsidiaries occurred without impacting the classification of the participations. DSM share Old New1 Sitech Manufacturing Services C.V. 100% 65% Sitech Utility Holding Beheer B.V. 100% 60% Sitech Utility Holding C.V. 100% 60% Sitech Services B.V. 100% 77% Sitech Manufacturing Services Beheer B.V. 100% 77% Sitech IAZI B.V. 100% 77% Sitech Site Services B.V. 100% 77% 1 All as a result of the disposal of DSM Agro and DSM Melamine Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 161 3 Segment information Business segments1 2011 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpoEliminaTotal tinued tions ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center activities2 tions Financial performance Net sales 3,370 677 2,752 1,820 60 369 9,048 145 9,193 Supplies to other clusters 68 21 21 435 4 23 (571) 1 6 (7) 3,438 698 2,773 2,255 64 392 (571) 9,049 151 (7) 9,193 577 (8) 162 339 (69) (135) 866 29 895 Exceptional items (51) 22 (33) (15) (77) 110 33 exceptional items 526 14 129 339 (69) (150) 789 139 928 155 44 121 25 11 41 397 397 Impairments 3 10 16 1 3 33 33 Additions to provisions 6 30 24 9 69 69 Share of the profit of associates 2 1 3 3 R&D costs3 146 14 107 13 63 35 378 3 381 Wages, salaries and social security costs 597 179 319 67 34 322 1,518 11 1,529 Total assets 3,826 1,104 2,085 835 255 3,052 11,157 11,157 Total liabilities 1,115 294 601 417 23 2,733 5,183 5,183 Capital employed at year-end 3,019 802 2,016 397 174 173 6,581 6,581 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 950 87 258 81 40 84 1,500 2 1,502 Share in equity of associates 2 2 8 3 7 22 22 21.8 5.3 10.6 20.9 14.3 14.4 4 Average in fte 8,051 3,174 5,454 1,376 348 3,417 21,820 21,820 Year-end (headcount) 8,329 3,324 5,599 1,439 383 3,150 22,224 22,224 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board 2 Corporate activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Costs of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis Transfers between segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 162 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Business segments1 2010 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpoEliminaTotal tinued tions ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center activities2 tions Financial performance Net sales 3,005 739 2,507 1,398 50 477 8,176 874 9,050 Supplies to other clusters 52 14 42 395 4 16 (472) 51 100 (151) 3,057 753 2,549 1,793 54 493 (472) 8,227 974 (151) 9,050 551 3 163 186 (64) (87) 752 86 838 Exceptional items 15 10 (13) 12 (48) (36) exceptional items 551 18 173 186 (64) (100) 764 38 802 129 58 119 33 14 34 387 31 418 Impairments 4 1 4 1 12 22 22 Additions to provisions 4 6 7 10 27 19 46 Share of the profit of associates 1 3 1 5 5 R&D costs3 110 12 85 15 56 36 314 10 324 Wages, salaries and social security costs 524 174 308 60 32 297 1,395 76 1,471 Total assets 2,777 1,175 2,253 700 199 3,089 10,193 287 10,480 Total liabilities 1,008 275 587 332 38 2,604 4,844 59 4,903 Capital employed at year-end 2,035 888 1,774 354 112 101 5,264 204 5,468 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 153 76 118 46 7 51 451 25 476 Share in equity of associates 2 2 1 10 3 (2) 16 16 22.8 8.3 11.3 16.0 14.2 14.1 4 Average in fte 7,237 4,100 4,648 1,339 298 3,228 20,850 1,204 22,054 Year-end (headcount) 7,409 4,079 4,918 1,361 309 3,417 21,493 418 21,911 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board 2 Corporate activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Costs of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis Transfers between segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 163 Geographical information 2011 Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 3,151 2,601 91 1,505 247 987 118 78 228 42 9,048 In % 35 29 1 17 3 11 1 0 3 0 100 In € million 662 2,689 514 1,692 589 1,438 167 299 793 205 9,048 In % 7 29 6 19 7 16 2 3 9 2 100 4,184 2,594 93 2,342 269 1,121 72 150 273 59 11,157 and equipment Capital expenditure 154 114 4 86 5 148 1 0 10 4 526 Carrying amount 1,445 1,266 29 1,723 25 539 12 39 97 16 5,191 1 6,205 6,398 334 3,650 824 3,423 481 146 627 136 22,224 Net sales by origin In € million 2,941 2,536 65 1,192 223 796 130 108 139 46 8,176 In % 36 31 1 15 3 10 1 1 2 0 100 In € million 544 2,602 436 1,518 585 1,157 162 261 712 199 8,176 In % 7 32 5 19 7 14 2 3 9 2 100 4,239 2,943 75 1,464 372 885 113 163 171 55 10,480 and equipment Capital expenditure 124 119 8 91 8 43 3 2 2 2 402 Carrying amount 1,480 1,249 21 910 40 397 30 38 21 13 4,199 1 6,491 6,381 241 2,878 979 3,170 662 139 400 152 21,493 1 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis DSM has no single external customer that represents 10 percent or more of revenues and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 164 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 4 Total costs Other operating income Total operating costs in 2011 of continuing operations before exceptional items amounted to € 8.2 billion, € 0.8 billion higher 2011 2010 than in 2010, when these costs stood at € 7.4 billion. Total operating costs in 2011 include Cost of sales to an amount of Continuing operations before € 6.5 billion (2010: € 6.0 billion); gross margin in % of net sales exceptional items stood at 28% (2010: 27%). Release of provisions 16 15 Gain on assets, activities, scrap, Employee benefits costs waste material, emission rights, royalties and licenses sold 15 12 Insurance benefits 14 2 2011 2010 Claims 7 Sundry 19 14 Continuing operations before exceptional items 71 43 Wages and salaries 1,310 1,214 Social security costs 189 165 Pension costs (see also note 24) 125 87 Other operating expense Share-based compensation (see also note 27) 19 16 2011 2010 1,643 1,482 Continuing operations before exceptional items Depreciation, amortization and impairments Additions to provisions 8 23 Loss from the disposal or closure of assets and activities 1 1 2011 2010 Exchange differences 9 4 Costs of financial instruments 5 Continuing operations before Sundry 17 13 exceptional items Amortization of intangible assets 83 61 40 41 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 314 326 Impairment losses 33 22 430 409 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 165 5 Net finance costs 6 Exceptional items 2011 2010 2011 2010 Continuing operations before exceptional items Reversal of impairment of Interest costs intangible assets and property, Interest expense 100 101 plant and equipment 55 Capitalized interest during Impairments of property, plant construction (2) (1) and equipment and business Interest charge on discounted activities (10) (26) provisions 1 2 Other costs (38) (48) 29 99 102 Research and development: Other financial income and Impairment of intangible assets (12) expense Other costs (2) Interest income (18) (12) (14) Exchange differences 4 0 General and administrative: Result from other securities (4) (6) Other costs (13) Sundry 1 9 (13) Other operating income: (17) (9) Release of provisions 45 Book gain on disposals 12 10 82 93 12 55 Other operating expense: Additions to provisions (28) In 2011 the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest Other costs (58) during construction was 5% (2010: 5%). (28) (58) (77) 12 Other financial income and expense 140 63 12 Income tax expense 25 (4) 88 8 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of 111 (48) items 199 (40) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 166 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2011 2010 The exceptional items in 2011 are listed below: The exceptional items in 2010 are listed below: The impairments of property, plant and equipment and Due to an improved business outlook for DSM Anti-Infectives business activities in Cost of sales relate to DSM Resins (see related to the new strategy Leveraging partnerships for growth also Other operating expense). including the announced agreement with Sinochem Group to Other costs in Cost of sales and General and administrative form a 50/50 global joint venture, the remaining 2007 mainly relate to the acquisition of Martek and include the impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and acquisition costs (€ 13 million) and non-recurring costs related equipment was reversed in Cost of sales. to value adjustments of inventories (€ 33 million). The impairments of property, plant and equipment and Legal claims have been included under other costs in Cost of business activities in Cost of sales relate to DSM sales (€ 5 million) and Other operating expense (€ 5 million). Pharmaceutical Products. The book profit on disposals relates to the establishment of The impairment of intangible assets and other costs in the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture. For further Research and development relate to the transfer of DSM information see note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation. assets to Percivia LLC. A restructuring program of € 28 million within DSM Resins has The release of a provision in Other operating income is related been included under Cost of sales (€ 5 million) and Other to a curtailment gain of the Dutch pension plan due to the new operating expense (€ 23 million). For further information see pension agreement as of 2011. note 18 Provisions. A book gain on disposals in Other operating income was Other financial income and expense relates to the book profit recognized as a result of the disposal of the DSM Xantar® before tax on the sale of the Danisco shares (€ 140 million). For polycarbonate business to Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. further information see note 11 Other financial assets. The other costs in Other operating expense relate to the The reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of recognition of previously unrecognized past service costs of relates to the result from the disposal of activities. This consists the Dutch pension plan. of the book profit after tax on the disposal of DSM Elastomers The reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of For further information see note 2 Changes in the scope of relates to the result from the disposal of activities. These mainly consolidation. include the pre-tax book loss related to the disposal of DSM Agro and DSM Melamine (€ 22 million) and the disposal of S.A. Citrique Belge N.V. (€ 39 million) and the book gain related to the disposal of the Sarlink® (€ 10 million) and DSM Special Products (€ 1 million) activities. Also included is a pre-tax gain of € 19 million related to the remeasuring of the defined benefit obligations due to the aforementioned disposals and an expense of € 17 million related to the announced settlement of the US Federal Class Antitrust Litigation and related cases concerning EPDM. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 167 7 Income tax in % 2011 2010 The income tax expense on the total result was € 129 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 13.1% 25.0 25.5 (2010: € 189 million, representing an effective income tax rate of 26.5%) and can be broken down as follows: Deviating rates (4.9) (6.4) Tax-exempt income and non2011 2010 deductible expense (0.5) 0.3 Other effects (0.9) 5.0 Current year (84) (58) Prior-year adjustments 4 4 operations 18.7 24.4 Discontinued operations 0.3 0.3 (80) (54) Exceptional items (5.9) 1.8 Deferred tax expense: Total effective tax rate 13.1 26.5 Originating from temporary differences and their reversal (50) (68) Prior-year adjustments (8) 6 The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Change in tax rate 4 (2) decreased by € 71 million owing to the changes presented in the Change in tax losses and tax table below: credits recognized 5 (71) (49) (135) 2011 2010 (129) (189) Balance at 1 January Deferred tax assets 326 322 Deferred tax liabilities (155) (115) The result from continuing operations before exceptional 171 207 items (147) (162) The result from exceptional items continuing operations 25 (4) Income tax expense in income The result from discontinued statement (49) (135) operations (7) (23) Income tax expense in Other comprehensive income 60 108 Acquisitions and disposals (77) (6) The effective income tax rate on the result from continuing Change in scope of operations before exceptional items was 18.7% in 2011 consolidation 2 (2010: 24.4%). This decrease was mainly caused by a different Exchange differences (7) geographic spread of results after the divestments and Reclassification to held for sale (3) acquisitions, and the application of preferential tax regimes in countries where DSM is operating. The tax rate for continuing Balance at 31 December 100 171 operations for 2012 is estimated at 19% (same as actual tax rate in 2011). The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result from Deferred tax assets 292 326 continuing operations is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities (192) (155) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 168 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In various countries DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. In determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities these uncertainties are taken into account. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: 2011 2010 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 34 (112) 41 (32) Property, plant and equipment 32 (254) 36 (221) Financial assets 2 (3) 18 (37) Inventories 53 (30) 66 (40) Receivables 2 (20) 9 (29) Equity 1 Other non-current liabilities 41 (2) 10 (1) Non-current provisions 58 (8) 71 (20) Non-current borrowings 4 3 Other current liabilities 49 (6) 88 (11) 275 (435) 343 (391) Tax losses carried forward 260 222 Reclassification to held for sale (5) 2 Set-off (243) 243 (234) 234 Total 292 (192) 326 (155) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 103 million (2010: € 88 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 40 million will expire in the years up to and including 2016, € 26 million between 2017 and 2021 and the remaining € 37 million between 2022 and 2026. The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands tax losses may be carried forward for 9 years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. Other foreign tax loss carryforwards primarily exist in the US and Austria. US tax losses will start to expire in 2024. Austrian tax losses can be carried forward for an indefinite period of time. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and net profit. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 169 8 Intangible assets Total Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2010 Cost 1,527 799 144 62 37 485 Amortization and impairment losses 474 150 73 4 3 244 Carrying amount 1,053 649 71 58 34 241 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 46 7 35 1 3 Put into operation 15 (81) 19 47 Acquisitions 27 19 7 1 Disposals and deconsolidations (3) (2) (1) Amortization (63) (5) (2) (56) Impairments (21) (2) (15) (3) (1) Exchange differences 40 25 3 3 2 7 Reclassifications to held for sale (17) (1) (2) (14) Other reclassifications 9 (9) 40 (30) 8 Other (1) (1) 17 42 0 (5) (13) (7) Balance at 31 December 2010 Cost 1,605 855 158 53 23 516 Amortization and impairment losses 535 164 87 2 282 Carrying amount 1,070 691 71 53 21 234 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 54 5 49 Put into operation (23) 23 Acquisitions 679 387 21 271 Disposals and deconsolidations 2 (32) 31 (2) 5 Amortization (83) (6) (1) (76) Impairments (7) (7) Exchange differences 56 34 2 4 16 Other reclassifications 15 2 1 12 716 421 (8) 62 (3) 244 Balance at 31 December 2011 Cost 2,393 1,281 134 115 22 841 Amortization and impairment losses 607 169 71 4 363 Carrying amount 1,786 1,112 63 115 18 478 Over the past few years DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the purchase method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 170 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2011 is as follows: Acquisition 2011 2010 Cash generating unit Currency Year of acquisition Martek 360 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins EUR 2005 Catalytica 170 165 DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. USD 2001 The Polymer Technology Group 68 66 DSM PTG USD 2008 Pentapharm 31 31 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Shandong ICD 23 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Novamid 17 12 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 AGI Corporation 15 DSM Resins TWD 2011 Syntech Far East 10 10 DSM Resins HKD 2005 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 10 9 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 C5 Yeast Company 9 DSM Innovation Center EUR 2011 Crina 8 7 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 Fatrom 5 DSM Nutritional Products RON 2011 Other acquisitions 22 27 Total 1,112 691 The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. The cash flow projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific cash generating unit in the Annual Strategic Review. The terminal value for the period after ten years is determined with the assumption of no growth. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the cash generating units and the related revenue projections. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins and DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are the three cash generating units to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. The growth assumptions for these cash generating units are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, the demand for advanced coating resins that is influenced by growth in the building and construction markets and the growth of the American market for pharmaceutical custom manufacturing services, respectively. The pre-tax discount rate is between 7.5% and 14% (same as 2010) depending on the risk profile of the cash generating unit. A stress test was performed on the impairment tests of the cash generating units. This showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonably possible adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 171 The other intangible assets are listed in the following table: 2011 2010 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 181 (125) 56 5 1 Marketing-related 56 (7) 49 49 6 Customer-related 189 (34) 155 154 8 Technology-based 377 (179) 198 169 109 Other 38 (18) 20 1 Total 841 (363) 478 378 124 Total 2010 516 (282) 234 124 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 172 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 9 Property, plant and equipment Total Land and Plant and Other Under Not used buildings machinery equipconstrucfor operating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2010 Cost 8,548 1,757 6,170 189 401 31 Depreciation and impairment losses 5,071 780 4,122 142 6 21 Carrying amount 3,477 977 2,048 47 395 10 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 381 7 22 3 348 1 Put into operation 42 195 11 (248) Acquisitions 7 2 4 1 Disposals (369) (37) (289) (1) (42) Deconsolidations (96) (3) (61) (1) (31) Depreciation (355) (64) (272) (19) Impairment (losses) / reversals 15 (13) 34 (6) Exchange differences 194 65 110 1 18 Reclassifications to held for sale (300) (42) (225) (3) (30) Other reclassifications (9) 12 (11) 14 (19) (5) Other changes (2) (1) (1) (534) (31) (494) 5 (10) (4) Balance at 31 December 2010 Cost 6,684 1,749 4,323 199 386 27 Depreciation and impairment losses 3,741 803 2,769 147 1 21 Carrying amount 2,943 946 1,554 52 385 6 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 474 4 34 3 433 Put into operation 59 178 22 (259) Acquisitions 241 84 111 6 40 Disposals (4) (1) 6 1 (10) Deconsolidations (1) (1) Depreciation (314) (62) (238) (14) Impairment (losses) / reversals (98) (6) (89) (1) (2) Exchange differences 73 19 34 1 19 Reclassification from held for sale 108 18 95 (5) Other reclassifications (15) (8) (7) Other changes (2) (2) 462 114 131 10 207 Balance at 31 December 2011 Cost 7,651 1,943 4,867 221 593 27 Depreciation and impairment losses 4,246 883 3,182 159 1 21 Carrying amount 3,405 1,060 1,685 62 592 6 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 173 Property, plant and equipment includes assets acquired under recognized impairment of the cash generating unit DSM Antifinance lease agreements with a carrying amount of € 7 million infectives of € 51 million on the basis of the fair value less cost to (31 December 2010: € 9 million). The related commitments are sell of that unit. The fair value was based on the bid of Sinochem included under Borrowings and amount to € 7 million Group for 50% of the business in the context of the (31 December 2010: € 10 million). The total of the minimum lease establishment of the joint venture DSM Sinochem payments at the balance sheet date amounts to € 7 million Pharmaceuticals. Furthermore, an impairment loss of € 26 million (31 December 2010: € 11 million) and their present values to at DSM Pharmaceutical Products and various smaller € 6 million (31 December 2010: € 10 million). impairments were recognized. Overview of minimum lease payments in time: 10 Associates 2012 4 2011 2010 2013-2016 3 After 2016 Balance at 1 January 25 18 Total 7 Share of profit 5 5 In 2011, on balance an impairment of € 98 million was Capital payments 1 3 recognized. This mainly related to an impairment at DSM AntiDividend received (1) (1) Infectives of € 62 million, at DSM Fibre Intermediates of € 14 New loans 4 4 million and at DSM Dyneema of € 7 million. In the context of the Disposals (1) formation of the joint venture with Sinochem, management Consolidation changes 1 (0) determined that DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals comprised ten Reclassification to held for sale 0 (3) individual cash generating units. On the basis of this new cash Transfers (1) (1) generating unit structure and the business plan for the joint Exchange differences 1 1 venture agreed between DSM and Sinochem an impairment test was performed. It was determined that the carrying value of Balance at 31 December 35 25 certain cash generating units exceeded their value in use and Of which loans granted 13 9 therefore an impairment charge of € 62 million was recognized. Subsequently DSM contributed the impaired assets of DSM Anti-infectives (reported in the Pharma segment) to the joint DSM's share in its most important associates and the financial venture. information on all associates on a 100% basis is disclosed in note 29 Interests in associates. In 2010 on balance an impairment reversal of € 15 million was recognized. This mainly related to the reversal of the previously Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 174 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 11 Other financial assets Total Other Other Other participations receivables deferred items Balance at 1 January 2010 233 170 51 12 Charged to the income statement (2) (2) Capital payments 5 5 Earn-out payments related to disposals 12 12 Disposals (20) (2) (18) Loans granted 25 25 Repayments (4) (4) Exchange differences 4 1 4 (1) Transfers (2) (10) 8 Changes in fair value 33 33 Reclassification to held for sale (17) (17) Other changes 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2010 270 207 43 20 Charged to the income statement (15) (8) (7) Acquisitions 15 2 12 1 Capital payments 6 6 Earn-out payments related to disposals 0 0 Disposals (222) (222) Consolidation changes 15 15 Loans granted 12 12 Repayments (4) (4) Exchange differences 1 2 (1) Transfers (6) (12) 6 Changes in fair value 54 54 Reclassification from held for sale 8 8 0 Other changes 1 2 (1) Balance at 31 December 2011 47 70 18 Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. In Other participations an amount of € 30 million is included that relates to equity instruments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably (2010: € 24 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. The disposal within Other participations relates to the sale of the shares in Danisco, which resulted in a profit of € 140 million before tax, which is reported as an exceptional item. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 175 12 Inventories 13 Receivables 2011 2010 2011 2010 473 422 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished goods 1,143 968 Trade accounts receivable 1,536 1,352 Deferred items 19 20 1,616 1,390 Receivables from associates 16 7 Adjustments to lower net 1,571 1,379 realizable value (43) (50) Adjustment for bad debts (20) (18) 1,573 1,340 1,551 1,361 Other receivables The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable Income taxes receivable 24 27 value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 159 million Other taxes and social security (2010: € 140 million). contributions 15 10 Government grants 1 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Loans 11 13 Other receivables 94 60 Deferred items 9 5 Balance at 1 January 2011 (50) 153 116 Additions charged to income statement (90) Utilization / reversals 99 Exchange differences (1) Deferred items comprise € 28 million (2010: € 25 million) in Other (1) prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods but have already been paid. Balance at 31 December 2011 (43) The increase in other receivables mainly relates to the outstanding part of the consideration relating to the establishment of the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 176 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM With respect to debtors within trade accounts receivable that are 15 Cash and cash equivalents neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions 2011 2010 amounting to € 1,367 million is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to € 169 million 920 536 is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns Cash at bank and in hand 1,122 640 reclaimable VAT and accruals that are not related to the payment Commercial paper 244 behavior of customers. Payments in transit 2 19 Bills of exchange 14 14 in % 2011 2010 2,058 1,453 86 88 1-29 days overdue 11 10 Cash at year-end 2011 was not being used as collateral (same 30-89 days overdue 1 1 as in 2010). It was restricted for an amount of € 2 million (in 2010 90 days or more overdue 2 1 no restriction). The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable are as follows: Balance at 1 January 2011 (18) Additions charged to income statement (5) Deductions 4 Acquisitions (1) Exchange differences 0 Balance at 31 December 2011 (20) 14 Current investments 2011 2010 89 837 89 837 In order to obtain better yields, excess cash has been invested in highly liquid time deposits and money market instruments with maturities between 3 and 6 months, which are reported as Current investments. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 177 16 Equity 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 5,577 5,011 860 525 Net exchange differences 63 340 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (31) (139) Net asset ceiling related to defined benefit obligations 1 (127) Dividend (246) (207) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 201 95 Repurchase of shares (357) Other changes (94) 79 Balance at 31 December 5,577 After the balance sheet date the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: 2011 2010 10 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.45 (2010: € 1.35) 237 224 247 234 The proposed dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. Shareholders will be provided with the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 218. Share capital On 31 December 2011 the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2010: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2010 and 2011 are shown in the following table. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 178 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2010 44,040,000 18,387,671 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,428,094) Other (2,209) Balance at 31 December 2010 44,040,000 14,957,368 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2010 (14,957,368) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2010 166,467,632 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2011 181,425,000 44,040,000 14, 957,368 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,568,018) Repurchase of shares 9,000,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,221,738) Balance at 31 December 2011 44,040,000 18,167,612 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2011 (18,167,612) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2011 163,257,388 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2011 was 165,566,944 (2010: 164,047,019). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2011 no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2010: € 489 million), an amount of € 114 million (2010: € 116 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2010 DSM possessed 14,957,368 ordinary shares (nominal value € 22 million, 6.6% of the share capital). In 2011, DSM repurchased 9,000,000 ordinary shares and used 3,568,018 ordinary shares for servicing management and personnel shareoption rights. Furthermore, 2,221,738 treasury shares were reissued as stock dividend. On 31 December 2011 DSM possessed 18,167,612 ordinary shares (nominal value € 27 million, 8.1% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 37.75. As at 31 December 2011, 6,919,350 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 11,248,262 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 179 Other reserves in Shareholder's equity Total Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2010 (2) (115) 39 45 29 Changes: 46 46 Release to income statement (1) (1) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 33 33 Exchange differences 294 294 Options and performance shares granted 10 10 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (16) (16) Income tax 17 39 (9) (13) Total changes 383 333 36 (6) 20 Balance at 31 December 2010 381 218 75 39 49 Changes: (116) (116) Release to income statement (4) (4) Disposals (139) (139) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 54 54 Exchange differences 47 47 Options and performance shares granted 19 19 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (18) (18) Income tax 50 6 24 20 Total changes (107) 53 (96) 1 (65) Balance at 31 December 2011 274 271 (21) 40 (16) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 180 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 17 Earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations Discontinued Total in € operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items 2010 2.89 0.05 2.94 0.09 3.03 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.29) (0.29) 0.29 Basic earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.89 (0.24) 2.65 0.38 3.03 Diluted earnings 2.87 0.05 2.92 0.09 3.01 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.29) (0.29) 0.29 Diluted earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.87 (0.24) 2.63 0.38 3.01 Dividend distributed in the period 1.20 Dividend for the year 1.35 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 164,047 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,003 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 165,050 3.53 0.53 4.06 0.80 4.86 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.67 0.67 (0.67) Basic earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 3.53 1.20 4.73 0.13 4.86 Diluted earnings 3.50 0.53 4.03 0.79 4.82 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.66 0.66 (0.66) Diluted earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 3.50 1.19 4.69 0.13 4.82 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.40 Dividend for the year 1.45 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 165,567 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,068 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 166,635 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 181 18 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions increased by € 33 million. This is the balance of the following changes: Restructuring Environmental Other long-term Other provisions Total costs and costs employee termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2010 104 34 35 32 205 Changes in 2010: 12 5 4 25 46 Releases (11) (4) (15) Uses (55) (5) (5) (29) (94) Disposals (24) (24) Exchange differences 2 1 1 4 Reclassifications 6 (2) 4 Total changes (76) 1 6 (10) (79) Balance at 31 December 2010 28 35 41 22 126 Of which current 17 6 3 7 33 Balance at 1 January 2011 28 35 41 22 126 Changes in 2011: 31 2 2 34 69 Releases (8) (4) (5) (17) Uses (13) (3) (2) (11) (29) Acquisitions 4 1 5 Exchange differences 1 0 0 0 1 Reclassifications 3 1 4 Total changes 14 (1) 1 19 33 Balance at 31 December 2011 42 34 42 41 159 Of which current 16 4 4 19 43 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used is based on swap rates for various terms, increased by 75 to 100 basis points depending on those terms. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by € 2 million in 2011 in view of the passage of time and changes in the discount rate. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up obligations, among other things. These provisions have an average life of more than 10 years. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 182 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly relate to the length-of-service and the end-of-service payment. Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example expenses relating to claims. These provisions have an average life of 5 to 10 years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the restructuring project at DSM Resins (€ 23 million). The addition to the environmental provision mainly relates to expenditures for soil clean-up at the Chemelot site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). The additions to the Other provisions mainly relate to litigation claims and onerous contracts. 19 Borrowings 2011 2010 Total Of which Total Of which current current Debenture loans 1,729 1,738 Private loans 308 11 292 46 Finance lease liabilities 7 4 10 2 Credit institutions / commercial paper 145 145 57 57 Total 2,189 160 2,097 105 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year-end 2011 of € 1,962 million, none of which were of a short-term nature (31 December 2010: € 1,964 million, of which none of a short-term nature), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. The documentation of the € 300 million bond issued in November 2005, which was increased by € 200 million in September 2008, the documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2007 and the documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2009 include a change-of-control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third party and if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). In 2011 Moody's confirmed their A3 credit rating for DSM with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor's upgraded DSM's credit rating in 2010 from Ato A with a stable outlook, which was reconfirmed in 2011. At 31 December 2011, borrowings to a total of € 744 million had a remaining term of more than five years. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 183 The schedule of repayment of borrowings (excluding debt to The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings credit institutions and commercial paper) is as follows: outstanding in 2011, including financial instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 4.3% (2010: 4.0%). 2011 2010 A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: 48 2012 15 22 2011 2010 2013 130 117 2014 537 505 EUR loan 4.00% 2005-2015 488 492 2015 and 2016 618 606 EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 744 743 2017 through 2021 744 742 EUR loan 5.75% 2009-2014 497 503 2,044 2,040 Total 1,729 1,738 A breakdown of the borrowings by currency (excluding debt to All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. credit institutions and commercial paper) is given in the following table: The original amount of € 300 million of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries. This 2011 2010 original amount of the loan was pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) in 2005 by means of a forward starting swap, which led to a lower 1,752 1,756 effective fixed interest rate of 3.66%. The loan increase of USD 240 238 € 192 million (after discount and fair value adjustments), was CNY 36 34 swapped to floating rates in August 2009 by means of an interest Other 16 12 rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.54% per annum 2,044 2,040 was locked in for the remaining life time. The effective interest rate for the increase now amounts to 3.67% (2010: floating at 2.17% above 1 month Euribor). On balance, total borrowings increased by € 92 million owing to the following changes: As in 2010, at year-end 2011 the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped into CHF for an amount of € 325 million to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF-denominated 2011 2010 subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007 the loan had been partly prehedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward starting swaps, Balance at 1 January 2,097 2,204 leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of 4.89% for the full loan. 41 14 Repayments (50) (14) Of the 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 € 300 million was swapped Changes in fair value (13) 11 to floating rates in September 2009 by means of an interest rate Acquisitions/disposals 2 (1) swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap to floating was (De)consolidations 14 (78) unwound and an interest advantage of 1.31% per annum was Changes in debt to credit locked in for the remaining life time. The effective interest now institutions/commercial paper 54 (71) amounts to 5.1% for the whole loan (year-end 2010 5.88% on Exchange differences 10 22 the fixed rate part of € 200 million and 3.48% above 1 month Reclassification from held for sale 15 Euribor for the floating part of € 300 million). Other changes 19 10 In November 2010 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an Balance at 31 December 2,097 intended refinancing in 2014 of the 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 at a 10 year interest rate of 3.42% excluding DSM spread. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 184 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In November 2011 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an The increase in deferred items mainly relates to the settlement intended refinancing in 2015 of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 at of an interest rate swap and to customer funded projects. a 10 year interest rate of 3.20% excluding DSM spread. At yearend 2011 the fair value of the pre-hedge contracts amounted to 21 Current liabilities € 27 million negative (year-end 2010 € 31 million positive), which is recognized in the hedging reserve. 2011 2010 A breakdown of private loans is given below: Trade payables Received in advance 29 20 2011 2010 Trade accounts payable 1,300 1,245 Notes and cheques due 3 11 CNY loan floating 2008-2014 36 34 Owing to associates 16 1 (12 months) USD loan 5.51% 2003-2013 117 113 1,348 1,277 USD loan 5.61% 2003-2015 116 113 Other loans 39 32 Other current liabilities Income taxes payable 42 41 Total 308 292 Other taxes and social security contributions 59 42 Pensions 4 4 The fixed interest rate of the 5.51% USD loan 2003-2013 was Other liabilities 399 368 swapped into a floating rate by means of an interest rate swap Deferred items 53 57 (fair value hedge). During 2005 this interest rate swap was unwound. The gain from this will be amortized until maturity, 557 512 leading to an effective fixed USD interest rate of 4.29% for the loan. This 5.51% USD loan was assigned as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency risk of net investments in 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations USD-denominated subsidiaries. The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the The currency component of the 5.61% USD loan 2003-2015 following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. was swapped into euros (cash flow hedge). The resulting EUR liability was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of netinvestments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries (net-investment 2011 2010 hedge). 84 82 DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described Guarantee obligations on behalf of in note 23. associates and third parties 156 143 Outstanding orders for projects 20 Other non-current liabilities under construction 10 5 Other 21 24 2011 2010 271 254 10 12 Deferred items 50 4 Most of the outstanding orders for projects under construction Other non-current liabilities 9 17 will be completed in 2012. Property, plant and equipment under operating leases primarily concerns catalysts, buildings and 69 33 various equipment items. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 185 The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as follows: 2011 2010 12 2012 18 15 2013 14 10 2014 11 9 2015 and 2016 12 8 After 2016 29 28 84 82 Litigation DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically and systematically. DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has been recognized in the financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 186 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 23 Financial instruments and risks Policies on financial risks General The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk and market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk). DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing the effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest rates on its results in the short term and following market rates in the long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial risks relating to business operations and does not enter into speculative derivative positions. DSM's financial policy, including policies and processes for managing capital, is discussed more extensively on page 104 of the Report by the Managing Board. Liquidity risk DSM has two committed credit facilities: one of € 400 million maturing in April 2013 and one of € 500 million refinanced in September 2011 and maturing in September 2016. The latter has an extension option in 2012 (to extend the final maturity with one year) and in 2013 (to extend the final maturity by another year). Together, the facilities amount to a total of € 900 million (same as 2010) and a commercial-paper program amounting to € 1,500 million (same as 2010). The company will use the commercial-paper program to a total of not more than € 900 million (same as 2010). The agreements for the committed credit facilities neither have financial covenants nor material adverse changes clauses. On 31 December 2011 no loans were taken up under either of the facilities. DSM has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty would be permitted. Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and short-term monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. Therefore the remaining maturities presented in the following table provide an appropriate understanding of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments, and amounts are not expected to differ from those reported. Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order to meet cash outflows on these liabilities. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 187 Fixed-rate Floating-rate Short-term Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings borrowings monetary payments redemption out 2010 liabilities Within 1 year 12 36 1,846 1,894 90 1, 984 Within 1 to 2 years 11 11 22 89 111 Within 2 to 3 years 115 2 117 87 204 Within 3 to 4 years 202 302 504 64 (3) 565 Within 4 to 5 years 414 192 606 55 8 669 After 5 years 743 743 67 7 817 Total 1,497 543 1,846 3,886 452 12 4,350 2011 Within 1 year 11 4 2,050 2,065 95 2,160 Within 1 to 2 years 121 9 130 93 223 Within 2 to 3 years 499 38 537 68 2 607 Within 3 to 4 years 605 2 607 56 12 675 Within 4 to 5 years 11 11 36 47 After 5 years 744 744 30 6 780 Total 1,980 64 2,050 4,094 378 20 4,492 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs Interest rate risk DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floatinginterest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position in principle not exceeding 60% of net debt. On 31 December 2011, DSM no longer had any outstanding interest rate swaps. In August 2011 DSM unwound two interest rate swaps of € 500 million, generating an immediate cash-in of € 29.9 million and locking in an average interest advantage of 1.43% for the remaining average life time of 3.24 years. The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an immediate 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2011, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 19 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2011 as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2011 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 188 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2011 2010 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) 89 89 837 837 Cash and cash equivalents 2,058 2,058 1,453 1,453 Short-term borrowings (160) (160) (105) (105) Long-term borrowings 2,029 (2,239) 80 (85) (1,992) (2,150) 92 (97) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (27) (27) 77 (91) 39 39 15 (20) Currency risk It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the trade receivables and trade payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Apart from an internal loan with a notional amount of € 732 million, hedge accounting is not applied for these instruments. On 31 December 2011, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 3,358 million (2010: € 2,121 million). In 2011 DSM hedged USD 812 million (2010 USD 846 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2012, of which USD 362 million against EUR and USD 450 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.38 per euro and CHF 0.90 per US dollar respectively for the four quarters of 2012. In 2011 DSM also hedged JPY 7,000 million (2010: JPY 5,000 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2012 of which JPY 5,600 million against Swiss franc and JPY 1,400 million against the euro by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 91 per Swiss franc and JPY 108 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2012. In 2011 DSM started to hedge projected GBP cash obligation against CHF: GBP 72.5 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.29 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2012. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2010 for the year 2011, in 2011 € 68 million positive (2010: € 3 million negative) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2011. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2011: CHF 1,061 million; 2010: CHF 1,157 million). USD-denominated net assets have been partially hedged through a USD loan (2011: USD 150 million, same as 2010). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December 2011, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 189 2011 2010 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) 89 89 837 837 Cash and cash equivalents 2,058 2,058 76 (76) 1,453 1,453 27 (27) Short-term borrowings (160) (160) (6) 6 (105) (105) (8) 8 Long-term borrowings (2,029) (2,239) (31) 31 (1,992) (2,150) (27) 27 Interest rate swaps (27) (27) 39 39 Cross currency swaps (104) (104) (132) 132 (29) (29) (48) 48 Currency forward contracts (1) (1) 66 (66) 38 38 83 (83) Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (117) (117) (94) 94 (171) (171) (97) 97 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (27) (27) (31) 31 38 38 (29) 29 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in the USD exchange rate against all foreign currencies and the euro from the level on 31 December 2011, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the USD against the foreign currencies and the euro and a -10% change represents a weakening of the USD against the foreign currencies and the euro. 2011 2010 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in USD amount to change in USD +10% (10%) +10% (10%) 89 89 837 837 Cash and cash equivalents 2,058 2,058 3 (3) 1,453 1,453 Short-term borrowings (160) (160) (1) 1 (105) (105) Long-term borrowings (2,029) (2,239) (26) 26 (1,992) (2,150) (27) 27 Interest rate swaps (27) (27) 39 39 Cross currency swaps (104) (104) (126) 126 (29) (29) (35) 35 Currency forward contracts (1) (1) 5 (5) 38 38 (14) 14 Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (117) (117) (171) (171) Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (27) (27) (63) 63 38 38 (64) 64 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the averagerate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 190 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2011 price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk DSM manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. In September 2011 individual credit limits for financial institutions were reviewed and reduced by about 50% in anticipation of increasing exposure to credit risk as rising cash levels of DSM coincided with a still questionable stability of banks. Given this economic environment, DSM decided to invest most of its cash position in deposits with a maximum maturity of one month and with banks with a Moody's credit rating of AA3 or higher. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. With regard to treasury activities it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of P1 for short-term instruments or A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for credit risks that have been identified (as listed in note 13). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in note 10 Associates, note 11 Other financial assets, note 13 Receivables, note 14 Current investments, note 15 Cash and cash equivalents and note 23 Financial instruments and risks. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are disclosed: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 47 47 207 207 Other non-current receivables 70 70 43 43 Current receivables 1,704 1,704 1,477 1,477 Financial derivatives 50 50 134 134 Current investments 89 89 837 837 Cash and cash equivalents 2,058 2,058 1,453 1,453 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 2,029 2,239 1,992 2,150 Other non-current liabilities 69 69 33 33 Current borrowings 160 160 105 105 Financial derivatives 326 326 219 219 Other current liabilities 1,905 1,905 1,789 1,789 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 191 The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial derivatives recognized, broken down by type and purpose: Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps 39 39 Currency swaps 5 (205) (200) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 44 (205) (161) Currency forward contracts 90 (14) 76 Balance at 31 December 2010 134 (219) (85) Interest rate swaps (27) (27) Currency swaps 3 (224) (221) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 3 (251) (248) Currency forward contracts 47 (75) (28) Balance at 31 December 2011 50 (326) (276) 24 Post-employment benefits The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and by the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US. Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, return on assets, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 192 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The charges for pension costs recognized in the income statement (note 4) relate to the following: 2011 2010 1 282 2011 2010 Employee benefits liabilities (321) (324) Balance at 1 January (320) (42) Pension plans 29 58 Healthcare plans 1 2 Other post-employment benefits 2 6 Balance of actuarial gains/(losses) (41) (186) 93 21 Balance of asset ceiling 1 (171) Employee benefits costs (32) (65) 125 87 Contributions by employer 65 144 Discontinued activities 1 6 Exchange differences (2) (8) Exceptional items (6) Reclassification from/to held for sale (1) 4 126 87 Acquisitions / disposals (1) Other changes 3 4 In 2010 DSM agreed with the labor unions to change the Dutch (8) (278) pension plan as of 2011. The plan was converted from final-pay to average-pay and as of 1 January 2012 the pensionable age Balance at 31 December (328) (320) was raised from 65 to 66 years, in line with developments in the Netherlands. The new agreement covers a period of 5 years and obliges DSM to pay a fixed premium. In view of the fact that DSM Prepaid pension costs 1 has no further obligation than to pay the agreed premium, the Employee benefits liabilities (328) (321) changed plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan in 2011. The Employee benefits liabilities of € 328 million For 2012, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions (2010: € 321 million) consist of € 288 million (2010: € 281 million) and healthcare, excluding gains and losses on curtailments and related to pensions, € 28 million (2010: € 23 million) related to settlements, will be € 34 million (2011: € 30 million). healthcare and other costs and € 12 million (2010: € 17 million) related to other post-employment benefits. Changes in Prepaid pension costs and Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are disclosed in the Pensions following overview: The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual obligations. Defined benefit plans are applicable to certain employees in Germany, the UK, Switzerland, the US and Austria. The rights that can be derived from these plans are based primarily on length of service and the majority of the plans are based on final salary. The majority of the obligations are funded and have been transferred to independent pension funds and life-insurance companies. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 193 The German and the Austrian plan are unfunded. Together they The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are as follows: amount to € 213 million (2010: € 216 million). The changes in the present value of the defined benefit 2011 2010 obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans are listed below: obligations (886) (5,322) Present value of defined benefit obligations Fair value of plan assets 817 5,440 2011 2010 (69) 118 Present value of unfunded Balance at 1 January 5,543 4,942 obligations (219) (221) Change in Dutch pension plan (4,524) 1,019 4,942 (288) (103) Changes: Effect of asset ceiling (177) Service costs 27 93 Interest costs 40 246 (288) (280) Contributions by employees 11 24 Actuarial (gains)/losses 20 431 Curtailments (69) Liabilities (Employee benefits Transfer 21 liabilities) (288) (281) Exchange differences on Assets (Prepaid pension costs) 1 foreign plans 24 94 Benefits paid (36) (240) Other changes 1 Balance at 31 December 5,543 Fair value of plan assets 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 5,440 4,876 Change in Dutch pension plan (4,699) 741 4,876 Changes: Expected return on plan assets 38 290 Actuarial gains/(losses) (18) 245 20 535 Contributions by employer 59 136 Contributions by employees 11 24 Transfer 20 Exchange differences on foreign plans 22 89 Benefits paid (36) (240) Balance at 31 December 5,440 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 194 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The changes in the net assets / liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are as follows: 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January (280) 2 Expense recognized in the income statement (29) (56) Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in Other comprehensive income during the year (38) (186) Asset ceiling recognized directly in Other comprehensive income during the year 1 (171) Contributions by employer 59 136 Exchange differences on foreign plans (1) (5) Balance at 31 December ) (280) In 2012 DSM is expected to contribute € 42 million (actual 2011: € 59 million including one-off funding in US of € 15 million) to its defined benefit plans. The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 61% 57% Equities 28% 34% Property 8% 5% Other 3% 4% The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM. The total expense recognized in the income statement is as follows: 2011 2010 27 93 Interest on obligation 40 246 Expected return on plan assets (38) (290) Past service costs 0 70 (Gains)/losses on curtailments and settlements 0 (64) Other 1 29 56 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 195 The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are: 2011 2010 The Netherlands1 Other countries The Netherlands Other countries Discount rate n.a. 3.90% 5.10% 4.04% Price inflation n.a. 2.03% 1.75% 2.01% Salary increase n.a. 2.87% 1.75% 2.89% Pension increase n.a. 2.17% 1.75% 1.53% Expected return on plan assets n.a. 2.25%-6.57% 5.56% 2.25%-7.80% 1 In the Netherlands there is only one defined benefit plan left (NeoResins), which is immaterial for the group The assumptions for the expected return on plan assets are based on a review of historical returns of the asset classes in which the assets of the pension plans are invested and the expected long-term allocation of the assets over these classes. The 2011 assumptions are used for the determination of costs related to defined benefit plans for 2012. Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligations (1,105) (5,543) (4,942) (4,454) Plan assets 817 5,440 4,876 4,213 Funded status of asset/(liability) (288) (103) (66) (241) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) (18) 245 485 (1,402) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (8) 35 (40) 26 Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (12) (466) (336) 106 Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 196 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The amounts included in the balance sheet are as follows: 2011 2010 (13) (10) Fair value of plan assets (including reimbursement rights) 7 6 (6) (4) Present value of unfunded obligations (22) (19) (28) (23) Unrecognized past service costs (28) (23) The amounts recognized in the income statement are as follows: 2011 2010 1 1 Interest costs 2 2 Expected return on plan assets and reimbursement rights (2) (1) 1 2 The changes in the net liability for post-employment healthcare and other costs recognized in the balance sheet (Employee benefits liabilities) can be shown as follows: 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January (23) (22) (2) (2) Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in equity (3) 1 Benefits paid/employer contributions 1 2 Exchange differences (1) (2) Balance at 31 December ) (23) In 2012 DSM is expected to contribute € 2 million (actual 2011: € 1 million) to its post-employment healthcare and other plans. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 197 The main actuarial assumptions for post-employment healthcare costs (weighted averages) for the year are: 2011 2010 5.00% 5.75% Price inflation 2.75% 2.75% Salary increase 3.75% 3.75% Healthcare-cost trend (initial rate)1 7.00-11.00% 7.00% Healthcare-cost trend (ultimate rate) 4.75% 4.75% 1 Initial pre-medicare trend: 11.00%; initial post-medicare trend: 7.00% The 2011 assumptions are used for the determination of post-employment healthcare costs for 2012. A one-percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following impact: One-percentageOne-percentagepoint increase point decrease 2010 Effect on the aggregate of service costs and interest costs (increase) (0) 0 Effect on defined obligation (increase) (2) 2 2011 Effect on the aggregate of service costs and interest costs (increase) (0) 0 Effect on defined obligation (increase) (2) 2 Amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligations (35) (29) (28) (43) Plan assets (including reimbursement rights) 7 6 6 8 Funded status of asset/(liability) (28) (23) (22) (35) Experience adjustments on plan assets / liabilities (loss) (1) 2 (1) 1 Gain / (loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (2) (1) 1 (2) Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 198 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 25 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: 2011 2010 Borrowings: Non-current borrowings 2,029 1,992 Current borrowings 160 105 2,189 2,097 Current investments (89) (837) Cash and cash equivalents (2,058) (1,453) Financial derivatives, assets (see also note 23) (50) (134) Financial derivatives, liabilities (see also note 23) 326 219 318 (108) 26 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: 2011 2010 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,424 1,511 Balance at 31 December 1,776 1,424 Balance sheet change 352 (87) Exchange differences (27) (141) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) 33 72 Reclassification from / to held for sale (121) 140 Transfers 23 35 Total 260 19 In 2011 the operating working capital of continuing operations (€ 1,795 million) as a percentage of annualized net sales was 20.2% (2010: 17.9%). Besides the business impact this increase was due to acquisitions, changes in consolidation and an exchange rate effect. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 199 27 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance based and non-performance based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Starting in 2011 only stock options are granted and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock Options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all, depending on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. Non-vested performance based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. Starting in 2010 only performance shares have been granted to the members of the Managing Board (no longer stock options). Performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. All stock options and performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding In 2011 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) 2010 expired 2011 date (€ ) 2003 53,250 (50,750) (2,500) 3.09 18.195 4 Apr. 2011 20031 39,300 (30,200) (9,100) 3.64 19.770 3 Nov. 2011 2004 300,368 (176,093) 124,275 2.97 17.895 2 Apr. 2012 2005 459,853 (213,625) 246,228 6.15 29.050 8 Apr. 2013 20062 1,364,581 (685,750) (10,000) 668,831 8.95 38.300 31 Mar. 2014 20072 1,774,814 (690,797) (5,625) 1,078,392 7.69 33.600 30 Mar. 2015 20082,3 2,870,800 (899,600) (479,674) 1,491,526 5.73 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 20092 3,146,713 (198,150) (147,250) 2,801,313 2.83 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 2 2010 3,206,213 (114,350) (170,100) 2,921,763 6.07 33.100 6 Apr. 2018 20112 3,286,038 (71,600) 3,214,438 9.60 46.200 2 May 2019 2011 Total 13,215,892 3,286,038 (3,059,315) (895,849) 12,546,766 Of which vested 4,379,866 4,104,602 at 31 Dec. 2009 at 31 Dec. 2010 2010 Total 13,253,048 3,313,263 (2,419,946) (930,473) 13,215,892 Of which vested 4,340,485 4,379,866 1 On 3 November 2003 a select group of DSM Nutritional Products employees received stock options and SARs on a one-off basis. 2 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 3 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2008 did only partially vest; the remaining part has been forfeited. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 200 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of 5 years. Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue Outstanding In 2011 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Exercise at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) period 2010 expired 2011 date (€ ) until 2006 293,774 (224,375) (69,399) 6.03 38.30 Mar. 2011 2007 248,098 (106,267) (4,517) 137,314 4.27 33.60 Mar. 2012 2008 205,325 (74,595) (2,087) 128,643 3.27 29.79 Mar. 2013 2009 226,870 (77,216) (2,640) 147,014 2.31 21.10 Mar. 2014 2011 694,490 (750) (91,435) 602,305 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2011 Total 974,067 694,490 (483,203) (170,078) 1,015,276 2,122,851 (972,148) (176,636) 974,067 Based on the 2009 result, no employee option rights were granted in 2010. Measurement of fair value The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date at which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits costs). The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value at grant date: 2011 2010 2.79% 2.56% Expected option life of management option rights 6 years 6 years Nominal option life of management option rights 8 years 8 years Expected option life of employee option rights 2.5 years 2.5 years Nominal option life of employee option rights 5 years 5 years Stock-price volatility of management option rights 26% 26% Stock-price volatility of employee option rights 40% 26% Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 201 In the costs for wages and salaries an amount of € 19 million is included for share-based compensation (2010: € 16 million). In the following table the share-based compensation is specified: 2011 2010 Stock options 18 9 Share appreciation rights 0 6 Performance shares 1 1 Total expense 19 16 28 Interests in joint ventures DSM’s share in its most important joint ventures (joint ventures with a net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) is disclosed below: Company Location Country DSM interest 2011 2010 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.1 Hong Kong CN 50% DEX-Plastomers v.o.f. Heerlen NL 50% 50% Percivia LLC Wilmington US 50% 50% 1 The joint venture was started on 1 September 2011 The financial data of all joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements according to the method of proportionate consolidation. DSM’s interests in the assets and liabilities, income and expense of all these joint ventures are disclosed below (on a 50% basis): 2011 2010 Non-current assets 130 17 Current assets 207 42 Non-current liabilities (37) 0 Current liabilities (154) (23) Net assets 146 36 Net sales 112 75 Expenses (106) (56) Net profit 6 19 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 202 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 29 Interests in associates DSM’s share in its most important associates (associates with a net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) is disclosed below: Company Location Country DSM interest 2011 2010 Xinhui Meida DSM Nylon Chips Co., Ltd. Guangzhou CN 25% 25% Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method. The following table provides summarized financial information on all associates on a 100% basis. 2011 20101 149 185 Current assets 230 133 Non-current liabilities (99) (146) Current liabilities (219) (114) 61 58 933 603 Net result 5 4 1 Before reclassification to held for sale 30 Related parties In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods and services to various related parties in which DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's length transactions. In 2011 significant transactions with Sitech Manufacturing Services C.V. occurred. This unit was consolidated until the second quarter of 2011 and became associate as of July 2011 (see note 2). Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported in the table below. 20111 20101 135 40 Purchases from related parties 249 132 Loans to related parties 13 9 Receivables from related parties 33 2 Payables to related parties 20 9 1 Relates to continuing operations of DSM and includes the full year DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of associates for an amount of € 85 million (2010: € 96 million). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 203 Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key management of DSM, being represented by the company's Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The total remuneration (including pension expenditures and other commitments) paid to the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 5.5 million (2010: € 3.5 million). This includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount of € 3.1 million (2010: € 2.4 million), short-term incentives to the amount of € 2.0 million (2010: € 0.8 million), and pension expenditure amounting to € 0.4 million (2010: € 0.3 million). For further information about the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board see note 10 to the financial statements of the parent company. Members of the Supervisory Board received a fixed remuneration (included in General and administrative) totaling € 0.3 million (2010: € 0.3 million). Further information about the remuneration of Managing Board members and Supervisory Board members and their share option rights is given in the report by the Supervisory Board from page 120 onwards. 31 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2011 for Ernst & Young network amounted to € 8.0 million (same as in 2010). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (Netherlands) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Audit of the financial statements 4.4 4.4 1.9 2.1 Other assurance services 1.3 0.6 1.3 0.4 Total assurance services 5.7 5.0 3.2 2.5 Tax services 1.9 1.9 Sundry services 0.4 1.1 Total 8.0 8.0 3.2 2.5 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 204 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 205 Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2011 2010 Assets 2 411 409 Property, plant and equipment 3 10 9 Financial assets 4 12,118 11,383 Deferred tax assets 91 76 Other non-current assets 5 7 12,635 11,884 Current assets 5 135 237 Financial derivatives 0 39 Cash and cash equivalents 40 1 175 277 Total 12,810 12,161 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (698) (542) Other reserves 274 381 Retained earnings 5,381 4,815 5,784 5,481 Non-current liabilities Provisions 7 2 2 Borrowings 8 1,962 1,964 1,964 1,966 Current liabilities 7 1 4 Financial derivatives 181 190 Other current liabilities 9 4,880 4,520 5,062 4,714 Total 12,810 12,161 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 206 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Income statement x € million 2011 2010 868 732 Other income and expense (54) (225) 814 507 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 207 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 31 million). 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings and corporate IT projects. Capital expenditure in 2011 was € 2 million (2010: € 0 million), while the depreciation charge in 2011 was € 1 million (2010: € 2 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2011 was € 48 million (2010: € 46 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 38 million (2010: € 37 million). Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 208 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 4 Financial assets Total Subsidiaries Other Other loans Share in equity Loans participations Balance at 1 January 2010 10,902 10,475 315 112 0 Changes: 732 732 Dividend received (1,046) (1,046) Capital payments 748 748 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (139) (139) Net asset ceiling (127) (127) Intra-group transfers (162) (162) Change in Fair value reserve 33 (17) 50 Change in Hedging reserve 13 13 Exchange differences 447 447 Disposals (30) (30) New loans 19 19 Transfers (7) (1) (6) Balance at 31 December 2010 11,383 11,055 315 0 13 Changes: 868 868 Dividend received (593) (593) Capital payments 553 553 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (31) (31) Net asset ceiling 1 1 Intra-group transfers 81 81 Change in Fair value reserve (65) (65) Change in Hedging reserve (48) (48) Exchange differences 67 67 Disposals (94) (94) New loans 2 2 Transfers (6) (6) Balance at 31 December 2011 12,118 11,794 315 0 9 5 Receivables 2011 2010 92 37 Loans to subsidiaries 8 169 Other receivables / deferred items 35 31 135 237 www.dsm.com 209 6 Shareholders' equity 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 5,481 4,949 814 507 Exchange differences, net of income tax 53 333 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (31) (139) Net asset ceiling related to defined benefit plans 1 (127) Dividend (242) (206) Repurchase of shares (357) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 201 95 Other changes (136) 69 Balance at 31 December 5,481 For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16). Legal reserve Since the profits retained in Koninklijke DSM N.V.'s subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates can be distributed, and received in the Netherlands no legal reserve for retained profits is required. In Shareholders' equity an amount of € 273 million (2010: € 218 million) is included for Translation reserve, -€ 21 million (2010: € 75 million) for Hedging reserve and -€ 16 million (2010: € 49 million) for Fair value reserve. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 210 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 7 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions decreased by € 3 million compared to 2010. This is the net effect of the following changes: Environmental costs Other provisions Total Balance at 1 January 2010 4 6 Changes in 2010: Additions 1 1 Uses (1) (1) Total changes 1 (1) 0 Balance at 31 December 2010 3 6 Of which current 1 3 4 Balance at 1 January 2011 3 6 Changes in 2011: Additions Uses (1) (1) Releases (2) (2) Total changes (1) (2) (3) Balance at 31 December 2011 1 3 Of which current 1 0 1 8 Borrowings 2011 Total Of which current Total Of which current Debenture loans 1,729 1,738 Private loans 233 226 Total 1,962 1,964 Of the total amount of borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2011, € 744 million had a remaining term of more than five years. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 211 The repayment schedule for borrowings is as follows: 9 Other current liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 2013 117 113 2014 497 503 4,781 4,418 2015 and 2016 604 605 Other liabilities 57 57 2017 through 2021 744 743 Deferred items 42 45 1,962 1,964 4,880 4,520 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearContingent liabilities end 2011 of € 1,962 million, none of which were of a current Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third nature (31 December 2010: € 1,964 million, of which none of a parties amounted to € 178 million (31 December 2010: current nature), clauses have been included which restrict the € 182 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts-in-law of in note 19 (Borrowings) to the consolidated financial statements. a number of consolidated companies. These debts are included in the consolidated balance sheet. 10 Remuneration of the members of the Managing Board Total remuneration The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of the remuneration policy and subsequent years as approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration policy are included in the Report by the Supervisory Board from page 120 onwards. The total remuneration (including pension expenditure and other commitments) paid to the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 5.5 million (2010: € 3.5 million). The remuneration of the individual current members of the Managing Board was as follows: x € thousand Salary including other items Short-term incentive Pension expenditure 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Feike Sijbesma 847 808 684 253 110 113 Stefan Doboczky 601 n.a. n.a. n.a. 49 n.a. Nico Gerardu 532 514 464 158 75 76 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 532 514 444 163 75 76 Stephan Tanda 559 545 452 160 75 76 Total 3,071 2,381 2,044 734 384 341 Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 212 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding at In 2011 Outstanding at Average share Exercise Expiry date 31 Dec. 2010 Exercised Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2011 price at price (€ ) expired exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2005 7,500 7,500 29.050 8 Apr. 2013 2006 15,000 15,000 38.300 31 Mar. 2014 2007 22,500 22,500 33.600 30 Mar. 2015 2008 37,500 (9,375) 28,125 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 2009 37,500 37,500 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 Total 120,000 (9,375) 110,625 Of which vested 45,000 73,125 Stefan Doboczky 2008 11,250 (1,875) 9,375 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 2009 36,000 36,000 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 2010 36,000 36,000 33.100 6 Apr. 2018 Total 83,250 (1,875) 81,375 Of which vested 9,375 2004 36,000 (36,000) 42,833 17.895 2 Apr. 2012 2005 18,000 18,000 29.050 8 Apr. 2013 2006 15,000 15,000 38.300 31 Mar. 2014 2007 22,500 22,500 33.600 30 Mar. 2015 2008 30,000 (7,500) 22,500 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 30,000 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 Total 151,500 (36,000) (7,500) 108,000 Of which vested 91,500 78,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 2007 22,500 22,500 33.600 30 Mar. 2015 2008 30,000 (7,500) 22,500 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 30,000 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 Total 82,500 (7,500) 75,000 Of which vested 22,500 45,000 Stephan Tanda 2007 22,500 22,500 33.600 30 Mar. 2015 2008 30,000 (7,500) 22,500 29.790 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 30,000 21.100 27 Mar. 2017 Total 82,500 (7,500) 75,000 Of which vested 22,500 45,000 Since 2010 the Managing Board has been granted performance shares instead of stock options. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 213 Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2011 Outstanding Vested as of Year of Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited / at 31 Dec. 31 Dec. vesting at date 2010 expired 2011 2011 of grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 20051 2,000 2,000 2,000 2008 29.050 20061 4,000 4,000 4,000 2009 38.300 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.600 20081 10,000 (2,500) 7,500 7,500 2011 29.790 2009 10,000 10,000 21.100 2010 28,500 28,500 33.100 2011 24,000 24,000 46.200 Total 60,500 24,000 (2,500) 82,000 19,500 Stefan Doboczky 2011 16,000 16,000 46.200 Total 16,000 16,000 Nico Gerardu 20061 4,000 4,000 4,000 2009 38.300 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.600 1 2008 8,000 (2,000) 6,000 6,000 2011 29.790 2009 8,000 8,000 21.100 2010 19,000 19,000 33.100 2011 16,000 16,000 46.200 Total 45,000 16,000 (2,000) 59,000 16,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.600 20081 8,000 (2,000) 6,000 6,000 2011 29.790 2009 8,000 8,000 21.100 2010 19,000 19,000 33.100 2011 16,000 16,000 46.200 Total 41,000 16,000 (2,000) 55,000 12,000 Stephan Tanda 20071 3,956 3,956 3,956 2010 33.600 20081 8,000 (2,000) 6,000 6,000 2011 29.790 2009 8,000 8,000 21.100 2010 19,000 19,000 33.100 2011 16,000 16,000 46.200 Total 38,956 16,000 (2,000) 52,956 9,956 1 The shares of the series 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 have vested and have been delivered to the individual Board members. The retention period expires in the fifth year after the year of vesting or at termination of employment if this occurs earlier. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 214 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. At year-end 2011 the current members of the Managing Board together held 60,056 shares (year-end 2010: 45,556) in Koninklijke DSM N.V. Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. 11 Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board The total remuneration (annual fixed fee and annual committee membership fee) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.3 million (2010: € 0.3 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total 2011 2010 Cor Herkströter, chairman until 28 April 2011 16,538 2,500 1,712 20,750 61,090 Rob Routs, chairman from 28 April 2011 48,351 9,667 1,250 59,268 30,938 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 38,338 9,667 3,840 51,845 43,590 Louise Gunning-Schepers 25,811 Pierre Hochuli 38,338 8,667 1,250 48,255 41,250 Pauline van der Meer Mohr from 28 April 2011 26,769 8,000 2,775 37,544 n.a. Claudio Sonder 38,338 8,667 1,250 48,255 41,250 Tom de Swaan 38,338 11,500 3,840 53,678 46,090 Cees van Woudenberg until 28 April 2011 10,897 Total 245,010 58,668 15,917 319,595 300,916 Total 2010 248,333 35,000 17,583 300,916 At year-end 2011 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. (same as in 2010). Heerlen, 27 February 2012 Heerlen, 28 February 2012 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Stefan Doboczky Pierre Hochuli Nico Gerardu Pauline van der Meer Mohr Stephan Tanda Claudio Sonder Tom de Swaan Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 215 Other information Independent Assurance Report on reviews on the environmental data submitted by all sites for Sustainability Information central aggregation, together with an assessment of the quality of the data validation process at corporate level; To the Stakeholders and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM reviews on the results of procedures performed as part of the Operational Audits at key Royal DSM sites in 2009-2011 with Introduction respect to sustainability information carried out by the We have examined the Sustainability information in the Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM; accompanying Integrated Annual Report 2011 of Koninklijke reviews on the results of environmental data trends and the DSM N.V. (hereafter Royal DSM). The Sustainability information explanations provided in the Sustainability information and comprises the sections ‘Sustainability’, 'Stakeholder discussed these with management at corporate level; engagement', ‘People in 2011’ and ‘Planet in 2011’ (hereinafter media and internet searches on environmental, safety and ’the Sustainability Information‘), included on pages 32-58 in the social issues relating to Royal DSM, to obtain information on Integrated Annual Report 2011. The Managing Board of Royal relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period; DSM is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability checked the GRI application level declared by Royal DSM in information, stakeholder engagement and the selection of the letter of the Chairman from page 6. material topics in accordance with the criteria applied. The decisions made by management in respect of the scope of the Integrated Report and the internal reporting guidelines are set We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is forth in the section entitled Reporting policy in the Integrated sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. report from page 104. Our responsibility is to provide limited assurance on the Sustainability information. Conclusion Based on our examination of the Sustainability Information, Criteria applied nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe that the Royal DSM applies the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Sustainability Information is not, in all material respects, fairly Initiative supported with the internal reporting guidelines as stated in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting described in the Reporting policy from page 104. It is important Guidelines (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal to view the performance data in the context of these criteria. We reporting criteria as described in the Reporting policy from page believe that these criteria are suitable in the view of the purpose 104. of our assurance engagement. We also report, to the extent of our competence, that information Procedures performed on sustainability in other sections of the Integrated Annual Report We conducted our engagement in accordance with Dutch law, is consistent with the Sustainability Information. including the Dutch Standards 3410N, Assurance Engagements with respect to Sustainability Reports . Eindhoven, 28 February 2012 Procedures to obtain limited level of assurance are less extensive Ernst & Young Accountants LLP than those for a reasonable level of assurance and therefore less assurance is provided. The main procedures that we have performed with respect to the Sustainability Information are: reviews of the design and existence of systems and processess for information management, internal control and processing g of the qualitative and quantitative data in the Sustainability P.J.A.M. Jongstra information, at corporate level; interviews of relevant staff at corporate level responsible for the reported information on specific issues including sustainability strategy, employee engagement survey, ECO+ and safety; reviews, on a test basis, whether the qualitative information is supported by sufficient evidence; Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 216 Other information Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Events after the reporting period Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Independent Auditor's Report on the that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the Financial Statements purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the To the Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, Report on the financial statements as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2011 statements. of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), Heerlen. The financial statements include the consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statements and the company financial statements. The and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2011, the consolidated Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements income statement, statements of comprehensive income, In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and and fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting 31 December 2011, its result and its cash flows for the year then policies and other explanatory information. The company ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting financial statements comprise the company balance sheet as at Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 31 December 2011, the company income statement for the year of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information. Opinion with respect to the company financial statements In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and Management's responsibility fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at Management is responsible for the preparation and fair 31 December 2011 and of its result for the year then ended in presentation of these financial statements in accordance with accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Code, and for the preparation of the Report by the Managing Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2:393 sub 5 at Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report Code. Furthermore management is responsible for such internal as a result of our examination whether the Report by the control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation Managing Board set out on page 26−115, to the extent we can of the financial statements that are free from material assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Further we report Auditor's responsibility that the Report by the Managing Board set out on Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial page 26−115, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in the financial statements as required by Section 2:391 sub 4 of accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on the Dutch Civil Code. Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Eindhoven, 28 February 2012 about whether the financial statements are free from material Ernst & Young Accountants LLP misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. P.J.A.M. Jongstra In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 217 Events after the reporting period If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be In January 2012 DSM and POET, LLC have announced a joint appropriated as follows: venture to commercially demonstrate and license cellulosic bioethanol. The formation of the joint venture, POET–DSM Advanced Biofuels, LLC, is described in more detail in Note 1 in € million 2011 2010 General information to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 814 507 Profit appropriation To be added to the reserves 567 273 According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke Dividend on cumprefs A 10 10 DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every Interim dividend on ordinary year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit shares 74 66 to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2011 the net Final dividend distributable on profit is € 814 million and the amount to be appropriated to the ordinary shares 163 158 reserves has been established at € 567 million. From the subsequent balance of the net profit (€ 247 million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the Special statutory rights end of 2011 no cumprefs B were in issue. Subsequently, a 4.348% dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference DSM Preference Shares Foundation shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 per cumulative The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in preference share A. For 2011 this distribution amounts to 1989. € 0.23 per share, which is € 10 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.08 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 August 2011, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.15 per cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing cumulative preference share A. prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for The profits remaining after distribution of these dividends the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary (€ 237 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of preference shares B may be issued, which shares shall have the Article 32, section 6 of the Articles of Association. same voting rights as the ordinary shares. In view of the above, the proposed dividend on ordinary shares Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently outstanding for the year 2011 would amount to € 1.45 per share. amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and An interim dividend of € 0.45 per ordinary share having been paid DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference in August 2011, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.00 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the per ordinary share. capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less one. The object of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 218 Other information Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Events after the reporting period Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among Important dates other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Friday, 11 May 2012 at 14.00 shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon hours. as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a Important dates General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the Tuesday, 8 May 2012 cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 15 May 2012 Publication of second-quarter The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2011. results Tuesday, 7 August 2012 Publication of third-quarter results Tuesday, 6 November 2012 The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal Annual report 2012 Wednesday, 20 February 2013 entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision ((Wet op het financieel toezicht). On 31 December 2011 the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: Gerard Kleisterlee, chairman Cees Maas, vice-chairman Mick den Boogert Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 219 DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Assets Intangible assets 1,786 1,070 1,053 1,200 1,037 Property, plant and equipment 3,405 2,943 3,477 3,641 3,440 Deferred tax assets 292 326 322 392 346 Prepaid pension costs 1 282 137 1,169 Associates 35 25 18 19 20 Other financial assets 135 270 233 176 126 Non-current assets 5,653 4,635 5,385 5,565 6,138 Inventories 1,573 1,340 1,359 1,765 1,547 Receivables 1,704 1,477 1,410 1,632 1,687 Financial derivatives 50 134 88 86 83 Current investments 89 837 7 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 2,058 1,453 1,340 601 369 5,474 5,241 4,204 4,088 3,690 Assets to be contributed to joint ventures 317 Other assets held for sale 30 287 25 Current assets 5,504 5,845 4,229 4,088 3,690 Total assets 11,157 10,480 9,614 9,653 9,828 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 5,784 5,481 4,949 4,633 5,310 Non-controlling interests 190 96 62 62 73 Equity 5,974 5,577 5,011 4,695 5,383 Deferred tax liabilities 192 155 115 122 344 Employee benefits liabilities 322 297 298 314 273 Provisions 116 93 103 190 170 Borrowings 2,029 1,992 2,066 1,559 1,560 Other non-current liabilities 69 33 49 65 35 Non-current liabilities 2,728 2,570 2,631 2,250 2,382 Employee benefits liabilities 6 24 26 33 9 Provisions 43 33 102 82 91 Borrowings 160 105 138 734 192 Financial derivatives 326 219 61 179 42 Current liabilities 1,905 1,789 1,638 1,680 1,729 2,440 2,170 1,965 2,708 2,063 Liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures 104 Other liabilities held for sale 15 59 7 Current liabilities 2,455 2,333 1,972 2,708 2,063 Total equity and liabilities 11,157 10,480 9,614 9,653 9,828 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 220 DSM figures: five-year summary Income statement x € million 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 9,193 9,050 7,866 9,297 8,757 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,325 1,278 917 1,357 1,247 Operating profit (EBIT) 895 838 443 903 823 Net finance costs (82) (93) (113) (102) (75) Income tax expense (155) (185) (83) (196) (183) Share of the profit of associates 3 5 (4) (3) (2) Net profit before exceptional items 661 565 243 602 563 Net profit from exceptional items 199 (40) 93 (31) (129) Profit for the year 860 525 336 571 434 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (46) (18) 1 6 (5) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 814 507 337 577 429 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 804 497 327 567 419 Key figures and ratios Capital employed1 6,581 5,468 5,673 6,558 5,982 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 528 427 472 587 475 Acquisitions 974 49 (5) 152 93 Disposals 742 377 287 27 52 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 430 440 474 454 424 Net debt 318 (108) 830 1,781 1,338 Dividend 247 234 205 204 214 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 22,224 21,911 22,738 23,591 23,254 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,655 1,566 1,532 1,465 1,389 Ratios1 ROCE in % 14.3 15.0 7.2 14.4 13.4 Net sales / average capital employed 1.53 1.62 1.29 1.48 1.43 Current assets / current liabilities 2.24 2.42 2.14 1.51 1.78 Equity / total assets 0.54 0.53 0.52 0.49 0.55 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.05 (0.02) 0.14 0.28 0.20 EBIT / net sales in % 9.7 9.3 5.6 9.7 9.4 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 14.9 10.0 7.2 11.9 7.9 EBITDA / net finance costs 16.2 13.7 8.1 13.3 16.6 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 221 Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net profit before exceptional items 3.66 3.27 1.44 3.64 3.07 Net profit 4.86 3.03 2.01 3.45 2.35 Cash flow 7.89 5.62 6.05 6.20 5.56 Shareholders' equity 34.00 31.52 28.92 27.12 30.42 Dividend: 1.451 1.35 1.20 1.20 1.20 Interim dividend 0.45 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.33 Final dividend 1.00 0.95 0.80 0.80 0.87 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of net profit before exceptional items 39 38 84 36 35 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.6 3.8 4.8 3.9 3.3 Share prices on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 46.82 42.85 34.84 41.27 39.87 Lowest price 30.54 30.43 16.93 15.76 31.63 At 31 December 35.85 42.61 34.46 18.33 32.33 (x 1000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 163,257 166,468 163,037 162,227 166,897 Average 165,567 164,047 162,364 164,196 178,541 Daily trading volumes on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam: Average 1,028 995 1,270 1,783 1,590 Lowest 191 85 75 152 94 Highest 3,512 3,629 4,376 5,894 11,347 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 222 DSM figures: five-year summary Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 223 Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE Carbon footprint Absenteeism The impact of a certain activity in terms of the emission of nonAbsenteeism at DSM is determined by calculating the total renewable CO2 to the atmosphere. absence due to illness in hours as a percentage of the total number of possible working hours. The total number of possible CO2 working hours is calculated by multiplying the average actual Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. workforce in FTEs for the period in question by the number of It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and hours corresponding to one FTE (52 weeks multiplied by the respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. ‘normal’ number of hours per week, not taking into account leave Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. of absence and holidays). Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) FI COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of wastewater by Frequency Index: a unit of measurement for safety. The number organic substances. of accidents of a particular category per 100 employees per year. ECO+ People+ ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when DSM’s People+ strategy will deliver measurably better solutions considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological to improve the lives of people. The company has defined a new benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) compared People+ framework based on broad stakeholder analyses. The to the mainstream solutions they compete with. These ecological dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle − conditions and community development have been identified as from raw material through manufacturing and use to potential redistinct and instrumental categories to measure People+ impact use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create at product level. Based upon the stakeholder input DSM has more value with less environmental impact. The qualification designed a measurement tool, which will be further developed ECO+ is based upon internal expert opinions where various in collaboration with The Sustainability Consortium, customers impact categories are evaluated. For a growing number of and other stakeholders. products these expert opinions are supported by Life Cycle Assessments. SHE Safety, Health and Environment. Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume related revenue (VRR) United Nations Global Compact VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. The GHGE aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and includes carbon accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, environment and anti-corruption. hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. GHGE/VRR is one of the ratios in the Managing Board long term incentive United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights remuneration and relates to a three-year period. On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of GRI Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and and ‘to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and accountability of economic, environmental, and social expounded principally in schools and other educational performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership institutions, without distinction based on the political status of with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an countries or territories.’ international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable PLANET Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for Biofuel voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources products, and services. such as oil and natural gas. Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 224 Explanation of some concepts and ratios N and other receivables, less trade payables and other current Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s liabilities. atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. Capital expenditure N2O This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. and associates and related cash flows. NOx Cash flow Nitrogen oxides. Gases that are released mainly during Cash flow is net profit plus depreciation, amortization and combustion and cause acidification. impairments. Product Eco-Footprinting (PEF) Disposals The analysis of the environmental impact of a product. This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating Renewable resources interests and other securities. A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources (EBITDA) such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). amortization. SOx Earnings per ordinary share Sulfur dioxide and other sulfur oxides. They are formed during Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. the combustion of fossil fuels and cause acidification. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. VOC Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of Operating working capital chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade can be harmful. payables. PROFIT Return on capital employed (ROCE) General Operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the employed. average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items in the year under review. Total shareholder return (TSR) Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at year-end is used. In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders’ equity. Capital employed The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 225 List of abbreviations ACS American Chemical Society IAS International Accounting Standards ADR American Depositary Receipts IASB International Accounting Standards Board AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets ICCA International Council of Chemical Associations AM Advanced Manufacturing IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee AMD Age-related macular degeneration IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ANH Animal Nutrition & Health ILO International Labor Organization API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients IP Intellectual Property BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate LCA Life Cycle Assessments CCTF China Children and Teenagers Foundation LTI Long-term Incentive CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council MP Macular Pigment CMP Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care NCD Non-communicable diseases COA Corporate Operational Auditing department NGO Non-governmental organization COD Chemical Oxygen Demand NIP DSM's Nutrition Improvement Program CRA Corporate Risk Assessment NOC*NSF Dutch Olympic Committee CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue NSF Public Health and Safety Program DAI DSM Anti-Infectives NYSE New York Stock Exchange DBA DSM Business Academy OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development DD DSM Dyneema PC Personal Care DEP DSM Engineering Plastics PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DFI DSM Fibre Intermediates PEF Product Eco-Footprinting DFS DSM Food Specialties PEN Basic Penicillin DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. PJ PetaJoule DNP DSM Nutritional Products PLB Project Laser Beam DPP DSM Pharmaceutical Products PSA Prostate Specific Antigen DR DSM Resins PUFA Polyunsatured Fatty Acid DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals R&D Research & Development EBA Emerging Business Area REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) Chemical substances EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ROCE Return on Capital Employed ECP-EPN Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands SAR Share Appreciation Rights ECUST East China University of Science and Technology SCoC Supplier Code of Conduct EES Employee Engagement Survey SHE Safety, Health and Environment EFSA The European Food Safety Authority SSC Semi-synthetic cephalosporins EPAA European Partnership for Alternatives to Animal Testing SSP Semi-synthetic penicillins FDA The US Food and Drug Administration STI Short-Term Incentive FIFO First in, first out SUN Scaling up Nutrition GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition TDC Total Direct Compensation GDP Gross Domestic Product TJ TeraJoule GHG Greenhouse gas TSR Total Shareholder Return GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions UHMWPE Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene GHS Globally Harmonized System USAID United States Agency for International Development GMM Genetically Modified Micro-organism UV Ultraviolet GMP Good Manufacturing Practice VNCI Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry GPS Global Product Strategy VOC Volatile Organic Compound GRI Global Reporting Initiative VRR Volume Related Revenue HFA Human Factors Analysis WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development HNH Human Nutrition & Health WFP United Nations World Food Programme Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 226 Integrated Annual Report 2011 www.dsm.com 227 For the printing of this report 100% biological ink was used, and the use of solar energy saved over 1200 kg of CO 2 and 1250 kWh of electricity. Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.relations@dsm.com www.dsm.com
