ONE STEP FOR TOMORROW HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 ONE STEP FOR TOMORROW HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 Afriendly world made of steel About This Report That is our vision One Step for Tomorrow Steel has been an integral part of the lives of human beings for Cover Story The cover design takes its motif from pure a long time, used in everything from water, symbolizing Hyundai Steel’s commitment to prospering in harmony with industry to art. Nature as a resource circulation business. The dissipating water symbolizes the spread and influence of Hyundai Steel’s value throughout the world. Like steel, Hyundai Steel is committed in its efforts to build Reporting Standards This report uses GRI Guidelines, ISO 26000, and UNGC as the a better society for all. guidelines for preparing the content. Reporting Scope This report includes our headquarters as well as our Seoul Office, Incheon Works, Pohang Works, and Dangjin Works Reporting Period January 2011 ~ March 2012 Report Assurance Independent assurance Report Features Departing from the conventional content structure based on the triple bottom line (economics, the environment and society), this report consists of six parts represented by the alphabet letters H. S. T. E. E. L. indicating H-STEEL. Contact 231, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-938, Korea Tel: +82-2-3464-6187 & 002 Contents 2011 in Figures HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 003 Contents Hyundai Steel implements sustainability management activities, while securing stability in its business operations 2011 in Figures through the airtight management of any and all risks Eco-Energetic Highlights 229.8 Environmental facilities investment 5 KRW billion th Environmental Performance DMA 56 06 What plan is Hyundai Steel putting into action 58 towards fostering the harmonious co-existence of Message from the CEO 10 human society with nature? 07 What are the major achievements of Hyundai 62 Materiality Test 14 Steel’s environmental management? Stakeholder Analysis 16 08 What is Hyundai Steel doing to address global 68 Fifth publication of Hyundai Steel sustainability report warming and climate change? Byproduct recycling No. of partners participating in CFM Water recycling Strong Sustainability 24 95 40 16 915 (Carbon Footprint Management) % million tons partners million m3 , Sustainability Performance DMA 20 01 What does Hyundai Steel envision for 22 its future? Hyundai Steel’s annual production forecast Energy consumption reduction over the past two years 8.2% 24 million tons total of combined production between our electric arc and blast Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 3.8% 02 What does Hyundai Steel do to ensure 28 sound corporate governance? furnaces, upon the completion of our third blast furnace Thinking Smart L istening to the World 2.5 No. of employees times 8,551 (as of the end of 2011) Social Performance DMA 78 Technology Performance DMA 36 09 What kind of programs does Hyundai Steel run for 80 human resources development? 03 What is the best practice of innovation at 38 Iron ore warehousing efficiency 10 What does mutual growth mean to Hyundai Steel? 86 Hyundai Steel? Enclosed dome warehousing 11 How closely is Hyundai Steel engaged with local 94 04 How is Hyundai Steel developing 42 (2.5 times as efficient as open-type warehousing with 1/3 the land size) communities? competitive technology for the future? Elevating Corporate Value +50 No. of partners who signed the mutual Prepayment in the run-up to Korean traditional holidays Volunteer man-hours 70 % growth agreement with Hyundai Steel Economic Performance DMA 05 Does Hyundai Steel return its profits to society? 48 50 partners KRW 365.0 billion 100,008 hours: 2011 sales KRW 10,198.2 billion in 2010 → 15,259.9 billion in 2011 Employee participation rate 82%, Matching Grant participation rate48% in 004 2011 Hyundai Steel Key Sustainability Issues HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 005 2011 Hyundai Steel Committed to building a better society for all, Hyundai Steel lays the cornerstone of a sustainable growth Key Sustainability Issues with passion and entrepreneurship. Commencing the construction of Energy Management System Mutual Expanding the House Remodeling for the third blast furnace at our Dangjin Works Certification Growth System Hope to housing weatherization P39 P71 P87 P95 The full operation of our two blast furnaces has resulted in an annual Hyundai Steel’s Incheon Works participated in the Energy ManageHyundai Steel offers various programs to our partners, including fiLaunched as the House Remodeling for Hope in 2009, the program production volume of 8 million tons at Dangjin Works. In 2011 we ment System certification project instituted by the Korea Energy nancial aid, technical partnerships, and education and training to asexpanded its scope to include enhancing the energy efficiency of launched the construction of the third blast furnace. With a total inManagement Corporation (KEMCO) and became the first in the Koresure continual mutually beneficial growth. We aim to become the inhouses in 2011, thereby reducing their CO2 emissions. As a result, the vestment of KRW 3.25 trillion, we are constructing a third blast furan steel industry to win the energy management system certificate in dustry-leading model for mutual-growth programs. project contributed to reducing CO2 emissions on average of 1.11 nace that has an annual capacity to process four million tons of crude December 2011. tons per house—the equivalent of planting 190,000 Korean pine steel. When the third blast furnace is completed in 2013, the total antrees. nual capacity of the three blast furnaces combined at our integrated steel mill will be 12 million tons. When we include the existing electric arc furnace, upon the completion of the third blast furnace, the company’s annual capacity will surge to 24 million tons of crude steel. 24 million tons per year Crude steel production capacity upon the completion of our third December 2011 Korea’s first steelmaker to win the energy management system 1,585 companies No. of partners who signed the mutual growth agreement with 190,000 Korean pine trees CO2 emissions reduction from each house through the project blast furnace certificate Hyundai Motor Group (as of March 29, 2011) 006 Message from the Chairman HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 007 Message from the Chairman Distinguished stakeholders, It is my great pleasure to report on our activities and achievements in sustainability management over Together the past year in this Hyundai Steel 2012 Sustainability Report. for a better future In retrospect, 2011 was a significant year for Hyundai Motor Group. Following the unprecedented success of blast furnaces No. 1 and 2 in 2010, Hyundai Steel is currently constructing a third blast furnace. When completed, the third blast furnace will allow for an annual production capacity of 24 million tons, laying the foundation for the company to become one of the world’s top 10 steelmakers. With its more diversified product portfolio, ranging from steel sheets for automobiles and heavy plates for shipbuilding to reinforcing bars for construction and H-beams, Hyundai’s domestic production will replace the import of such products, thereby contributing to the national economy. Additionally, Hyundai Steel plays a critical role in realizing the Group’s ambitious plan to create the world’s first eco-friendly resource circulation business structure. This creation of perpendicular systems will allow Hyundai Motor Group to become self-sufficient by manufacturing and forging steel products used by its car manufacturers. Along with this, Hyundai Motor Group has also acquired Hyundai Engineering & Construction and is thus gaining momentum towards maximizing synergy among the group affiliates. Hyundai and Kia Motors, for their part, have sold 6.6 million cars to the world, consolidating their position among the world’s top 5 carmakers. Most economic forecasts indicate another challenging year ahead. The European financial crisis and global economic recession are expected to spread to the sluggish end-use industries’ economies while global competition intensifies. Undaunted by these unfavorable market conditions, Hyundai Steel plans to push forward with its management policies-sustaining solid growth, enhancing customer value, and expediting organizational innovation-and continue endeavoring towards our vision of “leading a new era of steel.” To this end, the confidence of our stakeholders is critical to our efforts to enhance our global competitiveness. Following our 2020 vision of “together for a better future,” Hyundai Motor Group will remain attentive to our stakeholders’ voices. To that end, every employee will internalize and practice our five core values-customers, challenge, collaboration, people, and globalism. responsibility as a leading global company respected for its contribution to the national economy and social development. Chairman Hyundai Motor Group Mong-koo Chung 008 Highlights HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 009 hH el te -s Highlights Hyundai Steel is continuing to invest in its future and working towards the creation of a resource circulation business structure. This resource circulation structure encompasses the entire value chain, from steel-making and car-making to recycling steel scrap as construction aggregates. Our commitment to upholding mutual growth and making social contributions has remained steadfast throughout 2011. By providing upgraded products and services to our customers, we will take the lead in the new era of steel as a ‘globally competent, eco-friendly resource circulation business’. 010 Highlights HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 011 Message from the CEO “ Hyundai Steel is paving the road towards a better world for all.” Distinguished stakeholders, I am proud to present to you the fifth sustainability report of global steelmaker, Hyundai Steel is paving the road towards a Hyundai Steel. better world for all. The year 2011 witnessed severe exacerbation in the overall stagnating business environment, with the European financial Steel resembles the passion of youth. crisis contributing to the global economic slowdown. In 2012, Even during the global economic crisis Hyundai Steel continuncertainty is still lingering in the overall global economy. Slugued to make investments and completed the construction of the gish demands by the end-use industries will intensify competisecond blast furnace with an annual capacity of 4 million tons tion in the steelmaking business and likely lower profitability. in 2010. Adding that to the previous 12 million ton-capacity Despite this, by looking back at past successes Hyundai Steel electric arc furnace, the gross annual production currently tohas created the slogan: “Vision 2020: leading a new era of tals 20 million tons per year. When the third blast furnace that steel,” with the aim of the creating a better tomorrow over the we began constructing in 2011 is completed in 2013, the figure next ten years. This is also to demonstrate the determination of will reach 24 million tons per year, a capacity that will enable us Hyundai Steel towards providing better products, services, and to become a globally competitive steel company. global competitiveness. The completion of the integrated steel mill has enabled us to Through all of these efforts, Hyundai Steel remains steadfast in create a comprehensive product portfolio, ranging from reinits commitment to sustainability management. As a prospective forcing bars to flat steels. Backed by these achievements, sales 012 Highlights HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 013 Steel is in harmony with the environment. Steel shares its warmth with the world. Distinguished stakeholders, and operating profit grew by 49.6% and 24.0% each to reach Hyundai Steel also practices environmental management. As Another important mission is to contribute to society by sharing Hyundai Steel’s endeavors towards sustainability management KRW 15,259.9 billion and KRW 1,306.7 billion, respectively. Korea’s largest steel recycling company, Hyundai Steel institutthe warmth of both our steel and our commitment to commualso include co-prosperity and cooperation with our stakeholded the world’s first eco-friendly resource circulation business nity. To that end, Hyundai Steel both works to maintain trusters. We strongly believe this will also contribute towards creatBehind all of these phenomenal achievements were our dedivalue chain. The hot-rolled plates that we manufacture follow based relations with local communities and translates this coming and maintaining a sustainable business. With clear recognicated, hard-working employees, who strove diligently to sucthe life cycle of cold-rolled plates, acting as a valuable compomitment into action through a variety of activities. tion that benefiting our customers is the ultimate goal of our ceed in the face of an unfavorable business environment. We innent in automobile production and being recycled when the aucorporate activities, we practice customer-oriented managecreased the proportion of strategic products such as steel sheets For instance, the “House Remodeling for Hope” is our signatomobile is scrapped. ment across the board, while working in order to prosper tofor automobiles, heavy plates for shipbuilding, thick H-beams ture CSR program, where our employees have been chipping gether with our partners through relationships based on trust and very low temperature-resistant products in our product The steel scrap from this process is used to make construction in matching grant funds to cover the expenses for weatherizing and collaboration. portfolio. Synergy between the products from electric arc furmaterials, and the waste from these construction materials is rehouses for the low-income bracket since 2009. In 2011, we exnace and those from blast furnace strengthened our overall cycled as steel scrap. In addition, Hyundai Steel has adopted an panded the scope of these activities to include enhancing the Hyundai Steel will continue its efforts to realize growth together profitability. Cost reduction efforts include the process innovaenclosed raw material processing system, which has succeeded energy efficiency of these houses, renaming it “House Remodalong with all of our stakeholders. I ask for your continued suption that established the technology of minimal basic unit operin the successful creation of an eco-friendly steel mill with minieling for Hope—Energy Efficiency.” port in these endeavors. ations and the enhancement of raw materials mixing ratio. mal impact on the environment. The number of beneficiaries of this project will surpass 1,000 Thank you. Completed in May 2011, the new research center continues to At each of our steelworks in Incheon, Pohang and Dangjin, houses in just ten years, realizing a CO2 emission reduction efadvance research activities for customized new steel products Hyundai Steel has environmental & energy departments, fect equivalent to 1,800 tons of CO2 emissions, by 2020. The and steel sheets for future automobiles, significantly reinforcing which are in charge of environmental management strategyprogram will not only help reduce energy expenses but also our global competitiveness as a manufacturer of steel sheets for building, environmental facility maintenance, maintaining have the additional benefit of creating jobs for the community. automobiles. compliance with environmental regulations and technical Furthermore, Hyundai Steel has been cooperating with univerR&D. They also formulate and implement long-term developsity student volunteer corps “Happy Yes” in a number of comment plans for technologies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) munity engagement programs since 2009. We also sponsor through the accurate measuring of GHG emissions, while sischolarships and provide equipment to our allied schools, fosmultaneously proactively responding to climate change tering steel-making technology masters and creating jobs for schemes such as the GHG energy target management and carqualified students. bon trading scheme and playing an active role within the industrial response to climate change. The company also operates a program known as “Green Guardians,” who are child environmental guards, and mainCEO & Vice President Hyundai Steel tains a “paper cup-free office” campaign in the everyday office. Seung-ha Park 014 Highlights HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 015 Materiality Test Process Media Analysis Materiality Hyundai Steel has been conducting materiality tests since 2010. This is instrumental in identifying and Hyundai Steel analyzed 570 news articles (overlapping) on the company’s sustainability management Test keeping track of the sustainability issues that are of great concern to our stakeholders and that heavily impact our business. Hyundai Steel is sophisticating the process of the materiality test based on our external practices from January to December 2011 in order to identify material sustainability issues in each sector. and internal experts’ opinions and recommendations. The report content was compiled based on the materiality test results. Media Coverage by Sector For this report, we categorized sustainability issues into 100 small groups under 32 sub-groups and 8 gen● (%) 405 118 47 eral groups. To measure the level of stakeholder interest with regard to each issue, we added a global CSR standards analysis and peer review process to the previous media analysis and surveys. For a more accurate measurement of their impact on our business, in addition we analyzed our organizational operations Economic issues Social issues Environmental issues 47% 21% 8% such as our company-wide committee operations and discussions. Materiality Test Process ● Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Positive media coverage by sector Identification Issue analysis Identifying ● and materiality material issues (%) 78% 81% matrix 62% •Media Analysis By classifying issues by category Finalizing 10 material issues by •Peer review and priority, the following matrix priority Overall 77% •CSR guidelines and standards was created. analysis •Stakeholder survey •Short-term financial performance Economy Society Environment •Business strategy •Organizational management Finalizing 10 material issues by priority 10 Material Issues ● ● Stakeholder Survey Hyundai Steel surveyed 2,300 internal and external stakeholders in March 2012 on its sustainability man01 Social Contribution agement activities. Based on the survey results, we identified the external recognition of Hyundai Steel’s 02 Risk Management sustainability management practices and material issues. 03 02 03 Ethical Business Practices 04 Environmental Management Sustainability Management Level by Sector 7.45 7.25 7.64 ● Business 06 05 Business Results (on a scale of 10 points) impact 01 06 Technology R&D 07 04 07 Fair Competition Overall 05 09 10 08 Health and Safety 09 Sustainable use of resources 7.45 08 10 Labor-management relations Economy Society Environment Stakeholder interest 016 Highlights HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 017 es Fair e servic valua s and tion duct and ity pro com al pen -qu sati Top on, Stakeholder C ) Emplo com of HS yees goal way pe timate the o rgan of t ten u l izati hin cy(the on. k ing bu Analysis tion and ild ing rea ion Busin acti ec Divis ess S n HR a lu Sale s upp g a D atev ort Div sw ell pr og or isio as ra rp n, M th co an e nd i m a ag r co s n Intran ic actio em m om atisf et, G en pe er s r WP, tP on ust om s e le tt vario Sma lan t Hyundai Steel classifies its stakeholder groups new us m rt Bo s, c ite, ore nin cy fe en c ar bs edu ard g So in we cati ,C Di ur sem orate on pro mmu o vi ine into employees, customers, ce o lo gy o r p gra nic term de o c sion hn e, ity ms ati ec sit liabil , la on business partners, community, s ,t w eb rod uct Safe bo r-m & H ef utu ng ta l D , p ty & hea th Cu or R& an gy hum lth and shareholders & investors, NGOs, media sur sto m nolo an r ight , la bo op re of ve er ch s rr ela orksh y, c m te il and government. We have an established us ee n, tio y, W nc to ti tio ns ,H on t cou m Cu m ar men er sto channel to communicate with all of our p me for ag e rs ct ati s Emp pe mer sfa es stakeholder groups regarding various c loy ,r sto ee RD team sustainability issues. Cu s airs ve partn e ral aﬀ Win Pur Living up to the expectations of Hom er for co-prosperity , gene Vi ent, -win s ent CSR team chas our stakeholders is a critical part of i ties ( etc.) t Soci to curem gagem a partn Win achieving sustainable growth. w activi l c syst o o ing D en nt mmunity en rks gs, pro citiz ri ership p C o m m u n it y bu In the future, we will continue actively i nt -win ti ard, t ious social contribution on, e co em, s n ers rate , a ti eme v c t, ee a s m ivisio u r r ppl ie orks orpo communicating with our stakeholders and n Gu techn S u p p li Win part engag as a c etter -win n, Inch sibility Provid promoting inter-organizational eon Works, Pohang Works, Dangjin W , Gree stakeholder ology t ners ransfer, corporate website, newsl i partner atform perform respon n g the p l to ship Repair for Hope collaboration to improve hip fo s Sh re am ia ns our sustainability management practices. t / rogr /In h o ld ed n base r co-pr a nsactio M d coo on p ves ers / N G O rn me osperity b perati ased on fair and transparent tra ributi tors Co G ove l cont nt sp r i bution es ate l socia sin in A tr to local e Bu ustconomy, and various more practica gc erfo lim rm ss o an re eh ce add ar e ,c orp ce , sh r ora cti on ral onfe te g pra venti nv iro ne c ove t hic s re nc der l Ge rnan ce ess e on p nm es s Busin polluti en , 1 ’ me ge , se te ne :1 e chan ea me ting s rel rgy eti s, e res ng a s, p ,e s, v rning site am isit rele rk te r al to ase ew o dy ene wo s, N to th sto ,g rksi DRs Visit u e Su tes, and y c ﬃc pp discl osure ert y o or tin p rop erg g ti Fin ce, nt en re anc oﬃ e les e& Acc ra tion ironm ip se e ﬀo oun c oop m, env sh rts ting x te rn al te a tiz en Material Issues tow Divis E ent i ion gem ec ard mana rat En ha s su corpo Communication Channels stain r nc abil n fo ing ity m ctio sus anag e dire s Department in Charge tai emen g t h tie nab t Settin bili ility po nsi ma nag l re s Significance of Stakeholders eme ocia nt co o rate s mpe tencie ing c orp Expected Value from Stakeholders s Fulﬁll 018 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 019 h el te -s Strong Sustainability We see a brighter future in steel. Steel generates infinite value. Hyundai Steel is laying the foundation for sustainable growth with creative thinking. Our future will be as strong and sustainable as steel. 020 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 021 2011 Hyundai Steel Strong Sustainability Hyundai Steel has proclaimed its commitment to corporate social reFrom top to bottom, every single employee of Hyundai Steel is an insponsibility management and created a CSR Committee with the CEO valuable partner in our tireless effort towards sustainable growth. We acting as chairperson. In order to fulfill our commitment to CSR, we constantly make a concentrated effort towards maintaining trustworjoined the UN Global Compact, announced our CSR Charter, and develthy management, transparent management and quality management. oped CSR strategies. In the future, we will continue to fulfill our roles Our management is based on a strong organizational scheme that and responsibilities as a corporate citizen, while creating economic commands expertise along the entire value chain from production and prosperity and upholding social values. technology to management and sales. Our ardent passion to achieve quality products, organizational competitiveness and a better world is what drives us forward towards a sustainable future. Under the vision of “leading a new era of steel,” we promote and internalize the core values—customers (a customer-driven corporate culture), challenge (unwavering passion and creative thinking), collaboraHyundai Steel was established in 1953 as the first steel manufacturer in Kotion (mutual communication and cooperation), people (respect for rea. Celebrating its 60th anniversary, Hyundai Steel continues to harness talent), and globalism (acting as a global corporate citizen). Our practicthe infinite potential of steel to promote a sustainable future for all. BoastDJSI for 3 straight years es of transparent corporate governance and accountability manageing advanced steel-making technology, we have created a comprehensive ment will create a foundation for sustainable growth, while systematic product portfolio. In the future, we aim to lead a new era of steel through risk management will help us deal efficiently with any uncertainties in our creative thinking and enterprising spirit. the business environment. DJSI Asia Pacific DJSI Korea Steel-making Creative thinking Hyundai Steel was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Comprehensive DJSI Korea tracks the most sustainable technologies and and enterprising The DJSI Asia Pacific tracks the financial product portfolio expertise spirit Asia Pacific and DJSI Korea for three consecutive years by the SAM, a performance of the top 20% of the 600 30% of the 200 largest Korean compabiggest companies in the developed nies. Switzerland-based renowned sustainability management rating agency. markets of Asia Pacific in terms of sustainability. *DJSI: a global sustainability index that evaluates corporate future value and sustainability 022 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 023 Strong Sustainability With the blow-in of its first blast furnace, About Hyundai Steel successfully completed the creation of the Hyundai world’s first eco-friendly resource circulation business structure, Steel which encompasses steel products at every part of the process, ranging from iron ore to finished steel products and recycled steel scrap. What does Hyundai Steel As Korea’s largest steel recycling company, Hyundai Steel is building its global competitiveness envision for its future? on the strength of the stable operation of its blast furnaces. Steel scrap recycling rate 36.5 ● Hyundai Steel envisions becoming the leader of a new era of steel. The vision also takes into account the role of Hyundai Steel as a main driver of future growth for Hyundai Motor Group. As an eco-friendly company that operates on a resource circulation system, Hyundai Steel provides comprehensive products and services based on organic % Korea’s steel scrap recycling volume 26.32 million tons collaboration within its internal and external parties. As Korea’s leading steel recycling Hyundai Steel’s steel company, Hyundai Steel is ready to take the lead in a new era of steel. scrap purchase 9.61 million tons Covering the world in the warmth of steel Hyundai Steel’s steel productsa skyscraper, a lighter car, a stronger bridge, safer roads and express railroadsare an integral part of our daily lives. Steel is in musical instruments, sports facilities and protective gear, and plays a huge role in cultural activities and sports, warming the world we live in today and tomorrow. Through the making of steel that has countless applications and immeasurable usefulness, Hyundai Steel is a good companion to the world. 024 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 025 Management Philosophy Hyundai Steel is the starting point of Hyundai Motor Group’s eco-friendly resource circulation business strucManagement Vision ture, playing a pivotal role as an engine of future growth. With the aim of “leading a new era of steel,” Hyundai Principles The underlying principles of business ● 2020 Steel practices environmental management principles and makes strong continual efforts to develop new resource circulation technology. Realize the dream of mankind by creating a new future Management Philosophy ● through creative thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers Management Philosophy of Steel Era Core Core ew Leading th Value Value Vision eN Organization/ People/ System Vision Unlimited liability Realization of possibilities Advocacy of Humanity 2020 Mission Contributing to a higher quality Entrepreneurship of life by providing quality Social Responsibility products and services Core Values The core values provide the basic values that employees should internalize in order to realize our business philosophy and vision. s s bas e d on ● Vision we will d ed people Statement com lue-a t i ve n e pany, d h va p et i ion h ig l at om u ing rc ci As al c ro an rce vid lob ec o-friendly r esou yp fg r yb lo us t ve t le Customer-driven Respect for lead i nd corporate culture talent a new era in the steel h es hi g p ro th e du c t s an d hi e v ing inside ser v i ces and ac outside s ie teg Passion and a rk • Ne growth str creative thinking Corporate citizen Cooperation w Strategy xi two Ma ne mi zi ba n gc l lo us tom rg er v a ng ou lue • Expandi organization 026 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 027 Core Values Developing and Spreading a New Management Philosophy at Hyundai Steel Hyundai Motor Group announced a new management philosophy in March 2011. Afterwards, the Group mounted a variety of campaigns to spread this new philosophy to all of its affiliates and to help their employees internalize the new philosophy into their thinking and behavior. In line with this new philosophy, Hyundai Hyundai Steel’s core values are at the center of all of our Steel also devised a new vision and strategies for sustainable growth. management activities. Our employees integrate them into Hyundai Motor Group announced Management philosophy development process all of our management activities and day-to-day activities. management philosophy ● ● March 2011 Interviews Interviews with executives Declaration Consensus & Launch Customers People of new with top and 3rd surveys Experience & Innovation management Vice Chairman “Customers constitute the fundamentals of our busiChairman “We have passion and ambition for our future. We see inmanagement employees Seung-ha Park in Mong-koo Chung, of group affiliates philosophy Review & Improvement his 2012 New ness. Therefore, we need to create a company-wide inNew Year’s finite potential to boldly turn this crisis into opportunity. Year’s Greeting Greeting, 2012 tegrated approach to customer relationship manage(Mar. 31, 2011) Declaration of Spreading of the new management philosophy ment. This means a customer-oriented management Vice Chairman “People constitute the fundamentals of corporate comnew management philosophy Seung-ha Park, system and across-the-board rigorous endeavors to New Year’s petitiveness. Positive and proactive response to crisis Greeting, 2012 further enhance our customer service.” and change will therefore help reinforce the competiSpreading the new Management Philosophy tive advantage of the individual and, thereby, our corpo● rate competitiveness” • Various education programs to help convey the management philosophy and core Consensus & Executive seminar on the 2020 Vision Launch Explanation session for employees on the group management philosophy Orientations for new employees and team manager leadership course Challenge Globality Vice Chairman “In 2010, Hyundai Steel successfully carried out the Vice Chairman “We will solidify our global business platform by improvSeung-ha Park, in Seung-ha Park, • Communication and coordination workshop for managers and assistant managers Experience & his celebration blow-in of two large blast furnaces, which went into full New Year’s ing our cost competitiveness, sales networks, global exUnderstanding and internalizing the concept and significance of the five core values and applying them in Innovation speech at the operation shortly thereafter, constituting an unpreceGreeting, 2011 pertise and putting our growth engines on par with the workplace ground-breaking for blast furnace dented step in the history of the world’s steel-making global standards.” No. 3 in Dangjin, 2011 industry. Furthermore, our innovative enclosed raw Review & • Review of the level of corporate value internalization and involvement material processing system earned us the title of ecoImprovement • Organizational review and GWP survey friendly steelworks, suggesting a new paradigm for all steelworks operations. At this moment, we are about to set a new record. To achieve this challenging task of building a third blast furnace, we should mobilize every Core values seminar resource available to make it a success.” Changes after the New Management Philosophy Our goal of leading a new era of steel requires organic growth and customer-oriented management practices. An established organizational infrastructure is also required. Therefore, our new management policies for Collaboration 2012 are organic growth, customer value creation, and organizational innovation. Vice Chairman “Hyundai Steel and its partners are jointly consolidatSeung-ha Park, in a keynote speech ing their resources to become a competitive leading Management Policy for 2012 during the New Year’s first meeting global steelmaker. Hyundai Steel will share the fruits of ● with partners in its success through win-win partnerships with our sup2012 Organic Growth Customer Value Creation Organizational Innovation pliers.” • Globally competitive cost • Customer-oriented management system • Company-wide effort to improve • Internalization of group core values • Stable quality management customer service • Efficient work process • Advanced operation and facility • Enhanced marketing activities for key • Employee skill development for change technologies client companies 028 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 029 Strong Sustainability Good corporate governance is the foundation upon which we build and achieve our goals. Hyundai Steel acCorporate tively consults with external experts on its management to realize transparent management and sustainable Governance growth. Board of Directors What does Hyundai Steel The board of directors of Hyundai Steel consists of four inside and five outside directors. Assigned from each sector of construction, metal, taxation, business administration, and environment, outside directors contribdo to ensure sound corporate ute their expertise to management decisions by providing professional advice regarding basic management policies and strategies. They also help management by acting as a check to assure transparency and ethical governance? management practices with the goal of maximizing shareholder value in the long term. Hyundai Steel BOD members are appointed at the general shareholders meeting under Korean Commercial Law and the Articles of Incorporation of Hyundai Steel. Outside directors are appointed at the general shareholders meeting from Hyundai Steel aims to become a company respected by its stakeholders where both inthe candidates recommended by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee based on their qualifications. Under the BOD are the subcommittees, chaired by and participated in by outside directors. Comprised excluternal and external experts lead and monitor corporate management. Its efficient risk sively of outside directors, both the Ethics Committee and the Audit Committee regularly meet to fulfill their management system helps and aids in the preemptive prevention of and response to duties independent of the BOD. various risks. Hyundai Steel advocates fair competition in the market. By remaining vigThe Audit Committee may request reports on management activities from the directors and inspect financial ilant to Its corporate social responsibilities, Hyundai Steel aims to set a good example conditions and business practices when necessary. The Korean Commercial Law prescribes that outside diof transparent and ethical management practices. rectors comprise two thirds of the Audit Committee. However, Hyundai Steel’s audit committee consists of all outside members to ensure independence of the committee from the management board. Audit Ethics Outside Director Candidate Directors Name Position & Career Committee Committee Recommendation Committee Mong-koo Chung Chairman, Hyundai Motor Group Eui-sun Chung Vice chairman, Hyundai Motor Company Inside Seung-ha Park Vice chairman & CEO, Hyundai Steel Company ◎ Yu-cheol Woo President & CEO, Hyundai Steel Company Professor, College of Engineering, Dong-joon Min Yonsei University (Metallurgy) ◦ ◎ ◦ Hyung-soo Chon Advisor to Kim & Jang law firm (taxation expert) ◎ ◦ ◦ Professor, College of Business Administration, Outside Jeong-seok Oh Seoul National University (business administration) ◦ ◦ Professor, Department of Environmental Seung-do Kim Science & Biotechnology, Hallym University ◦ ◦ Professor, School of Economics, Nak-il Sung University of Seoul (Industrial Organization) ◦ ◎ Chairman ◦Committee Member (as of March 2012) General Shareholders’ Meeting 030 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 031 BOD Activities Ethics Charter ● 4 regular and 7 ad hoc BOD meetings In 2011, the board of directors held a total of eleven meetings, consisting of four regular and seven special were held in 2011 Contribution to the development of the nation and society ● meetings, to discuss and approve matters such as the issuance of corporate bonds and new infrastructure in11 BOD meetings vestment. The board also reviewed management’s performance in terms of sustainability based on reports on the current status of the internal accounting control and compliance program. The attendance rate of outSecuring partnerships with businesses side directors at all meetings was 89%. Passing a resolution requires the presence of more than half of the Establishment of transparent management BOD members, with a majority of those present voting in favor. Any member of the BOD facing a conflict of inEthics Charter Respect for humanity and cultivation of talent terest on a particular issue is not allowed to cast a vote on the issue. While a cap on annual compensation for the nine directors was set at KRW 10 billion, the total remuneration actually paid out to directors for fiscal Promotion of the rights of customers and shareholders 2011 stood at KRW 6.95 billion. Composition and functions of subcommittees Training & Campaigns ● Board of Directors Publication of examples of ethical In order to promote ethical management, Hyundai Steel hosts training sessions provided to both new emmanagement in Hyundai Steel news ● ployees and members of related departments via on and offline media. This training cover subjects such as “Understanding Ethical Management” and “Fair Trade Law”. In addition, we also hold mandatory training for Audit Committee Ethics Committee Outside Director Candidate the employees of our partner companies that covers the prevention of bribery and corruption, the protection Recommendation Committee (four outside directors) (five outside directors) (two outside, one inside director) of confidential material from competitors, fair trade practices, and ethics/human rights issues. Moreover, Auditing management activities and financial Deliberate and resolve business ethics issues Recommend the candidates for outside direcHyundai Steel publishes the column “Let’s Play Ethics” (once per month, 12 times per year) in Hyundai Steel conditions, evaluating the appropriateness of to achieve ethical and transparent business tors news, which discusses issues related to ethical management and shares examples of ethical practices. changes made to major accounting principles, practices appointing independent auditors, etc. 2011 activities 2011 activities Efforts to Practice Ethical Management A total of four meetings convened to report on A total of five meetings convened to report on management performance and internal acthe CSR activities and performance, and to apIn April 2003, Hyundai Steel adopted the “Fair Trade Self-Compliance Regulations” as its bylaws, and as of counting control system prove large-scale internal transactions 2010 has amended them three times. The objective of these “Fair Trade Self-Compliance Regulations” is to Enactment of the bylaws governing the Compliance Program determine the criteria for adherence to laws related to fair trade in order to facilitate the development of ● Hyundai Steel into a company that simultaneously engages in trustworthy management practices while ofIn order for a company to grow sustainably for more than 100 years, it must not only be equipped with high technological competitiveness but must also practice ethical management that is worthy of social respect. Un2003 fering penalties and rewards based on our regulations. These penalties and rewards are meted out through human resources management and include suspension and reductions in salary for violations, and bonuses der the belief that maintaining the confidence of all stakeholders as well as executives, employees and customEthical ers through ethical management practices that adhere to fundamental principles is essential, Hyundai Steel for strict compliance. Additionally, in September 2002, internal audit regulations were added to the corporate bylaws to form a basis for the prevention of any illegal actions. Hyundai Steel operates a Cyber Auditor Management regularly holds ethical management training and campaigns. Moreover, having created a company managepage on its website, through which any of our stakeholders, including company executives and employees, ment policy that focuses on the implementation of transparent and trustworthy management as its basis, the customers, or partners, may report unethical behavior by executives or employees. Reporting may be done company is set on a path towards sustainable growth. Upon declaring our adoption of ethical management through a variety of channels such as phone, internet, e-mail. An informant’s information is strictly protected practices in 2002, we instituted both an Ethics Charter and a Code of Ethics and posted them on our company under several laws, including the Public Informant Protection Law., All matters that are reported via the Cyber website. Additionally, in order to increase the ethical awareness of our executives and employees and to estabAuditor page are thoroughly investigated in accordance with internal regulations and protocol, and necessary lish an ethical organizational culture, we have been engaging in a variety of activities including the publication steps are taken in line with regulations and company bylaws that pertain to the incident reported. of our “Business Ethics Guidebook”. • Enactment on April 21, 2003 / Third amendment on July 30, 2010 Chronological list of Business Ethics at Hyundai Steel • Establish criteria for adhering to laws related to fair trade and to develop into a company that engages in trustworthy ● Adoption of the Compliance management Program (HMS A 106) • Violations are sanctioned and instances of compliance are rewarded under the governing bylaws (duty suspension, 2002 Declaration of the Adoption of Ethical Management Practices punitive wage cut, rewards, etc.) 2003 Announcement of Ethics Charter and Code of Ethics • First amendment on September 10, 2002 Internal Audit Regulations • Determine internal audit standards and guidelines to preempt instances of error or corruption 2004 Implementation of Purchase Ethics Regulations • Accessible to all stakeholders including company executives and employees, customers, and business partners Cyber Auditor • Company website/ sustainable management/ trustworthy management/ cyber auditor page 2008 Publication of Hyundai Steel Business Ethics Guidebook • Reports are investigated and countermeasures are carried out under internal regulations and protocols. 032 Strong Sustainability HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 033 Hyundai Steel established a risk management system in 2006. The system classifies our companywide workTo advocate for market integrity and fair competition, Hyundai Steel adopted the Compliance Program (CP) in Risk ing process and applies different risk indicators to each sector in order to define and evaluate risk factors apCompliance 2002 and has made consistent efforts to incorporate the CP into our day-to-day business activities. Management propriately. The risk profiles are updated and managed on a regular basis by taking into consideration feedback from each department and changing business environments. In addition, the working-level Program Efforts towards fair trade departments regularly check and monitor for any risk factors, enabling instant response in the event of a risk. (CP) Hyundai Steel gives regular trainings on the CP and fair trade act to its employees through either online courses or outsourced training, and special lectures by external fair trade experts. Cartoon manuals on fair trade Preventing Risks 2011 CP organizations at department level were also published and distributed to employees. ● GP Hyundai Steel operates its audit and inspection system for the purpose of preemptively detecting and removHyundai Steel checks and monitors fair trade practices throughout the sales, purchasing and other departCouncil International security certification ing risk factors, as well as preventing the recurring of risks through enhanced post-control of instances in ments vulnerable to unfair trading practices in order to prevent any violations of the Fair Trade Act. In 2011, ● ISO 27001 which risks occur. By improving the both the procurement and examination systems, we have reinforced our the Growth Potential (GP) Council was launched as a self-directed CP unit. In addition, the CP Day and online risk prevention control while also providing a self-reflection checklist to staff members who are exposed to CP tests help promote CP practices within the organization. the risks of any conflict of interests by the nature of their duties. In 2012, we are planning more activities to support CP, such as holding GP Council meetings and special lecIn a bid to protect its tangible and intangible technological rights and intellectual properties, Hyundai Steel tures given by external experts, in an effort to raise our employees’ CP awareness. In addition, we are plangoes through the ISO27001 review conducted by an external agency, BSI Korea, once every six months. Addining to conduct monthly self-checks of fair trade practices at the team level with a focus on some of our major tionally we have established a company-wide security check index for quarterly information security checks, departments. Additionally, we will distribute promotional items to encourage employees’ spontaneous comdesigned to encourage employees’ voluntary participation in the management of information security. We pliance with fair trade. also run various information security training sessions and campaigns to raise employees’ awareness of information security. Fair Trade Spontaneous Compliance Organization ● Financial Risks CEO At Hyundai Steel, we run sensitivity analysis to control for financial risks, such as risks associated with foreign exchange or interest rates. Sensitivity analysis entails analyzing the potential risk scenarios in foreign-currency transactions that arise from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The results are reported to the top Chief Compliance Officer (executive) management. We manage potential interest rate risks by striking a balance between fixed rate loans and variable rate loans through interest rate swap agreements. We strategically avert risks on a regular basis by adCompliance Management Team justing the interest rates and risk profiles or altering the positions of accounts in the financial statements, and by preventing changes to interest charges by adjusting different interest rates. Business Business Raw Materials Incheon Pohang Procurement Sales Dangjin Planning Management Sourcing Works Works Risk Management ● Financial risks Non-financial risks Compliance Program • Liquidity • Operational risks • Exchange rate risks • Businss partner risks • Commodity risks • Market risks • Cost risks • Environmental risks Departments in charge Raw materials, production, Business innovation team CFO, CEO, BOD sales and procurement 034 Thinking Smart HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 035 h el tTe -s Thinking Smart We are willing to push the envelope and take challenges. In order to successfully push forward, we are continually innovating and researching so that we will be able to improve our technology and capabilities. Our innovative ideas are our key strengths that enable us to develop customer-oriented technologies and eco-friendly technologies. 036 Thinking Smart HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 037 2011 Hyundai Steel hinking smart Thinking Smart Hyundai Steel’s R&D Center provides total solutions ranging from the research and development of high-tech steel plates to automobile proCEO duction strategy building for the Hyundai Motor Group. Additionally, it lends its technical expertise to developing methods of energy conservation, recycling and other eco-friendly technologies as part of its corporate social responsibility. Technology Production Production R&D Center Technology Team In addition to our two blast furnaces, which currently operate at a combined annual production capacity of 8 million tons of steel, we began construction on a third blast furnace with a 4 million ton capacity in 2011. When the new furnace is completed in 2013, the three furnaces will have a total production capacity of 12 million tons of steel annualHyundai Steel completed the building of an integrated steel mill, suggesting ly. If we incorporate the electric arc furnace, the gross annual capacity a new paradigm for an eco-friendly steelworks while simultaneously creatof Hyundai Steel amounts to 24 million tons of steel. In accordance ing a stepping-stone along the path toward becoming a global leader as an with this sizeable growth, we strive to create competitive products and aggregate steelmaker. The further enhancement of our corporate value is technologies. bolstered by our comprehensive product portfolio and R&D center. Our comprehensive product portfolio is comprised of everything from flat steels to long steels, and the R&D Center encompasses all automotive steel Integrated R&D Center In 2011, Hyundai Steel completed an Integrated R&D Center, setting product R&D activities ranging from material technology and component the stage to maximize synergy in R&D with Hyundai Motor Group. The processing technology to car body designing technology. new center will develop products for our client companies in car making, shipbuilding and plant engineering businesses, as well as provide Production Customized strategyProduct R&D Total Solution customized total solutions and suggest production strategies. This will building Service also contribute to the reinforcement of our customer-oriented product portfolio. In the meantime, the center will pursue cost competitiveness strategies through R&D projects for operational optimization technologies and midto long-term process technologies. 038 Thinking Smart HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 039 Thinking Smart Hyundai Steel completed two cutting-edge blast furnaces with a combined production capacity of 8 million Dangjin tons in 2010, and began constructing the third furnace in 2011. With a total investment of KRW 3.25 trillion, Works the completion of this four million-ton blast furnace will result in a 12 million ton annual capacity at Dangjin Works. Including the electric arc furnace, total annual production capacity of Hyundai Steel amounts to 24 Innovative ideas million tons. Hyundai Steel was able to commence the construction of the third blast furnace only four months after the drive corporate development. completion of its two first blast furnaces, as a result of gaining confidence in operating integrated steel mills What is the best practice of through the successful full-scale operation of the first two blast furnaces ahead of schedule. Upon completion, the third blast furnace will achieve economy of scale, strengthening the company’s cost innovation at Hyundai Steel? competitiveness and replacing steel imports worth USD12.0 billion per year. Moreover, the third blast furnace will further diversify our product portfolio in regards to both size and type of steels. Through the development of numerous new steel types through the use of the two blast furnaces, Hyundai Steel will continue to expand the production of new highly profitable products such as automobile exterior steel sheets and The culmination of Hyundai Steel’s creative and innovative thinking has been realized heavy plates for shipbuilding. Equipped with a comprehensive product portfolio that ranges from flat steels in our Dangjin Steelworks. Equipped with 8 million tons of steel and two blast furnaces, to long steels, Hyundai Steel is emerging as a leading global steelmaker catering to the different needs of diDangjin steel mill will complete the building of its third blast furnace in 2013, resulting verse clients in the automobile, shipbuilding and construction businesses. in a growth to a combined annual capacity of 12 million tons. In addition, Dangjin steel mill is remarkable in that it utilizes the world’s first eco-friendly enclosed raw material Resource circulation value chain processing system. Dangjin Steelworks has adopted cutting-edge environmental technologies and facilities, bringing major changes to Hyundai Motor Group’s value chain. With the full-scale operation of the blast furnaces at the integrated steel mills in Dangjin, Hyundai Motor Group has successfully completed the creation of a resource circulation value chain. Hyundai Steel has adopted innovative enclosed raw material process facilities, signifi“Change & Innovation Leaders Grand Prize” cantly reducing fugitive dusts and loss of raw materials and building its reputation as an eco-friendly steel ● Hyundai Motor Group awarded works. The hot-rolled plates produced from the blast furnaces are supplied to Hyundai Hysco, which processthe grand prize at the “2011 Change & Innovation Leaders es and supplies steel sheets for automobiles to the Group’s car making subsidiaries, Hyundai Motor and Kia Forum Seminar” Motor. The scrap cars are sent to the Automobile Recycling Center, where steel scraps are produced from the scrap cars to feed the Hyundai Steel’s electric arc furnaces. As such, Hyundai Steel plays the critical role at the center of the resource circulation value chain of Hyundai Motor Group. Resource Circulation Value Chain ● Steel scrap Steel scrap suppliers Reinforcing bars, Hot-rolled plates H-beams, etc. Steel scrap Automobile Recycling Center Car scrapping Steel sheets for automobile HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 041 Example of Open vs. Enclosed Raw Material Processing System Instance Enclosed Open Comparison Iron ore warehousing 32 tons/m2 13 tons/m2 661,157m2 The World’s First efficiency Raw material 264,462m2 661,157m2 1/3 storage size Integrated Steel Mill Opportunity cost · Controlling moist content of the air at 6 to 8% · No need for wastewater treatment system · Expensive dust-proof net and regular spraying of surface hardener is required. ·  Wastewater treatment system is required to treat · Weather-proof · Prevention of fugitive dust or wastewater · Enhanced efficiency dirty rainwater · Maximal use of land site thanks to the high Enclosed Raw Material warehousing efficiency Processing System The world’s first steel maker to adopt the enclosed raw material processing system Enclosed belt conveyor Enclosed continuous ship unloader that prevents fugitive dusts and the loss of raw materials Enclosed Raw Material Processing System Hyundai Steel’s raw material processing system is not an open one, but an enclosed one. Consisting of an enclosed domeroofed storage for iron ores and an enclosed warehouse for iron ores, soft coals and sub raw materials, its high efficiency in warehousing and weatherproofing saves costs usually associated with controlling raw materials. Enclosed loader and belt conveyor Hyundai Steel transports raw materials such as iron ores and soft coals from pier to its enclosed raw material processing system using an enclosed continuous ship unloader (CSU) and enclosed belt conveyor. The CSU unloads and transfers the raw materials to the belt conveyor through its internal structure. It demonstrates a higher efficiency of unloading than the conventional grab-type unloader. The enclosed belt conveyor transfers the raw materials unloaded on the port to the raw Enclosed dome-roof warehouse material processing system, and then again from the raw material storage to the sinter and coke plants. Dangjin Works is equipped with an enclosed belt conveyor that can transport raw materials between 400 and 7,000 tons per hour at a speed of 20 to 270 meters per minute. 042 Thinking Smart HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 043 Thinking Smart In an effort to increase its core competencies while simultaneously valuing innovation, Hyundai Steel estabTechnological lished an integrated R&D Center that develops and supports customer-oriented technologies. The center Competitiveness provides total solutions to the technical issues of its client companies. Hyundai Steel is also committed to developing eco-friendly technologies, such as energy conservation technologies and integrated recycling systems, as part of its corporate social responsibility. How is Hyundai Steel Process Technology developing competitive Hyundai Steel strives to attain cost and quality competitiveness through both operational optimization technology and long-term R&D initiatives for process innovation. In dealing with major issues at worksites, we technology for the future? also channel our resources into developing process innovation technologies and eco-friendly process technologies. • Developed optimization technology for the production of sinter ore/quick lime, reducing fuel consumption Technology is the core competency and ultimate goal of the drive for innovation at High-efficiency and CO2 emissions iron-making process Hyundai Steel. Hyundai Steel has completed the construction of an integrated R&D • Developed new nickel slag sub raw materials, reducing environmental pollution Center that provides technical solutions to client companies’ issues through compreSteelmaking and continuous • Developed technologies that control minute ingredients to produce eco-friendly high-end steel products casting technologies for high (ultra-low phosphorous steel/low-sulfur steel) hensive R&D efforts on application technologies, as well as process and product techvalue-added steel products • Developed technologies for producing automobile exteriors nologies. The Center provides total solutions ranging from cutting-edge steel R&D to Enhanced the quality and • Improved automated operational process technology to reduce defects in hot-rolled coils automobile production strategy-building in synergy with Hyundai Motor Group affiliproductivity of high • Developed rolling and cooling technologies to enhance productivity of high value-added TMCP steel plates value-added steel products ates. Product Technology Automobile exterior panels In 2010, Hyundai Steel developed various types of steel products for automobile exterior panels, contributing to the creation of a lighter car. As a result, we have cemented our position as a steelmaker specializing in steel Development of high strength steels for plates for automobile. automobile exterior panels ● 9 types Hood 35 kg Roof 28 kg Fender 35 kg Trunk 28 kg Door 35 kg Outer side 28 kg Earthquake-resistant steels Hyundai Steel has been involved in R&D activities to create earthquake-resistant steels since as early as 2005, when few recognized the need for such products. Hyundai Steel had the foresight to recognize the importance of earthquake-resistant construction materials and thus devote its resources to designing seismic long steels. The US has legislated regulations mandating seismic design for all construction. In Korea, new seismic design standards have become mandatory by law for all new buildings with two stories or fewer in the wake of the Japan Earthquake of 2011. In response to the regulatory changes, Hyundai Steel is developing earthquake-proof and fireproof products and expanding the size of products―making them thicker, broader and larger― and new production processes for these new products to sharpen its technical advantage as an electric arc furnace operator. 044 Thinking Smart HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 045 Example of Technology for the Future Product R&D Steel products for nuclear power plants Because they are usually located on the shore, nuSteel sheets for automobiles and special steels for engines Integrated R&D Center clear power plants require steel with a highly corro•Developing high strength, highly durable steel -Providing customized total technical solutions sion-resistant performance. An increased power sheet materials required for high output, fuel-effigeneration capacity and lifespan requires a higher cient, eco-friendly cars (R&D efforts are underperformance of fracture toughness. Related techway to create these types of steel products) nologies are currently under development. •Developing high-end steels for automobiles and improving product quality (special steels for autoSteels for offshore plant engineering mobiles) Hyundai Steel has collaborated with Hyundai Hysco and Hyundai-Kia the entirety of R&D activities for all steel sheets for automobiles pro• Increasing offshore oil development has given Motors to create an integrated R&D network, generating synergies in duced at Dangjin Works. Becoming involved in the process early on alrise to growing demand for offshore drilling plants Development of work rolls for wide flats its R&D activities. Hyundai Steel R&D Center focuses on developing lows us to reduce the number of trials and errors and to secure high • Floating on a deep sea or in a polar region, off• Producing a 5.5m-long work roll (previously the and applying the technologies of steel sheets for automobile exterior value-added technologies. Under the early vendor involvement (EVI) shore plants require anticorrosive materials that longest was 4.6m) panels that require lighter and thinner steel sheets of high strength for program, Hyundai Steel cooperates with Hyundai E&C on overseas can withstand low temperatures. •Producing 5.3m-wide heavy plates (previously the safety of the body of the car. Identifying the best mix of steels in plant-engineering projects from beginning to end in order to produce • Developed the QST technology application and the widest was 4.3 m) for wind power generation accordance with the different properties of each car component, the and provide quality products customized to each plant engineering reinforced the low-temperature resistance (warCenter researches the weldability and strength of various types of project, thus maximizing inter-affiliate synergies. At the same time, rantee -30˚C → -40˚C) Steels for wind power station steels while setting forth guidelines on the optimal type of steels for we are seeing more synergies from collaboration with Hyundai Heavy • High strength, high toughness and enhanced •Developing steel products for ultra-size floating each automobile production line. Industries in our planned R&D activities for TMCP (thermal mechaniweldability on normal rolling sheets offshore facilities and efficient use of land sites Hyundai Steel R&D Center aims to provide total solutions for steel cal control press) for ships and API heavy plates that are used for off→ TMCP steels •R&D for steels with high endurance to extremely products through actively researching and developing high-tech steel shore structures. low temperatures of deep sea locations (API 2Wproducts, as well as automobile production strategy building. To that Steels for skyscrapers 60 TMCP steel, etc.) * Total Solution effect, the entire affiliates of Hyundai Motor Group—Hyundai Steel, Providing all data and ideas required for the application of steel plates for automobile • High rise buildings require quenching & self-tempering (QST) technology and low yield point techHyundai Motors and Kia Motors and Hyundai Hysco—are involved in nologies • Developing ultra-strength reinforcing bars and heavy plates Integrated R&D Center Technology R&D Forming technology Process innovation technology Technology R&D •Instituted the utilization of a servo press to ex• Developing hydrogen-reduced iron (the reducpand molding areas, developed component-formtion of iron using hydrogen instead of cokes genApplication technology R&D ing technologies for plates of different thicknesses erates steam, not CO2) •Developing the optimal press motion curve for •Currently developing this new process with an forming technologies aim for commercialization by 2020. Process technology R&D •Developing new forming process technologies Eco-friendly energy technology Welding technology •Planning to develop CO2 Capture & Storage (tech•With the growing demand for high strength steel nology to collect and store these CO2 emissions Product R&D sheets, market demand has also grown for highly for productive use) alloyed steel sheets. •Developing new technology that allows for the easy welding of highly alloyed steel sheets because highly alloyed steel sheets show bad performance in terms of weldability. 046 Elevating Corporate Value HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 047 h el teE -s Elevating Corporate Value A sustainable business achieves the right balance between sales and growth, as well as distribution and investment, based on its competitive edge in cost, quality and technology. Not content to rest on its laurel of record-high sales and operating profit in 2011, Hyundai Steel is leveraging its competitive product portfolio in order to pursue global markets. 048 Elevating Corporate Value HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 049 2011 Hyundai Steel levatin g corporate value Elevating Corporate Value Hyundai Steel achieved record-high sales of KRW 15 trillion for 2011. We believe this is an accomplishment we made with the support of our CEO stakeholders. Therefore, we will return our profits to our stakeholders through reasonable distribution and investment, which will, in turn, create greater value in the future. Hyundai Steel will continue in its efforts to satisfy diverse stakeholder needs and develop new growth enProcurement Production Sales Management gines to create economic value for all. raw materials sourcing, production line at sales division Finance & Accounting facility purchase steelworks Division, Business Support Division We will reach our sales goals and achieve substantial growth through the strengths of our diversified production line that is centered on high value-added steel products. To that end, we will strive for leadership in Hyundai Steel spares no effort when it comes to maintaining its intrinsic valtechnology while working to reduce costs, and will endeavor to expand ue as a corporate citizen. Under the goal of enhancing our competitive edgour export market through our competitive product portfolio. es in cost, quality and technology to be on par with global standards, we strive for mutual growth alongside all of our stakeholders in the global markets. In 2011, Hyundai Steel posted KRW 15,259.9 billion in sales, up 50% from the previous year, and KRW 1,306.7 billion in operating profits for 2011 Achievements Global company 2011, up 24% from 2010. Production volume also expanded to 16.18 million tons, with 8.6 million in flat steels and 7.58 million tons in long Sales (KRW billion) Production (10,000 tons) steels. The full operation of blast furnace No. 1 and 2 increased the overall production and sales by 35% compared to 2010. 15,259.9 1,618 Cost Quality Technological competitiveness competitiveness competitiveness 050 Elevating Corporate Value HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 051 Elevating Corporate Value Hyundai Steel realized record-high sales and operating profits thanks to the full operation of blast furnaces Creation and No. 1 and 2. However, the operating profit margin dropped slightly from 10.3% in 2010 to 8.6% in 2011 due to Distribution the sluggish global steel market and rising commodity prices, specifically those of iron ores and coals. Hyundai Steel continued its technology R&D to develop hot-rolled steels (HR) and different types of heavy of Economic plates, as well as strategically designed new steel products. In addition, we realized the correct mix proporDoes Hyundai Steel Value tion of our blast furnaces early on, thus optimizing their operation and allowing us to create a planned profitoriented budget to enhance our cost competitiveness. return its prof its 2011 Sales Key Financial Performance Indicators to society? ● KRW 15,259.9 billion Sales 152,599 Operating profit Net income ● ● ● (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) 101,982 13,067 79,664 At Hyundai Steel, all of our investments and business strategies are designed to 11,520 10,541 achieve significant progress in our sales and operating profit so as to enhance our in9,062 trinsic value and fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. Returning interest profits 7,353 to the investment of our shareholders and investors, paying taxes to the government, 5,781 contributing to the development of local communities, cooperating with partners for higher sales and profits, and providing the best quality products to customers—all of 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 these activities constitute the sustainable future of Hyundai Steel. Operating profit margin ROE ● ● (%) (%) 17.4 10.3 10.8 8.6 8.1 7.1 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 EBITDA 20,068 Debt-to-equity ratio ● ● 138.6 (KRW 100 million) 14,525 (%) 135.8 135.6 8,401 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Share prices 2009 2010 2011 Share price (KRW) 86,500 124,500 95,700 Market capitalization (KRW trillion) 7.3 10.6 8.2 Credit ratings Korea Ratings Korea Investors Service NICE Standard & Poor’s Moody's AA AA AA BBBBaa3 052 Elevating Corporate Value HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 053 Creating and Hyundai Steel works to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities through consistent indistributing value for vestments and through the creation and fair distribution of both direct and indirect On the back of its competitive product portfolio, Hyundai Steel is expanding its export volume. We are exeach stakeholder economic value. Global panding our exports with a focus on new markets for high value-added steel products. group Markets Expanding exports Hyundai Steel established its strategic points for global marketing in India and Japan and relocated its branches within China, reinforcing its overseas marketing capacity. In 2011, we exported 4.46 million tons, or 27% of our total sales volume, through our 11 overseas branches and sales offices. Shareholders & Investors (Unit: 1,000 tons) return on investment Export portion of 2011 2009 2010 2011 445.5 overall sales volume KRW ● Domestic demand 7,250 8,692 11,825 27 % Exports 2,676(27%) 3,353(28%) 4,456(27%) billion in dividends and interests Total 9,926 12,045 16,281 Employees Government employment for a corporate tax payment Exports by Region (Unit: %) comfortable and secure life 20.2 165.9 41.4 KRW 39.4 18.4 789.9 KRW 24.9 35.6 11.1 21.6 17.5 Investor s billion in taxes 14.0 16.4 billion in wage and welfare expenses Go es 14.8 ve y le Chinese-speaking1 countries .1 1 plo rnme US/Europe Em nt 1 .8 4 1 1 2 Middle East/Southwest Asia .0 .7 0.4 1 2 .6 4 Business partners 1 5 Hyundai Steel .4 HY UN 8 Southeast Asia 9.9 2 2 9.5 support for win-win partnerships investment for the future .4 1 5.3 Par tners 9 6. DAI STEEL 735.3 ● 2009 8.0 KRW KRW ● 2010 Others .9 .5 .9 ● 2011 9 3 5 3 5 billion in contribution to the Win-Win Cooperation Fund billion in net income 3 6. .9 4 4 .1 4 Cu it y stom un er m m s Co Customers S u p p li e r s Local communities providing high quality products charity funds Hyundai Steel strives to maintain a stable long-term supply of quality iron ores, coals and steel scraps and othKRW 15,259.9 KRW 12.2 Stable er raw materials, which is the decisive factor in the quality and price of our steel products. billion in sales Suppliers billion in social contribution expenses and donations Supply In a bid to hedge exchange risks arising from imported steel scrap, Hyundai Steel has secured domestic partners who produce quality steel scrap for its long-term supply line. This has led to enhanced domestic self-sufsales-generated profits Chain ficiency and reduced mediator margins, thereby reinforcing our cost competitiveness. With iron ore and coal 10,190.4 KRW being the main raw materials of blast furnace steelmaking, Hyundai Steel has secured stable, long-term supStrengthening partnerships with ply channels through several supply MOUs with global companies. In the future, Hyundai Steel will continue raw material partners billion raw materials and sourcing ● to seek new supply lines in order to secure the reserves required for the stable operation of our integrated steel mills. 054 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 055 h eEl te -s EcoEnergetic Hyundai Steel operates the world’s leading ecofriendly steel works using environmental management and green technologies. Committed to resource circulation throughout its entire value chain, Hyundai Steel also supports its partners’ environmental management practices. Hyundai Steel is at the forefront of the low-carbon green-growth initiative. 056 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 057 2011 Hyundai Steel co-energetic Eco-Energetic Hyundai Steel is consistently improving its environmental perfortion of carbon footprint management, which has resulted in a reducmance through our endeavors to qualify for the environmental mantion of their energy consumption by 8.2%. agement system (ISO 14001) certification and energy management system (ISO 50001) certification. We are also wielding our technological leadership towards mitigating climate change by adopting an GHG & Energy Target Management system, building a greenhouse gas inCEO ventory and developing technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Planning Field management Technology Business Planning Environmental Safety Environment & Energy Hyundai Steel is working to respond to climate change and reduce enTeam at each steelworks Division Office of Technology Hyundai Steel always considers its potential environmental impact before ergy consumption by utilizing environmental management and leverR&D Center making any decisions regarding business activities. We are operating the aging our resource-circulation system. Specifically, Hyundai Steel plays world’s first eco-friendly steelworks under our environmental management a key role in Hyundai Motor Group’s ambitious “eco-friendly resource * Committed to a safe and environmental workplace, Hyundai Steel has a dedicated policy. Equipped with cutting-edge environmental technologies and faciliSafety & Environment Division led by the vice president. We also has an Environment circulation value chain,” by supplying the steel plates for automobiles, & Energy Office at R&D Center. ties, we continually seek out new business opportunities that follow the which are then in turn reduced down to steel scrap at the end of their trend towards environmentally friendly business practices, and rigorously life cycle and, finally, return to our steelworks to be remade into steel practice low-carbon green growth initiatives. It is imperative that we miniproducts once again. mize the environmental impact of our business activities. As an eco-friendly company, Hyundai Steel takes into consideration the environmental impact on its entire value chain, from raw materials sourcing and controlling to pro2011 Achievements duction, sales and distribution, In 2011, we recycled 95% of the total 7,180,000 tons of byproducts from our three steelworks. Byproducts-slag, sludge, dust, and waste Of total water use refractory-are another type of resource to Hyundai Steel. By retrieving the digestive fluid from food treatment wastewater, we reuse it to replace methanol in our steel processing under the memorandum of un95 % 8.2 reduced % 38% derstanding (MOU) with Dangjin City. In addition, we recycle steel slag By-product recycling Energy consumption Water reuse into construction aggregates, and have sponsored 40 partners’ adopby partners 058 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 059 Eco-Energetic The need for environmental management has increased in tandem with our sizeable expansion that followed Environmental the completion of our integrated steel mill. Therefore, we have implemented a strict environmental managePolicy ment policy under the environmental management vision of being “the world’s leading eco-friendly steelWhat plan is Hyundai Steel works.” With environmental management forming the basis of our business strategies, we created environmental putting into action towards management and resource circulation systems, and we address the key tasks of working to mitigate climate change and communicating with local communities. The environmental management organization serves as fostering the harmonious the medium for company-wide communication on environmental management practices by sharing and following environmental management performance, establishing the best practices, and keeping up with marco-existence of human society and nature? ket and regulation trends. With the new integrated steel mill running at full operation, Hyundai Steel has renewed its ISO 14001 environmental management certification for the new mill and three other steelwork plants with the Korea Standards Association and the British Standards Institution. We became the first Korean steelmaker to obtain the enerHyundai Steel’s environmental management vision of “becoming the world’s leading gy management system ISO 50001 certificates provided by the Korea Energy Management Corporation in eco-friendly steelworks” attests to the company’s commitment and dedication to enDecember 2011. In order to promote environmental management practices among our partners, we have vironmental protection. This vision, which is based our environmental management been encouraging them to adopt the carbon footprint management project, established in 2009, to help resystem and resource circulation system, is instrumental in furthering our environmenduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have also joined environmental civic groups as part of our proactive response to climate change. tal endeavors. These endeavors include environmental management, addressing climate change and communicating with local communities. Launched in 2010, the Environmental Management Policy Greenhouse Gas Energy Taskforce Team (TFT) oversees the company-wide practices ● of greenhouse and energy management. Core subjects of environmental management policy Engage with local Minimize the Establish an Construct a resource Address climate communities regarding generation of any environmental recycling system change environmental activities pollutants management system •Increasing the •Developing community •Constructing a GHG •Complying with •Constructing an recycling of resources environmental activity inventory in each emission standards environmental •Increasing the programs sector •Complying with management system recycling of water •Reinforcing •Constructing an internal environmental •Stabilizing the CFM communication energy management management project channels with local system standards •Adopting an communities •Investing in improved environmental environmental facilities performance evaluation system Phase-by-Phase Action Plan ● Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Construction Enhancement Establishment Reinforcement •Strengthening the •Encouraging the participation •Adopting an environmental •Adopting an environmental environmental management of top management management information accounting system organization •Organizing an environmental system •Conducting life cycle •Constructing an committee •Adopting an environmental product evaluations environmental management •Holding environmental performance program education system management council •Creating a bio-industrial •Constructing an eco-friendly meetings complex supply chain system •Implementing environmental R&D activities 060 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 061 Environmental Management Organization Hyundai Steel has put into place a GHG inventory system in order to allow for the systematic management of Environmental GHG emissions and energy use by source throughout its entire production process. Additionally, this inventoHyundai Steel’s environmental management organization consists of environmental and energy management teams at all major operation sites, and includes the business planning team at our Seoul office. They System ry system helps to assure efficient response to the GHG & Energy target management system. The GHG inventory system controls GHG emissions from each production line, as well as source-specific enerwork closely with each other to create environmental and energy policies, manage legal compliance issues, gy use, in compliance with the government’s GHG & Energy Target Management System. This guideline reproduction facilities and R&D for environmental and energy technologies. quires matching the specifications set on GHG emissions and energy consumption, as well as calculating any Led by the CEO, the environmental officers hold quarterly meetings to discuss domestic and international reduction potential. trends regarding environmental issues, develop environmental & energy management strategies, and to review the TFT performances of current policies. 2011 Environmental Expenses ● Environmental Accounting 179.5 KRW million (KRW millions) 179,493 CEO •Environment & Energy Workshop 153,741 +14.3% •GHG & Energy TFT 56,851 Planning Field management Technology R&D •Environment & Energy Management •environmental safety and management •energy technology R&D •environmental resource-recycling •environmental technology R&D 2009 2010 2011 Our environmental accounting consists of electricity bills, repair & maintenance expenses, labor expenses and other environmental facility operation costs, and R&D expenses for environmental impact surveys that are conducted with the goal of minimizing our impact on the environment of local communities. Environment & Energy Workshop Hyundai Steel has been holding an environmental & energy workshop every quarter since 2008 in order to discuss Environmental Investment Expenses major environment and energy issues while sharing technologies. Featuring special lecturers from related fields, the (KRW millions) workshop focuses on strengthening employees’ environmental and energy management practices while fostering organic cooperation among environmental officers at each plant. 50,299 +52.8% Company-wide Greenhouse Gas (GHG) & Energy TFT 23,708 20,082 Hyundai Steel has been operating company-wide GHG & Energy TFT since 2010 with the advent of the GHG & energy target management system and the emissions trading scheme (ETS). This strategy was created as an effective response to the heightening regulations on GHG emissions and energy consumption. The company-wide TFT sets the 2009 2010 2011 company’s position with regards to the governmental regulations covering GHG emissions and energy consumption, Environmental investment expenses consist of facility improvements to enhance dust collection efficiency, prevent fugitive prepares the specifications of GHG & energy consumption, builds strategy for negotiations on target management, dusts, and improve wastewater treatment plants and the conditions of raw material yards. and develops reduction targets. 062 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 063 Eco-Energetic Our dedication to protecting the environment and conserving resources translates into action through our Air endeavors to improve air quality, reuse water, and recycle wastewater along with steel production byprodQuality ucts. Hyundai Steel will continue to make strenuous efforts towards building a sustainable resource circulation society where the interests of the economy are compatible with the environment. Hyundai Steel monitors the emissions of exhaust gas from its operations using a tele-monitoring system What are the major achievements of (TMS). Exhaust gas from the sinter plant is particularly difficult to treat. Minute dusts and dioxins in particulate matters are collected using electric dust collectors or filters, and sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and dioxHyundai Steel’s ins in gas are treated at a dual activated carbon absorption facility. Dual absorption is high-tech equipment certified by a German authority. With the aid of this equipment, Hyundai Steel maintains its GHG emissions environmental management? far below the legal minimums. Air Pollutant Emissions 0.38 Hyundai Steel works continually to apply advanced technologies, invest in facilities and ● (kg/t-s) 0.34 improve processes in order to achieve airtight control over various pollutants, such as ● 2009 0.28 wastewater and GHG. The company also reuses and recycles byproducts, such as slag, ● 2010 0.25 ● 2011 sludge and dust, thereby transforming waste into resources. In addition, the company strives to protect biodiversity and the surrounding environment near its operations. 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.04 0.05 Dust Sulfur oxides Nitrogen oxides Dioxin Emissions Concentration Dangjin Sinter ● 0.24 (ng-TEQ/m3) 0.15 Pohang 0.15 Incheon 0.08 0.10 0.06 0.05 Dangjin electric arc 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.03 2009 2010 2011 Chemical Substance Emissions ● (kg) 28,255 22,545 7,880 2009 2010 2011 064 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 065 Example of Our planet’s surface water is limited, and the amount of usable water is shrinking. In an effort to prevent a Environmental Management Water scenario of escalating water scarcity and water pollution, Hyundai Steel is carefully monitoring its water use Management pattern. Wastewater Treatment & Water use Water Quality Management In 2011, Hyundai Steel used a total of 32,207,000 m3 of water. Of this, Dangjin Works used 74%, or 23,791,000 m3. Incheon Works fulfilled 86% of its total water demand by using recycled water from the Gajwa Sewage Treatment Plant. Bio toxicity control Collaboration between our company and local governments Water recycling at Incheon Works The ratio of total water use compared to crude steel production decreased from 1.98m3/t-s in 2010 to ● 1.89m3/t-s in 2011, despite the increase in the total water demand due to our blast furnace No. 2 entering into Best practices within the private sector Food treatment wastewater recycling 86 % full operation. This significant accomplishment can be attributed to our consistent wastewater use reduction campaigns. In the future, Hyundai Steel will continue to manage water resources through the recycling of efHyundai Steel continues efforts to improve its wastewater treatment Currently, wastewater containing digestive fluid from treating food plants and increase investment in new environmental facilities with wastes is discharged into the sea. However, starting in 2013, the Mafluents, reduction of water use, development of replacement water, and increasing the amount of water that the goal of enhancing efficiency in wastewater treatment and remainrine Environment Management Act will prohibit the release of digesis reused. ing below the legal limits for waste water effluent discharge. tive fluid into seawater. Therefore, Hyundai Steel has developed techBy monitoring the toxicity of its wastewater, Hyundai Steel estabnology to replace methanol with digestive fluid as the agent providing Water use 1.98 Effluent Water reuse 1.89 0.57 lished its own internal guidelines on the handling of toxic substances carbon to the microbes that eliminate organisms in wastewater. ● ● ● (m3/t-s) (m3/t-s) 0.50 (1,000 m3) 16,915 (applying stricter standards of TU1 than the legal limits of TU2, current In 2011, Hyundai Steel signed an MOUN with Dangjin City regarding 16,274 15,725 measurement stands at TU0). Based on these guidelines, we have insupply-demand and technical support for recycling digestive fluids 1.35 vested in process innovation and facility improvement while preparfrom food treatment wastewater. This agreement is expected to save ing an internal toxicity-monitoring plan. These efforts were widely Hyundai Steel KRW 600 million on the purchase of methanol and Danrecognized when we were selected as the best of the private sector at gjin City KRW 900 million annually on treating digestive fluid. the Bio Toxicity Control contest by the Korea Environment Corporation. This agreement marks the first case where a private company providIn order to maximize the reuse of sewage & wastewater, we prepress ed the solution to an environmental issue being faced by a local gov0.07 all sewage and wastewater at the chemical reactors and bioreactors, ernment, and serves as an example of a local government-company 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 after which the water proceeds to advanced treatment facilities, such alliance contributing to the national low-carbon green growth initiaas the activated carbon absorption facility. After the treatment retive. Also currently under development is a technology that would reSS/COD emission concentration by Works ● Incheon Works ● Dangjin Electric Arc Furnaces ● Pohang Works ● Dangjin Blast Furnaces moves any pollutants, the treated water is discharged into the deep duce food waste by generating methane gas from food wastes. ● 56.0 (mg/l) sea 300 meters offshore to prevent sea pollution. 46.0 SS COD 48.2 37.9 34.0 18.1 17.3 8.0 9.1 5.3 6.0 4.8 4.1 4.3 2.4 2.3 4.0 1.8 1.8 2.0 1.4 0.2 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Dangjin Electric Dangjin Blast Dangjin Electric Dangjin Blast Incheon Works Pohang Works Incheon Works Pohang Works Arc Furnaces Furnaces Arc Furnaces Furnaces Legal limits 120 120 60 60 Legal limits 120 130 70 70 066 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 067 Example of Byproducts Environmental Activities Byproduct ㄲ The total volume of byproducts generated by Hyundai Steel’s three steelworks amounted to 7,180,000 tons Recycling in 2011, with slag accounting for 69% (4,933,000 tons), followed by sludge (627,000 tons), dust (422,000 tons) and refractory waste (98,000 tons). Hyundai Steel reused 94.5% of these byproducts in 2011, up from 92.1% Protecting Biodiversity in 2010. We reuse and recycle byproducts from our steelworks and treat them as another resource, helping address the social issue of resource conservation. Total volume of byproduct (1,000 tons) Hyundai Steel is actively involved in global biodiversity protection campaigns. Every year 25,000 to 50,000 species disappear from Recycling volume (1,000 tons) the planet. Protecting and preserving the ecosystem of our local communities is an important duty and responsibility that Hyundai Total volume of byproducts from our premises 1,7 11 4,534 7,180 Steel must fulfill as a corporate citizen. 7,180,000tons 1,520 4,176 6,787 Creating Ecological Parks Cleaning the underwater environment ● Slag 4,933,000 tons 69% ● Sludge 627,000 tons 9% Recycling rate Recycling rate Recycling rate In 2008, Hyundai Steel’s Dangjin Works built an ecological park in Hyundai Steel’s Pohang Works scuba diving club and Meister’s council 89 92 95 ● Particulates 422,000 tons % % % 6% ● Refractory waste 98,000 tons 1% ● Other 1,100,000 tons 15% Songsan-myun on an area of land spanning 6,000m2, creating a forest, cleans Hyungsan River regularly. They dig up waste in the river such as ponds and streams. Created with an aim towards making a natural entires, nets, and fish traps, and they also clean the riverbanks. In addivironment where wildlife and nature can coexist, the ecological park tion, the company participates in the One-Company One-River proCost reduction from recycling byproducts has grown into a well-managed ecosystem that protects the wild tection campaign created by local communities, which gathers people ● growth of flora and fauna. In the forest within the park there are 4,500 to clean the riverbanks and create flowerbeds along the riverside. 4.61 2009 2010 2011 KRW billion living trees including privet, spiraea, and Japanese oak. The wildflower bed is planted with a variety of wild flowers such as plantain lily and iris. There are also shrubs and bushes that provide fruit for birds. The two ponds, which provide a habitat for fish and amphibians, have Developing technology for recycling byproducts also been planted with a number of aquatic plants including fringed Slag from the integrated steel mill is divided into blast furnace slag and converter slag. Blast furnace slag has water lily, water lily and yellow iris. Additionally, Hyundai Steel created properties similar to those of natural aggregates, suggesting high utility. The entire volume of this slag is used a valley above the pond as a habitat for fish and crawfish, and planted as raw materials in making cement and aggregates for civil engineering works and concrete. reeds and common reeds around the area in order to secure a habitat By recycling the slag from the electric arc furnace and using it to pave roads, we have proven the excellent for green striped bitterlings, crucian carp, and morocco oxycephaluses. properties and environmental safety of slag. Based on the know-how resulting from this project, Hyundai Hyundai Steel produces and processes steels under the natural proviSteel plans to develop and apply eco-friendly slag to various construction projects in collaboration with local dence to protect and preserve a clean and sustainable environment. communities and governments, and to promote slag’s excellent performance as aggregates. Hyundai Steel is working to preserve the value of the environment so that it can remain pure and unchanged into the future. Dust & Sludge Recycling Technology Dust and sludge generated from the integrated steel mill is highly recyclable due to its high level of useful content. Hyundai Steel has installed recycling facilities, such as pellet & brick making facilities and mill scale treatment plants, and recycles the byproducts back into our production process. The byproducts with low recyclability are also reused as eco-labeled bricks for landfilling or the interlocking of the public bodies of water. We are also developing and inventing other uses for recycled byproducts, thus contributing to the circulation of resources throughout society. 068 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 069 Eco-Energetic Hyundai Steel continues to make a constant effort to deal with climate change through diverse GHG emission Climate reduction technologies and systems. The GHG & Energy TFT controls and supervises these activities, moniChange tors the company-wide GHG emissions, and creates long-term plans for developing technologies to cut down on GHG emissions. In addition, we actively participate in international programs focused on addressing climate change and share technologies with global steelmakers. What is Hyundai Steel Organization doing to address global warming Since 2010 Hyundai Steel has been operating a company-wide GHG & Energy TFT to efficiently address cliCompany-wide GHG & Energy TFT mate change. In collaboration with the Energy Conservation TFTs from each plant, a team oversees energy and climate change? ● 2010 conservation activities on production processes. The GHG & Energy TFT implements the GHG & Energy Target Management System, responds to GHG regulations and policies, and promotes an energy management system. Supported by the planning, production and technology sectors of the company, the team sets the company’s public position on related issues. The steel industry is by definition energy-intensive. Therefore, steelmakers are required to pay more attention to energy conservation and GHG emission reduction activities than other industries. Hyundai Steel established a company-wide GHG & enerGHG Emissions gy TFT in order to set the company’s public position on GHG emissions and energy Hyundai Steel runs a bipropellant system of steelmaking incorporating its electric arc furnace and the blast consumption, and to provide an efficient response to any related issues. In addition, furnaces at the integrated steel mill, which has been in operation since 2010. Powered by electricity, the electhe company actively participates in various activities to mitigate climate change intric arc furnace uses steel scraps as raw materials for steelmaking, while the blast furnace that is fueled by cluding joining national projects and improving its internal systems, while simultanehard coals and byproduct gases from production process makes steel from iron ores and soft coals. Conseously developing related technologies in collaboration with related associations and quently, the emissions from the two processes have very different properties. partners. The total volume of GHG emissions from the premises of Hyundai Steel stood at 14,590,000 CO2Tons in 2011, up from the previous year due to the addition of the second blast furnace. Hyundai Steel consistently improves the energy efficiency of its operation and facilities in order to reduce the intensity of any emissions. GHG Emissions 14,972 ● 4,342 (1,000 tons) ● Indirect emissions ● Direct emissions 10,135 10,630 3,827 6,308 4,220 2,869 1,351 2009 2010 2011 070 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 071 Improving energy efficiency Addressing Internal system With our blast furnaces running at full operation, fuel and electricity expenses are surging. Consequently, it Participation in the Energy Use Target Hyundai Steel makes forceful efforts to diminish GHG emissions and energy consumption under the control Climate has become imperative for the company to enhance our energy efficiency and save on these expenses. In orManagement Pilot Project ● of the company-wide GHG & Energy TFT, which collaborates with the Energy Conservation TFTs from each Change der to deal with this issue, Hyundai Steel commissioned an energy audit group of internal and external experts to discover potential sources of energy conservation within its entire range of processes. While some of 2009 plant to achieve energy reduction throughout our steelworks. At the same time, the company has completed the GHG inventory system for the implementation of the GHG the findings are currently being tested for feasibility, others were instantly applied to the work processes and & Energy Target Management System, specifying the reduction potential for each production process in line have already contributed to enhancing energy efficiency. Most notably, an inverter circuit was installed to with the company-wide reduction targets. run rotators in accordance with the optimal combustion control of thermal plants, cooling water control and We have developed a long-term roadmap for curtailing our GHG emissions and energy consumption based required operation loads. We have constructed an energy laboratory to test the feasibility of new energy conon our analysis of the goals to lower GHG emissions and reduction potential at each plant. servation systems before applying them to the process. We believe this will be instrumental in our R&D efforts and experimental testing to find practical ways of reducing our energy use. Energy Use Target Management Pilot Project Beginning in 2009, Hyundai Steel’s Incheon Works set and implemented targets for reducing energy use under the Energy Use Target Management Pilot Project by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MOKE) and KoEnergy Consumption 5,665,334 rea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO). Led by its Energy Conservation TFT, Incheon Works has been ● (TOE) improving its processes, replacing outworn facilities, and increasing its overall operational efficiency. We +64.2 % keenly anticipate that this will contribute to the reduction of GHG emissions from our Incheon Works surpassing the business as usual (BAU) estimate. The reduction record will be subject to document verification and due diligence by an independent assurance agency before being submitted for the government’s approval. When all due courses are complete, a company-wide implementation of the GHG & Energy Target Manage2,026,100 ment System will be applied. 1,600,757 Energy Management System Certification 2009 2010 2011 In a bid to improve its corporate image as part of an industry that is energy-intensive by nature, Hyundai Steel participated in the Energy Management Pilot Project by KEMCO and adopted advanced energy management Recovering and Recycling Energy Sources protocols. The Incheon Works has completed an internal system for energy management policy building ● along with organizational and work process management under the international standards on energy manSinter Steelmaking Blast furnace agement systems (ISO 50001). In December 2011, Incheon Works became the first Korean steelmaker to win the energy management system certification. We plan to implement this energy management system on a Recovered Steam Steam Electricity company-wide scale to create an integrated, company-wide energy management system by the end of 2012. energy source Producing steam from hot air Steam generated through Power generation facility Facility generated from cooling the sinter cooling gas from the blowing powered by the high pressure of plant process the blast furnace gas ISO 50001 (International standards on energy management system) Steam for the steelmaking Steam for the steelmaking International standards on energy management systems that specify requirements for establishUse Blast furnace power supply process process ing, implementing, maintaining and improving an energy management system, whose purpose is to enable an organization to follow a systematic approach in achieving a continual improvement in Recovering heat from sinter No. 1 and 2 blast furnace top gas Remarks Steelmaking off gas (OG) boiler energy performance. plants No. 1 and 2 pressure recovery turbines (TRT) 072 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 073 Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS) Technology Carbon Footprint Management System on our Supply Chain Technology Being a recyclable resource, steel is the key factor to successfully realizing a resource circulation business The steelmaking industry is often cited as the major culprit of the greenhouse effect because of its high emisCarbon footprint project Energy consumption ● structure. Hyundai Steel participated in the Large Corp-SME Carbon Partnership project by the Ministry of Development sion intensity of CO2. Therefore, it is imperative for the industry to develop new technologies to meet the gov8.2 % Knowledge Economy to establish a carbon footprint on its steelmaking supply chain. ernment-driven GHG reduction targets and international carbon regulations. Under this partnership, large corporations collaborate with their SME partners to calculate the carbon emisIn response to this, Hyundai Steel is actively involved in R&D efforts to meet the national reduction target (resions on the entire production process and to subsequently reduce GHG emissions through technical R&D, ducing 30% of BAU by 2020) while simultaneously continuing efforts to reduce GHG emissions. process innovation and facility investments. Through the project, Hyundai Steel has supported 40 partners— In particular, we are focusing on developing carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology, which involves raw material suppliers, scrap suppliers, and car component makers—in reducing and controlling their GHG capturing and recycling CO2 from flue gas. In the future, we will continue to develop and commercialize comemissions for a total of two years between June 2009 and May 2011. petitive technologies in order to mitigate global warming. Specifically, we supported their activities of establishing carbon footprints on their production processes and creating a GHG inventory and energy management system. Additionally, our internal experts were disByproduct gas mixed combustion technology patched to help them conduct due diligence and set goals for reduction. As a result, the total energy conFuel for the integrated steel mill consists of byproduct gas from the steelmaking process and purchased LNG. sumption of the 40 partners declined by 8.2% and GHG emissions decreased by 3.8% over the past two years. Byproduct gases are collected from the blast furnaces (BFG), coke ovens (COG) and Linz-Donawitz converters (LDG) for use in the blast furnace, air heating furnace, cokes ovens, steelmaking and continuous casting heatVerified Carbon Standard ers, rolling heaters, boilers and power plants. In collaboration with Korea Midland Power (KOMIPO), Hyundai created the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) We aim to maximize the use of byproduct gases in order to minimize the purchase of fuel gas, which will save project on the byproduct-fueled on the byproduct gas power plant of Hyundai Green Power within its Dangjin Steelworks. The program uses on fuel expenses while also minimizing our environmental impact. power plant ● the byproduct gas from the blast furnaces to fuel power generation in replacement of fossil fuels, contributAt the moment, the steelmaking process depends more on the coke oven gases due to their high heat value. VCS ing to the reduction of fossil fuel use and its resultant GHG emissions. Hyundai Steel successfully completed due process on the verification and certification of the VCS in May 2012, winning international authorization In the long run, however, we aim to increase the use of low heat-valued byproduct gasses, such as BFG and LDG, at our steelworks. In addition to conventional combustion technology, we will develop new technology * VCS is the world’s most popular certification of carbon emission of its reduction of 1.98 million tons of annual GHG emissions—the largest reduction of GHG emissions in the by integrating oxygen and flameless combustion, which will in turn further enhance the use of low-heat byreduction. It is a voluntary GHG reduction project endorsed by given period among Korean companies. This achievement is fraught with significance as it marks Korea’s first product gases. To that effect, we are working to define the optimal balance of mixing byproduct gasses, which the World Economic Forum (WEF), International Emissions company to complete the entire process of VCS. Hyundai Steel was also the second in the world to complete will result in the minimization of our fuel expenses. Trading Association (IETA) and the Climate Group. the procedure among the 800 VCS projects worldwide. The 1.98 million tons of GHG emissions accounts for 13.6% of Hyundai Steel’s annual GHG emissions, equivalent to planting 660 million Korean nut pine saplings on a 605km3-size land. One ton of GHG emission reduction amounts to the planting of 323 saplings. In the future, we will promote the recycling of waste energy sources to reduce social GHG emissions, while consistently discovering new methods of reduction both inside and outside the company. Hyundai Steel is an active member of the World Steel Association (WSA) and involved participant in its enviInternational ronment & energy-related committee activities. Our Environment & Energy Management Team and the EnviCooperation ronmental & Energy office of Technology R&D Center actively participate in the activities of WSA’s Environmental Policy Committee and the Technology & Environment Committee, fostering exchange with global steelmakers. Industry Climate Change Response Task Force Hyundai Steel is also an active member of the Industry Climate Change Response Task Force, which was instituted by the Business Institute for Sustainable Development. The TF collects opinions throughout the industry on the GHG Energy Target Management System and Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and also communicates with the government regarding these matters. 074 Eco-Energetic HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 075 Hyundai Steel Resource Circulation Flowchart GHG emissions ● (1,000 tons) 14,972 Indirect Direct emissions emissions Input 10,630 4,342 Energy ● Hyundai Motor 32,207,000 m2 Kia Motor Water Hyundai Hysco Electricity 1,917,017 TOE Automobile Recycling Center LNG, B-C 254,142 TOE Raw materials ● Electric Arc Furnace Blast Furnace Steel scrap 10,720,000 tons Iron Ore 12,800,000 tons Hyundai E&C, Coal 5,850,000 tons Hyundai EMCO Output production volume ● 16,180,000 tons Water recycling Byproduct emissions Water treatment Power Plant ● ● plant sales volume (1,000 m2) (Gcal) 16,915 18,505,374 ● 16,280,000 tons 44% 56% Wastewater Water reuse recycling 4,745 12,170 External use Internal use 8,069,108 10,436,266 076 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 077 h eLl te -s Listening to the World We consistently pursue technology and products that will benefit the world. We are well aware that the growth of our partners is ultimately what constitutes the growth of Hyundai Steel. We will open our ears to what our local communities have to say. As a reliable and responsible corporate citizen, Hyundai Steel aims to consistently grow along with all of its stakeholders. 078 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 079 2011 Hyundai Steel istening To the world Listening to the World Hyundai Steel has completed an HRD system to foster future leaders CEO who positively embrace change and innovation. From our partners to our customers and investors, we promote a variety of mutual growth programs so that we are able to share profits and growth with all of our stakeholders. At the same time, we faithfully fulfill our corporate citiEmployees Mutual Growth Local Communities zenship duties through practical community engagement programs. Business Support Business & Strategy Business & Strategy Division, Management Division, Procurement Division, Management Support Office Division, Finance & Support Office, Steel Accounting Division Management Division Competent employees and competitive business partners are the origins of our sustainable growth and creation of value for our customers. As a responsible corporate citizen, Hyundai Steel contributes to the development of local economies and involves itself in a number of activiThrough trust-based mutual growth, advanced HRD, and social contributies that contribute to both local communities and society at large. tions, Hyundai Steel continually devotes itself to building a better society for all. We will engage directly with our employees, stakeholders and the local communities to create a better society where people play active roles in their communities, living and prospering together. In 2011, Hyundai Steel conducted special lectures, cultural exchange Society filled with hope programs and education programs to help our employees build their skills. At the same time, we expanded our support to partners in terms Social Contribution Programs of technical and financial aid, as well as business skills, thus helping our partners reinforce their own competitiveness for assured mutual Hyundai Steel Co-prosperity growth. Our community engagement programs include House Reemployees modeling for Hope, Green Guard and Happy Yes. Fostering Local House Remodeling Green Guardians Happy Yes future leaders communities for Hope Social Stakeholders contribution 080 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 081 Listening to the World Hyundai Steel believes its people are very important in the respect that they actually run the business and deHuman termine the future of the company. Therefore, Hyundai Steel does not only do its best to achieve the technoResources logical, environmental and economic growth for its sustainable future, but also commits itself to developing its employees’ capabilities. Furthermore, it promotes a co-living, collaborative corporate culture, reminding Management that communication is the best corporate strategy in the future with uncertainty. What kind of programs does Human Rights and Diversity Hyundai Steel run for human Hyundai Steel promotes diversity in its workforce. Our policies and systems are intended to assist our people in carrying out their job duties in a way that can best serve their talents and abilities. We prohibit any form of resources development? discrimination through systems and institutions based on gender, race, religion or regional origin. We offer equal opportunities to all of our people so that they can realize their full potential. Hyundai Steel prohibits child labor and forced labor for any reason. We fully comply with the Korean Labor Law and International LaHyundai Steel promotes diversity in its workforce and provides its employees with fair bor Organizations (ILO) conventions. As a result, we had no cases of violations of any of these laws and regulations in 2011. opportunities to realize their full potential. Hyundai Steel envisions talented experts in their respective fields who closely collaborate with colleagues resourcefully and Employment creatively. At Hyundai Steel, we are building a competitive corporate culture through Hyundai Steel regards talented people as invaluable asset and invests in people with long-term high potential. diverse customized programs designed to cultivate talented people. We make sure that everyone is provided with equal opportunities and fairly compensated for their performance. No. of Employees 8,551 ● (persons) 8,356 7,757 6,756 6,140 5,782 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 15% Job Creation Rate ● (%) 11% 10% 8% 6% 2% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 * (Current No. Of employees –No. Of employees as of previous year)/No. of employees as of the previous year 082 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 083 Fair Evaluation and Compensation Reader’s Leader Cultural Exchange Starting in 2011, Hyundai Steel has been encouraging deHyundai Steel runs a cultural exchange program to cultiWe ensure equal opportunities for all of our employees to help them realize their full potential, and we propartmental and interdepartmental reading clubs. By readvate a global mindset and enhance a broader perspective hibit discrimination of any kind regarding fair compensation. This builds trust between the company and its ing and discussing subjects other than working, employamong our employees. A given number of employees seemployees and maximizes individual productivity, thereby enhancing corporate productivity as well. ees can exchange their thoughts and ideas, contributing lected through an annual recommendation process orgato a communicative and creative corporate culture. nize teams and plan their own trips. They use mission Total No. Of employees Workforce 6,204 Female Workforce books related to their destinations to map out their itiner● [as of December 31, 2011] aries, a process which assures they will enjoy a more 8,551 257 ● ● 243 Special Lectures (persons) meaningful and direct cultural experience. (persons) In an effort to inspire our employees to positively and cre● Total 210 ● above assistant atively embrace change, we regularly provide special lecmanager-level tures featuring prominent experts in the field of humanities every year. 1,627 266 17 21 15 83 254 117 Executives Office/engineer Sales Research Technicians Others 2009 2010 2011 HRD Total training costs Total number of trainees Training hours Communication Dedicated to building an energetic and happy workplace, Hyundai Steel promotes company-wide communication by building job-oriented and emotional solidarity among employees and departments. It does this ● ● ● through GWP programs and the Communication & Cooperation Seminars, Smart Board and Labor-Manage7,592,096,000 33,838 2,390 KRW ment Council. HRD Training Scheme GWP (Great Workplace) ● Basic skill Leadership program Job Skills Global skills Self-development/ Hyundai Steel has been operating the “Great Workplace (GWP)” campaign since 2007 to foster an energetic Job class Special training Value Build-up Program Leadership Pipeoline Program InnoBiz School and positive corporate culture. In 2011, the three GWP missions included “finding the value of one’s work,” HMG HMG VL Start-up Course HMG Executives New Executive Course (newly appointed (newly appointed division directors) DL Start-up Course Advanced Seminars “communicating openly,” and “working creatively.” In 2012, we plan to focus on enhancing employee engagedirectors) Management Program SCM/MOT/Brand Mg’t (newly appointed office managers) ment and promoting a communicative culture with an emphasis on promoting the GWP, enhancing employee General engagement, and reinforcing trust-based relationships. GM/DM/MNG skill-building course Managers Team manager (GM) Orientation for experienced employees (executives, team managers) OL Start-up Course (newly appointed team managers) leadership course Middle Deputy Manager Managers Communication & Cooperation Seminar Labor-Management Council Coures (DM) (newly appointed GM/ DM/MNG) Organizational structure course Every year, Hyundai Steel holds 2-day communication & At each works of Hyundai Steel is a labor-management Managers (MNG) cooperation seminar for managers and sophomore assiscouncil consisting of 10 representatives each from labor ❶ ❷ ❸ ❹ ❺ ❻ ❼ ❽ ❾ ❿ tant managers from different departments within the and management. The council holds an internal conferAssistant AM Associate Course skill-building Managers (AM) (newly appointed AM) company. The seminars provide a venue for discussion ence at quarterly intervals for the purpose of discussion course Orientation for new employees Staff and open exchange amongst employees. In an effort to inand mutual development. (recent graduates) Summer 4th class HMG camp skill-building crease solidarity, not only business-related but also perNew Employee course Orienation(university graduates) sonal exchanges between employees are encouraged. 5th class Orientation for and below female employees Smart Board * Programs differentiated according to ability and job class Hyundai Steel’s Smart Board stands for Self-determining, ❶ Company-wide job skill training ❻ Reader’s Leader Motivated, Active, Revolutionary and Together. It is a ju❷ Communication & Cooperation Workshop ❼ In-house and outsourced language courses/ nior board consisting of 32 staff members (ranging from Cultural exchange intensive language courses ❸ general staff to managers) from four different local opera❹ Mandatory course by job function: ❽ Cyber language course (phone/video/cyber campus) quality, environment & safety, etc. ❾ Sponsored job skill/cyber job skill training courses tions-Incheon, Pohang, Dangjin and Seoul offices. ❺ Culture course ❿ Job Academy Marketing/Purchase/Production/ Steelmaking/R&D/Planning/Finance & Accounting/ HR 084 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 085 Example of Hyundai Steel has instituted and continues to implement safety & health regulations in order to create a safe Safety at Work Safety & and healthy working environment. The Safety & Health Guidelines prescribe detailed procedures and protoHealth cols for ensuring safety and health at work for both Hyundai Steel employees and its partners’ employees. Safety Rainbow Industrial Safety & Health Committee Hyundai Steel operates an Industrial Safety & Health Committee at each of its steelworks. Consisting of 20 Stable operations begin with safe worksites members total (10 from labor and 10 from management), the committees hold quarterly meetings to benchmark the best possible practices for safety & health management and to monitor the status of hazardous subThe Forged Steel-making Department of Incheon Works (caWorks has made it a rule to examine the seven prescribed items on stance management. In addition, each steelworks holds monthly safety meetings to check safety controls pacity of 50 tons) was established in August 2008, when the Forged the list daily—check roll call, neat maintenance, preemptive risk conand constantly works to find better ways of safety control. All good ideas are fairly rewarded throughout this Steel Mill resumed operation. Led by the department’s general mantrol, wire rope condition, gas check, handrails/hooks, and safety process. ager Jae-hun Park, the 98 team members sweated to produce a halfgears. Forming a two-man group, they wear different rainbow work finished steel product Ingot. Dedicated to higher quality and producbelts every day to take turns patrolling the plant and keeping safety tivity, they always pay extra attention to safety at work due to the records. In addition to these onsite checks, the Department has creatMonthly Safety Meetings belief that stable operations begin with safe worksites. ed its own safety manuals while the other departments have not yet. Each steelworks holds monthly meetings to check safety issues and track improvements that need to be In particular, they have developed their own “Safety Rainbow” In June 2009, the Department held a photo exhibition under made at each particular worksite. Each plant also sets accident-free target periods and rewards departments campaign to raise safety awareness among their colleagues under the the theme of “Safety saves lives.” The Department is committed to according to their accomplishments. In addition, Hyundai Steel holds council meetings with its partners to enmotto of “A safety campaign easy for everyone” and “A joyful safety maintaining the safest and healthiest workplace possible for its emsure collaboration on safety control at each worksite by raising safety awareness among employees and the campaign.” The Department manufactures Ingots (half-finished steel ployees, and strives to meet the highest standards in a society that employees of our partner companies. material that is cast into shapes suitable for further processing, such emphasizes safety awareness. as rolling or forging). Ingots are used as the components of ships and Safety Rallies and Related Safety Campaigns wind/nuclear power plant facilities. They are enormous in size and weight, with one unit weighing 180 tons. Therefore, a slightest misHyundai Steel holds regular meetings at each steel plant to share safety information, experiences and ideas to take can lead to a huge setback in the product quality. It is no wonder prevent accidents. The meetings are conducted in such a way that good ideas that are put forth during these the manufacturers of these essential products are so focused on meetings are actually applied to real operations. Safety rallies and various other safety campaigns remind maintaining a safe workplace. employees of the safety mind-set that they need to put in place every day before they start work. Since June 2010, the Department has customized the Incheon Work’s “Safety Rainbow” campaign to its own needs. The Safety RainFire Drills ● Safety Training Center bow campaign is a weekly safety campaign, consisting of 7 slogans, each of which starts with the first letter of the seven colors of the rainIn addition to its safety training programs, Hyundai Steel has safety training centers at its Incheon, Pohang bow in Korean. The Forged Steel-making Department of Incheon and Dangjin Works in order to more effectively educate employees on safety issues. Equipped with diverse safety devices and accident simulation programs, these centers are accessible to both our employees and outside visitors and provide effective, hands-on education programs. Health Management Hyundai Steel is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all of its employees. Each plant has an infirmary and a fitness room to promote a healthy lifestyle for our employees. In addition, the company subsidizes various health expenses as well as provides regular health check-ups and medical subsidies. 086 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 087 Listening to the World Hyundai Steel shares its profits with all stakeholder groups including business partners, customers, and invesMutual tors, and endeavors towards advancing the steel industry and creating a new growth engine which will stimuGrowth late the overall development of the steel industry. Enhancing the competitiveness of our partners Financial aid to partners ● At Hyundai Steel, we pursue mutual growth through trust-based partnerships with our partners. We believe 423.6 KRW billion What does mutual growth the key to building trust in partnerships with our partners lies in technological support. Therefore, we have initiated various technology transfer programs and developed diverse channels for active communication. We also provide financial aid for various projects and investments. mean to Hyundai Steel? Building Partnerships ● A company cannot succeed by itself. It can only generate greater value when it actively Technical support Active communication Financial aid cooperates and communicates with its stakeholders. Hyundai Steel continues to move •Technical support for product design •Seminars and training for partners’ •KRW 16.5 billion of interest-free loans forward in maintaining diverse relations with business partners, customers, investors, •Training on seismic design technology employees to steel scrap partners for investment in •Technological exchange prior to facilities local communities, governments, and NGOs. Keenly aware that trust-based partner•Joint development of an eco-friendly steel slag production process, casting adopting new technology •KRW 7.7 billion support in guarantee ships with business partners plays a key role in mutual growth, Hyundai Steel provides steel work rolls for rolling mills •Regular meetings with outsourcers, fees to partners such as steel scrap partners, to •Payment to partners in cash in 2012 generous support to its business partners to help build their technological, financial, each works and facility engineering •Shortening bill payment terms to steel business management and educational skills. contractors, etc. scrap partners from 80 days to 55 days •E-procurement system to publicly open bidding for procurements Mutual Growth Support Scheme Hyundai Steel believes that Large Corp-SME win-win partnerships are the foundations of the competitiveness of the national economy. Therefore, in 2010 we expanded the Win-Win Cooperation Organization into a WinWin Cooperation Committee, which consists of sale, purchase and production executives, in order to reinforce our company-wide win-win partnership. In 2011, the Win-Win Cooperation Committee renamed itself the “Mutual Prosperity Committee”, broadening the scope of its influence beyond simple mutual growth towards a more future-oriented relationship. Under this committee are several groups working for the actual implementation of initiatives. Hyundai Steel runs mutual growth programs in financial aid, technical partnerNo. of partners that signed the ships, education and training. agreement with Hyundai Motor Group ● On March 29, 2011, Hyundai Motor Group held a ceremony where it signed mutual growth agreements with 1,585 companies 1,585 partners. Having been augmented from the previous win-win partnership agreement, the new agreement stipulates; the three guidelines of subcontracting will be reinforced and applied further to assure fair trade, financial aid will be provided for the continual growth of business, and various types of programs for mutual growth such as business support will be enacted. To provide technical support to our partners, the Group sends researchers to each business, runs an academy for quality control, and expands the scope of joint purchasing of raw materials. Hyundai Steel also contributed KRW 22.8 billion for its partners’ facility investment and Mutual Growth Fund. It improved its bill settlement conditions in favor of its partners by creating a cash paying system and shortening the payment period. The number of partners that signed the agreement has increased from 70 in 2011 to 87 in 2012. The support program has also been diversified. 088 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 089 Long-Term Plan Financial Aid Hyundai Steel has instituted and implements long-term plans for mutual growth with its partners. Originally Hyundai Steel expanded the amount of financial aid given to its partners, totaling KRW 22.8 billion in 2011, in developed in 2006, the mutual growth plans were upgraded in 2011 to provide the foundation for further coan effort to provide its partners with higher actual benefits. Our steel scrap supply partners were provided operative partnerships between Hyundai Steel and its partners. Hyundai Steel plans to expand its partner with KRW 16.5 billion in interest-free loans as an investment in a storage yard facility. We also provided KRW support program in the future, and aims to become a leader in Korea in mutual growth practices. 6.3 billion in guarantee fees to distributors, who are some of our most important customers. In 2012, we are planning to increase the amount of financial aid to KRW 38.6 billion. Hyundai Steel provides bridge loans to its financially distressed SME partners, allowing them to get loans of up to 80% of the contract amount when they sign contracts to supply Hyundai Steel. The loan program offers loans at a 2.4% lower interest rate than ordinary credit loans to SME companies with credit ratings of BB+. In Leap Growth Stabilization 2011, KRW 5.0 billion was extended in new loans. Furthermore, Hyundai Steel financed the Mutual Growth Fund with KRW 8.0 billion to support its financially distressed partners who find it difficult to get loans in excess of their existing credit line. This money provided Increasing cash payments Expanding the scope of the Mutual Growth Establishing a Mutual Growth Support support by supplying Hyundai Steel’s partners with more working capital and cash to cover R&D expenses.  Eliminating the recourse on the account Agreement Center receivable collateral loans purchase, sales, technology When a business partner makes a request, Hyundai Steel writes a recommendation letter to Hyundai Com Training/suggesting/evaluating/ consulting partners (SME support mercial, which then evaluates the credit ratings of the applicant and extends loans to the partner with 1.5% of Improving settlement terms on steel scrap Supporting our partners’ sales activities organization) supply bills Joint projects, global expansion along the given interest rates supported by Hyundai Steel. In 2012, our contribution to the fund was expanded to Building SME skills  Shortening the bill payment periods with our partners KRW 10.0 billion at an interest rate of 2.54% on new loans. In the run-up before national holidays, Hyundai Business/ technology/ safety/ quality Mutual Growth Support System Increasing financial aid consulting Steel settles payments to its partners earlier than usual. We also contributed KRW 600 million to the conMutual Growth Committee Supporting facility investments Joint R&D partnership funds between the struction of the Global Support Center under the Korea Federation of Small and Medium Businesses. Work Groups Improving SME purchase agreements private sector and the government Improving subcontracting bill payment Purchasing policies based on the credit New product development on the conditions ratings of our partners condition of purchase 2011 2012  Cash payments in full Expanding e-contracting practices Improving welfare programs for our 22.8 38.6 partners’ employees Establishing technological exchanges Direct KRW billion KRW billion Scholarships to the children of partners’ Financing Joint efforts for process innovation and financing employees quality improvement Culture classes for the spouses of Free licensing of patent rights partners’ employees Monitoring of aftermarket services to Performances, concerts, exhibitions customers and product quality 5.0 Promotion on Training support Indirect Mutual Growth KRW billion Expanded sustainability financing Bridge Loan Technology, cost reduction, ecomanagement friendliness Early settlement before Korean 8.0 10.0 national holidays KRW billion KRW billion ● Mixed Mutual Growth Three Guidelines of Subcontracting 365.0 KRW billion financing Fund (Interest rate: 1.5%) (Interest rate: 2.54%) To promote mutual growth and fair trade compliance, Hyundai Steel’s bylaws prescribe the following three guidelines of subcontracting Contracting guidelines The 3 Guidelines Partner selection guidelines of Subcontracting Internal audit group guidelines 090 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 091 Improving payment terms Education & Training Hyundai Steel used to pay in cash for subcontracting bills worth under KRW 10 million. Now, we have imKOSHA 18001 (Korean safety & health In a bid to build relationships with our partners and communicate with them regarding mutual growth, Hyunmanagement system) proved our payment terms and pay all subcontracting bills in cash. We previously paid our steel scrap suppli● dai Steel holds regular seminars inviting our business partners to send representatives. We also reward the a total management system to enhance ers four times a month, but now we pay them eight times a month. We also shortened the bill payment term safety and health management best performers in order to promote mutual growth. In 2011, we rewarded 27 of our partners with a total of practices in organizations of steel scrap from 85 days to 60 days in 2011, and then shortened it again to 55 days as of January 2012. KRW 480 million. At the same time, we collaborate with our partners to maintain accident-free worksites as part of our safety 2011 2012 management. As a result, Hyundai Steel and 16 of our partners received the KOSHA 18001 certification from the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency (KOSHA) on August 4, 2011. Improvement to Subcontracting bill Payment in cash under cash settlement Payment in cash settlement in cash KRW 10 million bills ratio Promoting mutual growth, •Seminars inviting our partners ethical business practices, Business •4 training sessions for representatives and managers of our partners transparent management, consulting •10 training sessions to build our partners’ skills Account receivable information security Payment in Improvement •2 training sessions on information security collateral loans Recourse No recourse education cash without recourse Technology trends and •16 sessions of steel application technology exchange Contractors’ bill · Steel scrap billfour · Steel scrap bill Technical settlement frequency introduction of new •Amendment to steel structure design handbook, followed by distribution times a month paymentseight times training ● Frequent Shortened bill technologies 8 · Steel scrap bill a month •Joint marketing of new engineering technology times per month payment payment periods payment term-60 · Steel scrap bill days payment term-55 days •Special lecture on safety practices Labor Safety & health education/ •Rewards to the best performers in safety control Technical partnerships practices labor practices education •Case study of accidents education The technological competitiveness of our partners plays a key role in our competitiveness. Therefore, we pro•Joint acquisition of KOSHA 18001 certification vide our partners with technical support and training. For instance, the Eco-Friendly Steel Slag Production Process R&D was a joint R&D project with our partners. It is part of a green process that reduces the production of steel slag from the steel-making process and increases the recovery rate of valuable metals to realize the creation of an eco-friendly steelmaking business. A wide heavy plate work roll is required to manufacture a wide heavy plate of more than 5 meters in width. However, its development and production technology is so complex that only six companies around the world can manufacture it successfully. Korean heavy plate makers were previously importing the work rolls, as there was no domestic work roll manufacturing facility. The Korean steelmakers’ rolling capacity significantly increased from 54 million tons in 2009 to 75 million tons in 2012. Consequently, the domestic demand for cast steel work rolls for rolling mills is expected to grow by 16% from 29,000 tons to 34,200 tons. Here, we Hyundai Steel’s partner, CS Steel seized upon an opportunity and began R&D efforts to localize wide-size heavy work roll technology in collaboration with SME, academic researchers, and industrial peers. Technology New product Application to Joint filing for Joint R&D transfer R&D SHN patents •47 cases of technical •Eco-friendly steel slag •Earthquake-resistant •2 joint patent filings •Fee subsidies: KRW support for product manufacturing process connection of large •1 joint patent 3,736,000 design development columns for application registration •16 sessions of training •Cast steel work roll for to SHN on seismic design rolling mills development •Consulting for R&D technology cooperation on thermal technology 092 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 093 Business thrives on the trust of customers that is given in return for the value provided by the business. ThereCustomer satisfaction survey Customer fore, Hyundai Steel puts customer value at the top of its business activity priority list. Our customer-oriented Hyundai Steel conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey (CSS) to enhance its customer satisfaction. Value management system facilitates customer-oriented and highly focused marketing. Through these efforts, we are able to enhance the quality of our products to meet the potential needs of our customers. Starting in 2011, we changed the CSS administration department to the Business Planning Team in an effort to enhance the reliability of the survey. The customer satisfaction survey consists of 70 questions in 11 different To that effect, we created our 2012 management policies and core values with a focus on Customer Value 2011 customer satisfaction survey on categories covering topics such as price, product, technology, quality and service claim handling. This survey Creation and Customer First Management. We aim to cultivate a customer-oriented corporate culture and 235 client companiess ● provides us with opportunity for in-depth one-on-one interviews with client companies to hear any feedback 68.2 build long-term, trust-based relationships with our customers. points or requests about products and services throughout the entire process, from sourcing and ordering to use. In 2011, we earned a rating of 68.2 points from 235 respondents. Based on these findings, we have developed Meetings with the global buyers plans for improvement in the areas of price and quality, which in our study proved to be the decisive factors in Hyundai Steel has been hosting meetings with global buyers every year since 2006 in order to maintain and customers’ purchasing decisions. Meetings with global buyers solidify its business partnerships with global clients. Attended by 70 CEOs from 15 countries in Asia, the AmerIn an effort to cultivate a customer-oriented mindset within our sales force, we provide special training cours● icas and Africa, the meetings provide a venue for exchange and cooperation among global business partners. es conducted by external experts on customer service. In addition, we offer technology presentations and 2006 Every year since Hyundai Steel presented its vision of using the synergy achieved through the creation of its new blast furnaces product technology application seminars to strengthen our partnerships with our customers and to provide and electric arc furnace, along with 50 years of technology, as the basis for continually providing its customers them with customized services. with top quality products. We also expressed heartfelt appreciation for their unwavering support and collaborative role in our remarkable accomplishments despite the unfavorable market conditions, and encouraged Customer-oriented steel product development a sustainable cooperative partnership for mutual growth. Hyundai Steel’s integrated R&D Center develops customized steel products that best serve our customers’ needs. We have paid particular attention to expanding the R&D facility investments to build up our early venCustomer-oriented organization dor involvement (EVI) capabilities for car making client companies, allowing them to make their voices heard Hyundai Steel actively forayed into new markets by integrating its technology sales organization, developing at the initial stage of product development so that we in turn can provide highly customized products. customized steel products and enhancing the overall quality of its products. We reorganized our technology Furthermore, Hyundai Steel strategically focuses on making 28 steel products, such as the TMCP for offshore sales network, allowing our customers to tap directly into our advanced product technologies. While augplant engineering and large vessels and anticorrosive steel products for oil drilling. Equipped with a comprementing technology marketing by end-user industry, we employed different technology marketing strategies hensive system that allows for the manufacture of a variety of steel products, we are able to efficiently fulfill tailored to the needs of our customers. Through these activities, we anticipate the creation of customer serthe diverse demands of our client companies in the industries of construction, shipbuilding and plant engivice that can best serve the diverse needs of our customers while constantly adapting in step with a drasticalneering. In the future, we will also work to discover new uses for existing steel products so that we can continly changing world. In addition, we incorporated a quality monitoring process into our aftermarket service to ue providing our customers with competitive products. deal more effectively with customer complaints about product quality. Quality control is a type of service performed before a product hits the market, as we preemptively identify potential customer complaints and address them promptly. This new quality monitoring process is the result of our extensive benchmarking of the global steelmakers’ sales network and a reflection of our customers’ voices. 094 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 095 Listening to the World Hyundai Steel contributes to the creation of a better society through its various community engagement proSocial grams that focus on community programs, employees’ volunteer works, environmental protection and HRD. Contribution Our employees’ volunteerism and our commitment to local communities help make us a sustainable corporate citizen that is respected by our stakeholders. Programs Because local communities provide the premises for our operations, they are extremely important stakeHow closely is Hyundai Steel holders in our business. As such, we regard cooperation and communication with them to be of the utmost importance. Our most notable community programs are House Remodeling for Hope, Green Guardians and engaged with Happy Yes. local communities? House Remodeling for Hope Houses are more than just residences to us. Each building contains the ordinary objects that make up a homechairs, tables, wallsand serve as the background for happy family memories. Capturing the notion that the Corporate citizens play an important role in building a better society. As a responsible house is a home for our hopes, we launched the House Remodeling for Hope project in 2009. Now a number of our employees, Happy Yes volunteer corps and local volunteer corps are chipping in their resources and efcorporate citizen, Hyundai Steel strives for mutual growth with local communities by No. Of beneficiaries of the House forts to the cause. Through these efforts a lasting camaraderie has been formed among members of the comencouraging employees to voluntarily engage in activities that contribute towards sociRemodeling for Hope program ● pany, the local community and the younger generation. 214 households ety. Furthermore, it commits itself to protecting the environment, developing human Sponsored by a matching grant program, the House Remodeling for Hope project had renovated 120 houses resources and contributing to the economic development of each local community. total by 2010. In 2011, we expanded the project to include a Housing Efficiency project, working to reduce the CO2 emissions by improving residential conditions. As it requires a lot of labor and resources to repair houses, the projects not only improve the quality of living for people in low-income brackets but also create jobs for them, all the while reducing CO2 emissions. As the saying goes, killing three birds with one stone. The project, which is planned to span ten years and operate through 2020, also promotes the energy rights of people in low-income brackets. In 2011, the reduced amount of CO2 emissions per house repaired added up to 1.11 tons—a savings equivalent to planting 190,000 Korean pine trees. To Hyundai Steel, the project goes beyond repairing houses. We send energy coordinators once a month to the beneficiaries of our work to help them develop efficient energy use habits. Coordinators measure the standby power and provide energy-saving supplies, contributing to a reduction in electricity bills of KRW 12,000 per house. The Steering Committee, consisting of seven experts from welfare, environment and construction, administers and supervises the House Remodeling for Hope-Energy Efficiency project, finding new and various ways for houses to become more energy efficient. Expected Benefits of the Housing Energy Efficiency Project ● Setting High efficiency/ the model of Welfare benefit Actual welfare assessment governance and benefit social collaboration system Qualitative Environmental assessment benefit assessment Weatherization of CSR and governance Pollution Creating jobs/ prevention/ Employment Dealing with social Reduction of CO 2 benefit assessment issues emissions 096 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 097 Green Guardians Employee volunteerism Promoting Hyundai Steel has operated the Green Guardians, an environmental program for elementary students, since Hyundai Steel has systemized the voluntary activities of its employees. Office workers are obliged to volun2007. The program includes nature outings, camps and quiz contests for elementary students in Incheon, PoVolunteerism teer for 8 hours every quarter, while the company-wide 12 volunteer corps, consisting of technicians and Green Guardians environmental program for elementary school students hang and Dangjin, to encourage them to conserve energy and practice eco-friendly habits in their daily lives. In 2011, Hyundai Steel and Seoul National University of Education offered a Green Guardians program on the Among their spouses, participate in regular volunteer activities. The company also provides annual education to volunteer corps leaders to ensure that their activities are serving local needs. ● subject of “Climate Change and Global Warming” for 1,000 students from 23 elementary schools. Employees 23 elementary schools Volunteer hours Happy Yes Average volunteer hours per employee 85,039 99,496 100,008 33 35 39 In 2009, Hyundai Steel launched an annual volunteer corps program consisting of 100 university students called Happy Yes. The name Happy Yes means “Volunteer activities make me happy. I always say yes to any requests.” In 2011, the third generation of Happy Yes participated in the House Remodeling for Hope and Participation rate Participation rate Participation rate 86% 83% 82% Summer Blue Santa event, and helped the disabled climb up the mountain during the Jiri Mountaineering event. Happy Yes University Volunteer Corps members ● 2009 2010 2011 100 university students * Managers Blood drive We have held an annual blood drive in March of every year since 2004 in order to address the social issue of blood shortages. The number of participants has grown year by year and reached 736 employees in 2011. We also hold a variety of events to promote blood donation within the local community. In 2008, we provided No. of blood donators among KRW 10,000 per blood donor to help child patients with leukemia. Afterwards, many of our employees volunHyundai Steel employees ● tarily donated their blood. 736 employees Matching Grant campaign To promote volunteerism among its workforce, the company launched a matching grant campaign in 2008. In 2011, 1,000 employees became new members of the campaign. The company matches employee contributions by contributing an equivalent amount of each donation to the fund. One employee can open up to 10 accounts worth KRW 2,000, with a ceiling of KRW 20,000. The fund is spent on the House Remodeling for HopeHappy message after the mountain-climbing event Energy Efficiency project. Matching Grant Funds My name is Joon-keun, Oh. I am a rehabilitation teacher working at Miso village of Deoksu Welfare ● Foundation in Daegu. I am writing this letter to express my deepest gratitude to Hyundai Steel and Happy 2009 2010 2011 No. of participants 2,590 persons 3,099 persons 4,092 persons Yes volunteers for their kind care and help that they provided for our residents. This event inspired us with a Participation rate 33% 37% 48% dream—a dream of climbing a mountain. It was a great challenge for our Fund KRW 171,284,000 KRW 192,959,000 KRW 227,861,000 Matching Grant Campaign Spent amount disabled residents. Looking down at the magnificent sunrise at the top of ● (employee donation + KRW 283,212,000 KRW 342,568,000 KRW 385,918,000 company contribution) Chotdaebong of Jiri Mountain, our residents were inspired with courage, Expenditure House Remodeling for Hope House Remodeling for Hope House Remodeling for Hope-Energy Efficiency confidence, hope and the energ y to move forward. 80 families with low-income in Incheon 94 families with low-income in Incheon, Beneficiaries 32 low-income families in Dangjin and Pohang Pohang and Dangjin 098 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 099 As a long-term companion to local communities, Hyundai Steel offers diverse support for welfare, culture & Community art, the environment and education. Smile Microcredit Bank Engagement Donation 57.1 Public expenses Hyundai Steel agreed to contribute KRW 2 billion annually for ten years starting in 2009, to help people in low● ● income brackets and the financially distressed get back on their feet. Hyundai Motor Group Smile Microcredit (billion) (billion) Bank provides not only financial aid but also education and consulting programs to help the beneficiaries be7.63 4.58 come economically independent. 31.6 The amount of social contributions No Disposable Cups at Work 12.21billion Protecting KRW Hyundai Steel declared a policy of “No Disposable Cups at Work” to curtail its greenhouse gas emissions. All the 11.6 12.1 5.2 employees are encouraged to use personal mugs and remove disposable cups from the office. This small ● Social Welfare 57% 5.2 ● Academic education ● Culture, Art & Sports ● Environmental preservation 11% 30% 2% 2.4 Environmental Culture, Art & Academic Social Welfare 0.1 Environmental Culture, Art & 2.0 Academic Social Welfare Environment change can contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions and the subsequent mitigation of climate change. The money saved by not purchasing disposable cups is donated to environmental civic groups to fund the preservation Sports education preservation Sports education Global Eco Leader program for elementary and middle school students. Gifts for Festive days Flea markets for charity In the run up to the two major festive days, New Year’s Day and Korean Thanksgiving, Hyundai Steel delivers Hyundai Steel holds flea markets at its Incheon Works and Pohang Works in collaboration with the local govgifts to local low-income families. Our employees visit 3,000 houses to deliver our gifts every year. ernments. At these flea markets, employees sell things that they do not use anymore so that they can be recycled back within the community. The proceeds from the sales are then donated to charity causes, and the parRevitalizing Traditional Markets ticipants are able to learn the importance of the environment through the process of reuse. In the future, we plan to hold flea markets at least twice a year. Since 2008, we have been conducting several campaigns to promote traditional markets, such as signing regRevitalizing Traditional Markets Campaign ular food supply agreements and encouraging our employees to shop for groceries at traditional markets. In ● Cleaning up river, mountain, and oceanside environments Twice a year 2010, we signed an agreement with Dangjin City and local market authorities in an effort to revitalize traditional markets. Under this agreement, we urge our employees to shop for groceries at traditional markets at 15,243 Volunteer hours least once a month and on national holidays, so that we can contribute to the development of local markets. hours In 2011, we purchased an Onnuri Gift coupon worth KRW 130 million and purchased supplies at local markets 23,524 Accumulated no. of hours in Incheon, Pohang and Dangjin to donate to local charities. In addition, many of our employees participate in volunteers a Traditional Market Day campaign twice a year, which encourages shopping at nearby traditional markets. One Team-One Village Sisterhood Cleaning up the Cleaning up the One company-one Cleaning up the Cleaning up the Cleaning up riversides and underwater by skin Hyundai Steel entered into sister city relationships with nine villages in the vicinity of Dangjin Works in 2005. river protection roads seashores mountains cultural assets scuba diving Organizing nine teams of our employees, the sister teams work as farmhands, clean up the environment of 370persons 320persons 450persons 550persons 60persons 50persons their sister villages, provide medical services, throw birthday parties for the elderly and supply oil fuels to local community centers for elderly. Flea market No disposable cups at work Disaster relief activities Disaster Relief Hyundai Steel actively becomes involved in disaster relief campaigns to help those damaged by floods and earthquakes. In the summer of 2011, 100 of our employees went to assist in the relief of flooded areas by cleaning up the surrounding area for a week, helping the victims of landslides, collapses and flooded houses. In addition, the company donated KRW 250 million to disaster relief efforts throughout the year. 100 Listening to the World HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 101 Fostering social enterprise researchers Educational Hyundai Steel invests in training social enterprise experts in order to foster and promote the stable operation Programs of social enterprises that create jobs for the underprivileged. After signing an agreement with the Graduate School of Sungkonghoe University Institute for Social Welfare in 2007, we provide domestic and overseas training opportunities to those aspiring to become social welfare experts working at social enterprise Appendix schools, social enterprise festivals or those who plan on establishing social enterprises. For the past five years till 2011, 267 beneficiaries have completed the training programs. 267 persons Total (5-year cumulative) Research support Overseas training Domestic training 23 persons 59 persons (UK, Japan, India, Russia, Vietnam) 185 persons Independent Assurance Report _ 102 Past Sustainability Reports_ 104 Junior Engineering Academy Hyundai Steel runs a Junior Engineering Academy for elementary school students in Dangjin, inspiring them through science and technology. Developed by the Korean National Academy of Engineering, the courses involve performing various scientific experiments, such as seeing how an airplane flies, building a sun chaser, and making windup robots. In 2011, 85 of our employees volunteered to teach six classes at six elementary schools in Dangjin. Scholarships Hyundai Steel grants scholarships to students from the local communities where its works are located, helping them to continue their studies. Total 1,108,000,000 (KRW) Dong-gu office of Dangjin Scholarship Shinsung University Yonsei University Volunteer 21 Incheon Foundation 30,000,000 10,000,000 50,000,000 1,000,000,000 18,000,000 Scholarship University students from local University students from local Scholarships for all types of Scholarships for middle and low-income families low-income families schools high school students in Pohang 102 Appendix HYUNDAI STEEL Sustainability Report 2012 103 Upon the request of Hyundai Steel (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”), the Business Institute for SusConclusion Independent tainable Development (BISD) of the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (hereinafter referred to as the The BISD did not find the Report to contain any material misstatement based on the procedures as described above. Based Assurance “BISD”) presents the following Independent Assurance Statement on the “Hyundai Steel Sustainability Report 2011” (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”). on the assurance results, the Assurance Provider presents the conclusion as follows; Report Conclusion against the AA1000APS core principles is as follows; • Inclusivity: Does the Report comply with the principles of stakeholder engagement for responsible and strategic response in its susObjective tainability management practices? The objective of this assurance report is to provide the opinion of the Assurance Provider based on the independent assurThe Company operates a variety of stakeholder communication channels with customers, business partners, shareholders & invesance process regarding the sustainability management performances of Hyundai Steel. tors, governments & NGOs, and employees so that it may listen to their concerns and opinions. The Company has conducted a stakeholder survey and has recently integrated the results into the materiality test process, expanding Accountability and Independence direct communication with stakeholders. The Report delivers information on the activities, efforts, results and future plans throughout the year 2011 in terms of The BISD did not find any important stakeholder group left out of the Company’s procedures of collecting reports on sustainability issustainability management, and Hyundai Steel is fully responsible for all the information and claims contained in the Report. sues through its communication channels. The BISD only carries out the assurance procedures on the Report and provides its opinion as an independent assurance • Materiality: Does the Report include all of the material issues with significant impact on stakeholder value? provider to the management of Hyundai Steel. The Assurance provider has no relations with Hyundai Steel regarding any The Company identified its material sustainability issues through the materiality test process. of its for-profit operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance process indeCompared to the past, the BISD finds that the materiality test process has been upgraded and has improved accuracy in identifying pendently and autonomously, as it was not involved in the preparation of the Report except for offering comments in the material issues. assurance process. The Assurance Provider did not find any material issue excluded from the materiality test process. • Responsiveness: Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder issues? a International Standard on Criteria for and Type of Assurance The Company included its response measures and performance on the material issues of sustainability management that were idenAssurance Engagements The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the standards of ISAE 3000a and AA1000ASb, and used the GRI Retified from the materiality test process. 3000(Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements other than porting Initiative (GRI) G 3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as its guideline. The limited criteria of ISAE 3000 correThe Assurance Provider did not find any violation of the responsiveness principle in the Company’s responses and performances on Audits or Reviews of Historical spond to the Moderate Level of AA1000AS (2008). The Assurance Provider conducted the assurance process for the Rematerial issues as provided in the Report. Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards port in accordance with Type 2. Board The Assurance Provider did not find any non-conformity to the Company’s reporting standards by the 2011 date conScope and Subject of Assurance tained in the Report. b  AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by The assurance scope is confined to the performance and activities of the Company during 2011. Data prior to the given AccountAbility year are not subject to assurance. Recommendations • Compliance with the three core principles of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 (hereinafter referred to as Without any influence on the assurance conclusion, the BISD presents its recommendation as follows; “AA1000APS”)—Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness. • It is expected that the Company set long-term goals regarding its material sustainability issues and establish and improve the report• Whether the non-financial data (except for the greenhouse gas emission Scope 1, Scope 2 and energy use information, hereinafter reing scheme in line with the company-wide sustainability management strategy scheme. ferred to as “Sustainability Management Data”) were calculated and collected in accordance with the reporting standards as provid• It is recommended that the Company improve its internal guidelines to further ensure that its sustainability report data and informaed in the “About This Report” section of the Report. tion are in perfect conformity with the reporting principles of consistency, accuracy and completeness. The Assurance Provider also verified whether the financial data in the Report were properly quoted from the audited con• It is required that the company improves the Report data management and approval system and its control over the process. solidated financial statements of the Company. The Assurance Provider also confirmed that the information and data con• It is recommended that future reports publicly disclose the entire process of collecting and reflecting stakeholder opinions on the retained in the Report are consistent with information subject to the assurance. In the case of detection of any obvious misport and cover both positive and negative review of the Company in balance. statement or material inconsistency of any information or data in the Report, the Assurance Provider considered the influence of the issue on the reliability of the assurance report. Assurance Procedure The BISD is not involved in any type of stakeholder activities, and the assurance process was conducted through interviews with the Company’s staff in charge and through review of the related documents provided by the Company. The assurance procedure includes; 1. Interview with the staff of the Company in charge of internal reporting and collection of sustainability management data to review the stakeholders’ approach to Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness 2. On-site inspection on the system and process of managing and reporting sustainability management data at the Headquarters of the Company 3. Review of the risk assessment process and results, sustainability management policies and guidelines, sustainability management materiality test matrix, and other documents related to stakeholder engagement 4. Assessment of the design and implementation of practices of the company with regards to the major processes and controls over the management and reporting of sustainability management data during the reporting period 5. A company-wide limited test of the calculation and collection data subject to assurance by the means of questionnaires and analytic review June 2012 104 Appendix Sustainability Reports Past One Step for Tomorrow (2008 ~ ) Sustainability Reports Hyundai Steel supports the ten principles of UN Global Compact. 1) Human Rights Principle 1 : B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2) Labour Standards Principle 3 : B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective CSR White Paper recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : t he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3) Environment 2007 Principle 7 : B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : u ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 : e ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. . Environmental Report 4) Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2006 2007
