Annual Report 2011 MAIN INDICATORS gri 2,8 | EC1 Variation R$ Million 2011 2010 2009 2011 x 2010 Net Revenues 9,858.1 5% 9,380.6 10,871.3 Gross Margin 22.5% 17% 19.2% 19.4% Operating Income 521.8 -24% 685.6 766.7 Operating Margin 5.3% -27% 7.3% 7.1% Adjusted EBITDA1 923.0 -14% 1,069.2 1,218.8 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 9.4% -18% 11.4% 11.2% Net Income 156.3 -73% 573.6 912.1 Net Margin 1.6% -74% 6.1% 8.4% Investments2 636.3 11% 573.4 824.5 Net Indebtedness 3,110.1 30% 2,390.6 3,584.0 ROE 2.7% -75% 11.0% 18.2% ROCE (US$) 11.9% -26% 16.1% 15.8% Dividends Distributed 180.9 -10% 201.0 228.8 Total Assets 16,616.5 19% 13,981.0 15,478.5 Net Assets 5,848.4 12% 5,217.7 5,019.8 Firm Order Backlog (US$ bi) 15.4 -1% 15.6 16.6 Number of Employees 17,265 1% 17,149 16,853 EBIT per Employee (R$ mi) 30.2 -25% 40.0 45.5 The numbers for 2009 to 2011 are in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 1 Net earnings, plus net financial income (expenses), taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-operating income (expenses), minority shares, and pick-up equity. 2 Values include investments in Property, Plant & Equipment (PP&E). Main Indicators gri 2.8 | ec1 Revenues per segment 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 64% 61% 69% Executive Aviation 19% 23% 17% Defense and Security 15% 15% 12% Others 2% 1% 2% Revenues by region 2011 2010 2009 North America 20% 13% 22% Europe 25% 33% 33% South and Central America 11% 15% 7% Brazil 17% 13% 11% Asia Pacific 9% 6% 8% China 11% 9% 9% Africa and Middle East 7% 11% 10% aircraft deliveries per segment 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Jets 105 101 125 Large Executive Jets* 16 19 21 Light Executive Jets** 83 126 98 * Legacy and Lineage ** Phenom Jets delivered to the Defense and Security market were accounted for in the segment, according to the model delivered. Our people are what make us fly I joined Embraer 14 years ago to work in the production area. Since then, I went through several areas of Embraer, until I came to the department of Administration of Sales Contracts for Executive Aviation. Here, I have an opportunity to interact with several departments and get an overview of the Company, besides contact with customers. To them, I am Embraer. I enjoy what I do and the return I received from Projects Manager of 4AH, LLC (U.S.), Mike Simpson, shows that customers notice that: “I would like to express my appreciation for the excellent work done by Renata Ramos. She impeccably coordinated the entire delivery process for the delivery of our Phenom 300 aircraft. I was impressed by the way she handled the needs of my team. I left Brazil with an excellent airplane and confident that, with people like Renata representing Embraer, we will have a long commercial relationship.” Renata Fiori Ramos, Administrator of sales contracts for Executive Aviation, Embraer. Curiosity about Brazil is what called my attention to Embraer in 2000, when the Chinese office was opened with only three employees. I knew that Brazil was rich in natural resources, but I could never imagine that it had one of the largest companies in aeronautics technology in the world. Over time, I learned what contributes to Embraer’s success: its people. We work as a family that is united and dedicated to achieving our common objectives. This atmosphere generates a lot of satisfaction. The company’s constant support gives employees a lot of freedom to expose their ideas and put them into practice. This was how Embraer conquered over 70% of China’s regional aviation market. I am proud to be part of this story. Maggie Wang, Responsible for the HR, Administration, Finances and IT areas at Embraer China. Pratt & Whitney Canada and Embraer have a long, solid history built on our shared commitment to advance the aviation industry and support our customers. We are proud to power Embraer aircraft from the Bandeirante turboprop, which entered service in the 1970s, to today’s Phenom 100 and 300 jets. Like Pratt & Whitney Canada’s team, Embraer employees are passionate about aviation and dedicated to delivering advanced aircraft and technologies to the market. Our relationship has been built on a long-standing tradition of trust and transparency, always in the spirit of continuous improvement. Maria Della Posta, Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing, Pratt & Whitney Canada. About this Report Providing a clear, transparent and broad accounting of the economic, social and environmental performance of Embraer to all of its stakeholders is the main objective of this publication, which has been prepared in line with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. F or the fourth consecutive year, Embraer S.A. has adopted the international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version G3, for presenting its economic, social and environmental performance, with application level B. gri 2.1 | 3.2 The information covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2011, except when subsequent events are mentioned. Full economic-financial results are presented for operations in Brazil and the other countries in which Embraer has units. The socioenvironmental results reported here refer to the units installed in Brazil, except when coverage of other subsidiaries is mentioned. gri 3.1 | 3.3 | 3.6 | 3.7 | 3.8 The objective of this Report is to give a clear, transparent and broad accounting to all of the Company’s stakeholders (employees, customers, community, financial institutions, suppliers, government, NGOs, shareholders and investors, representative associations and entities, and the media). gri 3.5 The criteria for selecting information gave priority to the relevance of the subjects to the Company, and they also consider its commitment to the requirements of the Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) of the BM&FBovespa and of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), and to the Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. gri 3.5 The calculations of the financial data followed the criteria established by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and they were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). In 2011, the Company’s relationship with this auditing firm was restricted to this verification. The areas responsible for the socioenvironmental data use internal systems and tools to gather and consolidate the indicators needed for preparing the report. gri 3.9 | 3.10 Significant changes that affect comparability will be indicated throughout the Report, which also lists the GRI indicators at the end of paragraphs, charts or tables in which they are described. gri 3.10 | 3.11 Enjoy your reading! For more information, go to: http://ri.embraer.com.br or call + 55 (12) 3927-4404 gri 3.4 Suggested documents: Administrative Report, Financial Statements, Reference Form, and 20-F Report I n a year that was replete with challenges, Embraer continued to grow and improve, firmly based on its corporate values – Customers, People, Boldness and Innovation, Excellence, Global Presence, and Sustainability. Faced with an uncertain international economic scenario, Embraer delivered 216 aircraft: 105 commercial jets, 99 executive jets, and 12 military airplanes. The commercial aviation business represented 64% of net revenues of US$5.8 billion, executive aviation was 19%, and the defense and security segment was 15%, complemented by 2% from other business. At the end of the fiscal year, the firm order backlog totaled US$15.4 billion. In commercial aviation, the sale of 124 E-Jets presented a 30% increase over 2010, and the Company surpassed the milestone of 1,000 firm orders and 800 aircraft delivered of the EMBRAER 170/175/190/195 models. In executive aviation, the fleet of Phenom airplanes reached 300 in operation, including the first to be produced in the United States, which established a historic mile post for Embraer. The Legacy 650 obtained FAA (U.S.) and CAAC (China) certification, which is an important step toward producing the model in China, expected to begin in 2013. The first prototype of the Frederico Fleury Curado Legacy 500 was launched in December, and the first flight is expected for the third quarter of 2012. President & CEO Message from gri 1.1 | 1.2 The President & CEO Although faced by a challenging scenario, Embraer achieved important accomplishments in all business areas. Increased sales to commercial aviation, substantial internationalization of executive aviation, and acquisitions of participation in defense and security. Also worthy of note was the effectiveness of the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program, which has guided the Company’s pursuit of excellence. In 2011, the Embraer Defense and Security corporate unit was created, expanding its scope of involvement via stock acquisitions and the creation of joint venture companies. The KC-390 program moved ahead on schedule and within budget, while completing the selection and hiring of all of the main partners and suppliers and starting the detailed project phase. gri 2.9 Before the provisioning to handle the financial guarantees associated with aircraft financed in the past, especially for American Airlines, Embraer surpassed the economic-financial results of the previous year, as well as its own forecasts made to the market, by recording operating results of US$504 million and a margin of 8.7%. After In the social area, Embraer’s Juarez Wanderley High School once these contingencies, the Company had operating results of US$318 again gained a place of distinction when its students ranked high on million, equivalent to a margin of 5.5%. the National High School Exam (Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio – ENEM) and in Brazil’s college entrance exams. A second high school This is evidence of the effectiveness of the Embraer Entrepreneurial will be established in the city of Botucatu, São Paulo, in 2012, and will Excellence Program (P3E), which has been the moving force for the open in 2013. transformation and the pursuit of excellence and continuous improvement that the Company has been following for several years. At Embraer, the appreciation of its people is a priority. The 81% score achieved on the employee satisfaction poll is witness to its effectiveThe Company has been providing full and unrestricted support to the ness. And the Company was awarded by three independent organiindependent investigation being conducted at the request of the Sezations, as one of the best companies to work for in Brazil and, for the curity and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Department of first time, it was named one of the best companies to work for in the Justice (DoJ). U.S. State of Florida. As for initiatives focusing on the environment, a highlight is cooperaConsistent with these results, the Company became the leader of tion with GE in the flight test campaign of an EMBRAER 170 powered the Aerospace and Defense segment of the Dow Jones Sustainaby the latest biokerosene, for the purpose of making possible the fubility Index (DJSI), and, for the seventh consecutive year, the Comture ample use of fuels from renewable sources in the air transporpany was listed with the Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice de tation industry. Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA). Throughout its 42-year history, Embraer has been establishing itself as a force in the worldwide aeronautics market, while seeking to be an increasingly globalized, diversified and efficient organization, with customer satisfaction being the primary source for generating wealth for shareholders, collaborators, and society, in general. In 2012, Embraer will continue to grow, invest and pursue excellence, centered on its corporate values, and consolidating the bases for its perpetuity. We believe in a better way to fly We develop innovative aircraft and technologies so that people can choose the best way to fly. Our people are the prime movers for us to achieve our triumphs. With competent and engaged professionals, we are more prepared to serve our customers with our characteristic excellence. We unceasingly pursue the improvement of our products and services, in order to fly increasingly farther. We are a Brazilian multinational company, which is present on five continents with our operations and products. This global presence brings us in closer contact with different points of view, parameters, and cultures, thus ensuring even greater quality and diversity for our business. We are building this success story with a calling for boldness and innovation, breaking across frontiers and opening new perspectives every day. And we share the fruit of this history with all those who have helped us achieve it: employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, society, and governments. We believe in a promising future, which will be increasingly present, through the competence and talent of our people and the trust that is placed in us day after day. WE ARE EMBRAER! 16 PROFILE 17 Global Presence 21 Awards and Recognition 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25 Entrepreneurial Philosophy 27 Holding Company 29 Board of Directors 30 Fiscal Board 30 Executive Board 33 Policies 35 Risk Management 39 Code of Ethics and Conduct 40 Participation and Support for Volunteer Initiatives and Associations 44 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 45 Commercial Aviation 49 Executive Aviation 52 Defense and Security 58 Agricultural Aviation 58 Services and Support 62 Technological and Operational Management Contents 74 ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL MARKET PERFORMANCE 74 Economic-Financial Performance 82 Capital Market 88 SOCIOENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 89 Environmental Performance 92 Strategic Partnerships 100 Social Performance 120 ATTACHMENTS 130 CORPORATE INFORMATION 133 CREDITS we are here to serve our customers Embraer is a company that values prompt customer service, anticipating, whenever possible, all problems that could arise. The Support area works on alternating shifts and has teams and centers for parts distribution in several parts of the world, which assures speedy service. We are constantly called, most of the time because of an aircraft on ground situation, literally waiting for the availability of a part so that it can continue operating. For instance, a customer contacted us on a weekend, stating that he had an urgent need to change a part. All the departments got together to assist him, including our offices in France and China. Because we are present in different parts of the world, there will always be staff on hand to meet the needs of our customers. Bruno Langoni, Customer Support Analyst. Embraer has always offered one of the best aeronautical customer support programs in the world. Its employees have always been very efficient and committed, working fast and promptly. Once, we had a hydraulic leak problem in an aircraft landing gear on a Friday night. We needed support, and Embraer immediately stepped up to assist us, contacting the supplier (ELEB), who took the part needed right from the production line, and provided a technician accompany the part and instruct TRIP’s staff. This successful operation, and many others, resulted from the partnership between Embraer and TRIP employees who understood the urgency and set out to solve the problem, even on a weekend. On Monday, the plane was operating normally, with no effect on the flight schedules or customers. Evandro Braga de Oliveira, Management Director of TRIP Linhas Aéreas. While the last EMBRAER 190 jet we received is taking off on its first flight, we proudly receive the 16th EMBRAER 190 jet in our fleet. All of us feel like this is the best jet we have ever had! As head of the KLM team, I would like to thank Embraer for all the help and hospitality and full support, as well as the work done so that this delivery would take place without stress. The Company’s care for its customers is very impressive. The employees who make up Embraer should be proud of their country, their company and, most importantly, of themselves. I have a sense of sadness when I think that we will soon receive our last aircraft, and I will no longer be in contact with this wonderful team. Gertjan Lichtenveldt, Manager, Embraer 190 fleet of KLM. E mbraer is one of the largest aerospace companies in the world, and is a world leader in manufacturing commercial jets with up to 120 seats, which combine technology, versatility, comfort, and safety. It is also one of the biggest Brazilian exporters, resulting from the constant pursuit of corporate excellence and full customer satisfaction. In its 42-year history, the Company has delivered over 5,000 aircraft that operate on approximately 100 countries on five continents. gri 2.5 | 2.7 Profile Embraer is a 42-year old company with a global presence and a focus on developing and manufacturing civilian and military aircraft. Besides its units in Brazil, the Company’s activities are carried out in administrative and industrial facilities in the United States, France, Singapore, China and Portugal. It ended 2011 with a firm order backlog of US$15.4 billion and 17,265 direct employees. Embraer was founded on August 19, 1969, as a mixed capital company under State control, headquartered in São José dos Campos, São Paulo, Brazil, with a focus on developing and manufacturing civilian and military aircraft. After privatization, in 1994, the Company began a market expansion and diversification process, and is now involved in the commercial aviation, executive aviation, and defense and security segments. gri 2.4 In 2010, the Company changed its name from Embraer – Empresa Brasileira de Aeronáutica to Embraer S.A., which allowed it to expand and diversify its business areas. Besides developing, producing and supporting its aircraft, the Company also began to engage in technological, industrial, commercial, and service activities for the markets in which it is involved. gri 2.1 I 2.6 16 annual report embraer 2011 Embraer’s stocks have been traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespa) since 1989. In 2006, the Company was first listed on the New Market (Novo Mercado) and its capital was spread, with no controlling group or shareholder, and in line with the best global governance Support for administrative, commercial and marketing activities is and sustainability practices. Since 2000, Embraer has also been listed on provided by the offices in Melbourne and Fort Lauderdale, Florida the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). (U.S.), Villepinte (France), Farnborough (U.K.), Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Singapore, and Beijing (China). As a result of innovative sustainability management, the Company has been listed with BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice Abroad, Embraer has industrial facilities in China, the United States, and de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) since 2005. In 2011, for the second Portugal. In China, Embraer holds 51% of the capital of Harbin Embraer consecutive year, it was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Aircraft Industry (HEAI), located in Harbin, in association with state(DJSI), and earned the leadership of the Aerospace and Defense sector, owned AVIC, which is in the process of being approved by the Chinese among 31 eligible companies, worldwide. government to eventually manufacture the Legacy 650 executive jet. At the end of 2011, Embraer had a firm order backlog of US$15.4 billion In the United States, in February 2011, the Company inaugurated its and 17,265 direct employees: 15,989 in Brazil and 1,276 abroad. Its parfirst executive jets factory outside of Brazil, in Melbourne, Florida. In tially owned subsidiaries, employed 2,001 people. December, the facilities were complemented by the opening of the newest Global Customer Center For Executive Jets. This new unit will Global Presence gri 2.3 | 2.5 | 2.7 Embraer invests in a global be initially dedicated to assembling Phenom jets and to supporting presence, in order to offer products, services and support that are the executive aviation business in the North American market. Furadequate to the needs of its customers in all markets. To that end, it thermore, Embraer announced it was establishing an Engineering and has industrial and operational units in Brazil and continues to expand Technology Center, there, as part of the development of its aeronautiits operations in a number of countries. cal operations in the United States. The Center will do research and development on products and technology for all of Embraer’s busiThe Company’s headquarters are located in Brazil, in the city of São ness areas, and will be the second research and development center José dos Campos, São Paulo, where the Eugênio de Melo and ELEB established outside of the Company’s headquarters in São José dos units are also established. The Company also has factories in the citCampos, Brazil. The first is located in the State of Minas Gerais, and ies of Gavião Peixoto and Botucatu, as well as logistical centers in the was announced in November 2011. gri 2.9 cities of Taubaté and Campinas, and two offices in São Paulo. In Portugal, Embraer is in the final construction phase of two new centers of excellence for producing metallic structures and composite materials, in Évora, in the Alentejo region, where an aeronautics hub is being installed. The new facilities will receive an investment on the order of ¤170 million, and they are expected to be inaugurated during the second half of 2012. After the assembly lines at the Harbin (China) and Melbourne (Florida, U.S.) plants, Évora will be Embraer’s first full production unit outside of Brazil, as the Company’s global presence develops and its business areas diversify. profile 17 At the beginning of 2012, Embraer Defense and Security increased its stock holdings in Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal S.A. (OGMA), which is specialized in aeronautical maintenance and production. Up until that time, the control was shared with the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company (EADS). Embraer Defense and Security now holds 65% of OGMA’s shares. The remaining 35% belong to the Portuguese government, through the Portuguese Defense Company (Empresa Portuguesa de Defesa – EMPORDEF), which has also partnered with Embraer in the development of the KC-390 military cargo plane. In order to provide after-sale support, Embraer has its own centers for services and the sale of replaceUnited States Fort Lauderdale ment parts in São José dos Campos (São Paulo); Nashville Fort Lauderdale (Florida), Mesa (Arizona), NashMesa ville (Tennessee), and Windsor Locks (ConnectiWindsor Locks cut) in the U.S.; in Villepinte (near Roissy – Charles Louisville de Gaulle Airport) in France; and in Singapore; as Minneapolis well as a specialized network that already has some Melbourne 60 Company-owned and authorized service centers, worldwide. Embraer also has distribution centers for replacement parts and specialized teams in Louisville, Kentucky (U.S.), Beijing (China), and Dubai (United Arab Emirates). gri 2.7 18 annual report embraer 2011 embraer’s worldwide operations gri 2.5 United Kingdom Farnborough China Beijing Harbin Singapore Singapore united arab Portugal emirates Alverca Dubai Évora* * Em construção. France Villepinte Le Bourget embraer’s worldwide operations Countries with Operations Brazil Factories Offices São José dos Campos Service Centers Gavião Peixoto Authorized Service Centers Botucatu Spare Parts Distribution Centers Taubaté São Paulo profile 19 20 annual report embraer 2011 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION gri 2.10 Embraer’s high standards of governance, sustainability, management, occupational health and safety practices, and quality of products were recognized in 2011 on a Recognition given to Embraer number of occasions, several of which are highlighted here: in 2011 is evidence of the Company’s high standards. Some SAM Sector Leader 2012 Embraer was evaluated as the best global comof the highlights are awards for pany of the Aerospace and Defense sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), and was recognized in the Sustainability Yearbook sustainability, transparency, 2012. The Company was listed on the DJSI for the second consecutive innovation and people year, for which the 2,500 largest companies of the world are invited to management. take part, according to the Dow Jones. Only 15% of the companies, from 58 different sectors, are selected for listing, because they are outstanding in their economic, environmental and social performance. Embraer began to be listed with the index in 2010/2011, when it was ranked as Best Companies to Work For 2011 Great Place to Work Institute – Em“Gold Class”, coming in second among the companies in its industry. braer took 18th place in this ranking, in which it appeared for the In 2011/2012, Embraer took over the leadership of this area, that has 31 third consecutive year. The ranking was published in Editora Globo’s eligible companies, worldwide. Época magazine, and highlights the companies with the best management practices, as evaluated in terms of credibility, respect, fairXV Transparency Trophy 2011 Granted by Anefac-Fipecafi-Serasa Expeness, pride, and harmony. rien in recognition of the best financial statements published in Brazil. Since 1999, Embraer has always been one of the most transparent of 150 Best Companies for You to Work For 2011 For the third consecutive the ten largest publically traded companies in Brazil, and in 2011, Emyear, Embraer was included in this ranking done by Exame and Você braer won the trophy for the third time. S.A. magazines (Editora Abril), in a partnership with the Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA). 14th FINEP Innovation Award 2011 Embraer was recognized in the Large Company category for its innovative technological management and 30 Best in People Management 2011 Embraer took 4th place among the development processes (Strategic Planning, Technological Developcompanies with more than 10,000 employees, in the ranking of Valment Program, Integrated Product Development, Embraer Entreor Carreira magazine, Valor Econômico newspaper, and AON Hewitt preneurial Excellence Program (P3E), Knowledge Management, and Consultants. Managed Innovation Program). President & CEO Frederico Fleury Curado received the Silver Trophy in recognition of the corporate culture Florida’s Best Companies to Work For 2011 Embraer was recognized as one responsible for the success of the Company in the global aerospace of the best companies to work for in the State of Florida, U.S., according market. The ceremony took place Palácio do Planalto, in Brasília. to a poll taken by Florida Trend magazine. 2011 Impact Award by the Melbourne Regional Chamber of Commerce (Florida) Recognition for Embraer’s contribution to the local economy, by developing its final assembly plant for the Phenom executive jets, as well as its new Global Customer Center for Executive Jets. profile 21 I dreamed of becoming a teacher, studying four years at the University of Uberlândia. And I accomplished that dream. But one day I decided to try another career. I went to Embraer and worked in many areas in the company. I’m proud to say that I was the first woman to become a Production Manager at Embraer. Then, the Botucatu plant was given a very important job: increase production output while the plant kept operating at full steam. It was like changing a car’s tire with the vehicle in motion. That required extensive work with the leadership. Everything had to be planned and calculated. As a result, work processes were reduced by half, and costs related to lack of quality, by 25%. Now manufacturing is leaner and more efficient with better and safer working conditions. Pursuing excellence is part of who I am. I want to something that works and will be perpetuated. Today, my team of 387 employees and I are much better than we were when we received the challenge. Silvia Morales, Production Manager of Embraer’s plant in Botucatu, São Paulo. Embraer is a company very focused on business excellence. With the creation of Embraer’s Business Excellence Program (P3E), part of it based on Japanese methodology, the company uses tools for the continual improvement of its processes, in the productive, as well as in the administrative environments. Within the aviation market, Embraer is one of the world’s three references in business excellence and is focused on overcoming its obstacles in order to become the leader. By avoiding waste, the company will generate reductions in costs while it creates productive gains. Masamori Miura, Consultant of the Japanese company Shingijutsu. Excellence is the foundation on which we build our processes. A vision of excellence helps us identify the opportunities that make us prosper. Our objective is to become the best in everything we do. Thus, we can ensure the endurance of our services and Embraer’s future. Last year, we executed an improvement project (Kaizen), which completely changed the way in which we provide customer service. The creation of the Repair Emergency Support System (R.E.S.S.) has helped us to understand exactly what is expected from us. The result is a rendering of services, focused on what really matters to our customer. This project was awarded as the best Embraer Kaizen in North America. This major achievement has made it evident how our vision of excellence has no boundaries. Our objective is not merely to achieve excellence, but to maintain it. Jason A. Gonzalez, Senior Manager in Repair Management in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. we strive for company excellence E mbraer’s model for corporate governance has the broad and unrestricted commitment of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors and complies with the highest level of governance in Brazil and the United States. This model seeks to ensure corporate management with integrity, focusing on sustainable growth and the perpetuity of the business. Since 2006, Embraer S.A. has been a Brazilian company with widespread capital, without a controlling group or shareholder. The corporate restructuring approved during that year unified the Company’s classes of stocks in circulation into just one class of common stocks, extending the right to vote to all shareholders and allowing it to join the New Market (Novo Mercado) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange BM&FBovespa, which lists the companies that have the best corporate governance practices. That restructuring also preserved the rights of the Federal government, which holds special Golden Share that gives it the right to veto subjects that are considered to be strategic for the Company and for the Federal Republic of Brazil. gri 4.4 Corporate Governance Adhering to best practices of corporate governance, and listed with the New Market of São Paulo’s BM&FBovespa, Embraer has widespread capital, with no controlling group or shareholder. Such issues as sustainability, ethics, conduct and risk management are handled with integrity by governance agencies, with an eye to the security and the perpetuity of the business. 24 annual report embraer 2011 Entrepreneurial Philosophy gri 4.8 Vision Values Embraer will continue to establish itself as one of the The values that mold attitudes and unite actions that ensure the principal global forces of the Aeronautics and Defense perpetuity of the Company are: and Security markets, as a leader in the segments in • Our people are what make us fly – People who are happy, which it is engaged, and recognized for the levels of competent, appreciated, fulfilled and committed to what they excellence of its corporate actions. do. People who work as a team and act with integrity, coherence, respect and mutual trust. • We are here to serve our customers – Winning the loyalty of Business customers by fully satisfying them and by building strong and long-lasting relationships. Establishing partnerships based on true commitment and flexibility. Embraer’s business is to generate value for its • We strive for company excellence – Entrepreneurial action focusing shareholders, via the full satisfaction of its customers. on simplicity, agility, flexibility and security, with a constant Generating value means maximizing the value of pursuit of continuous improvement and excellence. An enterprising the Company and guaranteeing its perpetuity, with attitude based on integrated planning, responsible delegation, and integrity of conduct and a social and environmental disciplined execution. conscience. The Company concentrates on three business • Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks – Technological and market areas: Commercial Aviation, Executive forerunner, organization the continuously learns, capacity to Aviation, and Defense and Security. innovate, to transform internal reality, and to influence markets in which it is engaged. Strategic vision and capacity to overcome challenges with creativity and courage. • Global presence is our frontier – Global thinking and presence, with local action, to leverage competitiveness, by using the best that is available in each place. Vision of a world without borders and of giving value to diversity. • We build a sustainable future – Incessant pursuit of building the bases for the perpetuity of the Company, with profitability for shareholders, as well as respect for quality of life, for the environment, and for society. corporate governance 25 The Bylaws also ensure that the decisions of the Company, which are made in a General Assembly, have a majority of their votes granted to Brazilian shareholders, as set forth during the privatization of the Company in 1994. Therefore, the total number of votes allowed in any General Assembly to foreign shareholders is limited to 40% of the votes present. Also, it is prohibited to acquire 35%, or more, of the Company’s capital, except with the express authorization of the Federal government, and subject to the presentation of a Public Acquisition Offer (PAO). It is Embraer’s understanding that good practices of corporate governance are essential to the perpetuity of the Company, and it works to increasingly improve those practices. In 2011, in order to align the concepts regarding this subject, the Company, in a partnership with the Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute (instituto brasileiro de governança corporativa – IBGC), formed a corporate management training program, with personal presentations directed at all leadership levels. The presentations were also made available on the Intranet, via Embraer’s Ethics site. gri 4.7 Shareholding Structure gri 2.3 | 2.8 To support its operations, Embraer has a corporate structure that is focused on meeting the The shareholding changes and the alterations in the Company’s Bydemands and particular needs of each country where it is involved, Laws also ensure 100% tag along rights, which give all shareholders as well as improving, organizing and optimizing the management the same rights, if an offer is made to purchase the Company. To disof the companies of the Group, providing for the integration of all courage an excessive concentration of American Depositary Shares operations and customer satisfaction. (ADS), no shareholder, or group of shareholders, is allowed to vote in a General Assembly representing more than 5% of the number of shares into which the Company’s capital is divided. gri 4.4 | 4.6 26 annual report embraer 2011 HOLDING COMPANY Indústria Embraer – Aeronáutica Embraer Embraer Embraer Spain Eugênio Neiva Ltda. – Aircraft Holding Cataluña Holding Co. SL de Melo Inc. – EUA Co. SL – CAT Botucatu subsidiary branch subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary Harbin Embraer Embraer – ECC do Brasil ECC – Leasing Aircraft Industry Embraer Gavião Peixoto Cia. de Seguros Co. Ltd. Co. Ltd. Services Inc. branch subsidiary Ireland (JV Embraer AVIC II) – China Embraer Embraer Escritório Embraer ECC Aircraft CAE Training Brasília GPX Ltda. Investment Customer Services branch subsidiary Services Inc. (UK) Ltd. Switzerland, AG Embraer Embraer China ECC Insurance Embraer – Divisão Aircraft Aircraft Technical & Financial Co. Pq. Tecnológico Gavião Maintenance Service Co. Ltd. Ltd. – Cayman branch Peixoto Service Inc. China Islands Embraer Embraer – Divisão Embraer Air Holding Finance Ltd. – Taubaté São José Executive SGPS S.A. Cayman branch dos Campos Jet Service, LLC Portugal Islands Eleb Embraer – Embraer Embraer Equipamentos OGMA Campinas Executive Merco S.A. – Ltda. Portugal branch subsidiary Aircraft Inc. EMS Uruguay ETS Listral Embraer Escritório Divisão Embraer Estruturas Netherlands Belo Horizonte Taubaté – Training Aeronáuticas B.V. branch São Paulo Services S.A. Portugal subsidiary Embraer Escritório ECTS Escritório Embraer Asia Pacific São Paulo – Embraer CAE Representação Portugal Pte. Limited – Iguatemi Training Beijing SGPS S.A. Singapore branch Services subsidiary Escritório Embraer Embraer RepreAero Seating São Paulo – Portugal sentations, LLP Technology, LLC Nações Unidas Estruturas subsidiary subsidiary branch Metálicas S.A. Embraer Embraer Botucatu – Embraer Overseas Ltd. – Portugal Alcides Cagliari Credit Ltd. – Cayman Islands Estruturas em branch ECL, LLC subsidiary Compósitos S.A. subsidiary Embraer Botucatu – Embraer Defesa Aviation Europe N. Sra. e Segurança SAS – Holding – de Fátima Participações S.A. France branch subsidiary subsidiary Atech Embraer Negócios em Aviation Tecnologia S.A. International subsidiary SAS France Orbisat da Amazônia Ind. Embraer e AerolevanEurope SARL tamento S.A. France subsidiary Embraer AEL Europe’s Sistemas S.A. Representative subsidiary Office Dubai Embraer Harpia Austrália Sistemas S.A. Pty Limited subsidiary subsidiary corporate governance 27 2. Board of Directors Elected in an Extraordinary General Assembly, on March 6, 2012 1 9. 1. Alexandre Gonçalves Silva Chairman 5. 2. Hermann Heinemann Wever Vice Chairman 3. Aprígio Eduardo de Moura Azevedo Named by the Federal Government 4. Arno Hugo Augustin Filho 3. 5. Claudemir Marques de Almeida Named by Employees 6. Israel Vainboim 10. 7. João Cox Neto 6. 8. Josué Christiano Gomes da Silva 9. Samir Zraick 10. S atoshi Yokota Named by Employees 11. Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto 4. 12. Vitor Paulo Camargo Gonçalves 13. Wilson Carlos Duarte Delfino 11. 1 Subsequent event. 7. 1. 12. 8. 13. 28 annual report embraer 2011 The Board of Directors is responsible for setting guidelines and following up on the Company’s Board of Directors gri 4.1 It is the responsibility of the Board performance. Formed by 13 of Directors (BD) to establish the guidelines and overall direction of members, ten of whom are the business, plans and goals, the annual budget, and investment independent, it has three programs of Embraer S.A. The Board also follows up on the perforauxiliary committees for mance of the Company in the markets in which it is engaged, hires independent auditors, and decides on stock issues and bonuses. ElectStrategy, Audit and Risks, ing and dismissing members of the Executive Board and overseeing and Human Resources. management are also the Board’s responsibility. The Board is formed by 13 full members and their respective substitutes, all of whom are elected to a two-year mandate in a General Assembly. Ten of the 13 members are independent. As the one holding the special Golden Share, the Federal government has the right to name a member. Employees can also name two representatives, one from the Embraer Employee Investment Club (Clube de Investimentos dos Empregados da Embraer – CIEMB) and one elected directly by employees who are not shareholders. gri 4.3 | 4.4 According to the Company’s Bylaws, Vice Chairman Hermann Heinemann Wever assumed the Chairmanship of the Board, until the In order to strengthen even more the Company’s corporate goverdate of the Extraordinary General Assembly (AGE), which elected nance practices and at the request of shareholders, the Board has the new Chairman, Alexandre Gonçalves Silva. At the same meeting, performed a self-evaluation process of its performance, since 2010. the election of Arno Hugo Augustin Filho as a full member of the gri 4.5 | 4.10 board was approved. gri 4.2 In January 2012, then-Chairman of the Board of Directors Maurício Auxiliary Committees gri 4.1 | 4.9 Three auxiliary committees asNovis Botelho left the Company. As President & CEO of Embraer from sist the Board of Directors in areas that are considered to be priorities 1995 to 2007, Maurício Botelho led the restructuring, growth and inby Embraer, and may have up to five members, each. ternationalization process of the Company after it was privatized, and held the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors, since 2006. Strategy Committee CIt is the job of the Strategy Committee to assist the Board of Directors in establishing the policies and guidelines of the Company’s Strategic Plan and Action Plan, with their objectives, macro projects and assessment of potential opportunities for new business, besides closely following management and results. corporate governance 29 Audit and Risk Committee gri 4.11 According to a decision of the Composition of the Fiscal Board on March 6, 2012 Extraordinary General Assembly held in January 2012, the name Ivan Mendes do Carmo President of the Risk Committee was changed to Audit and Risk CommitEduardo Coutinho Guerra Vice President tee, which allowed it to accumulate the work of risk management and statutory audits, as found in Instruction no. 509, November 16, Adolpho Gonçalves Nogueira 2011, of Brazil’s Securities and Exchange Commission (Comissão de José Mauro Laxe Vilela FB Members Valores Mobiliários) and in line with U.S. legislation, especially the Taiki Hirashima Sarbanes-Oxley (SOx) Act. Assists the Board of Directors in identifying and managing the business risks inherent to the Company’s activities, in evaluating the adExecutive Board Named by the Board of Directors for a twoequacy of the models, guidelines and policies for risk management, year mandate, the Executive Board is charged with managing the and in checking the managerial and accounting information released Company, and its responsibilities are set forth in the Bylaws. to the public and to regulatory agencies. The Executive Board follows the strategic plan and is evaluated accordAmong the responsibilities inherent to auditing is deciding on the ing to the achievement of economic, financial, operational, and sociofirm to be responsible the external audit and related values. The environmental goals set forth in the Action Plan. Meeting those goals Committee is responsible for supervising the external audit and for serves as the basis for the remuneration of the Executive Board, which adopting any necessary measures for knowing and gathering comis assisted by the Finance, Ethics and Sustainability Committees. plaints regarding the financial statements, internal controls, and the independent audit. It also oversees the quality of the financial reports, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and evaluations, and the management of the Company’s qualifications. Human Resources Committee This Committee assists the Board members with the following activities: electing and dismissing Company directors; establishing their respective functions; setting the human resources and remuneration policies, including criteria for remuneration, rights, advantages, and compensation for administrators; managing programs for granting options to buy Company stock; and authorizing the transfer of funds to employee associations and to assistance, recreational and private pension organizations. Fiscal Board As the organ for overseeing administrative acts, the Fiscal Board is a standing committee formed by at least three and no more than five full members and an equal number of substitutes (shareholders or not) elected in a Regular General Assembly for an annual mandate. The Fiscal Board meets quarterly to analyze the financial statements, and at other times when called by its president, either on his own initiative or at the request of one of the members. 30 annual report embraer 2011 1. 5. 9. composition of the executive board 2. On June 4, 2012 1.  rederico Pinheiro F 6. Fleury Curado President & CEO 2. Antonio Júlio Franco Executive Vice President, People 3.  rtur Aparecido A Valério Coutinho COO 10. 4. Ernest Edwards President, Executive Jets 3. 5. Flávio Rímoli Executive Vice President & General Counsel 7. 6. J ackson Medeiros de Farias Schneider Senior Vice President, Institutional Relations 7. J ose Antonio de Almeida Filippo Executive Vice President & CFO 11. 8. Luís Carlos Affonso Senior Vice President, New Programs 4. 9. Luiz Carlos Siqueira Aguiar CEP, Embraer Defense and Security 8. 10. Mauro Kern Junior Executive Vice President, Engineering and Technology 11. Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva President, Commercial Aviation corporate governance 31 Sustainability and Ethics on the Executive Board The issue of sustainability began to carry more weight in the strategic planning of Embraer S.A., in 2011, with the creation of the office of the Vice President of Sustainability and Organizational Development and of the Department of Sustainability. The objective is to align the several initiatives focusing on the environment and eco-efficiency within the same master plan, thus strengthening its strategies and promoting greater interaction among its stakeholders, as well as social development and the dissemination of sustainable practices throughout the value chain. This vision of sustainability is founded on three pillars: excellence in governance and transparency in supporting sustainable economic growth, protection for the environment throughout the entire value chain, and expansion of relations with society through education. In 2011, Embraer hired a consulting firm to perform a materiality study of priority subjects that integrate sustainability with corporate strategy. GRI 3.5 Created in 2009, the Sustainability Committee is the expression of Embraer’s commitment to ethics, transparency and the perpetuity of the business. The Committee reports to the Executive Board, and its main responsibilities are to propose better sustainability practices and to monitor projects and indicators, in order to ensure that the goals are achieved during the annual planning cycle. The Committee also provides support for the preparation of the Annual Report and for the evaluation of Embraer to take part in the sustainability indexes, sets responsibilities, follow-up and guidance for projects, and supports the development of the Company’s sustainability strategy, based on the economic-financial, environmental, health and safety, people, and well-being guidelines. 32 annual report embraer 2011 Relationship with Independent Auditors Embraer has a policy of presenting all services not related to the external audit performed by independent auditors to the Fiscal Board for approval. In 2011, the ComCreating the Vice Presidency for pany did not hire other services not related to the external audit from its Sustainability and Organizational independent auditors, but the external audit was performed at all of the Development, as well as the companies of the group, worldwide. Sustainability Department, aligned Policies The corporate policies for Financial Management, Quality, the strategic role of this subject the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Flight Safety with the best practices adopted by establish guidelines for the work of all employees and are constantly the market in terms of business evaluated in terms of their adequacy, in light of Embraer’s values and management. Furthermore, this the best market practices integrated with the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E). brings issues involving Embraer’s principles and ethical values into Financial Management Policy The guidelines for managing corpothe realm of the Executive Board rate finances related to cash flow and the capital structure of the Comthrough the Ethics Committee. pany are set forth in the Financial Management Policy, approved by the Board of Directors. The indicators of this management are monitored and reported to the Finance Committee, Executive Board, to the Audit and Risk Committee, and to the Board of Directors, via a report on the existing opportunities and risks and comments regarding the operations and the progress of mitigating actions. The Ethics Committee is composed of five members named by the Executive Board to assist with issues involving adherence to EmQuality Policy Since 1996, Embraer has been certified accordbraer’s ethical principles and values, as set forth in its Code of Ething to the requirements of ISO 9001 and, since 2002, according ics and Conduct. The duty of this Committee is to receive, record, to AS 9100 (standard for quality management systems for aviaevaluate and discuss complaints entering through the Channel for tion, space and defense organizations). With the beginning of the Reporting Misconduct, or from any other sources. If they are deemed Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), in 2007, these to be appropriate, the complaints will be shared with the executive requirements were made more detailed and extended to all people who is responsible for the people involved and will be followed up at Embraer who are involved in the pursuit of the continuous imwith information and any recommendations the Committee deems provement of administrative and operational processes. appropriate. Another duty of the Ethics Committee is to clarify any doubts regarding the Company’s ethical values. The Executive Board also has the support of specialized consultants and auditing firms that contribute to improving the management process, the development of innovative solutions based on best practices and on new methodologies, processes and controls. The objective of this assistance is to raise the levels of competitiveness and excellence and to ensure the sustainability of Embraer’s activities, besides prevent and reduce potential risks and prospect new opportunities for improvement. gri 4.11 corporate governance 33 Corporate policies guide Embraer’s involvement with issues related to financial management, quality, intellectual property, the Intellectual Property Management Policy Embraer recognizes the environment, occupational health need to protect the rights and results of intellectual creation arising and safety, and flight safety. These from investments in technological research and development it carries guidelines are constantly evaluated, out and that come in the form of inventions, industrial design, brands, processes, systems, software, or products. In this context, and with an in terms of their adherence to the eye to perpetuating its business, Embraer approved its Policy for ManCompany’s values and to the best aging Intellectual Property, in 2007, committing itself to: market practices. • Ensuring the generation of technological knowledge, which is aligned with its strategic and business interests; • Giving incentive to innovation and creativity as means of promoting As a result of the organizational diagnosis performed in 2010, the technological development and ensuring the competitive edge of implementation of the Criteria for Excellence of the National Qualits products and services; ity Foundation (analogous to the European Foundation for Quality • Ensuring the protection and registration of intellectual property Management and The Foundation for the Malcolm Baldrige National resulting from the knowledge and innovation generated within the Quality Award) was begun. At the end of the year, an independent Company, based on applicable legislation in the pertinent areas; evaluation showed a significant improvement in the degree of matu• Using the economic value incorporated in the intellectual property, rity of Embraer’s management. with a focus on increasing the competitiveness of distinctive and innovative products, processes and services, as well as exploring Embraer’s Quality Policy is based on full customer satisfaction, new business opportunities; through products and services that meet the most up-to-date stan• Respecting the intellectual property rights of third parties and indards of quality and integrity. The following general guidelines supsisting that its own rights be respected. port this policy: Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Policy gri • Design, produce and support products with intrinsic quality and 4.11 Respect for the environment and promoting occupational health adequate safety; and safety are priorities for Embraer and are integrated with the • Focus on activities on preventive actions; Company’s processes and plans. The Environment and Occupational • Ensure that all employees know, understand and comply with the Health and Safety Policy, which has been widely disseminated in the quality requirements of their work, in a responsible manner; Company, since 2009, provides for seeking to perform all of its op• Ensure best environmental and occupational health and safety erations in an environmentally sustainable, safe and healthy manner. practices; • Eliminate waste and everything that does not add value; • Ensure the continuous improvement of all business processes by involving people and teams at all levels, with a focus on customer satisfaction; • Focus on human beings as the fundamental component of the entire evolution process of the Company. 34 annual report embraer 2011 Among the guidelines of this policy, which must be observed at all The Risk Committee, created in 2010, was renamed the Audit and Risk management levels, are employee awareness, continuous improveCommittee, in 2012, by accumulating audit responsibilities. All of the ment, and compliance with the legislation and requirements for the member of this committee are members of the Board of Directors. environment and occupational health and safety, including on the Subordinate to this new committee is the newly created Internal Audit part of suppliers and service providers, as well as the adoption of prearea. All of the management processes and their results are periodiventive practices, corrective actions and innovative solutions. cally discussed with the Executive Board and presented to the Audit and Risk Committee, the Fiscal Board, and the Board of Directors. Flight Safety Policy gri 4.11 Embraer considers the safety of its products to be a question of ethics and a fundamental pillar of its entrepreneurial excellence and sustainability. The Flight Safety Policy permeates the entire Company and gives incentive to the continuous and rigorous commitment of the employees and all leadership levels to building aircraft that are increasingly safer and that do not merely meet, but surpass, national and international certification standards. For the Company, product safety is essential for its competitive edge. For that reason, employees are encouraged to report risk situations, ensure that the information regarding results gets to the individuals affected, and that the necessary changes be made for alignment with safety recommendations. They also are encouraged to adhere to and promote a flight safety culture that respect the guidance of the Operational Safety Management System (Sistema de Gestão da Segurança Operacional – SGSO) and the Operational Safety Management Manual (Manual de Gestão da Segurança Operacional – MGSO), as well as contribute to disseminating this policy at all levels of the Company, and with suppliers and customers. Risk Management gri 1.2 e 4.11 Structured risk management processes are applied to Embraer’s various corporate levels, with an eye to transparency, safety and the perpetuity of the operations and material and financial resources used. Together with the best corporate governance practices, these processes pay careful attention to the demands, standards and regulations of the aerospace segment at the national and international levels. Managing corporate risks is the responsibility of a dedicated Department, created in 2011 to assist the Executive Board and the Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations (CFO). corporate governance 35 The management practices of corporate governance adopted by Embraer are now extended to the companies in which it acquired shares in 2011: Harpia Sistemas S.A. (51%), AEL Sistemas (25%), Atech Negócios em Tecnologias S.A. (50%), and the radar division of OrbiSat da Amazônia S.A. (90%). Operations The processes that will be evaluated during the year to cover operational risks are proposed to the Audit and Risk CommitThe creation of a business unit dedicated to the Defense and Secutee, annually. In 2011, the inventory processes of third parties were rity segment, in 2011, has allowed Embraer to be less dependent on evaluated, as were those of indirect supplies and aeronautical matethe behavior of the aerospace market, which is still feeling the efrials, in order to provide greater levels of detail and effectiveness for fects of the international economic crisis that began in 2008. With the procedures, and vigor for the processes. the diversification of its operations, the Company is prepared for eventual market risks. The results of the operational risk evaluations are presented and discussed with the respective managers and, later, with Embraer’s Audit Financial Embraer has developed and implemented a number of and Risk Committee, under the coordination of the Internal Risks and projects for reducing risks in business processes and information Controls area. systems. The general control climate was revised, by improving the corporate structure for internal controls, in compliance with the market The planning and market risk management in the commerSarbanes-Oxley Act, section 404: a control structure for relevant cial aviation, executive aviation and defense and security segments processes of financial statements, in line with the Public Companies are based on permanently monitoring the world market in which Audit Oversight Board (PCAOB). Embraer is involved, and its principal trends. In order to provide better financial support for sales and operations, Among Embraer’s main market risks are the cooling of the worldwith the possibility of access to short-term financial resources at wide economy, with a prolonged recession in such developed marpreviously negotiated rates, Embraer signed a credit operation of kets as the United States and Europe, the expansion of tariff and US$1 billion, in September 2010, with 25 international financial instinon-tariff barriers to the Company’s products, the scarcity of credit tutions. That amount will be available until September 2013 in two in the international financial market for aircraft financing, and inlines of credit: US$400 million for pre-financing exports and US$600 creased costs in Brazil, due to inflation and over-valuation of the million for financing working capital. Real, and increased taxes. To mitigate exchange risks, managing cash allocations is one of the main tools used, thus neutralizing exchange exposure by choosing assets denominated in reals (R$) or dollars (US$). In 2011, the Company restructured its long-term debts, in order to ensure greater security for its operations. The Company also performed hedge operations to reduce cash flow exposure. 36 annual report embraer 2011 corporate governance 37 Image The constant, proactive and transparent relations of the ComLegal Embraer takes part in all of the steps of the process of manufacpany with its stakeholders helps mitigate possible image risks. Emturing its aircraft, from the development project to after-sale support. braer communicates, in advance, to the market and other stakeholdConcern for legally protecting the intellectual property of the innovaers regarding issues that could present a risk to its operations and to tions generated by the Company’s research and development is seen its brand. in the significant increase in patent requests. From 2003 to 2011, 87 were requested and 43 were The image perceived by stakeholders is also Embraer’s Code of Ethics granted, with 17 coming in 2011, alone. Embraer built on good relations with investors and and Conduct is based on has over 400 registered trademarks. analysts, through meetings, participation in the Company’s values and conferences and roadshows, regular visits In order to financially safeguard itself against to the Company, disclosure of results and on the principles set forth eventual legal risks, the Company provisioned news via releases and constantly updating in the UN Global Compact. R$118 million, during the year, which it considthe website. ers to be sufficient for covering any losses arising Launched in 2011, the from eventual labor and tax lawsuits. Ethics website presents the One of the recognitions of this proactive and transparent attitude is Embraer’s presence content of the document SEC The Company has been fully cooperating with on the ISE and DJSI sustainability indexes. and establishes a direct the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) channel for presenting The perception of the Company, internally, in an ongoing investigation regarding the possible is also important to Embraer, which is proud questions and doubts. non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt of the continuous improvement of the orPractices Act (FCPA). It hired outside lawyers to ganizational climate study indexes, which conduct the investigation process regarding transachieved 81% favorability, in 2011. actions performed in three countries. These professionals have maintained regular contact with the SEC and the DoJ, and has been furnishAs for the public, in general, the various social initiatives of the Eming documents and information to both agencies, whenever requested. braer Education and Research Institute – particularly Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School, which provides free, quality education in the São José dos Campos region – strengthen the Company’s image in the community. 38 annual report embraer 2011 The Code also applies to Embraer’s subsidiaries, in Brazil and abroad, in absolute harmony with the legislation and with the best corporate governance practices of the countries where the Company is present. All employees receive a copy of the document, upon being hired, or every time their contracts are updated, and thus they formalize their adherence to the Code. Environment and Climate Change gri ec2 Embraer assesses opportunities associated with its activities, in order to mitigate the Currently, the Code is being revised for the third time, to be approved effects of global warming and to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) by the Executive Board (Ethics Committee) and the Board of Directors emissions, such as controlling consumption, changing the energy (Human Resources Committee and Audit and Risk Committee). Based matrix, and developing new technologies and new products. on this, it will be presented via a specific communication plan all of the Company’s stakeholders and to the public, in general, on its website. In 2011, the Company revised the process for identifying environmental risks and climate change, as part of building the organizaEthics Website gri 4.4 In 2011, Embraer’s Ethics website was tion’s Sustainability Policy. launched, where information is made available regarding corporate ethics and conduct to employees and the other stakeholders. The site Code of Ethics and Conduct gri 4.8 | so3 Embraer’s Code has a section for directly communicating questions with the Ethics of Ethics and Conduct reflects its commitment to achieve corporate Committee. The answers can be published on the site, to assist with social responsibility objectives, by giving value to its relationships clarifying the doubts of other people. with shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers, preserving the environment, and contributing to the development of the comIn 2011, Human Resource directors and professionals received ethmunities where it is involved. ics training. The other leaders attended presentations regarding person and corporate ethics, which are available to all employees of the The Code is based on Embraer’s values and on the principles estabmeans of internal communication. lished by the UN Global Compact, which the Company formally joined, in 2008. The Code supports the pursuit of good corporate governance and accounting practices, of transparent, objective and timely communication, and of actions and decisions that are always handled responsibly and honestly, with quality, trust, respect and loyalty. 2012 Revision of Code of Ethics and Conduct Oct/2011 Creation of Embraer Ethics Site MAR/2010 2nd version of Code of Ethics and Conduct corporate governance 39 Channel for Reporting Misconduct gri 4.4 | so2 The Channel for Reporting Misconduct complements the various communication channels between Embraer and its stakeholders. It is managed by an independent company, for the purpose of maintaining the anonymity and confidentiality of the reports, and makes it possible for any person to inform of any eventual violation of Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, best sustainable practices, and even corporate governance, such as, violation of the U.S. Foreign Practice Corruption Act (FCPA) or the rules of Brazil’s Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Available Means Accumulated 2011 The Channel for Reporting Misconduct is available in three distinct forms: • Correspondence to P.O. Box 11.331 CEP 05422-970 – São Paulo/ 82% Intranet SP – Brazil; • Embraer’s website (www.embraer.com.br), on the home page, click 14% Internet on the Channel for Reporting Misconduct icon, or fill out the form in the Contact Us section; • Embraer intranet, with direct access by employees. 4% Mail Reports Received In 2011, the Channel for Reporting Misconduct received 316 reports, which was 23% less than the previous year. Of the total reports delivered, 7.6% were considered to be appropriate. Participation and Support for Volunteer Initiatives and Associations gri 4.12 | 4.13 Embraer supports and adopts The Company’s Intranet was the means most used, and in 2011, repprinciples and commitments that contribute to social, environmental resented 82% of all the reports delivered, which shows the credibility and economic development, and to the continuous improvement of its of the mechanism and of the commitment to confidentiality and anomanagement. nymity in the eyes of employees for dealing with the subjects received. As a signer of the U.N. Global Compact, since 2008, the Company has made a commitment to develop policies and strategies and implement actions for the purpose of promoting human rights, labor rights, respect for the environment, and fighting corruption. Origins and total reports received Year Intranet Website Mail E-mail Total 2009 320 90 6 12 428 2010 344 50 14 1 409 2011 258 44 4 10 316 40 annual report embraer 2011 Since 2006, Embraer has actively taken part in the Latin America Companies Circle, which now has 19 companies. This group was created on the recommendation of the Latin American Corporate Governance Round Table, represented by public authorities, investors, NGOs, stock exchanges, and associations, as well as other stakeholders, for the purpose of perfecting and disseminating corporate governance practices in the region. Embraer is also associated with the following institutions: Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC), Brazilian Association of Publically Traded Companies (ABRASCA), Brazilian Institute of Investor Relations (IBRI), and National Investors Institute (INI). Embraer has taken part in different industry initiatives that seek to make the development of biokerosene more dynamic, including: the Brazilian Alliance for Biofuels in Aviation (ABRAPA); the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG); the European Consortium Sustainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy for Aviation (SWAFEA); and the American Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI). In this field, the highlight goes to partnerships with General Electric, in developing sustainable biofuels for aviation, and with Boeing and the Foundation for Research Assistance of the State of São Paulo, for a future biofuels research center in Brazil. The Company takes part in the Aerospace Vehicle Systems Institute, which discusses issues that affect the aerospace community, and also in the Brazilian Association of Intellectual Property (ABPI), and a whole series of institutions in Brazil and abroad that are dedicated to research, like the Agency for Science Technology and Research (ASTAR), from Singapore. Embraer formally joined several volunteer initiatives for reporting GHG emissions, like the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, as one of the founding members, and the Carbon Disclosure Project, in which it has participated since 2008. corporate governance 41 Embraer’s beginnings were based on boldness and innovation. It still has these characteristics, because boldness and innovation are necessary for competing with other aeronautical companies in the world. But there’s more. Embraer has a great relationship with the consumer market and with the research community in Brazil. It has an excellent team of professionals, mainly technicians and engineers who know how to identify opportunities, and academic partners who are able to transform them into competitive advantages. Carlos Henrique de Brito Cruz, Scientific Director of FAPESP. The fact that Embraer has a program focused on developing new technologies shows how innovation is important to the daily lives of its employees. Since the Company’s founding, boldness and innovation have been part of its culture. Our process for establishing technological strategy opens doors to a future without barriers. We have established cooperative technological relationships with the aim of exploring ways to further enhance the competitiveness of our products and services. For instance, projects partnered with USP, UFSCar, and UFSC are responsible for developing more comfortable aircraft passenger cabins. Via a technology demonstration device, we can reproduce all of the real flight experiences of a passenger cabin, which assists in developing methodologies for modeling and simulating passenger comfort. This is only one example of how we create an even better future at Embraer. Leonardo Bastos de Toledo, Product Development Engineer and Embraer employee for 12 years. I was a young man, living in the city of Bauru and dreaming of becoming an aeronautical engineer. I was frustrated to see that all the airplanes that operated in Brazil were imported from the United States. In the ‘40s, there were no aeronautical engineering courses in Brazil. I began with the Brazilian Air Force Academy and graduated as an Military Aviator, in 1951. In 1950, the Aeronautics Technological Institute (ITA) was founded and I was given a scholarship from the Air Force to become an aeronautical engineer, achieving my first dream. I and other engineers from ITA noticed that small and medium-sized Brazilian cities did not have air transportation service, because there wasn’t a suitable aircraft on the world market. So, we designed the Bandeirante aircraft, and its prototype flew for the first time on October 22, 1968. The search for production alternatives led us, on a lucky day in 1969, to meeting with the President of Brazil, Artur da Costa e Silva. The result of that meeting was the creation of Embraer. Yes, we have had some setbacks. But we pursued our dreams, believing that, one day, we would become the big company we now are. It was a seed that bore wonderful fruit. Today, I applaud from the front row, as I see how far we have come. Our Embraer is a good example of what can be accomplished with great effort and persistence. Keep it up, friends! Embraer Founder Ozires Silva. Boldness and Innovation are our hallmarks E mbraer’s management model is based on planning and carrying out short-, medium-, and long-term actions and projects. The Strategic Plan has a 15-year horizon and establishes macro-strategies and macro-projects that should bring greater value for the Company. In order to define its shortand medium-term involvements, which will support future actions, Embraer uses a corporate management tool, called the Action Plan, with a two-year horizon, and that establishes operational, economic-financial, and sustainability results for the entire Company, fully aligned with the Strategic Plan. Strategy for the coming years Embraer’s strategy for the coming years provides for the following objectives, focusing on growth, the perennial nature of the business, and on generating value for shareholders: Operational Performance gri 1.2 With a strategic planning horizon of 15 years, Embraer pursues the perpetuity of its business, by expanding its business and the value generated for its shareholders. For the coming years, the Company intends to continue the growth path of its three businesses, study new opportunities for investment, and focus its efforts on continuous improvement, technology, innovation, and adopting best practices. 44 annual report embraer 2011 Commercial aviation: solidify its leadership position in segment for commercial airplanes up to 120 seats, taking into consideration improvements in the EMBRAER 170/190 E-Jets family, diversifying and expanding the customer base, and pursing excellence for customer support; Executive aviation: become established as one of the world’s main manufacturers of executive jets, with the development of new prodIn light of this scenario, Embraer expects that the demand for air transucts, growing its market share, and pursuing excellence for customportation will continue to grow an average of 5.2% per year until 2030. er support; This growth could mean a worldwide demand of approximately 7,200 Defense and security: be positioned as the firm anchor of Brazil’s decommercial jets with a capacity up to 120 seats and a potential market fense and security system, with a diversified offering of products and of more than US$300 billion. services and an expanded international presence, besides pursuing excellence for customer support; The market for jets with 30 to 60 seats has suffered the impact of inPeople, organization and processes: build the perpetuity of the enterprise creased fuel prices, competition, and reduced fares. Even at that, those through appreciation for its people, innovation, sustainable practices, aircraft have been essential for feeding the hub airports in the U.S. and and operational efficiency, with the Embraer Entrepreneurial ExcelEurope, as well as for developing regional aviation in Latin America, lence Program (P3E) to leverage these developments. Africa, the Community of Independent States (CIS), and China. By the end of the decade, Embraer will invest in new engines and the In Africa, the ERJ 145 have made it possible for South African Airlink to perfection of the E-Jets. The Company postponed plans to develop a expand its route network to smaller cities. In the CIS, the same model, new family of larger jets, given the adverse competitive scenario and used by Ukraine’s Dniproavia Airlines, allows opening new markets and the unattractive return on investment. adjusting seat offerings to passenger demand. The ERJ 145 continue playing an important role in developing regional aviation in China, where Commercial Aviation the largest fleet of this model is found, outside of the U.S. and Europe. Scenario Worldwide passenger air transportation grew 5.3%, in 2011, according to estimates by the International Civil Aviation Organization The jets in the 61to 120-seat segment, of which Embraer is the market (ICAO), which confirms the recovery trend after the financial crisis. leader with nearly a 45% share, continued to provide greater flexibility and Therefore, according to the International Air Transportation Association operating efficiency to airline companies. The E-Jets (EMBRAER 170/190 (IATA), the worldwide air transportation industry should have profits of family) are recognized in this segment as a successful platform for airlines approximately US$7 billion, in 2011. with a variety of business models, worldwide. Portfolio gri 2.2 Family Capacity Range (Kilometers and Nautical Miles) ERJ 145 37 – 50 seats 3,700 km (2,000 mn) Embraer 170 70 – 80 seats 3,900 km (2,100 mn) Embraer 175 78 – 88 seats 3,700 km (2,000 mn) Embraer 190 98 – 114 seats 4,500 km (2,400 mn) Embraer 195 108 – 122 seats 4,100 km (2,200 mn) operational performance 45 Paulo César Silva Executive Vice President, Commercial Aviation Business Commercial Two landmarks reflected the success of the E-Jets in the world commercial aviation market in 2011. Just seven Aviation years after the first delivery of the model, in 2004, the milestones of 1,000 firm orders and 800 deliveries of the 1,000 orders E-Jets were surpassed. Our customers increasingly focus their efforts on optimizing their fleets. and 800 deliveries To support them, the 61to 120-seat jets, which is the market segment led by Embraer, with nearly a 45% share, continued providing greater flexibility and operational efficiency to the airline companies. And the of E-jets: landmarks substitution of ageing fleets and the removal of excess surpassed in 2011 capacity, which are typical needs of North America and Europe, have become more evident in other markets, in recent years. With an attentive eye on these trends, we adjusted our business strategy and are prepared to take advantage of the opportunities. 46 annual report embraer 2011 Performance In 2011, the success of the E-Jets in the world comThe 100th E-Jet went into service in Latin America and the Caribbean, mercial aviation market was reflected by two important milestones: in 2011, shows the strength of aviation in this region, where Embraer sales went over 1,000 firm orders and 800 aircraft had been delivis the market leader with a 79% share of the segment of up to 120 ered to the world market just seven years after the first delivery, in seats. Some 150 Latin American cities are served by E-Jets, which 2004. The 800th E-Jet, an EMBRAER 190, was delivered to China’s have carried more than 37 million passengers in the region. CDB Leasing Co., Ltd., and will be operated by China Southern Airlines, the largest airline company in Asia and the fourth largest in After a decade of presence in China, Embraer delivered the 100th traffic volume. aircraft to that market, in 2011. The delivery of that EMBRAER 190 shows the strong development of the aviation industry in China and Leasing companies increasingly recognize the benefits of the E-Jets the Company’s leadership in that country, with a 70% share of the and their widespread acceptance by the market, and they were remarket for aircraft up to 120 seats. sponsible for 64 orders of this aircraft, in 2011. Among the companies are Air Lease Corp., CDB Leasing Co., Ltd., CIT Aerospace, BOC AviaThe continued recover of the air transportation industry, in 2011, was tion, and GECAS. reflected by the announcement of new orders and by the conversion of E-Jets options by customers: Alitalia (Italy), Air Astana (KazakhThe substitution of older fleets and the removal of excess capacity, stan), Air Lease (United States), Airnorth (Australia), Azul (Brazil), which are typical phenomena in North America and Europe, have BOC Aviation (Singapore), China Development Bank, CIT (United been more evident in other markets, in recent years. Airline compaStates), Fuji Dream Airlines (Japan), GECAS (United States), Henies in Africa, Latin America, Asia, and the Middle East have been bei (China), Jetscape (United States), Kenya Airways (Kenya), KLM discovering the potential for regional flights in their route networks, (The Netherlands), Lufthansa (Germany), and TRIP (Brazil). by introducing smaller aircraft, thus increasing the efficiency of their operations and expanding air services to communities or groups that Six new customers began their operations with E-Jets: Air Astana were without them. In 2011, most of the orders were from companies (Kazakhstan), China Southern Airlines and Hebei Airlines (China), located outside of Europe and North America. Oman Air (Oman), People’s Vienna Line (Austria), and RAK Airways (United Arab Emirates). Aircraft Deliveries Aircraft Model 2011 2010 2009 ERJ 145 2 7 8 Embraer 170 1 11 22 Embraer 175 10 8 11 Embraer 190 68 58 64 Embraer 195 24 17 20 Total 105 101 125 operational performance 47 1,941 firm orders and 1,692 aircraft delivered to commercial aviation Firm order backlog On December 31, 2011, the E-Jets family achieved 1,051 firm orders for 60 operators in 40 countries, 695 options to buy, and 802 jets delivered. The firm order backlog for commercial aviation came to US$7.7 billion, which is the equivalent to 249 aircraft. Order backlog Firm Order Aircraft Model Firm Orders Options Deliveries Backlog ERJ 145 Family ERJ 135 108 108 ERJ 140 74 74 ERJ 145 708 708 Total – ERJ 145 Family 890 890 E-Jets Embraer 170 188 22 182 6 Embraer 175 189 290 143 46 Embraer 190 551 355 389 162 Embraer 195 123 28 88 35 Total – E-Jets 1,051 695 802 249 Total 1,941 695 1,692 249 48 annual report embraer 2011 The Executive Aviation market is expected to recover in 2013, and already shows signs of an Executive Aviation Scenario In 2011, the deliveries for the executive aviation industry increased demand in emerging came to approximately 700 aircraft, for a drop of 8% from 2010, when markets. For the next ten years, 763 executive jets were delivered. Embraer estimates there will be a market of US$205 billion, with a It is expected that the demand in 2012 will remain at the same level as 2011, and a recovery of the market should begin only in 2013. With delivery volume of more than 8,000 this projected slow economic upturn, Embraer estimates that over the executive jets. next ten years there will be a market of US$205 billion, and a volume of deliveries of more than 8,000 executive jets. The economic crisis that has held on since mid-2008 has hit the executive aviation market with one of the most aggressive sales reducThe emerging markets have reacted differently and have absorbed tions in its history. Furthermore, the recovery of new executive jet sales more and more executive jets. The demand from those markets, alhas been jeopardized by the large offering of used jets at competitive though growing, is still small, in comparison with the North American prices. Currently, there are some 700 executive jets up to ten years old and European markets. In absolute numbers, the United States should for sale, and they are being negotiated with average discounts of 30% continue to be the largest market for executive aviation, or about 42% of the fair price of the aircraft in a balanced market. of the revenues expected over the next ten years, followed by Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), which should represent about Given the difficulties that affected the worldwide executive aviation 34%. Brazil will represent 3% e and China, 8%, of this market. market, mainly in the entry-level and light categories, Embraer recorded a reduction of its share of the industry’s volume of deliveries, from 19% in 2010 to around 14% in 2011. In terms of revenues, its market share dropped from 7% to 6%, respectively. Portfolio gri 2.2 Range (Kilometers Aircraft Model Capacity Category and Nautical Miles) Phenom 100 6 – 8 occupants 2,182 km (1,178 nm) Entry-level Phenom 300 8 – 10 occupants 3,650 km (1,971 nm) Light Legacy 450 7 – 9 seats 4,260 km (2,300 nm) Midlight Legacy 500 8 – 12 seats 5,556 km (3,000 nm) Midsize Legacy 600 10 – 14 occupants 6,297 km (3,400 nm) Super Midsize Legacy 650 10 – 14 seats 7,223 km (3,900 nm) Large Lineage 1000 13 – 19 seats 8,334 km (4,500 nm) Ultra-large operational performance 49 Ernie Edwards Executive Vice President, Executive Aviation Business Executive Aviation The expansion of our international presence marked the year for executive aviation. In February 2011, we inaugurated a factory in Melbourne (Florida, U.S.) and, in December, we performed the maiden flight of the first Phenom 100 10 years produced in the United States. We also reinforced our brand in China with new contracts – like the sale of 13 of presence in Legacy 650 jets during the biggest executive aviation industry executive aviation, with more than trade show in the world – and naming actor Jackie Chan as 500 executive jets ambassador for the Embraer Executive Jets brand. We continued on the path of great achievements of the past ten in years in the executive aviation market, with more than 500 operation in about 40 countries business jets in operation in some 40 countries, despite the impact of the economic crisis that has hung on since mid-2008. Although jeopardized by the large offering of used models at competitive prices, the recovery of executive jet sales has progressed in emerging markets. 50 annual report embraer 2011 Performance In 2011, Embraer celebrated the 10th anniversary of enIn October, China’s Minsheng Financial Leasing Co. signed a contract tering the executive aviation market with outstanding achievements. In for the purchase of 13 Legacy 650 jets, during NBAA, the biggest February, the factory was opened in Melbourne (Florida, U.S.), and in executive aviation trade show in the world. During the same month, December the first Phenom 100 produced in the United States took its Embraer announced the hiring of Hollywood star, Jackie Chan, as the maiden flight and the Executive Aviation Customer Center opened at the brand ambassador for Embraer Executive Jets. same industrial site. Furthermore, the 200 Phenom 100 produced was th delivered to Swift Aviation, in Phoenix (Arizona, U.S.). At the end of the The super midsize Legacy 600 jet is going into its tenth year of proyear, more than 220 Phenom 100 aircraft were operating in 26 countries. duction with broad market acceptance. In December 2011, there were over 185 Legacy 600 jets operating in 36 countries. The first unit of the Phenom 300 was delivered to Brazil’s sharedownership customer, Prime Fraction Club. The aircraft was certified in The new midlight Legacy 450 and midsize Legacy 500 jets were the Australia and Mexico, and the version for eight passengers was also highlight in July 2011, with the joining of the first fuselage. The airapproved, increasing its versatility and competitiveness. At the end craft will be positioned between the Phenom 300 and the Legacy of 2011, there were over 50 Phenom 300 operating in 11 countries. 600, thus consolidating the range of Embraer products for executive aviation as one of the most complete, currently being offered. It In 2011, the large Legacy 650 jet obtained American and Chinese ceris estimated that US$750 million will be invested in developing the tification and flew 6,743 km (3,641 nautical miles), from São Paulo to two programs. The Legacy 500 should be certified in 2013, followed Miami, in a record (for this aircraft) 8 hours and 48 minutes. Also, in Legacy 450. May, an important deal was closed with the Comlux Group, of Kazakhstan, for the sale of three of these aircraft, and four more options. The ultra-large Lineage 1000 was certified in China and India, which was an important milestone for it to be sold in those promising Asian markets. At the end of 2011, Embraer had accumulated a firm order backlog of US$4.4 billion for executive jets. Aircraft Deliveries Aircraft Model 2011 2010 2009 Phenom 100 41 100 97 Phenom 300 42 26 1 Legacy 600/650 13 11 18 Lineage 1000 3 5 3 Embraer 170 Shuttle 3 Total 99 145 119 operational performance 51 Defense and Security Scenario In 2011, the operations of the defense and security area began to be managed by a new business unit: Embraer Defense and Security. With its major customer being the Brazilian Air Force (FAB), Embraer Embraer Defense and Security will be strengthened in the coming Defense and Security plays a strategic role in Brazil’s defense system years, not only in meeting the needs of Brazil, but also in the area – it has supplied over 70% of the FAB’s fleet – and is beginning to of exports. This new corporate configuration opens a new range of expand its involvement to other regions, beyond the 48 countries it capacities to the Company. Besides products and systems for the serves with its aircraft, services and defense systems. aerospace segment, the unit will also serve the promising security area and will consolidate Embraer’s central position in the process of The Embraer Defense and Security business unit has integrated sostrengthening Brazil’s defense and security industry. lutions that combine high technological content with operating efficiency at competitive acquisition and operating costs. In partnership Also contributing this positive scenario are the recent measures with its subsidiary and affiliate companies, it offers a broad range of adopted by the government, such as instituting rules for purchasing products, services and solutions in the defense, security and space and hiring defense products and systems by the Brazilian governsegments with a focus on protecting people, territory and assets, but ment, while exonerating national companies that are considered to developing customized solutions for its customers. Its product porbe strategic for the defense sector. tfolio includes aircraft and systems for different purposes: command, control, communication, computation, intelligence, surveillance and KC-390 Currently under development, according to the program’s reconnaissance (C4ISR); training and combat; and transportation of chronogram, is the KC-390 military cargo and aerial refueling aircraft, military and civilian authorities. which will open the way for Embraer into a new market segment. The first flight of the prototype is expected for 2014 and the aircraft In addition, it provides aircraft modernization services and customer should be certified by the end of the following year. support. Through partnerships and acquisitions performed in 2011, it began to be involved in such segments as Remotely Piloted Aircraft The aircraft has 60 promises of intent to purchase, with 28 to the (RPA), also known as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), radar, and FAB, 12 to Colombia, six each to Chile, Portugal and Argentina, and public security systems. two to the Czech Republic. In 2011, national and international companies were selected and hired to supply the main systems and segments of this new cargo plane. 52 annual report embraer 2011 Luiz C. Aguiar CEO, Embraer Defences and Security Defense and Security Embraer Defense and Security has integrated solutions that combine high technological content and operational efficiency at competitive acquisition and operating costs. Our product portfolio 3.3 billion includes aircraft and systems for different us$ purposes, as well as modernization services and customer support. New acquisitions and partnerships expanded the range of our products, services and in firm order solutions for the defense, security and space segments. These include acquiring the control of backlog Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal (OGMA) and an agreement with Telebras to form a company for developing Brazil’s satellite system. operational performance 53 In the portfolio of Embraer Defense and Security, the highlight is the Super Tucano, which closed the year with 182 aircraft contracted Acquisitions and partnerships gri 2.9 and 156 delivered. To support the customers of this model, the In line with this strategy of building capacities, Embraer Company developed support Defense and Security acquired 90% of the capital of systems for training and operations. the radar division of OrbiSat da Amazônia S.A., for an important step to increase the Company’s participation in the Brazilian Security System. Furthermore, Embraer signed an agreement with AEL Portfolio gri 2.2 Sistemas, a subsidiary of Israel’s Elbit Systems Ltd., Embraer Defense and Security Super Tucano: basic and advanced training, transition to fighters and light for the purpose of jointly assessing and exploring the attack. Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) market. As a result AMX: air-to-ground attack. of this agreement, Harpia Sistemas S.A. was formed, EMB 145 AEW&C: airborne early warning and control. with Embraer Defense and Security holding 51% of the EMB 145 Multi Intel: remote sensing, air-ground surveillance, and electronic intelligence. capital of Harpia and AEL holding 49%. EMB 145 MP: maritime patrol. KC-390: tactical military transport and aerial refueling. Also a part of this partnership, and with the objective Transportation of Authorities: ERJ 145 family, E-Jets, Phenom, Legacy, and Lineage of taking part in the process of transferring technology Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) to Brazil, 25% of the capital of AEL were acquired Simulators by Embraer Defense and Security. In the mini-UAV Ground Radar segment, a commercial agreement was signed with Systems and Solutions: Command and Control Integrated System (C4I) Brazil’s Santos Lab. Training and Operation Support System (TOSS) Mission Systems Continuing with the expansion of its portfolio, the Air traffic control Company acquired 50% of the capital of Atech Negócios Police Intelligence System Services: em Tecnologias S.A. This partnership will increase the Modernization of Avionics Systems capacity of the companies for developing products and Aircraft Modernization services in the area of command, control, computation, Aircraft Maintenance and Repair Services communication and intelligence (C4I) systems. Remote Sensing Logistical Services Training and Enabling 54 annual report embraer 2011 5 agreements expanded business capacity OGMA In January 2012, in order to reinforce the strategic partnership between Brazil and the European Union, Embraer Defense and Security signed an agreement with the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company (EADS) to acquire full control of Airholding, SGPS S.A. Airholding is a consortium formed in 2005 by Embraer and EADS for the specific purpose of hold 65% of the shares in Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal (OGMA). The other 35% are under the control of the Portuguese government, via the Empresa Portuguesa de Defesa (EMPORDEF). OGMA provides maintenance and repair services for military and civilian aircraft, engines and components, besides manufacturing and assembling air frames. In 2011, OGMA earned US$196 million and closed out the year with 1,486 employees Telebras Also in 2011, and for the purpose of meeting the needs of the Federal government regarding satellite development in Brazil (including the National Broadband Program and strategic defense and government communications), Embraer and Telecomunicações Brasileiras S.A. (Telebras) signed a memorandum of intent with an eye to forming a company in which Embraer will hold a 51% share and Telebrás with 49%. operational performance 55 Performance 2011 was very significant for the entire line of defense As for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems, and security products, with net revenues of US$852 million. The adthe highlight goes to the ongoing progress of the AEW India program, vanced training and light attack Super Tucano continued to be one of through the contract with the Defence Research and Development the highlights. During the year, eight aircraft were delivered: two to Organization of India, to supply three EMB 145 AEW&C aircraft. The Brazil, three to Ecuador, and three to an undisclosed customer. Furthermaiden flight of the first aircraft took place in 2011 and concluded an more, a contract went into effect for supplying eight airplanes to Inimportant phase of this program, and initiated the flight test camdonesia, which will be the Company’s entry to the Asia-Pacific region. paign. The first delivery is expected for the first half of 2012. Also in 2011, a contract was signed to supply a new customer with two Super Tucanos, in 2012. With these new contracts, the Super Tucano In the modernization area, three programs are currently underway for closed out the year with 182 aircraft ordered and 156 delivered. the Brazilian Armed Forces. In the A-1M program, Embraer is responsible for refurbishing and modernizing 43 subsonic AMX fighters, At the end of the year, the United States Air Force (USAF) anand deliveries will begin in 2013. nounced that it had selected the Super Tucano for its Light Air Support (LAS) program, because it was the best product available, with The second program, with the FAB’s F-5M jet, covers 46 F-5 fightproven performance in action and capable of meeting its demands ers. In 2011, four modernized units were delivered, with three left for with the greatest efficiency. After being temporarily suspended by a the beginning of 2012. At the beginning of 2011, a new contract was court injunction filed by a competitor that was disqualified from the signed for modernizing an additional 11 F-5 fighters, besides furnishbidding contest by the USAF, the contract ended up being canceled. ing one more flight simulator for this aircraft. First deliveries of this Embraer remains firm in its purpose of providing the best solution for second group of modernized fighters is expected for 2013. the market and will continue its unceasing pursuit of diversifying its customer base. The third program refers to the modernization of 12 AF-1 aircraft for the Brazilian Navy, two of which are already at Embraer and beginIn order to support the Super Tucano customers, Training and Opning to detail the modification and modernization work to be done. eration Support Systems (TOSS) were developed, which can include flight simulators, Computer Based Training (CBT), Mission Planning Firm Orders At the end of 2011, Embraer Defense and Security had Stations (MPS), and Mission Debriefing Stations (MDS). In 2011, The accumulated US$3.3 billion in its firm order backlog. Ecuadorean Air Force received its flight simulator. 56 annual report embraer 2011 45% growth in aircraft deliveries for Agricultural Aviation in 2011 operational performance 57 Agricultural Aviation Sales and deliveries In 2011, there were 58 Ipanema aircraft Scenario Embraer leads the agricultural aviation market in Brazil with sold in Brazil and the Mercosur, which represented a 45% inits Ipanema aircraft that holds a 75% share. The model has been procrease over the previous year and reflects an upturn in agriduced for 40 years at the Embraer plant in Botucatu, São Paulo, and is business. In January 2012, the model achieved the milestone of used to spray agricultural pesticides, fight fires, seed rivers, and com1,200 planes delivered. bat pests and larvae, among other applications. The airplane can be equipped with a series of optional features, such as a solids spreader Services and Support and a differential global positioning system (DGPS). Aeronautical Services gri 2.2 The number of Embraer aircraft in operation is constantly growing, throughout the world, and the The Ipanema is the first aircraft produced in series in the world. EthaCompany maintains a worldwide service network to support its cusnol is a more sustainable option, because of the lower environmental tomers. Each of the three business segments – commercial aviation, impact, lower operating and maintenance costs, and better overall perexecutive aviation, and defense and security – offers services that formance of the aircraft. The ethanol version began to be produced in include after-sale support, training, replacement parts sales, and air2005 and represents 20% of the fleet in operation. gri 2.2 craft and component maintenance services. In 2011, revenues from aeronautical services came to R$1,101 million and represented 11% of Embraer’s total revenues. Besides such specialized companies as Embraer Aircraft Maintenance Services (EAMS, in the U.S.) and OGMA – Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal, Embraer has its own shops and parts inventories in 2011 the U.S., France, China, Singapore, and Brazil. Embraer Service Centers Embraer’s worldwide network currently 2010 includes some 60 company-owned and authorized service centers. 2009 The network is complemented by a 24-hour Contact Center at the Company’s headquarters, in São José dos Campos, to assist customers anywhere in the world. Field support Embraer has a structure of teams with proven efficiency in providing customers with solutions for technical and operational problems, such as flight operations, maintenance and replacement parts. These teams each have an account manager, a replacement Aircraft Deliveries parts representative, and specialized technicians. Embraer offers 24-hour field support, 365 days a year, to its customers and provides 55 them with after-sale services. Ipanema’s delivered in 2011 40 Technical support A service team formed by qualified technicians Ipanema’s delivered in 2010 and engineers offers expert 24-hour attention at the headquarters in 34 São José dos Campos, answering customer questions and handling Ipanema’s delivered in 2009 problems, besides providing customized reports analyzing reliability. 58 annual report embraer 2011 This includes measures for real-time preventive monitoring of the fleet. Remote support can be expanded by the assistance of engineering at the customer’s location. Maintenance engineering Customized maintenance plans help customers gain better performance at reduced costs and with greater reliability. Embraer’s professionals are also prepared to modify the aircraft according to customer needs. These modifications, which are performed within the highest standards of quality, range from esthetics to cabin configuration and the substitution of basic systems. Operational support Embraer offers a complete set of technical documents especially prepared for the use of pilots, flight attendants, forwarders, and flight engineers that are aligned with the customer’s needs. Among a number of other conveniences, airline companies also have special courses for pilots, a “pilot allocation” option, and contracts for continuous consulting regarding flight engineering. Material support The Company offers effective systems for supplying materials and special replacement parts and programs needed for the operations of its customers, according to flight and maintenance chronograms. Training In order to provide support and qualify pilots, mechanics, technicians and flight attendants for operating its aircraft, Embraer makes several training programs available to its customers at a nume-Solutions Via solutions made available on the Internet, Embraer ber of sites around the world. offers its customers the convenience and savings of 24-hour access to support resources that include: technical publications, performance software, replacement parts, daily real-time information regarding fleet conditions, and an online manual for identifying defects, among other services. Sales Financing With the effects of the economic crisis on the availability and cost of financing aircraft, which worsened in the second half of 2011, the export credit agencies maintain support for their national manufacturers. Embraer’s customers, with the Company’s support, were able to structure all of their acquisitions, by both the market (63%) and the Brazilian export financing system (37%). operational performance 59 The diversification of the customer base of the E-Jets and its versatile Financing via the capital market will also gain a new thrust, as the new application to different business models have contributed to a positive regulations on capital and the banking system, as well as the global perception of the asset as a guarantee and, consequently, the residual adoption of the Cape Town treaty, tend to increase their efficiency, values have performed excellently. The successful restructuring of ficompared to the other structures. nancing for Embraer customers is proof of the excellent evaluation of the E-Jets by the financial community. The export credit agencies will continue their important involvement, in 2012, in meeting total financing needs, which are estimated to be The EMBRAER 170/190 family has been predominantly financed by US$95 billion for commercial aviation. Official support of the Brazilian European financial institutions and leasing companies. The European export financing system has increased over the past few years, due to commercial banks face severe liquidity restrictions and should reduce the financial crisis, and represented about 37% of all deliveries in 2011, the allocation of funds to finance aircraft over the coming years. On and this should continue at similar levels during 2012. We would point the other hand, the leasing companies and the capital market should out that this source of funding represents only 18% of all accumulated increase their participation in financing. E-Jet deliveries since 2004. In 2011, Embraer signed sale contracts directly with leasing companies Asset Management gri 2.2 In order to give better support to sales in the United States and Asia. Those agreements will contribute strong and to reduce some of the financial risks related to aircraft sales, support to the Company’s customers, worldwide, thus expanding the Embraer created the ECC Leasing Co. Ltd. subsidiary, based in Dublin, offer of operational leasing solutions. It is expected that the leasing Ireland, in 2002. structures will have a larger share in the coming years, compensating the reduction in the amounts to be allocated to the sector by the comThe mission of ECC Leasing is to manage and sell the aircraft portfomercial banks. lio that, due to contractual obligations, could be acquired by Embraer in trade-in or by-back transactions. The company also provides resale services to third parties connected with sales campaigns. 60 annual report embraer 2011 operational performance 61 ECC Leasing has managed 93 aircraft made by Embraer, so far, 43 of Technology Development gri pr1 The capacity to generate techwhich were resold, 29 are under operational leases, 14 are available nologically innovative solutions is an indispensable competence for for relocation in the market, and seven are being used by Embraer to staying competitive in the aeronautics industry. Keeping in mind the conclude tests and certifications, mainly for E-Jets and the Legacy 650. importance of new technologies for its future, Embraer, through its technological development program, investigates and develops soluThe fleet of 25 Citation Ultra aircraft, acquired by ECC Leasing from tions that create internal competencies that are crucial for its business. NetJets, Inc., by trade-in, at the end of 2010, was sold during the second half of 2011. The strategy of the technological development program is based on analyzing and monitoring the worldwide technological scenario. The fundamental condition for trade-in operations is the acquisition Embraer has been continuing its efforts and investments in the caof new aircraft by customers. Using the trade-in option is linked to the pacity to apply advanced technologies in the development of increascustomers fulfilling the contractual clauses. Those clauses state that ingly modern, safe and efficient aircraft. the price of the good that is offered as payment may be applied to the purchase price of a new, more up-to-date model produced by the In 2011, several advances were made in this direction, with the conCompany. The trade-in price is based on a percentage of the original clusion of the Silent Aircraft initiatives, with a focus on solutions purchase price of the aircraft, and Embraer monitors all of the trade-in for reducing noise levels in the aircraft, and Assembly Automation, commitments, in order to prepare for adverse situations. where a flexible and low-cost automation system for assembling the aircraft’s structure was developed and tested. Technological and operational management Technology and Knowledge In 2011, Embraer held the 100th ComuFurthermore, Embraer was a member of two consortia: Portugal’s nidade de Prática (Community of Practice), consolidating the concept Lighter, Integrated, Friendly and Eco-efficient (L.I.F.E.) Aircraft Cabin, and the importance of knowledge management practices in the various with its objective of creating competencies for conceiving, developing, areas of the Company. It also held the 2 edition of the Embraer Semind and industrializing technical and functional solutions that are more nar on Technology and Innovation (ESTI), where several presentations eco-efficient, lighter, integrated, comfortable, and have an innovative were made with high technological content, produced by employees design; and Europe’s Sustainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy and focusing on the sustainability of products and processes. Furtherfor Aviation (SWAFEA), in order to study the best technical and susmore, and even was held, which focused on gathering and disseminattainable alternatives for the use of renewable fuels in aviation. ing the experiences of experts with a broad spectrum of technologies Another important landmark of the program is associated with the evaluation of new solutions for aviation’s energy matrix, specifically a test flight with aviation biokerosene developed by UOP Honeywell. Produced basically from camelina (bioQAV), this is the first renewable kerosene in the world to be certified for commercial aviation. 62 annual report embraer 2011 PARTNERSHIP in R&D favors innovation and the development of technologies Knowledge network gri pr1 Embraer’s technological development Keeping in mind the importance of R&D activities for national develstrategy is structured as a program that is able to manage and carry opment, and the strategic role of the aeronautics industry for techout multidisciplinary projects and integrate a number of institutions, nological innovation, Embraer is actively involved in discussions with such as universities, research institutes, fomenting institutions and the main corporate leaders and the government, in order to strengthother companies that operate as a network of development partners. en public fomenting policies for the National Innovation System. In Currently, more than 50 research and development (R&D) institutes this way, the Company seeks to contribute to building an environwork together, involving more than 250 researchers from the scienment that favors technological innovation in companies and intensitific community. fies research into the Nation’s emerging technologies. In 2011, important steps were taken in the plan for expanding and With this objective in mind, in August 2011, the Federal government integrating national and international research networks. The first launched the Greater Brazil Program (Programa Brasil Maior). This Brazilian laboratory for researching lightweight structures – in the program sees the aeronautics and space industry as one of the diTechnological Park of São José dos Campos, São Paulo – began opmensions for expanding the Nation’s technological competencies. erating in a contact made possible by a partnership that involves the Therefore, the program strengthens the continuity of Embraer’s efResearch Assistance Foundation of the State of São Paulo (Fundação forts toward technological innovation, for the purpose of being more de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo – FAPESP), the Insticompetitive. tute of Technological Research (Instituto de Pesquisas Tecnológicas – IPT), the Department of Development of the State of São Paulo Intellectual Property A Embraer’s intellectual property manage(Secretaria do Desenvolvimento do Estado de São Paulo), the Nament policy recognizes the need to protect the rights and results of tional Economic and Social Development Bank (Banco Nacional de intellectual creation arising from investments in research and develDesenvolvimento Econômico e Social – BNDES), and Embraer. opment, in the form of inventions, industrial design, brands, processes, systems, software, or products. FAPESP, Boeing, and Embraer also signed a letter of intent to collaborate in the research and development of biofuels for commercial aviaAn assessment of the importance and convenience of obtaining protion. Embraer began taking part in the Aerospace Vehicle Systems tection for intellectual property of innovations in products, technoloInstitute (AVSI), which deals with issues that affect the aerospace gies or processes developed by Embraer is made by an Intellectual community, via cooperative research and international collaboration Property Management Committee composed of permanent represenon the part of industry, governments and universities. In addition, tatives of the Technology, Engineering, and Legal vice presidencies. Embraer’s participation was approved in Framework Programme 7 of the European Community. operational performance 63 In order to evolve with the best practices for managing intellectual Founded on four pillars, the property, the Company joined the Brazilian Association of Intellectual Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Property (Associação Brasileira da Propriedade Intelectual – ABPI), in Program buttresses the Company’s 2011, which brings together companies, offices of industrial property competitiveness and expands its agents, law firms, and experts from Brazil and other countries. capacity to respond to the challenges Embraer also joined the Intellectual Property Program of the National and opportunities of the market. Confederation of Industries (Programa de Propriedade Intelectual da The initiative pursues continuous Confederação Nacional das Indústrias – CNI), in which all national entiand gradual improvement, the ties of the Industrial System (CNI, SESI, SENAI, and IEL) are involved. The program is the largest enterprise for disseminating and training elimination waste, and automation. for the strategic use of intellectual property in Latin America. Since the implementation of its policy for managing intellectual property, in 2007, Embraer has had a substantial increase in the number of patents requested. In 2011, 23 requests for patents were filed and 17 were granted for industrial drawings and inventions. Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E) The results obtained by the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E) Industrial Operations Industrial operations contributed signifiover the past four years have sustained the Company’s competitivecantly to Embraer’s results, with a number of products focused on ness and expanded its capacity for responding to the challenges of increasing productivity and improving manufacturing quality. These the aerospace market, such as the reduction in demand, higher costs, gains were achieved by disseminating the lean manufacturing conand keen competition. cepts promoted by the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), mainly by carrying out Kaizen and 3P (Production Preparation The program was launched in 2007 and has shown an evolution in Process) projects. the satisfaction of people, the preparation of leaders, operational efficiency, and corporate culture. Based on a Japanese model, the P3E is Another P3E highlight in industrial operations was the evolution of a system that seeks to raise Embraer’s management, processes and several continuous improvement cells to the silver certification level, products to the level of excellence, by improving the capacity of all while others achieved the cell group stage, thus strengthening the inemployees and leaders. The program is founded upon four pillars: tegration between the different departments and perfecting the value flow processes. • The development of Embraer’s organizational culture; • The development of people; In line with the strategy of the P3E Program, Embraer advanced with • The constant formation of leaders and their management skills; its industrial automation project, in 2011. Other robots were added • The pursuit of excellence and efficiency in all of the Company’s processes. to the already existing ones, to manufacture fuselage segments and wings and to paint the aircraft – the painting robot is the first to be The program uses the Kaizen concept of continuous and gradual used for this purpose in the aeronautics industry. Several robots were pursuit of improvement of the Company and personal life, and the also acquired and will begin operating next year to paint parts, join Lean philosophy, inspired by the Lean Toyota management system of fuselage sections, and manufacture parts from composite materials eliminating waste, just-in-time delivery, and automation. Therefore, in Brazil. For the new factories in Portugal, robots were acquired to the P3E gives incentive to a culture where employees express themmanufacture wings and stabilizers. selves regarding solutions and innovations for the product, operating process, and management. . 64 annual report embraer 2011 As a fundamental part of the program, the Company’s leadership goes through a training process, which is divided into three stages: • Program for new leaders; • Perfecting command skills; • Formation of new entrepreneurs, with the objective of ensuring the perpetuity of the business. Leaders should always be aligned with the P3E values, in order to inspire their staff and, thus, reduce waste and increase Embraer’s competitiveness. Continuous improvement cell groups P3E was developed by forming continuous improvement cells, based on the value flow of the Company. The cells advance through the steps of the program via a certification process based on definite criteria, which begins with basic qualifications and, successively, goes through the bronze, silver and gold levels, according to performance. The fundamentals of excellence of the National Foundation for Quality (Fundação Nacional da Qualidade) were included in the criteria for evolving the P3E cell groups. By 2011, of the 437 existing cell groups, 416 were qualified according to the expectations of internal and external customers, the routine for applying improvement tools, and the definition of goals of excellence. Of these cell groups, 373 (85%) achieved the bronze level, because they obtained significant improvements in their processes, and 71 cell groups (16%) received silver certification, for meeting high performance goals. In 2011, the cell groups were aligned and, consequently, their processes were joined with value flows and clearly defined products, indicators and targets that ensure excellent results. The cycle for practicing values, which was based on individual actions for collective movements, recognized 54 cell groups as outstanding in practicing Embraer’s Values, in 2011. operational performance 65 Occupational Health and Safety gri la7 “Our people are what make us fly” is the first of the six values that guide Embraer’s policies and engagement. Consequently, health, well-being and occupational safety are the basic assumptions of all of the activities carried out by the Company. Embraer holds OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Services) certification, managed by the Integrated Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), which monitors the health and safety actions at all of the Company’s units. This system, which integrates the Company, employees, third-parties, and customers, is evaluated, annually, and certified by ABS Quality Evaluations. The strategy of SIG-MASSQ is based on prior recognition of risks and on establishing objectives and goals that are strengthened by actions such as those set forth in the Occupational Health and Safety Excellence Plan. The main goal of this Plan is to reduce job-related accidents by 70% and the rate of severity by 50%, by December 2012, based on the figures for 2009. The Plan works on four fronts: preventive action, process changes, educational actions, and corrective actions. In 2011, compared to 2009, there was a reduction of 52% in the number of job-related accidents requiring a leave of absence and 70% not requiring a leave, at the Faria Lima unit, alone, which has 57% of all employees. These results reflect preventive, corrective and educational actions, as well as a few changes in processes. Despite all of the initiatives and improved indicators, the Company recorded a fatal accident in 2011, at the Faria Lima plant, in São José dos Campos. By the time this report was concluded, the cause of the accident was still being investigated by the Regional Office of the Ministry of Labor. After the occurrence, the Company took preventive measures at all of its units, to eliminate the possibility of a repeated occurrence. Support programs Based on the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), all of the areas of the Company have goals for the continuous improvement of the production processes and criteria for eligibility connected with the subject of occupational health and safety. 66 annual report embraer 2011 2009 Other programs also contribute to the goal of reducing job-related accidents, such as the Behavioral Program, which encourages the involvement of employees in the subject of safe behavior. 2010 2011 Embraer’s Industrial Ergonomics Program works to improve the relationship between employees and their jobs, in order to prevent, minimize or eliminate health hazards, providing comfort and safety by adapting the work situation to the characteristics of the workers, while considering their needs, skills and limitations. Job-related accidents without leave of absence Supply Chain Management Aeronautical materials are the main 31 cost of an aircraft and, consequently, have a heavy impact on the Occurrences in 2011 Company’s cash flow. In 2011, Embraer continued its projects for 47 protecting its cash, generating margins, supplier relations and comOccurrences in 2010 munications, optimizing work processes, training people to manage 100 supplies, and reducing inventories of purchased materials. Occurrences in 2009 The project for reducing inventory levels includes changing the policies for planning the purchase of materials (lot and security invento2009 ry), eliminating excess inventories, reducing obsolete materials, and actions for improving the predictability of cash disbursements. This 2010 project integrates the rules and procedures practiced by all of the areas involved in the supply chain, like freight, contracts, currency conversion, reception of materials, products, and payment conditions. 2011 The selection of Embraer’s suppliers is influenced by such technical factors as reliability, cost, capacity, availability and delivery deadlines, quality, purchase convenience, assistance, and production capacity. About 5% of the budgets for the purchasing processes of the operational units are handled with local suppliers. gri ec6 Job-related accidents with leave of absence Quarterly executive meetings are held to follow up on action plans with the main suppliers of aeronautical materials. Indicators of in48 dustrial performance, customer satisfaction, and competitiveness of Occurrences in 2011 suppliers are followed on a monthly basis. gri pr5 79 Occurrences in 2010 100 Occurrences in 2009 operational performance 67 Embraer’s responsibility is taken broadly and covers not only the products that are sold, but also training customers to operate Product Responsibility and Safety gri pr1 | pr2 | pr3 In its comthe aircraft. Furthermore, the mitment to entrepreneurial excellence, as expressed in the P3E program, the Company adopts the highest production standards Company is rigorously involved in and seeks to continuously perfect its people and processes, which the certification and approval of is one of the pillars of responsibility for a product that involves high new products and modifications. technology and security measures, like an airplane. Besides training its employees, the Company and its training partners offer all customers who operate aircraft a broad range of technical training courses. The Company’s responsibility is also reflected in design, manufacturFor the purpose of improving relationships and communication, an Eming and air navigability certifications obtained by its aircraft in Brazil braer Suppliers Conference (ESC) and Supply Chain Alignment (SCA) and abroad. Certification is a legal and mandatory process for civil are held annually to advise suppliers of Embraer’s expectations and to aviation, by which Embraer shows that the product complies with the present the current and future scenarios of the commercial aviation, safety requirements set by the certifying agency. executive jets, and defense and security markets. Production plans, action plans, and projects for improving the supply chain and product quality are also presented. Embraer regularly evaluates key and/or crucial suppliers, in order to identify and mitigate potential risks to the supply chain, such as financ2010 es, the supplier’s business, product quality, engineering, manufacturing, after-sales, and the environment. 2009 In 2011, the Brazilian Air Force (FAB) and Embraer held a KC-390 Workshop, in order to stimulate the participation and preparation of Brazilian companies as suppliers of parts, components, systems, and 2011 services for this military transport aircraft that is being developed by Embraer. The nationalization index of the aircraft is estimated at between 60% and 80%, if the engines are not taken into consideration, which represent about one-third of the total cost of the aircraft and for which there is no national product. Besides stimulating the capacity of the national supply chain, the workSubjects included in the monitoring of the Product Safety Committee shop also sought to give incentive to companies to pursue partnerships with foreign suppliers, which have already been hired by Embraer Defense and Security for the program of the new airplane. 1,4 Average per airplane type monitored in 2011 3,1 Average per airplane type monitored in 2010 2,5 Average per airplane type monitored in 2009 68 annual report embraer 2011 operational performance 69 3 largest rd manufacturer of commercial jets in the world and fifth largest Brazilian exporter Embraer’s flight safety policy provides a proactive approach to the Certifications gri pr1 All of the aircraft developed by Embraer for entire life cycle of the product, so as to ensure that safety norms civilian use are certified by Brazil’s National Civil Aviation Agency and standards meet, as well as exceed, the minimum requirements (Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil do Brasil – ANAC), by the U.S. of aviation certification agencies. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) of the European Union, as well as other agenNew products and modifications made in designs that have already cies, depending on where the aircraft will be registered and operated. been certified are only released to operators after the formal process of demonstrating the safety requirements, and after approval The safety performance of the products is continuously monitored has been issued by the civil aviation agency. for the customers. Any eventual risks identified are immediately assessed by Embraer’s Product Safety Committee, and a complete risk The process for ensuring the integrity of Embraer’s products continmanagement process is established, in order to minimize exposure, ues to be the same, after the aircraft goes into service or after the according to the highest industry standards. modifications have been implemented, with the fleet duly followedup on by both Embraer and the responsible authorities. On the average, 2.4 issues per type of aircraft per year are included in the monitoring of this committee, even with the launch of new modThe Company also makes available technical operating and mainteels and the continuous growth of the number of airplanes in operanance manuals for the aircraft, with detailed information regarding tion over the past five years (see graphic on page 68). the safe and efficient use of all of its products and services, in compliance with applicable regulatory demands, so as to minimize the environmental and social impacts arising from their use. 70 annual report embraer 2011 In the case of an accident or serious incident involving one of its prodIn all three cases, Embraer sent representatives to accompany the ucts, Embraer Flight Safety takes part in the investigations and gives investigations of the causes of accidents. Although the investigations support to the authorities in charge, always in line with the standards have not been concluded, no contributing factor has been found, reof the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). lated to the product. Occurrences In 2011, there were three non-injury accidents with Intangible Assets The Company considers its main intangible asEmbraer aircraft. In May, a Phenom 100 ran off the runway during sets to be the Embraer brand, its people, the intellectual property of landing, in the U.S. In September, an EMBRAER 190 went off the its innovations, and its infrastructure. Its penetration of and signifirunway when landing in Ecuador. In Gabon, in October, an EMB-120 cant participation in different markets and regions show the global Brasília turboprop also went off the end of the runway while landing, acceptance of the brand, associated with highly reliable, innovative under unfavorable weather conditions. and sustainable products, linked to cutting-edge technology. Intangible Assets Assets Components Means of Evaluation Third largest manufacturer of commercial jets in Total sales the world Global customer base Embraer Brand Fifth largest Brazilian exporter Portfolio of important and world-renowned partners 42 years in operation Investment grade by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s Knowledge and skills related to Performance of the Company strategic competencies People Performance and Process Management System (P3E) High productivity, motivation and Awards and recognition for people management commitment rates Knowledge management process Intellectual Property Legal protection for intellection Number or value of patents property of innovations operational performance 71 Having a global operation has become a necessary strategy for a company that wants to achieve sustainable development. Global operations also help promote political, economic and cultural exchange between countries. Since Embraer entered the Chinese market in 2000, as of December 31, 2011, it has delivered over 100 commercial jets, accounting for over 76% of China’s regional aviation market. These aircraft are helping airlines build networks, explore new markets, optimize fleet management, and train pilots to address the crew shortage problem. This not only facilitates the strategic market development of the airlines, but also provides convenient air service for the public and stimulates the development of regional economies and the aviation industry as well. The establishment of HEAI has provided job opportunities for around 230 people. As a direct result of the production and delivery of over 100 Embraer jets, there have also been jobs created by the airlines, along with employment by the suppliers, derivative industries and local tourism industries due to the more convenient air transportation services. Guo Dianman, President of AVIC Harbin Aircraft Industry Group Co., Ltd. (AVIC HAIG), China. The global nature of Embraer’s business brings with it many advantages. The company is internationally recognized for its excellence, and our global exposure allows us the opportunity to tap into growth markets while mitigating risks arising from potential down-cycles in other markets. Furthermore, with operations all around the world, Embraer is a multicultural company with a rich and diverse professional environment. Thanks to this international presence, I had the chance to be transferred from our Paris office to our Singapore office where I am now part of a team of 70 people, representing over ten different nationalities. Marine Benoit, Regional Sales Director, Commercial Aviation, Embraer Asia-Pacific. Diversity, stability and opportunity; these are the advantages of working at a company with global participation. Diversity in the sense that many countries, cultures and experiences are better represented in a global company. We all have a lot to learn from each other, and when we work together, we become stronger. Stability because being present in different markets facilitates the sales process and provides our customers with convenience. Last, but not least, working in a global company provides us with opportunities of personal and professional growth. Embraer, in parallel to Brazil’s good performance, has managed to position itself globally in a positive manner. All these attributes, added to many others, contribute to increase our market share, our sales numbers and consequently, help in building a sustainable future for Embraer employees worldwide. Mark A. Miller, Operations Manager of Embraer Executive Jets in Melbourne, Florida (USA). GLOBAL PRESENCE is our frontier A 5% growth in net revenues and strong operational performance highlighted Embraer’s economic-financial results in 2011. Economic-Financial Performance and Capital Market I n 2011, Embraer achieved, and even surpassed, the annual revenue estimates and operating and EBITDA margins released to the market, in its recurring operations. Economic-Financial Performance Net revenues and gross margin gri ec1 Net income for the year was R$9,858.1 million, or 5% more than the previous year. Embraer believes that the current gross margin level is sustainable for the coming years, presuming a similar product mix and revenues. 74 annual report embraer 2011 Summary of financial performance R$ million* 2011 2010 2009 Net revenues 9,858.1 9,380.6 10,871.3 Cost of Products Sold (7,638.8) (7,582.6) (8,759.5) Gross Income 2,219.3 1,798.0 2,111.8 Gross Margin 22.5% 19.2% 19.4% Operating Expenses (1,697.5) (1,112.4) (1,345.1) Operating Income After Interest and Taxes 521.8 685.6 766.7 Operating Margin 5.3% 7.3% 7.1% Depreciation and Amortization 401.2 383.6 452.1 Adjusted EBITDA(1) 923.0 1,069.2 1,218.8 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 9.4% 11.4% 11.2% Net Income Attributed to Embraer 156.3 573.6 912.1 Net Margin 1.6% 6.1% 8.4% Profit per Share 0.22 0.79 1.26 Number of Shares(2) 723,667 723,665 723,665 * Except Profit per Share and Number of Shares. (1) Adjusted EBITDA, according to CVM Bulletin No. 1/2005, is net income plus net financial revenues (expenses), income tax and social contribution, depreciation and amortization, non-operating revenues (expenses), minority shares, and pick-up equity. (2) Does not include 16.8 million shares kept in the treasury. economic-financial performance and capital market 75 Commercial aviation achieved revenues of R$6.2 billion, During the year, Embraer’s exports totaled US$4,209.2 million, making and was responsible for 64% of the Company Brazil’s fifth largest exporter, contributing 1.64% to the Embraer’s total sales for the year. Brazilian balance of trade. Among main consumer markets In 2011, there were 105 aircraft delivered to the commercial aviation are Europe, Asia-Pacific, and market, 103 of which were E-Jets and two were ERJ 145; 99 jets were deNorth America. livered to the executive aviation market, including 13 Legacy 600/650, three Lineage 1000, 42 Phenom 300, and 41 Phenom 100. Besides these, there were delivered to the defense and security market four F-5 fighter jets modernized by the F-5M program of the Brazilian Air Force (FAB), and eight Super Tucanos, two of which to Brazil, three to Ecuador, and three to an undisclosed customer. Aircraft deliveries by segment 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 105 100 122 ERJ 145 2 6 7 Embraer 170 1 9 (2) 22 Embraer 175 10 8 11 Embraer 190 68 58 62 Embraer 195 24 17 20 Executive Aviation 99 144 115 Phenom 100 41 100 93 Phenom 300 42 26 1 Legacy 600/650 13 10 18 Lineage 1000 3 5 3 Embraer 170 Shuttle 3 Defense and Security* 2 7 ERJ 135 1 1 Phenom 100 4 Legacy 600 1 Embraer 190 2 TOTAL JETS 204 246 244 Deliveries shown in parentheses were accounted for as operational leasing. *Includes only the deliveries of executive jets configured for transporting officials and for State-owned airlines. 76 annual report embraer 2011 Revenues per Segment Net revenues for the commercial aviation market grew 10% over the R$5,707.3 million of 2010, coming to R$6,273.6 million, due to the improved product mix and greater number of deliveries, despite the increased value of the Real during the period. The executive aviation market generated revenues of R$1,930.4 million in Brazil’s share of the Company’s net revenues continued to expand, 2011, or 8% less than the R$2,095.6 million of 2010. from 4% in 2008 to 17% in 2011. The main contributing factors were continued deliveries to Azul Linhas Aéreas Brasileiras, as well as a subNet revenues of the defense and security market were R$1,444.7 milstantial increase in revenues from the defense and security business. lion in 2011, and remained stable, compared to the R$1,445.2 million of 2010. Other business was responsible for R$209.3 million in revIn a reversal of the direction of last year, North America’s share began enues in 2011. to grow, again, and came to 20% of net revenues, mainly due to a boost in commercial aviation deliveries in that region. Revenues by segment 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 64% 61% 69% Executive Aviation 19% 23% 17% Defense and Security 15% 15% 12% Others 2% 1% 2% Revenues by region 2011 2010 2009 North America 20% 13% 22% Europe 25% 33% 33% Latin America 11% 15% 7% Brazil 17% 13% 11% Asia Pacific 23% 22% 21% Others 4% 4% 6% economic-financial performance and capital market 77 Operating Expenses In 2011, operating expenses totaled R$1,697.5 erated by Mesa AirGroup and that still had not been resold. In this million, showing a growth of 53% over the R$1,112.3 million of 2010, manner, Embraer completed the total provision expected to cover all due particularly to the other (expenses) operating income account, of the guarantees. which went from revenues of R$16.9 million in 2010 to an expense of R$410.4 million in 2011. R$197.3 million of the total provisioning were accounted for as financial expenses and had no impact on operating results. The rest was This increase was caused by provisioning classified as other operating expenses and, deR$465.3 million, mainly due to the Compaspite having impacted the Company’s operating Operating expenses grew ny’s current estimate for covering eventual results in 2011, the cash disbursement related to losses related to its obligations for financial in 2011, mainly due to these guarantees is expected to occur over the and residual value guarantees (RVG) offered provisioning and increased coming years. to financial agencies and customers of airlabor costs, as well as craft from the ERJ 145 family. With the payroll increase of approximately 10%, organizational changes and in November 2010, the operating expenses were American Airlines (AMR), which filed for the incorporation of new impacted negatively in 2011. Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection at the end companies. of 2011, currently operates 216 ERJ 145 family Commercial and administrative expenses During jets, via its wholly owned subsidiary Ameri2011, commercial expenses rose 7% over the can Eagle, and its final decision on how it will previous year, and totaled R$702.9 million, manage this fleet is still being weighed. In order to handle this scerepresenting 7% of net sales revenues. nario, Embraer provisioned R$583.2 million, based on its best estimate at that moment. Furthermore, the Company continued investing in the development of its customer support network, especially in executive Considering that this decision could impact the secondary market for reaviation, and it intensified its actions for establishing the product gional jets, due to the increased availability of aircraft coming out of this strategy for commercial aviation. restructuring process, a Embraer also accounted for R$79.4 million from adjustments in residual value and financial guarantees, in order to cover Administrative expenses totaled R$440 million in 2011, showing potential future expenses associated with the ERJ 145 family. a growth of 27% compared to the R$346.1 million of the previous year, which is explained by increased labor costs, as well as the This amount also took into consideration a complementary provision organizational changes that occurred in Embraer and the incorpofor certain financial guarantees of 36 ERJ 145 aircraft that were opration of new companies acquired during the year. 78 annual report embraer 2011 economic-financial performance and capital market 79 r$ 923 million EBITDA achieved by Embraer at the end of 2011 Net profit and net margin During 2011, Embraer recorded net financial expenses of R$139.7 million, when 2010 had generated net financial revenues of R$29.5 million, mainly due to the provisioning mentioned above. Therefore, in 2011, Embraer before-tax profits of R$382.1 million, while in 2010 they were R$715.1 million. This negative difference of Operating results After the contingencies mentioned here, the 47% was also impacted by more taxes levied during the period, beCompany’s operating results (EBIT) totaled R$521.8 million in 2011, cause of the appreciation of the Real. or 24% less than the R$685.6 million calculated the previous year, generating an operating margin of 5.3%, which is less than the For that reason, the net profits of R$156.3 million attributed to Em7.3% for 2010. braer were 73% less than the R$573.6 million calculated in 2010, and the net margin reached 1.6%, which is under the 6.1% calculated for If we remove from this calculation the negative effect of provisionthe previous year. ing on the results and the reception of fines arising from the cancellation of aircraft, which had a positive impact, the operating margin If the effects of the provisioning and the deferred income tax for the would have been 8.9%, above the guidance of 8.3%. This result can period are removed from these results, net profits would be R$852.3 be explained mainly by the improved operating efficiency originatmillion in 2011, compared to the R$628.7 million of 2010, with net ing with the P3E program. margins of 8.6% and 6.7%, respectively. EBITDA EBITDA achieved R$923 million in 2011, which is 14% less than the R$1,069.2 million of the previous year. The EBITDA margin was equally impacted and came to 9.4%. The EBITDA margin before the provisioning would have been 13%. 80 annual report embraer 2011 Asset Indicators The following are Embraer’s main asset indicators for the past two years: Highlighted Consolidated Amounts R$ million 2011 2010 2009 Available* 3,946.3 3,543.4 4,433.4 Accounts Receivable 949.2 581.9 709.3 Financing for Customers 191.9 117.5 91.9 Inventory 4,291.0 3,662.8 4,257.3 Permanent Assets** 4,236.9 3,194.6 3,180.8 Suppliers 1,556.7 1,250.0 1,038.3 Indebtedness – Short-Term 472.2 120.9 1,031.5 Indebtedness – Long-Term 2,637.9 2,269.7 2,552.5 Net Assets 5,848.6 5,217.7 5,019.7 * Includes cash and cash equivalents and asset and liability financial instruments. ** Includes fixed assets and intangibles. At the end of fiscal 2011, net cash was 27% less than the previous The inventory position at the end of the year was R$4,291.0 million, year, coming to R$836.2 million, mainly due to acquisitions made by or 17% more than the corresponding amount in December 2010. This the defense and security segment, as well as to the greater volume of increase came mainly from the strengthening of the Dollar, at the end investments during the period. of the year, which was approximately 12.6%. Therefore, this real inventory variation was less than 5%. In 2012, it is expected that despite the Embraer closed out the year with a total indebtedness of R$3,110.1 milincreased number of deliveries, there will be an inventory reduction. lion, 30% more than the R$2,390.6 million of the previous year. Eightyfive percent of the total indebtedness was in long-term credit lines, The 30% increase in indebtedness, which was compensated by a 12% and consists of R$1,945.5 million (63%) in credit lines, the majority rise in net assets, maintained a stable ratio between debt and net asof which were stated in Dollars, and the remaining R$1,164.7 million sets. Furthermore, asset and inventory turnover remained practically (37%) are stated in Reals, with the average indebtedness of five years. stable, due to the continuity of the management of the supply chain. The reduced return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) can be explained by the impact of the exchange rate on the asset accounts balance and also by the provisioning that was made, as already mentioned. economic-financial performance and capital market 81 Consolidated Indicators R$ million IFRS 2011 2010 2009 Debt/Net Assets 0.5 0.5 0.7 Inventory Turnover 1.8 2.1 2.1 Asset Turnover 0.6 0.7 0.7 ROA 0.9% 4.1% 5.9% ROE 2.7% 11.0% 18.2% ROCE* 11.9% 16.1% 15.8% * In IFRS US$. ROCE: Return on Capital Employed. Destination of the Results of the Controlling Company In 2011, Embraer distributed R$180.9 million to its shareholders, in the form of interest on own capital, which represented 116% of consolidated net profits of R$156.3 million. Therefore, the Company will make no additional distribution of interest on own capital and dividends, and there will be no retention of net profits for the fiscal year. Value-added Distribution (VAD) gri ec1 VAD indicates the value generated by Embraer and its distribution to the segments of society represented by shareholders, employees, financial institutions, and government (municipal, state and federal). The value-added to be distributed totaled R$2,581.7 million and represented 26% of net revenues in 2011. Taxes, social contributions and municipal, state and federal fees that measure part of the level of contribution that Embraer provides for Brazilian society, were R$614.9 million during fiscal 2011. Capital Market Embraer’s relationship with the financial community and its investors is based on the transparent and equitable release of information, characterized by a profound respect for legal and ethical principles, while seeking to consolidate and maintain its leadership and innovative image with the capital market, and following the rules of the New Market (Novo Mercado) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), which is the highest level of corporate government in the Nation. 82 annual report embraer 2011 value-added distribution R$ million 2011 2010 2009 Total 2,581.7 2,707.0 2,966.6 People 1,358.3 1,359.2 1,467.6 Government (taxes, fees and contributions) 614.9 503.7 119.3 Interest and Rent 437.2 244.0 442.4 Interest on Own Capital and Dividends 226.2 155.7 228.9 Retained Earnings/Losses for the Period -69.9 417.8 683.2 Participation of non-Controllers 15.0 26.6 25.2 The Company’s stocks have been listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), since 1989, and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), through level III American Depositary Receipts 2012 (ADR), since 2000. In 2011, Embraer maintained its listing on the theoretical IBrX (Brazil Index), IGC (Corporate Governance Stock Index), Corporate Sustainability Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE), Special Tag Along Stock Index (Índice de Ações com Tag Along Diferenciado – ITAG), Industrial Sector Index (Índice do Setor Industrial – INDX), and IVBX-2 Index (Índice Valor Bovespa 2ª Linha). Embraer was, once again, chosen to be listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), leading the Aerospace and Defense sector. Due to the lower liquidity of the Company’s stocks, it dropped off from the IBrX50 and ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency) indexes. Stock performance Embraer’s (EMBR3) stocks traded on the BM&FBOVESPA closed out 2011 quoted at R$11.76, which was practically stable, compared to the close of the previous year, while the BM&FBOVESPA index devaluated by 19% for the same period. The Company’s (ERJ) American Depositary Shares (ADS), listed on the NYSE, achieved a price of US$25.22 at the end of the year, devaluating by 15%, while the Dow Jones rose 5%. economic-financial performance and capital market 83 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 jan 11 feb 11 mar 11 apr 11 may 11 jun 11 jul 11 aug 11 sep 11 oct 11 nov 11 EMBR3 Performance – BM&FBOVESPA Capital on December 31, 2011 01/01/2011 = 100 723,666,644 Ordinary Shares* Embraer BM&FBovespa 53% NYSE 140 47% BM&FBovespa 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 jan 11 feb 11 mar 11 apr 11 may 11 jun 11 jul 11 aug 11 sep 11 oct 11 nov 11 ERJ Performance – NYSE Capital on December 31, 2011 01/01/2011 = 100 Embraer NYSE 37% NYSE Others 9% Oppenheimer Funds 7.2% Thornburg Investment 25.1% BM&FBovespa Others 5.5% BNDESPAR 10.6% Previ 5.6% Grupo Bozano * Does not include 16,798,400 shares deposited in the treasury, with no political or economic value. 84 annual report embraer 2011 sector leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) During the period, the North American market traded an average of 1,204,000 ADS per day, which is the equivalent of an average daily financial flow of US$34.7 million. On the Brazilian stock exchange, daily trading volume averaged 1,623,000 shares, for an average financial volume of R$19.5 million. 2009 2010 Embraer’s market value, at the end of 2011, was US$4.7 billion, compared to US$5.4 billion for the previous year. 2011 Shareholder Remuneration With reference to fiscal 2011, Embraer distributed R$180.9 million to its shareholders, in the form of interest on own capital (Joint Cost Position – JCP), or the equivalent of R$0.25 per share, which represented a payout of 116% of net profits for the period. The JCP distribution to shareholders was approved by the Board of Directors in meetings held during the fiscal year. On March 16, the distribution of R$43.4 million was approved, at R$0.06 per share, for the 1st quarter of 2011, with payment beginning on April 19, 2011. Dividends Distributed r$ million On June 9, the distribution of R$72.4 million was approved, at R$0.10 per share, for the 2nd quarter of 2011, with payment beginning on July 181 million distributed in 2011 22, 2011. 201 million distributed in 2010 And on September 14, the distribution of R$65.1 million was approved, at R$0.09 per share, for the 3rd quarter of 2011, with payment 229 million distributed in 2009 beginning on October 17, 2011. economic-financial performance and capital market 85 Since my college days, I have admired Embraer for its ecological stand, and for its concerns about impacting the environment with its production processes. This concern was evident, in the middle of the last decade, when Embraer certified the first ethanol-powered aircraft. So, in 2009, when we started to develop biofuels, Embraer was the ideal partner. Besides Embraer, the project has the support of GE, which develops aircraft engines, and Amyris, which develops and manufactures the renewable fuel that will be used. The first test with this type of fuel will be performed in 2012 on one of our Embraer E-jets, with a 50% biofuel mix. Adalberto Febeliano, Director of Institutional Relations for Azul Linhas Aéreas. Since childhood, I have loved math and physics. My teacher suggested that I should study at a private school, but my family couldn’t afford it. That was when I heard of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School. I passed the exam, and got in. It was a great opportunity, because besides a scholarship to a top-ofthe-line school, I received a uniform, course materials, meals and transportation. I finished high school and was accepted at six universities. I chose Electrical Engineering at Unicamp. After three years, I was granted a scholarship to study in France at the École Polytechnique, where I graduated with Bachelor’s and Master’s Degrees. Shortly thereafter, I was accepted for Embraer’s Engineering Specialization Program. Today, my dream is to join Embraer and help my country. I was the first one in my family to travel abroad, and the first one to fly on a plane. If it weren’t for Embraer’s school, nothing like this would have happened to me. Douglas Felix Ferreira, former student of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School. The Embraer Institute focuses on education, because without education there is neither economic improvement nor social justice. Embraer’s Juarez Wanderley High School is its largest project and offers free quality education to 600 young people coming from the public school systems in the São José dos Campos region. The purpose is to we build a provide students with a well-rounded education, an appreciation of ethics and citizenship, and access to the best universities in the country. However, our work goes beyond the classrooms of Embraer’s school. With the involvement of the company’s employee volunteers in the neighboring communities, we prepare young people for the job market, collaborate in improving the quality of education for children and adolescents, and promote social and ecological awareness. We also emphasize sustainability. In 2011, we launched the Embraer Center for SUSTAINABL Environmental Education – Jequitibá, in São Jose dos Campos, which will address such topics as renewable energy, sustainable buildings and industrial processes, recycling and, of course, the study of local FUTURE biodiversity. With this investment, the seed is being sown for the future of our young people, and offers them an opportunity to take a big leap in their lives. Pedro Ferraz, Diretor do Instituto Embraer de Educação e Pesquisa. E W e build a sustainable future.” This is one of the values that Embraer proudly defends as a guideline for its corporate actions, focusing on the perpetuity of its business. Embraer continuously seeks to establish itself as a sustainable company, which means contributing to a healthier environment and to social development in the same proportion, as it takes into consideration the satisfaction of its customers, shareholders, employees, and other stakeholders. Among other initiatives, the Company is attentive to environmental risks, the socioenvironmental qualification of suppliers, the optimization of its production process, and investments in educational projects that focus on human development, the well-being of the communities with which it is involved, and meeting the requirements of the qualification, health, safety, and quality of life of its employees. In order to minimize its environmental impact, Embraer deals with the life cycle of its product and focuses on the efficiency of its processes, besides supporting initiatives from the aerospace sector for mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as participating in aviation biofuels projects. Socioenvironmental Performance For the purpose of minimizing the environmental impacts throughout the life cycle of the product, Embraer takes action to improve products and processes, engages the supply chain, and optimizes the logistics for raw materials, parts, and components. 88 annual report embraer 2011 Environmental Performance gri pr3 Environmental performance is fully embraced by the Company management, which deals with an approach based on the life cycle of the product, examining the environmental impacts of each of its phases. This approach implies going beyond the traditional focus on the manufacturing process, restricted to the production site, analyzing environmental, social and economic imThe Company continues to be aligned with the challenges of the air pacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product. transportation industry, as a whole, in order to reduce environmental impact, especially GHG emissions in the life cycle of the aircraft and This model is based on improvements related to the: the use of hazardous materials. • Product, from its conception phase, through development and testEnvironmental Management System and Operating Indicators ing, by applying Design for Environment (DfE) practices, which The environmental principles and guidelines that lead Embraer are seek to anticipate and minimize environmental impacts without detailed in its Environmental Policy, which focuses on the proactive atcompromising essential aircraft requirements, like quality, safety titudes needed for sustainable development, handled by the Integrated and cost; Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and • Processes, by using the best eco-efficient practices that seek to opSafety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), which will be ten years old in 2012. timize the use of natural resources--water, energy, materials--and minimize the generation of solid wastes, liquid effluents and gas Embraer’s programs that are related to environmental certification emissions, thus providing environmental and economic benefits; are based on the pursuit of continuous improvement by: gri en6 | en7 • Engagement of the supply chain, aligned with Embraer’s environ• Preserving natural resources (consumption goals); mental vision and its demands; • Establishing corporate environmental indicators; • Optimization of logistics for raw materials, parts and components. • Achieving environmental objectives and goals; • Meeting the demand of interested parties. In 2011, Embraer began a series of actions linked to Life Cycle Management that integrate several areas of the Company. These actions In 2002, Embraer became the first company of the aerospace inare added to the efforts to make employees aware and capable, the dustry in the world to receive ISO 14001 certification, which sets the continuous improvement of environmental actions, and monitorguidelines for an effective environmental management system. With ing of processes, activities and results provided for in the Integrated an annual evaluation by the firm ABS Quality, the efforts put forth Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and by the Company, over the years, have resulted in annually receiving Safety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ). the international ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications (the latter for occupational health and safety). All of the Company’s units Therefore, Embraer joins its commitment to preserving the environin Brazil have objectives and goals aligned with the management of ment and natural resources – as reflected in the unrestricted compliatmospheric emissions, wastes, and natural resources. ance with all of the legal requirements and environmental standards of the countries in which it is active – to the proactivity that is inThrough the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), the endispensable for companies that truly commit to collaborating with a vironmental management system was strengthened by adopting criteria more sustainable world. related to the environment, health, and safety for certification (bronze, silver and gold) of each cell group of the Company, with goals for reducing the use of natural resources and of reducing job-related accidents. socioenvironmental performance 89 90 annual report embraer 2011 These criteria include: not having pending conformities or being DIPAS is involved in the concept, development and test phases and without an action plan; fully complying with environmental legislaits goals should be achieved by applying Design for Environment tion in the countries where the Company has units or sells its prod(DfE) practices. Those practices anticipate and minimize the enviucts; updating and monitoring the environmental spreadsheets and ronmental impacts caused during the subsequent phases (producperforming a self-evaluation of SIG-MASSQ. tion, operation and disposal) and even before that (extraction and processing of materials), without compromising other requirements The cell groups responsible for projects or results directly connected that are essential to the aircraft, like quality, safety, and cost. with the Environmental Master Plan have indicators for following up on the evolution of the actions put in place. In 2012, an Environment The scope of the DIPAS program also includes regulatory follow-up site will go online, by which the units will report the data regarding of the environment, in terms of the product and its resulting effects operational indicators, thus facilitating their consolidation and straat Embraer. Restrictions on the use of hazardous materials in the tegic management. airplane and studies for substituting them are some of the actions exemplifying this. Since 2010, Embraer has evaluated and identified energy efficiency projects, while rationalizing natural resources and reducing the genEmbraer’s technological development plan gives priority to other eration of wastes in the various production and administrative proinitiatives for innovation and increasing efficiency, with the highlight cesses, besides finalizing the establishment of long-term goals for being the following lines of research: the environment. • Aerodynamic perfection of the airplanes; Environmentally Sustainable Product gri ec2 | en26 The global • Intensive use of lighter materials, to reduce the structural weight air transportation industry is responsible for about 2% of the greenof the aircraft; house gas emissions generated by human actions. The increased ef• Aircraft development with more electrical systems, that depend ficiency of this industry over past decades has avoided making the less on energy generated by the engine; current scenario of environmental impacts more widespread, in light • Development of new generations of engines, in cooperation with of the constant growth of air traffic, which should continue over the manufacturers of propulsion systems; coming years. • Research of new technologies for reducing internal and external noise levels, with the objective of increasing the comfort of passenIn response, civil aviation as a whole-airline companies, aircraft and gers and causing less sound impact around airports; engine manufacturers, airports and air traffic controllers–has been • Research of alternative fuels, including biofuels. working in a coordinated fashion on a series of goals for minimizing those impacts. Therefore, Embraer supports and takes part in the inEmbraer takes part in developing public policies regarding future product dustry commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by regulations, in conjunction with governments and representatives of so50% from air transportation by 2050, based on the figures for 2005. ciety, in general. The effort occurs via the participation of Embraer technicians on the Environmental Protection Committee of the International As an integral part of the aerospace chain and for the purpose of Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The objective of this committee is meeting the environmental challenges involved with its activities, to improve aviation performance, in terms of generating noise, emitting Embraer launched the Integrated Development Program for Environgreenhouse gases, and air quality. gri so5 mentally Sustainable Products (Desenvolvimento Integrado do Produto Ambientalmente Sustentável – DIPAS). The main objective of the program is to incorporate environmental issues with Integrated Product Development, taking into consideration everything from obtaining raw materials to recycling or finally disposing of the product, or the so-called “product life cycle”. socioenvironmental performance 91 Embraer’s support for initiatives related to biofuels for aviation is evident in the partnerships it At the end of 2009, Embraer, General Electric, and Amyris signed a forms. Among its main actions are memorandum of understanding to assess the technical and sustaina broad discussion of the subject in ability aspects of the renewable fuel produced by Amyris. The project the industry and partnerships with provides for a flight in 2012, using sugarcane as a biomass in an airother companies to develop and test plane belonging to Azul Linhas Aéreas. alternative renewable fuels. At the same time, Embraer supports the sustainability studies for this fuel, through a project to be developed in a partnership with ICONE (a Brazilian agribusiness think-tank that has become a reference in agricultural studies, involved in projects and research on biofuels) and Boeing, and with the backing of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Strategic Partnerships gri en26 | so5 Embraer also has partnerships with other aerospace companies, for Development of Biokerosene Support for developing sustainable the development of renewable fuels. In October 2011, Embraer, Boefuels for aviation is one of the initiatives adopted by the industry. The ing, and the Research Assistance Foundation of the State of São Paulo objective is to obtain sustainable biofuels, with levels of quality, safe (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo – FAPESP) use, cost and adequate production capacity, compared to petroleum announced an agreement to develop a biofuel research and developderivatives. ment program for aviation in Brazil. Azul, GOL, TAM, and TRIP airline companies will be strategic consultants for the program. Embraer supports and participates in initiatives focusing on developing biofuels as a sustainable long-term solution for aviation. It is the The agreement provides for a detailed study of the opportunities and Company’s job, as an integrator, to assess the impact of the new fuels challenges for creating an industry in Brazil to produce and distribute on its platforms. sustainable and economically efficient aviation fuel derived from biomass. The study should be concluded by the end of 2012, with an eye The highlights of these initiatives are The Brazilian Alliance for Bioto creating a future research center. fuels in Aviation (Aliança Brasileira para Biocombustíveis na Aviação – ABRABA), the international Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group Therefore, Embraer sees the production of aviation biofuels in Brazil (SAFUG), the European consortium Sustainable Way for Alternative as making it possible for farmers, technicians and industries to create Fuels and Energy for Aviation (SWAFEA), and the U.S. Commercial a consistent technological base, besides generating economic and Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI). social benefits for the Nation. ABRABA especially presents itself as a forum for discussing a variety of aspects of developing sustainable aviation biofuels, which positions Brazil as one of the world’s leading players in this technology. 92 annual report embraer 2011 Experimental flight In 2011, an experimental flight was performed with an EMBRAER 170 jet that took off three times from the runway at the Gavião Peixoto plant, equipped with engines built by GE, and fueled by Hydroprocessed Esters and Fatty Acids (HEFA), made from camelina. On August 25, and September 1 and 2, 2011, successful test flights were taken that included simulated risks, to evaluate the performance of the airplane. The GE engine ran on a mixture of Jet-A (petroleum derivative) and HEFA, at the maximum proportion permitted by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), which is 50% of each. socioenvironmental performance 93 Other projects are being assessed and prioritized according to Embraer’s long-term plan of eco-efficiency goals. Electrical Power Consumption gri en4 In Brazil, Embraer’s units purchase electricity from the concessionaires in the regions where they are located. There were 112,900 MWh (or 406,440 GJ) acquired, in 2011, which was a reduction of 3% from 2010. Environmental evolution of processes gri en26 Embraer continues to perfect its processes, with an eye to optimizing the use of natural resources and minimizing waste at its production plants. In 2011, aligned with the P3E program, Cleaner Production concepts were put in practice in the cell groups of the Faria Lima unit, resulting from a survey of opportunities for improvement. The portfolio that is being created, and that will be extended, during a future phase, to the other Brazil units, will give a basis for establishing project priorities, in 2012, in line with the long-term operating goals that are being adopted by the Company to improve its environmental indicators. Actions for improvement were conceived of and followed up by the InUsing Resources ternal Electricity and Water Committee (Comissão Interna de Energia Elétrica e Água – CICEA), which is responsible for spreading ideas, inforWater Consumption gri en8 Embraer follows a continuous process mation and technologies for eco-efficiency. Since 2008, these projects of surveying opportunities and implementing projects for optimizing have been under the watchful eye of the School of Electrical Engineering the use of water in its productive processes and in its administrative of the São Paulo State University (Universidade Estadual Paulista “Júlio area. The water used at the Faria Lima, Eugenio de Melo, Gavião Peixde Mesquita Filho” – UNESP) in the city of Guaratinguetá. oto, and ELEB units is taken from the water table, and the other Brazil units (Taubaté and Botucatu) are served by the public water system. Some of the main projects carried out in 2011 were cited: In 2011, water consumption came to 614,840 m3, which was 10% more than what was consumed the previous year. The increased use was boosted by construction work on a new building at the Gavião Peixoto plant, for the KC-390 program. 94 annual report embraer 2011 main projects carried out in 2011 gri en5 Improvement Action Unit Estimated 30% reduction in VOC Installation of robot for optimizing painting process, with Faria Lima emissions in the F-120 paint shop precise quantities of paint used Estimated reduction of 600 m3 of water Installation of 120 timed faucets, for the 2nd phase of the Faria Lima consumption in the restrooms project (conclusion expected for 2012) Estimated 517 MWh reduction in electrical consumption to light Concluded installation of 1,400 more efficient light fixtures Faria Lima administrative areas 50% reduction in volume of wastes Disposal for compost of food scraps and tree and bush Faria Lima formerly sent to the landfill trimmings Eugênio de Melo Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Engine run during ground tests shortened by 8 hours Faria Lima emissions, in tests with engine runs Improvement projects in production areas, including fixing 6% reduction in electricity consumption compressed-air leaks, placing transparent tiles in a few Eleb (KW/man hours worked/month) areas, and beginning to change to low-consumption light bulbs 9% reduction in water consumption Working with employee awareness Eleb (m3/employee/day) Increase of about 20% in water treatment Updating ion exchange equipment in treatment plant Eleb capacity 8.7% reduction in energy consumption Conservation and efficiency improvements Botucatu over 2010 Initial composting of organic waste (restaurant and Lower volume of wastes sent to landfill Botucatu gardening) Reuse of 25% of the water volume in treatment plant Reduced water consumption Gavião Peixoto processes GRI EN10 socioenvironmental performance 95 wastes, effluents and emissions Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions gri en16 | en17 | en18 | en19 Embraer continuously seeks to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions via projects for improving efficiency, reducing electrical consumption, internal logistics for products being manufactured, and consumption of kerosene during technical and corporate flights. Embraer takes an annual inventory of its GHG emissions, according to the standards of the World Resources Institute/World Business Voluntary initiatives for reporting the GHG inventory Embraer supports volunCouncil for Sustainable Development (WRIWBCSD). tary initiatives for reporting GHGs. Since 2007, the Company has participated in the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, as one of its founding memFor the third consecutive year, Embraer has checked its GHG inventobers, and in 2011 it received the Gold Seal, once again. ry, based on ISO 14.064 Part I, Specifications for Quantifying, Monitoring and Reporting Emissions and Removing Entities, in an audit by Embraer also reports its GHG emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, which is a certification obtained (CDP). The CDP is an organization that brings investors together in search by few Brazilian companies. of information for decision making, taking into account the corporate risk of future government legislation, possible court suits, and consumer perThis triumph, which attests to the reliability of the GHG inventory, is ceptions regarding large GHG emitters. due to the actions put forth by to quantify and monitor the GHG emissions at its units. In 2012, long-term goals will be set to reduce GHGs. Besides providing a better understanding and positioning regarding the subject, joining these initiatives leads the Company to a better relationship with stakeholders and to an increased capacity for taking part in setting public carbon market policies, among other competitive advantages. GHG emissions in 2011 (tco2eq) Brazil Units Scope I Scope II Scope III Faria Lima 26,924.5 1,738.8 4,484.1 Eugênio de Melo 1,807.7 365.8 1,230.4 Taubaté 0.048 63.2 23.1 Botucatu 2,825.9 445.1 1,428.4 Gavião Peixoto 1,545.9 364.4 2,074.3 ELEB 272.3 298.2 229.1 Corporate air travel 14,347.2 96 annual report embraer 2011 Effluents and Wastes gri en22 The main processes that generate waste are: milling parts, producing composite materials, performing surface treatments, and painting an aircraft. The total amount of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generated by the Company, in 2011, was 16,136 tons. Methods of disposing of wastes by weight (%) Approximately 50% of all Hazardous wastes gri en24 Hazardous materials are given special care organic waste did not go to landfills. This refers to food scraps and tree in their disposal. Of the 3,437 tons generated in 2011, only a small and bush trimmings, which began to be sent to make compost. part (39 tons, generated at the ELEB unit) is sent to landfills. This means that 98.8% is sent to a safe and tracked destination, that is, for recycling, decontamination, recovery, and co-processing. The Company’s goal is to achieve 100%, already in 2012. Used fluorescent bulbs are recycled; the mercury is used to produce thermometers, the aluminum is reused to make cans, and the powdered chemical is used to make ceramics. Cans, filters, cleaning cloths and left-over paint are used in the ovens of cement plants. The chemical sludge generated by surface treatments and chemical milling processes is transformed into metal oxides used to finish floors and wall tiles. Disposal of all water, according to quality and destination gri en21 | en25 The liquid effluents generated at Embraer in operational and administrative areas are treated according to current norms. The Faria Lima, Eugênio de Melo, ELEB, and Botucatu units dispose of them in the local sewer company (SABESP) lines, after performing their Methods of disposing of wastes own treatment process, in line with Decree no. 8,468 (September 8, 1976), Article 19A. At the Gavião Peixoto unit physical-chemical treat77% ment is given to the industrial effluents, in order to dispose of them, later, Recycling in the Mulada stream. The Botucatu unit also disposes of its industrial effluents – after duly treating them – into a body of water. 5% Recovery 10% Sanitary Landfill 8% Composting socioenvironmental performance 97 The volumes disposed of in 2011 at these units are shown in the following table: Domestic effluents Units Destination (m³/year) Faria Lima PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 220,667 Eugênio de Melo PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 46,853 Taubaté BODY OF WATER 3,452 Botucatu PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 46,486 Gavião Peixoto BODY OF WATER 28,565 ELEB PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM N/D Total 346,023 Industrial Effluents Units Destination (m³/year) Faria Lima PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 27,662 Eugênio de Melo PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 3,820 Taubaté BODY OF WATER N/A Botucatu PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 34,979 Gavião Peixoto BODY OF WATER 1,798 ELEB PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 6,048 Total 74,307 98 annual report embraer 2011 Other atmospheric emissions: VOC, SOx, NOx, and particulate materials gri en20 The total disposal of volatile organic compounds (VOC), sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate material, in the operations of all the Brazil units, during 2011, are shown in the following table: atmospheric emissions VOC emissions (t) MP emissions (t) SOx emissions (t) NOx emissions (t) Faria Lima 5.73 7.378 0.0728 13.02 Eugênio de Melo 0.094 0.155 0.140 1.389 Taubaté Botucatu* 15.25 21.874 0.214 49.73 Gavião Peixoto 0.95 0.47 0 0 ELEB 3.18 3.95 1.31 23.33 Total 25.20 33.827 1.7368 87.469 * The Botucatu unit did not finish collecting the data, because on the day the monitoring took place, two paint shops were going through maintenance. Embraer’s objective, by 2012, is to reduce VOCs by 20%, compared Protecting Biodiversity gri en11 | en12 | en13 | en14 The Gavião Peixto 2008. Among the main initiatives adopted, the highlight was the oto (GPX) unit finalized the establishment of a Permanent Preservatransfer of the chemical milling facilities of the Faria Lima unit to Bottion Area of 200 hectares, for a total area of 1,693.39 hectares, in ucatu, which took place in 2010, with the implementation of a new 2010 (in line with Advance License 000373, of December 8, 2000). control and exhaust technology that allows reducing VOC emissions by about 7 tons/year. Since 2001, GPX has restored an area of 356.71 hectares, by planting seedlings of 91 species native to the region. This environmental reIn 2011, the Company invested in automating the painting process, by covery process is backed by the Forest Restoration Project approved installing robots in the largest paint shop of the Faria Lima unit. Beby the State Department for the Protection of Natural Resources (Desides helping improve the efficiency of the process, this measure also partamento Estadual de Proteção de Recursos Naturais – DEPRN) – will reduce VOC emissions. Also planned for the coming years is the of the Department of the Environment of the State of São Paulo. installation of a system for recovering solvent in the area for painting primary parts, and reusing the solvent in processes for cleaning parts Out of the restored area, 32.38 hectares are a permanent preservaat the Faria Lima unit. tion area, and 328.74 hectares are a legal reserve area. In 2010, there were 35,200 trees planted on 23 hectares, for a total of 594,200 trees, which is 100% of the project’s total area (356.71 hectares). The reforestation of the area allows restoring the local eco system and the return of wildlife to the region. socioenvironmental performance 99 Social Performance Embraer takes as indicators of its corpoHuman capital is one of Embraer’s rate excellence the health, safety and quality of life of its employees, main intangible assets. Respect and the socioeconomic development and well-being of the commufor people, promoting good nities with which it is in contact. From this standpoint, the Company has communications channels and promotes a number of actions for health, safety and quality of life, the purpose of maintaining a transparent, objective and responsible and investing in training and relationship with its numerous stakeholders (investors and sharedevelopment are recognized by holders, customers, employees, public officials, community and supthe major rankings of people pliers, among others). management. The nature of its operations requires periodic contact with national, state and municipal government officials, with whom it talks, dialogues, negotiates, and forms legal relationships. During the year, the Company holds periodic meetings with customers, besides Internet forums for exchanging experiences, including: a Another preservation area is located near the Botucatu unit, where variety of workshops on best practices in several areas; conferences, Embraer acquired three hectares of bush land, in order to provide the meetings and events with customers, investors and shareholders, the environmental compensation ordered by DEPRN, due to the impact community and the press regarding a broad range of subjects and caused on the existing vegetation by the building expansions that purposes; regular visits by groups, including Heads of State, Mintook place there. isters and institutional representatives, to the Company’s facilities (open doors); meetings with suppliers; and others. gri 4.16 In 2009, Embraer began a project for creating a Private Reserve of Natural Heritage (PRNH) in that place. A PRNH is a private conservaThese stakeholders also have access to the Company’s information via tion unit legally instituted by public authorities. It is a voluntary act of the institutional website (www.embraer.com.br) and the Investor Relathe owner, who transfers the ownership of the land to the State, but tions website (ri.embraer.com.br). continues to hold possession of the area, which then is exempt from paying the property tax. People Human capital is one of Embraer’s main intangible assets. Embraer’s people management is clearly based on the Company’s On the PRNH, scientific research can be performed, as well as visits for first value: “Our people are what make us fly.” Respect for this value touristic, recreational and educational purposes, including with the supis seen in the development and training of employees and leaders, in port of universities, and public organizations and agencies. In behalf of the benefits offered to all employees, in the absolute respect for lathe organization of the use and preservation of the nature area, since bor norms, and in the numerous programs focusing on the well-being 2009, Embraer has been carrying out a management plan, including a and quality of life of the professionals. flora and fauna survey. As soon as the process is completed, it will announce the existence of the area to the local community. 100 annual report embraer 2011 Important recognition of this strategic vision of people management can be found in the rates of satisfaction obtained in organizational climate surveys done by specialized consultants and well-known publications. For the third consecutive year, Embraer was ranked by the Great Place to Work 2011 survey in 18th place among the companies evaluated. For over a decade, Great Place to Work has been dedicated to assisting organizations in understanding the characteristics, practices and attitudes that lead to the creation of a great place to work. The consulting firm, which is located in 46 countries, performs the survey based on a voluntary and anonymous evaluation of employees and on the evaluation done with the Company to detail best practices and benefits. The survey analyzes five dimensions of the organizational environment: credibility, respect, impartiality, pride, and comradeship. The methodology allows evaluating the level of confidence of employees regarding the Company and the quality of the relationships between employees and leaders. The Guia 150 Melhores Empresas (150 Best Places to Work), prepared by the magazines Exame and Você S.A. and FIA (Fundação Instituto de Administração), also confirms the engagement of employees, based on such subjects as identity, satisfaction and motivation, leadership, learning, and development. Employee satisfaction was also detected in the Survey AON Hewitt/ Valor Carreira magazine, of Valor Econômico 2011 newspaper, where Embraer was ranked fourth among the best companies for people management. That recognition was also given outside of Brazil: Embraer was named by Florida Trend as one of the best companies to work for in the State of Florida. gri la1 In all of the surveys, the results are around 84% for satisfaction, favorability and engagement, showing improvement and balance. socioenvironmental performance 101 Profile GRI LA1 Embraer closed out 2011 with 17,265 employees, distributed as follows: Employees (by function – includes subsidiaries) 2011 2010 2009 Category Brazil Abroad Total Brazil Abroad Total Brazil Abroad Total Operational 7,017 12 7,029 7,479 7 7,486 7,640 43 7,683 Administrative 683 130 813 619 221 840 615 155 770 Technicians (mid-level) 2,113 460 2,573 2,130 385 2,515 2,160 280 2,440 Engineers 3,652 113 3,765 3,579 73 3,652 3,367 79 3,446 Other professionals 1,580 379 1,959 1,431 213 1,644 1,315 221 1,536 (top-level) Leaders 944 182 1,126 895 117 1,012 855 123 978 Total 15,989 1,276 17,265 16,133 1,016 17,149 15,952 901 16,853 1. In 2009, 510 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 3,956. 2. In 2010, 513 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 4,165. 3. In 2011, 568 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 4,333. Employees at partially owned subsidiaries Category Total OGMA (Portugal) 1,486 China (Joint Venture) 198 ECTS (USA 19 and UK 6) 25 ORBISAT (Brazil) 177 ATECH (Brazil) 114 HARPIA (Brazil) 1 Total 2,001 102 annual report embraer 2011 Distribution of employees by gender and age range Brazil and abroad gri la13 2011 2010 2009 Age range Male Fem. Total Male Fem. Total Male Fem. Total Up to 30 4,559 1,042 5,601 5,277 977 6,254 5,911 1,031 6,942 31 to 50 8,289 1,800 10,089 8,294 1,225 9,519 7,619 1,089 8,708 Over 50 1,267 308 1,575 1,283 93 1,376 1,116 87 1,203 Total 14,115 3,150 17,265 14,854 2,295 17,149 14,646 2,207 16,853 2011 Women represent 18.2% of all Embraer employees, and that number has grown in recent years. 2011 The Company also has 733 handicapped or special needs employees, fulfilling its social role and complying with Brazilian legislation. Organizational climate The organizational climate survey that is taken every year at Embraer has been reporting growing levels of satisfaction. In 2011, the survey was answered by 91% of the people and 2011 the overall favorability index achieved 81%. In 2010, that index was 78%, and in 2009, it was 70%. The survey evaluates 17 factors, including satisfaction, motivation and commitment, safety and working conditions, leadership, strategic management, innovation and productivity, reliability of the research, external relations, corporate image and citizenship, perforTurnover mance management, communication, pressure, stress and quality of life, development and career, teamwork, risk, priorities and propensity for change, work planning, decentralization, organization and roles, 5.88% Company Initiative remuneration and benefits. 1.27% Employee Initiative 7.15% Overall Turnover socioenvironmental performance 103 The portfolio of benefits offered by Embraer is a distinctive difference Turnover gri la2 In 2011, the number of Embraer employees grew for attracting and retaining talent. by 116 people. There were 1,268 new employees hired and 1,152 left Among them are a healthcare and the Company. The return of former employees was the priority, takdental plan and a complementary ing into account their professional profile and experience, and 239 were hired, or 19% of the total. The Company’s overall turnover rate pension. In 2011, about R$220 was 7.15%. million were invested in benefits. Remuneration and Benefits For Embraer, the qualification and motivation of its professionals is essential to the effective performance and well-being of people at its several business units. Distribution of employees by salary range (Brazil) GRI EC5 Minimum Regional Wage SP (R$560.00) Minimum Regional Wage SP (R$600.00) 2010 2011 Male Female Overall Male Female Overall Salary Level Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % From To 129 0.92 48 2.29 177 3.21 100 0.72 37 1.74 137 2.46 2 2,841 20.24 375 17.91 3,216 25.70 2,699 19.47 377 17.75 3,076 24.41 2 5 6,190 44.09 889 42.45 7,079 56.58 5,952 42.93 866 40.77 6,818 54.10 5 10 4,879 34.75 782 37.34 5,661 45.24 5,114 36.88 844 39.74 5,958 47.27 Over 10 14,039 2,094 16,133 13,865 2,124 15,989 Total The Company invests in developing competencies, gives incentive to The lowest salary at Embraer is 1.7 times the Regional Minimum professional improvement, and promotes a remuneration policy that Wage of São Paulo, which was R$600.00 in December 2011. is compatible with the job market and that takes into consideration the complexity of job functions and employee performance. The benefits offered to all employees and their direct dependents in Brazil is an important differential in attracting and retaining talents, The remuneration policy is aligned with exclusively technical criteria which is confirmed by the 2011 organizational climate survey. Acand no form of discrimination is permitted toward the one taking the cording to the survey, 86% of the employees were satisfied with the position. The individual salary is based on qualifications, competenbenefits offered, which follow and, in some cases, even surpass the cies and skills needed for doing the work. best practices of the market. 104 annual report embraer 2011 Main benefits offered to Embraer employees Healthcare Plan employees and direct dependents have two healthcare company options: Sul América and Unimed. In them, Embraer’s share varies between 100% and 90% of the total value of the plan. In 2011, the plans served 38,889 lives. Assistance to parents with handicapped children healthcare plan for didistribution of benefit investments in 2011 rect dependents who are disabled, handicapped, has coverage for after 21 years of age and different shared proportions for such treat41% Medical, Dental and Pharmacy Assistance ments as speech therapy, occupational therapy, and psychotherapy. In 2011, Embraer provided assistance to 72 handicapped people. 21% Meals Dental Health Plan employees and their direct dependents have a right 11% Employee Transportation to the dental plan. They are offered a free option and plans with additional coverage and at a significantly accessible cost. In 2011, a total 13% Complementary Pension of 34,463 people benefited from the dental assistance. Employees who retire or leave the Company have the option of continuing with 12% Others these benefits (healthcare and dental plans), by taking over 100% of the monthly payment. 2% Life Insurance Pharmacy benefit for purchases with a Doctor’s prescription, Embraer covers 70% of the amount that goes over 16% of the national minimum wage (R$622.00 in January 2012). In 2011, Embraer’s share for the purchase of medications came to R$13.4 million. In 2011, the benefits received investments of around R$220 million, distributed as show above. Group life insurance Embraer offers its employees group life insurance (extended to direct dependents) and trainees. The insurance covers For the purpose of clarifying doubts regarding the benefits offered by funeral assistance, besides accident reimbursements. In 2011, ninetythe Company and therefore improve their use, the area responsible eight reimbursements were made, totaling R$4.7 million, and 32 fufor them held a number of presentations, in 2011, that were attended neral assistances were provided. by 1,287 employees. Furthermore, at all of the units, a service team is made available to assist employees in their use of the benefits. Maternity leave In 2010, Embraer joined the program extending maternity leave from 120 to 180 days, which is a socially important benEmployees also have available to them an emergency 24/7 service efit for mothers, newborn babies and their families. for subjects related to health and/or family problems. In 2011, there were 161 emergencies answered, for a total of 108 hours focusing on Complementary Pension Embraer Prev (see side panel on next page). employees outside of the regular work day. socioenvironmental performance 105 Embraer Prev gri ec3 At the end of 2008, Embraer created Embraer Prev, which is a complementary retirement plan that began to manage the benefit plans sponsored by the Company and its subsidiaries, and that were formerly administrated by BB Previdência. Some of the results achieved throughout 2011 show the evolution of Embraer Prev and the increased confidence of participants and those assisted by the organization: • The assets of the Embraer Prev plan grew nearly 14% and passed the R$1 billion mark, positioning Embraer Prev on the level of a large closed complementary retirement fund in Brazil; • Acceptance of the plan practically tripled, compared to the previous year, thus generating nearly 1,200 new participants; • The total number of participants and those receiving assistance increased by 5%, going to 13,873 people; • The percentage of employees joining the plan increased from 70% to 77%; • The extra contributions of participants, without a corresponding share from the sponsor company, grew more than 150%, compared to the same period of 2010, and rose to R$1 million; • The overall satisfaction of the participants, as well as of those receiving assistance from Embraer Prev and its services, was 84%, and it surpassed the results of the previous study. 106 annual report embraer 2011 2011 2010 Sharing generated value with employees During fiscal 2011, there 16,908 employees remunerated via Profit and/or Results Sharing (PRS) at 2009 Embraer, totaling R$74.8 million, which was 4.3% higher than the previous year. Another modality for sharing the value generated is the Good Idea Program that focuses on giving recognition and incentive to people who propose improvements in processes, routines, working tools, reEvolution of Assets of Embraer Prev Plan duced costs, occupational safety, ergonomics, and the environment. The program had more than 13,300 ideas presented in 2011. From this total, 6,665 ideas were rewarded and implemented, generating a r$1,011.2 Million savings of US$26.3 million for the Company. r$888.5 Million Health and Safety and Quality of Life gri la6 All of Embraer’s units in Brazil have an Internal Accident Prevention Committee (Comissão r$748.9 Million Interna de Prevenção de Acidentes – CIPA) set up according to NR05 Regulation of Administrative Ruling (Portaria) 2314/78 of the Ministry of Labor. Employees are represented by 53 full members and 40 substitutes, who are elected annually. In the same way, the In 2011, Embraer Prev was closer to its participants and Company is also represented by 52 full members and 39 substitutes. those receiving assistance, with more than 130,000 people Besides its action plan that is revised every year, CIPA holds an annuhandled via the available communications channels. al Internal Accident Prevention Week (Semana Interna de Prevenção Furthermore, more than 80 presentations were made to an de Acidentes – SIPAT) at all of Embraer’s units. The health and safety accumulated audience of nearly 3,000 participants. indicators are described in the Operational Performance chapter. Health and quality of life programs gri la8 Embraer works with a numThe Company’s contributions to the plan during 2010 and ber of corporate programs that focus on the occupational health and 2011 were R$40 million and de R$47 million, respectively. quality of life of its employees and their families. Highlighted among these programs are: For more information, go to https://www.embraerprev.com.br. Well-being Launched in 2009, Embraer’s Well-Being program consists of the integrated management of occupational health and safety actions, benefits, sports, and leisure, by offering the tools and resources needed for employees to invest more in their health and well-being, in physical, emotional and social aspects. In 2010, the program was extended to Embraer units abroad. socioenvironmental performance 107 108 annual report embraer 2011 Several initiatives promote the health, safety and quality of life The objective is to have healthy people who are at ease with life, workof employees. A highlight is the ing in a more pleasant and safe environment and, thus, contributing to Well-being Program that includes productivity, product quality, and corporate excellence. campaigns against smoking and Besides the initiatives offered by the program, employees receive inforthe use of drugs, and support for mation about health and quality of life via the weekly Minuto Estar de healthy weight loss, maternity, and Bem (Minute of Well-being) bulletin, sent by e-mail and on the Intranet. heart disease. In 2011, Minuto Estar de Bem came out with 46 issues covering such subjects as physical, mental and emotional health, as well as culture and leisure tips. The following programs, focusing on employee health, are a part of the Well-being Program: Well-being With Your Heart A medical professional offers individualWell-being without cigarettes The program has two main goals: make ized guidance to employees who have heart disease. The program Embraer a smoke-free environment, and this action has already been has assisted 30 employees. In 2011, there were 15 employees with implemented at some of the units and will continue throughout 2012; cardiopathies who were treated, so they could resume their habitual and offer expert treatment to help people stop smoking, by combinactivities. ing medication and group therapy. The treatment and medication are covered 100% by the Company. In 2011, 127 people took part in this Vaccination Program With its focus on prevention, so as to maintain action. health and well-being, Embraer’s Vaccination Program is extended to all employees and their direct family dependents, whatever their choWell-being without drugs The program supports employees and their sen health coverage. The Company covers 80% of the costs for vacfamilies in treating chemical dependence. It includes specialized cines that are not furnished by the government, and are indicated by treatment for employees, support for their families, and also a manthe Federal Medicine Board. In 2011, Embraer invested R$652,000 in ager. There were 495 employees in this program, and 17 participants vaccinating over 24,000 employees and family members, and even are now being accompanied. supplied the conjugate vaccine against the seasonal H1N1 flu. Well-being with the scales This program offers employees several methods for healthy weight loss, based on the Weight Watchers plan, for a cost that is much lower than the market price. In 2011, the program had 338 employees participating. Well-being with maternity Embraer provides an area for breast feeding, with all the comfort and privacy, so mothers can feed their babies. The space is equipped with chairs, a refrigerator and a changing table, and talks are given to pregnant women regarding pregnancy and how to care for the baby. socioenvironmental performance 109 r$5.9 million were invested, during the year in qualification and training Health Week With information and interaction for employees and their families to stay up-to-date with their health, Health Week is held annually on the premises of Embraer. In 2011, the schedule of activities included actions focusing healthy meals and physical activity: Respiratory Protection Program The objective is to ensure that all of the workers who use breathing equipment have physical and psychologi• Bicycle riding; cal evaluations, as well as check if the equipment is adequate for the • Workshops on healthy cooking, inside and outside of Embraer; risks and the workers. • Nutritional activities in the production and restaurant areas; • Distribution of kits with healthy foods; Hearing Protection Program The objective is to ensure the physical, • Presentations of dances and physical activities in the public gathermental and, especially, the aural integrity of all workers habitually ing area; exposed to noise and, therefore, users of aural protection devices. • Tea tasting and exhibit of garden products and grains in the public gathering area; Plan for Excellence in Occupational Health and Safety The objective is to re• Massages; duce job-related accidents by 70% and the degree of severity by 50%, • Use of “30-minute Gym” in Embraer; by December 2012, in relation to 2009. • Step test. Embraer promotes other actions in behalf of the health and better quality of life of its professionals: Occupational Health Medical Control Program Focuses on promoting and preserving the health of the workforce, via preventive and periodic Embraer in Motion The Company gives incentive to playing sports on health exams. the part of employees and their families, through a number of initiatives, such as support for athletes, bicycle riding, races, and keeping up a 30-minute Gym. In 2011, Embraer’s team of 607 runners won 5 awards. 110 annual report embraer 2011 Facilities All of Embraer’s units have ample and comfortable facilities, with tree-lined areas and leisure space, with game room, luncheonette, several shops (optical store, video rental, cosmetics, itinerant shop) and services (pharmacy, insurance company, forwarder, cooperative, etc.), in order to facilitate the employee’s life. The restaurants also offer a “light” In 2011, the Study Scholarship program benefited 319 employees for menu. In 2011, a special restaurant was opened to offer another option an investment of R$275,000 in partially covering the cost of technito employees. At the Café com Leitura (Reading Cafe), employees can cal and university courses connected with essential functions of the also enjoy reading. Company’s business. Cultural front On cultural Fridays, musicians perform in the tree-lined Educational Level | Embraer and Subsidiaries Embraer employs highly areas of the Company. qualified labor. Of all of the employees in Brazil, 42% have at least a university degree. The minimum schooling required of employees is Qualifications and Training gri la10 Throughout the entire 2011, a high school diploma. investments in professional qualification programs and programs that are specific to the business, corporate, industrial, and engineering areas came to R$5.9 million, with 93,000 participations by people and about 650,000 hours of training. In 2011, the Engineering Specialization Program (ESP) graduated 155 engineers specialized in aeronautics. Since the first class, in 2001, ESP has trained 1,250 engineers. As a means of strengthening competencies and knowledge, the Internal Instructors Program has the participation of 832 employees trained to teach internal classes. In 2011, there were 10,061 hours of instruction in 1,543 courses. educational level – embraer and subsidiaries The process of evaluating employees according to competencies continued in 2011. Some 10,500 evaluations were performed, gener34% University ating over 10,000 Individual Development Programs (IDP). 58% High School Diploma Spreading and strengthening the proper practice of the corporate values continued in 2011 with the 2nd Embraer Values cycle. The practice 5% Postgraduate of values also had the Culture Space that, in 2011, received approximately 1,800 insertions, with more than 350 cell groups of the work teams named for practicing the values in their daily routines. 3% Masters or Ph.D. socioenvironmental performance 111 Career management gri la11 | la12 | ec7 Embraer’s actions for leadership development seek to ensure the accomplishment of the Company’s strategic corporate objectives and to contribute to the perpetuity of the business. One of these objectives is to create “Leadership Capital”, which focuses on forming business leaders at all levels, who are capable of generating distinctive value for shareholders, customers, people, partners, and society, in general. All of the hierarchical leadership levels are subjected to evaluation. The strong points and the points needing improvement are put into individual and effective action plans to assist these leaders in achieving the results of their business, aligning them, as business leaders, with Embraer’s values. From the date of hiring to retirement, Embraer’s Career – Flight Plan program gives employees an integrated vision of their career path in the Company. The program also trains leaders for discussing the career-building process with their staff. Since 2010, Embraer has also maintained the Career Path program, which offers all employees information regarding the fundamental requirements of their professional development. Embraer also encourages professional growth by promoting internal selection processes before going to the market to fill vacant positions. In 2011, there were 769 vacancies, 47% of which were filled internally. The priority for leadership vacancies is to hire from within the particular area and, if that is not possible, the external recruiting will benefit candidates from the country in which the vacancy occurred. Another highlight is the Post-Career program that supports the employee’s planning for retirement, including the preparation of a new life project and knowledge transfer. In 2011, five groups, totaling 177 employees, participated in the program. 112 annual report embraer 2011 Embraer maintains a relationship with the unions that is based on respect, integrity, and compliance The collective bargaining agreements guarantee the right of the with the laws in effect and industry unions to hold unionization campaigns in Company property. The condition and individual freedom of employees to join unions is reagreements. There is no child spected by Embraer. In the Company’s Brazil units, 8.5% of the emor forced labor, or that which ployees are union members, but all employees are included in the is analogous to slavery at the wage increases and social clauses negotiated in the collective barCompany’s units. gaining agreements signed by the union and the Company. Embraer fully applies all of the clauses of the collective bargaining agreements signed by its union representative with regard to job safety, such as improved working conditions around stamping machines and similar equipment, plastic injectors, and surface galvanization treatment. Labor rights Embraer seeks to apply the best labor practices, based Child and Forced Labor, or Work that is Analogous to Slavery gri hr6 | hr7 on following national and international norms, such as the ConsoliThere is no child labor, or work that is forced or analogous to slavery dated Labor Laws (Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho – CLT), the fundain Embraer’s units. Through various means, the Company seeks to mental conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO), the be sure that these abusive practices do not occur in its entire value Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and specific labor legislation of chain, that represents everyone, from suppliers to customers. the countries in which the Company has business and manufacturing units, and the principles of the UN Global Compact. The Company complies with the minimum hiring age of 18 years, except in the case of minor apprentices, which is regulated by specific New employees receive detailed information regarding salaries, benlegislation. efits, vacation time, collective bargaining agreement, rights and duties, as well as a copy of Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, during the The Code of Ethics and joining the UN Global Compact reinforce Emintegration program. braer’s public commitment against all of these practices that exploit human beings. Collective bargaining and unionization gri la4 | la9 | hr5 Embraer maintains relations with employee unions based on respect, integrity, and Society gri ec9 | so1 The pursuit of excellence in all that it does is a part compliance with current legislation and signed agreements. of Embraer’s DNA. As a knowledge-intensive Company, it works with cutting-edge technology and believes that only well-trained professionals can fulfill its mission and generate new business. Therefore, Embraer chose to work with education as the master guideline of its social investments, as a natural consequence of its beliefs and practices. In 2011, Embraer’s private social investment was on the order of R$13 million in educational programs and projects in the communities where the Company carries out its industrial activities in Brazil. socioenvironmental performance 113 The Embraer Education and Research Institute (IEEP) gri ec8 Founded in May 2001 and fully maintained by the Company, the Institute is the main instrument used to develop Embraer’s social actions. Support for Public Education Since 2003, the Embraer Institute IEEP invests in education as the fundamental subject for promoting culsupports improved instructional quality for public schools in the ture of inclusion and social transformation. The social projects backed regions where Embraer is involved. In 2006, the Action in School by the Institute reflect Embraer’s conviction regarding the possibility of Program was created, with the objective of stimulating the active improving public education, based on an efficient management model, participation of the community in school management, using the focused on innovation and without a significant increase in cost. “Educational Quality Indicators”. Throughout its ten-year history, the Embraer Institute has established Since then, the Program has supported 75 projects, involving the its involvement on five pillars: model of excellent instruction, support for participation of 230 Embraer employee volunteers. In 2011, the nine community projects, backing for public instruction, socioenvironmental schools selected by the 2010 edition of the program received profesprojects, and volunteer work. sional consulting assistance for implementing their projects. Excellent instruction The highlight of the commitment to excellence Community Projects Via the Social Partnership Program (SPP), the is Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School, which is fully maintained by Embraer Institute recognizes and supports the best projects of nonthe Company in São José dos Campos. The high school offers quality profit organizations that, in a partnership with Embraer employee volinstruction to 600 young people from the public school system in three unteers, develop activities focused on education. Since its creation in high school classes. The students receive, at no cost, quality education, 2004, the SPP has benefited more than 40,000 people by investing on-site meals, transportation, uniform, and instructional materials. R$3.1 million in 88 social projects, involving around 700 volunteers. The high school is recognized as a model for educational excellence and Socioenvironmental Projects EIn May 2011, on the occasion of the 10th has graduated 1,600 students since it opened in 2002. For four consecuanniversary of the Embraer Institute, the creation of the Embraer tive years, the school’s students passed the college entrance exams of at Center for Environmental Education, Jequitibá was announced, which least one university, and in 2011, 85% of them were public universities, will open in 2012. which was the best result achieved since it was founded. Its ranking on the National High School Exam (Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio – The Center will be established in a 250,000 m2 area, in São José dos ENEM) is also a highlight. In 2010, with the last result that was released, Campos, and its objective is to promote environmental education for the high school rose to fourth place in the ranking of public and private students from elementary school through university, as well as the forschools of the State of São Paulo, and to 30 place in Brazil. th mation of teachers and the community’s professional qualifications. This model will be expanded, as of 2013, with beginning of the activiThe Jequitibá Center will be opened in a partnership with the Muties of the future Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Filho High School, nicipal Departments of Education and the Environment of São José which will have a capacity for 360 students, and will be located next to dos Campos, local universities and nongovernmental organizations. Embraer’s Botucatu unit, in outstate São Paulo, on land granted by the local city government. The investment that is expected for this project will be around R$5 million. 114 annual report embraer 2011 socioenvironmental performance 115 Incentives for Volunteers The Embraer Institute supports a culture of volunteerism through opportunities to be involved with its own programs and projects, like the Social Partner Program (PPS), Action in School Program (PAE), Digital Inclusion Course, Mini-Company Program, and Mini-Glider Championship. Scholarship Fund for Alumni of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School • Program began in 2005. The interest shown by Embraer employees for periodic activities – • Embraer is the biggest contributor to the Fund, covering up to 25% such as cleaning bees, construction, painting, gardening, language of the monthly amount paid to each scholarship holder. instruction and catch-up classes, and support for events in public • The scholarship assists with the overall expenses of graduates of schools and social organizations – caused the creation of the Wings Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School who study at universities of Goodwill Project, in Embraer’s Volunteer Program. In 2011, more outside of the São José dos Campos area. than 200 Embraer employees were engaged in projects supported • They are granted only to students with excellent academic records, by the Embraer Institute. who are accepted at public or private universities with a Government scholarship (PROUNI) and who have financial limitations that Main Social Projects Developed by Embraer keep them from finishing their studies. • Graduates of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School who are benEmbraer Juarez Wanderley High School (CEJW) The main project of the efited by the program become contributors to the Fund, after graduEmbraer Education and Research Institute (IEEP), which has been ating from the university, returning the amount of the scholarship, fully funded by the Company, since 2002. with monetary correction. • Serves 600 students per year in the region of São José dos Campos, • 308 students were benefited in 2011. Taubaté, Caçapava, and Jacareí. • Free, quality instruction, with a pedagogical focus on incentives and Embraer Mini-glider Championship autonomy. • Program began in 2009, in a partnership with the Embraer Institute • Full-time high school for students from the public school system. and Embraer employee volunteers. • According to the Ministry of Education, it is the 4th best high school • Its objective is to bring to seventh to ninth grade students the real in the State of São Paulo and the 30th in the Nation (ENEM 2010). challenges from the preparation of a project report, with drawings, • For five consecutive years, the CEJW students passed the entrance diagrams and explanations related to solutions used to develop the exams of at least one university. mini-glider, to the construction and test phases, in order to evaluate its performance, in practice, during flight competition. University Preparation Program (PPU) • 230 students participated in the program in 2011. • Program began in 2006. • Prepares the student’s curriculum in a partnership with the Occupational Research and Development Center (U.S.), the Rede Pitágoras de Ensino, and the Instruction and Research Institute of SírioLibanês Hospital. • Preparation for academic and professional challenges, bringing the reality of the job market into the school. • 800 classroom/hours in four semesters: exact sciences (pre-engineering), humanities (pre-humanities and administration), and biomedical (pre-biomedical). • 400 students are benefited per year. 116 annual report embraer 2011 Embraer Juarez Wanderley High Action in School Program (PAE) School is the main project of the • Community Participative Management Program for schools, creEmbraer Education and Research ated in 2006. Institute. Other initiatives are also • Stimulates reflection on the quality of school management and outstanding for the citizenship and proposes improvements in the educational model of public primary and and high schools. technical preparation of young • The projects are analyzed by the Embraer Institute. people in Company’s areas of • Methodology developed under the coordination of UNICEF’s Eduinfluence. cative Action, of the United Nations Development Program (PNUD) and Brazil’s INEP MEC. • In 2011, the nine schools chosen for the 2010 edition of the program received professional assistance for implementing the projects. • Since 2006, more than 50,000 students have been benefited by 75 projects supported by and having the involvement of 230 volunteers. Social Partnership Program (PPS) • Program created in 2004, to foment a social culture for mobilizing companies to identify and solve problems and to assist NGOs in Mini-company preparing and developing projects. • Project created in 2002, in a partnership with Municipal Departments • Active participation of Embraer employees who voluntarily prepare of Education and Junior Achievement of the State of São Paulo. and carry out the projects developed by social organizations. • Embraer employees participated in the program as volunteers to guide • From 2004 to 2011, supported 88 projects that involved more than the students. 1,200 volunteers and benefited around 40,000 people. • Its objective is to stimulate an enterprising spirit in young people. • The program runs for 15 weeks, with three and one-half hours per week. Digital Inclusion Participants create a company, choose their product, manufacture it • Eight-month course for students from the State school system. and sell it. In this way, they experience the main day-to-day processes • Qualifies participants with knowledge and techniques from inforof a business. mation technology and the job market. • Eighth grade students from the public school system participate in the • Since its creation, in 2003, some 300 students have benefited, with program. the participation of 150 Embraer employee volunteers as instructors. • The funds needed for creating the mini-company are raised by the students, themselves, by selling shares. • At the end of the program, the mini-companies are liquidated and the results are divided among its shareholders. • About 1,200 young people from São José dos Campos, Botucatu, and Araraquara have participated in the program, and more than 240 Embraer employees have acted as volunteer consultants. For more information regarding Embraer’s social projects and initiatives, go to: www.institutoembraer.com.br. socioenvironmental performance 117 Suppliers gri ec6 | hr1 | hr2 Embraer establishes strategic long-term partnerships with its suppliers, in order to ensure the supply of raw materials and the main components of its products, and to optimize its production processes. Those partnerships also ensure the security needed for meeting deadlines and standards of quality of the aircraft delivered and the services provided to customers. The process for qualifying suppliers, as set forth in the Integrated Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), include criteria related to the environment, human rights, and occupational health and safety. If irregularities are found, the suppliers are informed and have a given amount of time to make corrections, under the condition of canceling the purchase or the service contract. Since 2005, this qualification process has involved the entire supply chain; all suppliers who are considered to be crucial or who present the greatest environmental risks are audited by Embraer. In 2011, 80% of these crucial suppliers were considered apt for supplying materials to Embraer, while the others needed to establish action plans for adapting to the requirements, or be blocked. Human Rights Embraer’s Code of Ethics reinforces its commitment to promote a work environment free of any type of discrimination, harassment, and forced labor, whether child or analogous to slavery. It is absolutely prohibited, at all units, to relate to any stakeholders, publicity, advertising, or any other public material that contains any mention, illustration or manifestation of discrimination of race, ethnicity, gender, belief, religion, age, handicap or gender orientation. The Code also prohibits and punishes any type of harassment, which includes any act or verbal or physical attitude that implies humiliation, embarrassment or threat to employees. Embraer’s actions against discrimination and forced labor extend to the entire network of national and foreign suppliers. . 118 annual report embraer 2011 220 events provided direct contact between Embraer and analysts and investors Complaints of moral harassment were received through the Channel for Reporting Misconduct and checked by internal processes that involve the participation of the Ethics and Conduct Committee. Two occurrences were evaluated and considered to have a basis, which resulted in applying disciplinary measures and a formal warning, as well as dismissal for cause. Embraer’s Code of Ethics and Conduct reinforces the fact that the Shareholders Executives and employees who have access to relrelationship between shareholders and investors must be based on evant information are bound by a Trading Policy for Embraer’s stocks, precise, transparent and timely communication of information that for the purpose of ensuring the transparency of their management allows them to keep track of the Company’s activities and assess its and trading in benefit of shareholders and investors. This policy properformance and potential. vides rules and procedures, and establishes periods in which executives and employees must abstain from doing any trading, in order to Besides releasing quarterly results to investors, analysts and the trade avoid questioning of the undue use of privileged information. press, the Investor Relations area provides institutional presentations and takes part in national and international meetings, conferences The Disclosure Policy followed by Embraer establishes the criteria and roadshows. In 2011, the Company held and participated in some and the procedures for releasing information of interest to inves220 events with direct contact with analysts and investors, mainly in tors, thus ensuring a widespread and transparent distribution of Brazil, the United States, and countries in Europe and Asia. information that is relevant to the market. The Company also releases manuals at General Assemblies that provide all the informaEmbraer’s institutional website and the Investor Relations site, which tion needed by shareholders. was totally remodeled in December 2011, provide a wide variety of information and news regarding the performance, products, governance and other subjects of interest, as well as quarterly results, press releases and annual reports of Embraer. socioenvironmental performance 119 Attachments Social Performance 1 – Calculation base 2011 Value (R$ thousand) 2010 Value (R$ thousand) Net revenue (NR) 8,466,553 8,231,283 Operational result (OR) 156,297 573,592 Gross payroll (GPR) 1,800,163 1,649,730 Value Value 2 – Internal social indicators % over GPR % over NR % over GPR % over NR (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) Meals 23,412 1.30% 0.28% 20,475 1.24% 0.25% Mandatory social charges 480,410 26.69% 5.67% 444,839 26.96% 5.40% Supplementary retirement 45,223 2.51% 0.53% 38,324 2.32% 0.47% Health 73,554 4.09% 0.87% 84,895 5.15% 1.03% Labor health and safety 19,310 1.07% 0.23% 9,346 0.57% 0.11% Education 280 0.02% 0.00% 246 0.01% 0.00% Culture 219 0.01% 0.00% 143 0.01% 0.00% Professional training and development 19,471 1.08% 0.23% 15,784 0.96% 0.19% Childcare or childcare stipend 383 0.02% 0.00% 342 0.02% 0.00% Profit-sharing 75,503 4.19% 0.89% 79,162 4.80% 0.96% Others 36,994 2.06% 0.44% 29,891 1.81% 0.36% Total – Internal social indicators 774,759 43.04% 9.15% 723,447 43.85% 8.79% Value Value 3 – External social indicators % over OR % over NR % over OR % over NR (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) Education 14,130 9.04% 0.17% 11,272 1.97% 0.14% Culture 750 0.48% 0.01% 806 0.14% 0.01% Fight against hunger and food security 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Others 355 0.23% 0.00% 260 0.05% 0.00% Total contribution to society 15,235 9.75% 0.18% 12,338 2.15% 0.15% Taxes (excluding social charges) 156,822 100.34% 1.85% 112,822 19.67% 1.37% Total – External social indicators 172,057 110.08% 2.03% 125,160 21.82% 1.52% Value Value 4 – Environmental indicators gri en30 % over OR % over NR % over OR % over NR (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) Investment related to company production/operation 9,735 6.23% 0.11% 8,956 1.56% 0.11% Investment in external programs and/or projects 29 0.02% 0.00% 92 0.02% 0.00% Total environmental investment 9,764 6.25% 0.12% 9,048 1.58% 0.11% Regarding the definition of “annual goals” to reduce waste, the ( ) does not have goals ( ) meets from 51% to 75% ( ) does not have goals ( ) meets from 51% to 75% general consumption for production/operation and increase ( ) meets from 0% to 50% (x) meets from 76% to 100% (x) meets from 0% to 50% ( ) meets from 76% to 100% efficiency in utilization of natural resources, the company: 122 annual report embraer 2011 Indicators 5 – Staff indicators 2011 2010 No. of employees at the end of the period 15,989 16,133 No. of new hires in the period 914 1,028 No. of outsourced employees 2,594 2,430 No. of interns 241 169 No. of employees over 45 years old 2,609 2,441 No. of women working at the company 2,124 2,094 % of management positions held by women 9.75% 8.16% No. of handicapped or special-needs employees 733 740 6 – Relevant corporate citizenship information 2011 Goals 2012 Ratio of highest to lowest salary at the company 65 Does not have goal Total on-the-job accidents 312 156 ( ) directors ( ) directors The social and environmental projects implemented by the (x) directors and management (x) directors and management company were decided upon by: ( ) all staff ( ) all staff ( ) directors and management ( ) directors and management The risk and security standards in the workplace were ( ) all staff ( ) all staff decided upon by: (x) all staff + CIPA (x) all staff + CIPA ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved With regard to labor unions, right for collective bargaining ( ) follows ILO rules ( ) follows ILO rules and internal representation of workers, the company: (x) encourages and follows ILO (x) encourages and follows ILO ( ) directors ( ) directors Supplementary pension benefits contemplate: ( ) directors and management ( ) directors and management (x) all staff (x) all staff ( ) directors ( ) directors Profit-sharing contemplates: ( ) directors and management ( ) directors and management (x) all staff (x) all staff Regarding the selection of suppliers, the same ethical and ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered social and environmental responsibility standards adopted (x) are suggested (x) are suggested by the company: ( ) are required ( ) are required ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved Regarding the participation of employees in volunteer ( ) supports ( ) supports activities, the company: (x) organizes and encourages (x) organizes and encourages Total value added for distribution (R$ thousand) In 2011: 2,157 In 2010: 2,398 21.83% government 52.14% employees 19.23% government 48.26% employees Distribution of Value Added (DVA): 10.48% shareholders 18.79% third parties 6.49% shareholders 8.59% third parties -3.24% retained 17.43% retained attachments 123 GRI Index gri 3.12 profile 1. strategy and analysis AR Pages Global Compact Declaration of conStatement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to tinuous support in 1.1 the organization and its strategy. 8 the Message of the President & CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 8, 35 and 44 2. Organizational Profile AR Pages Global Compact 2.1 Name of the organization. 7 and 16 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 45, 49, 54, 58 and 60 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 joint ventures. 17 and 26 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 16 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 16, 17 and 19 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 16 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 16, 17 and 18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 1 and 26 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including. 9, 17 and 54 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 21 3. Report Parameters AR Pages Global Compact 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 7 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 7 Process for defining report content, including: a) determining materiality; b) prioritizing topics within the 3.5 report; and c) identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 7 and 32 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 7 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 7 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 7 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 7 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature 7 of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods applied in the report. 7 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. 124 Embraer is adapting to conducting audits of its 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. socioenvironmental information. 124 annual report embraer 2011 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement AR Pages Global Compact Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 29 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 29 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 29 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 highest governance body. 24, 26, 29, 39 and 40 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including 4.5 departure arrangements), and the Organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 29 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 26 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 4.7 guiding the Organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. 26 Declaration of comInternally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 25 and 39 mitment and disclosure to employees Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 29 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. 29 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 30, 33, 34 and 35 7 Declaration of comExternally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. 40 mitment and disclosure to employees Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Declaration of com4.13 in which the organization: a) has positions in governance bodies; b) participates in projects or committees; c) 40 mitment and discloprovides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; and d) views membership as strategic. sure to employees Embraer began a structured process of engaging stakeholders in 2011. Among the groups consulted 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. are employees, managers, suppliers, experts from the aviation sector, shareholders, investors, and customers. Embraer began a structured process of engaging stakeholders in 2011. Among the groups consulted 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. are employees, managers, suppliers, experts from the aviation sector, shareholders, investors, and customers. This initial process was conducted in meetings Sharing the COP Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by with stakeholders, resulting in a total of 40 in4.16 stakeholder group. terviews. The subjects brought up are considered with the Company’s stakeholders to be relevant for conducting Embraer’s business. The main topics arising from this process were: climate change; attracting, developing and retaining labor; managing the life cycle of products; local economic development; managing the value chain; human and labor rights; engaging public authorities; Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the new solutions for the challenges of sustainability; 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. communication and transparency; reference in innovation and new technologies; product emissions; local content; product safety; noise, health and safety; managing natural resources and wastes; ethics and corporate governance; privacy and information security; preparing for disaster situations. attachments 125 Economic Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 44 and 45 Aspect: Economic Performance AR Pages Global Compact Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating CORE EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained 1, 74 and 82 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities CORE EC2 39 and 91 7 and 8 due to climate change. CORE EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 106 Aspect: Market Presence AR Pages Global Compact Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ADD EC5 104 6 at significant locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant CORE EC6 67 and 118 locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the CORE EC7 112 6 local community at locations of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts AR Pages Global Compact Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily CORE EC8 114 for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the ADD EC9 113 extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 88, 89 and 91 Aspect: Energy AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 94 8 ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 95 8 and 9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products ADD EN6 89 8 and 9 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 89 8 and 9 Aspect: Water AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal, by source. 94 8 ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 95 8 and 9 126 annual report embraer 2011 Aspect: Biodiversity AR Pages Global Compact Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas CORE EN11 99 8 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in CORE EN12 99 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 99 8 ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 99 8 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. 96 CORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. 96 ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 96 8 and 9 CORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, by weight. 96 8 CORE EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions, by type and weight. 99 8 CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 97 8 CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 97 8 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the ADD EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 97 shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related ADD EN25 97 8 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services AR Pages Global Compact Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact CORE EN26 91, 92 and 94 8 and 9 mitigation. Aspect : Overall AR Pages Global Compact ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments, by type. 122 8 attachments 127 Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 100 and 101 Aspect: Employment AR Pages Global Compact CORE LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 101 and 102 CORE LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 104 6 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations AR Pages Global Compact CORE LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 113 1 and 3 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety CORE LA6 107 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number CORE LA7 63 of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist CORE LA8 107 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 113 Aspect: Training and Education AR Pages Global Compact CORE LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 111 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of ADD LA11 112 employees and assist them in managing career endings. ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 112 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity AR Pages Global Compact Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to CORE LA13 103 1 and 6 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 113 and 118 Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices AR Pages Global Compact Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses CORE HR1 118 1, 4, 5 and 6 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that CORE HR2 118 1, 4, 5 and 6 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Aspect: Non-discrimination AR Pages Global Compact In 2011, Embraer recorded no cases of discrimination of any type, and there was CORE HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. no record of forced labor 1 and 6 at the units in Brazil or abroad. 128 annual report embraer 2011 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Barg aining AR Pages Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and CORE HR5 113 1 and 3 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labor AR Pages Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, CORE HR6 113 1 and 5 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor AR Pages Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory CORE HR7 113 1, 2 and 4 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Society Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 113 and 114 Aspect: Local Communities AR Pages Global Compact Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts CORE SO1 113 1 of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. Aspect: Corruption AR Pages Global Compact CORE SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 39 and 40 10 CORE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 39 10 Aspect : Public Policy AR Pages Global Compact CORE SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 91 and 92 10 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators disclosure of management approach 38, 39, 42 and 43 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for CORE PR1 62, 63 and 70 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ADD PR2 68 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect : Product and Service Labeling AR Pages Global Compact Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant CORE PR3 68 and 89 8 products and services subject to such information requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer ADD PR5 67 satisfaction. attachments 129 Corporate Information Embraer Units Brazil Embraer S.A. – São José dos Campos (Headquarters) Embraer – Gavião Peixoto Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 Estrada Municipal Euclides Martins, 2.170 Postal code: 12227-901 – São José dos Campos, SP – Brazil Postal code: 14813-000 – Gavião Peixoto, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (12) 3927-1000 Phone: +55 (16) 3338-9000 Embraer – São Paulo Embraer – Botucatu Rua Iguatemi, 151 – 21st floor – cj. 211 – Itaim Bibi Av. Alcides Cagliari, 2.281 Postal code: 01451-011 – São Paulo, SP – Brazil Postal code: 18606-855 – Botucatu, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (11) 3040-6850 Phone: +55 (14) 3811-2000 Embraer Defesa e Segurança – São Paulo Embraer – Taubaté Av. das Nações Unidas, 12.995 – 24st floor – Brooklin Rodovia Floriano Rodrigues Pinheiro, 333 Postal code: 04578-000 – São Paulo, SP – Brazil Postal code: 12042-000 – Taubaté, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (11) 3469-4100 ELEB Equipamentos Ltda. – São José dos Campos Embraer – Eugênio de Melo Rua Itabaiana, 40 Rodovia Presidente Dutra, km 134 Postal code: 12237-540 – São José dos Campos, SP – Brazil Postal code: 12247-820 Distrito Eugênio de Melo, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (12) 3935-5211 Phone: +55 (12) 3927-1000 130 annual report embraer 2011 United States of America France Embraer – Fort Lauderdale Embraer – Villepinte Embraer Aircraft Holding Embraer Aviation Europe Embraer Services Bat. Eddington Paris Nord II – 33, Rue des Vanesses Embraer Aircraft Customer Services BP 58294 Villepinte – 95958 Roissy CDG Cedex – France Embraer Executive Jets Phone: +33 1 49 38 44 00 276 SW 34th Street Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315 – U.S. Embraer – Le Bourget Phone: +1 954-359-3700 Embraer Aviation International Le Bourget Airport Embraer – Nashville Zone Aviation d’Affaires Embraer Aircraft Maintenance Services 93350 Le Bourget Cedex – France 10 Airways Blvd. Phone: +33 (1) 49 38 44 00 Nashville, TN 37217 – U.S. Phone: +1 615-367-2100 United Kingdom Embraer – Farnborough Embraer – Melbourne Embraer Executive Jets Embraer Executive Aircraft Farnborough Airport Embraer Engineering Technology Center USA Farnborough, Hampshire 1205 General Aviation Drive United Kingdom – GU146XA Melbourne, FL 32935 – U.S. Phone: + 44 (0) 1252 379270 Phone: +1 321-426-2621 Portugal Embraer – Windsor Locks Ogma – Indústria Aeronáutica de Portugal S.A. – Alverca Embraer Executive Jets 2615 – 173 – Alverca – Portugal 41 Perimeter Road Phone: +351 (21) 957-1000/957-9000 Windsor Locks, CT 06096 – U.S. Phone: +1 860-804-4300 Embraer Portugal Estruturas Metálicas S.A. – Évora Praça de Sertorio, s/nr Embraer – Mesa Gabinete de Apoio da Presidência Embraer Executive Jets Évora, Lisboa – 7004-506 – Portugal 5643 S. Avery Circle Mesa, AZ 85212 – U.S. Phone: +1 480-735-0200 Embraer – Dallas Embraer Customer Training Services 2929 W. Airfield Dr. Dallas Fort Worth Airport, TX 75261 – U.S. Phone: +1 972-456-8000 corporate information 131 China Shareholder Information Embraer – Beijing Depositary Banks Suite 1806, Tower 2, China Central Place BraZil – Banco Itaú S.A. Office Building, 79, Jianguo Road Rua Boa Vista, 176 – 1º subsolo Chaoyang District – Beijing 100025 Postal code: 01014-001 – São Paulo, SP – Brazil People’s Republic of China Phone: +55 (11) 3247-3138/3247-3139 Phone: +86 10 6598-9988 United States of America – JP Morgan Harbin Embraer Aircraft Industry – Harbin 60 Wall Street, 36th floor 15 Youxie St. 10260-006 – New York, NY – U.S. Pingfang, Harbin – 150066 Phone: +1 212-623-0875 People’s Republic of China Phone: +86 451 5390-8988 Independent Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers (until 3/31/2012) Singapore Rua Euclides Miragaia, 433 – cjs. 301 e 304 Embraer – Singapore Postal code: 12245-550 – São José dos Campos, SP – Brazil 391B Orchard Road # 24-02 Phone: +55 (12) 3913-4505 Ngee Ann City – Tower B – 38874 – Singapore www.pwc.com/br Phone: +65 6734-4321 Investor Relations Department Subsidiaries and Affiliates Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 OrbiSat da Amazônia S.A. – São José dos Campos Postal code: 12227-901 – São José dos Campos, SP – Brazil Av. Shishima Hifumi, 2911 – 1st floor – Room 104 – Urbanova – Parque BRAZIL – André Gaia, Caio Pinez, Cláudio Massuda, Juliana VillariTecnológico nho and Paulo Ferreira: (12) 3927-4404 Postal code: 12244-000 – São José dos Campos, SP – Brazil U.S. – Luciano Froes: +1 954-359-3492 Phone: +55 (12) 3202-2700 investor.relations@embraer.com.br Follow Embraer’s IR on Twitter: @RIEmbraer Atech São Paulo Rua do Rocio, 313 – 2nd floor – Vila Olímpia Publications and Information Postal code: 04552-000 – São Paulo, SP – Brazil Quarterly results, press releases and annual reports are availaPhone: +55 (11) 3040-7320 ble from the Department of Investor Relations and on the website ri.embraer.com Harpia Brasília SHS quadra 06, cj. A, bloco C, 13º pavimento Edifício Brasil 21 Business Center – Asa Sul Postal code: 70316-109 – Brasília, DF – Brazil 132 annual report embraer 2011 Credits Coordination Executive Vice Presidency, Finance and Investor Relations Vice Presidency, Institutional Relations Content Consulting, Writing, Design and Graphics Layout TheMediaGroup www.mediagroup.com.br photos Embraer Picture Collection Paulo Fridman credits 133 134 annual report embraer 2011 Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2,170 São José dos Campos, São Paulo 12227-901 – Brazil www.embraer.com
