COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2011 This report is a product of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, policies, Code of Conduct, GRI data, and includes the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles. The following report and links will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of these Principles and continues to reinstate its commitment to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Contents • Letter From CEO Said Darwazah • The Global Compact 10 Universally Accepted Principles 0 Commitment 0 Systems, Processes and Programs 0 Actions 0 Performance Communication on Progress Report 2011 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC CEO’s letter, It is my pleasure to present Hikma’s 2011 Communication on Progress Report. Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility remains at the core of its business strategy and the way it conducts its operations. Our CR progress has been accelerated by our unwavering commitment to the Global Compact and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti corruption. As a leading Healthcare company, we strive to overcome today’s social and economic challenges by staying focused on upholding the highest ethical conduct in everything we do. Our responsible business practices have enabled us to deliver high quality affordable medicines, strengthen relationships with our stakeholders and contribute to raising healthcare standards across all of the countries in which we operate. This has been particularly pertinent in our operations in the MENA region where several countries have been undergoing social and economic turmoil. Being local in each country has many advantages, as this has enabled us to respond quickly and effectively to incidents such as the Arab Spring, minimizing any significant negative impact. Being committed to the people and communities in the countries we operate in, not only builds a solid reputation, of which we are very proud, but also substantiates the company’s values. We believe that every healthcare company should be responsible to giving back to the community and its people. As such, sustaining Hikma’s active membership of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) remains a priority for us and reinforces our dedication to implementing its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We will always advocate for changes that enhance people’s access to higher quality medicine, a cleaner environment and ultimately advance human health and quality of life. We will remain diligent in working towards a more sustainable business by continuously supporting the UNGC and implementing its principles in all aspects of our business. Our mission is not only to ensure the vitality and transparency of our business, but to also improve the health of our local and global communities while safeguarding our environment. Said Darwazah CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC The Global Compact 10 Universally Accepted Principles Communication on Progress Report 2011 3 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle One: Hikma supports and respects human rights as a core ethical value. Through its high ethical Businesses should support conduct, Hikma upholds that human rights and respect the protection of protection is applied in every aspect of its internationally proclaimed business. The multinational Group, which has expanded into 11 countries by 2011, shares human rights uniform ethical principles among its different cultures in diverse geographic locations, under the umbrella of internationally proclaimed human rights, in compliance with applicable laws of the country. Principle Two: Hikma has articulated this support of Human Rights Protection through the Code of Conduct. Businesses should make sure that The Code of Conduct applies to all Hikma employees and in all of Hikma’s business they are not complicit in human dealings. rights abuses The Dignity and Respect Principle from Hikma’s Code states the following: “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” The employment matters standard in the Code of Conduct states the following: “Hikma operates a discrimination-free working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged. At Hikma: Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with the need for training and development is recognised as central to the on-going development of our people, and their skills and knowledge.” 4 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC As with any manufacturing company, the operators’ Systems, Processes and Programs right to health and safety is an integral part of the company’s responsibility towards them. Hikma Implementation of Hikma Health and Safety has a well developed health and safety mandate, Policy and begins at the top level commitment through the Code of Conduct: “Hikma is committed to The global Health, Safety and Environment providing for its employees a safe and secure policy is developed further into detailed health working environment.” and safety policies for each unit and function. The responsibility of their implementation lies with the Hikma applies Human Rights standards along General Manager in each unit. These policies are its supply chain. Hikma will not deal with any consistently applied, enforced and updated to supplier who does not honour international labour protect employees from avoidable injuries. standards. As mentioned in the Code of Conduct, “Hikma seeks to engage with customers and The health and safety processes are: suppliers whose employment practices respect human rights and whose ethical standards meet Employee Health: the standards set by Hikma.” • All employees of Hikma will be provided with Hikma’s full-fledged and ongoing commitment to Health Insurance for both them and their its employees’ health and safety is demonstrated immediate family. through being granted the OHSAS 18001. OHSAS 18001 specifies requirements for an occupational • It is the responsibility of the employee to health and safety management system to help inform his or her manager / supervisor of any an organization develop and implement a policy health condition or illness which will affect the and objectives, which take into account legal safe performance of his or her job. requirements and information about occupational health and safety risks. Accident Prevention: In addition, there is a dedicated Health, Safety • Safety rules are posted throughout the and Environment Policy, which is endorsed by plant and administration buildings, for the top management. It is a global policy and applies protection of all employees. Managers to Hikma’s units worldwide. The policy states the and supervisors are expected to enforce following in regards to Health and Safety: these rules. Employees who disregard safety rules will be warned and disciplined • Hikma expects all its units to comply with its Health and Safety Training. high standards of Health and Safety to ensure the utmost well being of its employees. • Training is provided regularly to all employees. It is provided to new employees at the • We ensure that Hikma complies with and beginning of their employment. Specialized exceeds, where possible… all the labor laws training for specific equipment is mandatory and regulations with regards to workplace for operators whose work entails using this Health and Safety. equipment. • We aim to prevent accidents and cases of Monitoring, Reporting and Communicating: work-related ill health at Hikma. • Any injury that occurs during working • We require our contractors and visitors hours should be reported immediately by to also comply with all site health, safety managers. A report should be completed as requirements. soon as possible and forwarded to Human Resources, the HSE Supervisor and General Proclaimed human rights are perpetrated to Manager. employees of different functions and levels in the Group’s entities. It covers the entire workforce Learning and Development: through the Employees Human Resources Bylaws. It is part of the employees’ responsibilities • Assist employees in developing skills and and makes up part of their work contract. The knowledge. This encompasses a continuing Bylaws and supporting policies meet, and where education scheme for Hikma employees, possible, exceed labor laws and regulations which entails providing scholarships to in the countries in which Hikma operates. employees who qualify. Communication on Progress Report 2011 5 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC • Create employment opportunities that the environment management requirements enhance human development. from ISO 14001 and also managed their health and safety risks by adding OHSAS 18001. The Monitoring the Health and Safety Policy at department manages health and safety risks by Hikma continuing to abide by the standard requirements for maintaining the OHSAS 18001 certification by The process for monitoring the Health and Safety renewing it annually. Policy and procedures is: Monitoring the Code of Conduct at Hikma General Manager: The process for monitoring the implementation of • The HS directive is overseen by the General the Code of Conduct is as follows: Manager of each unit, who takes responsibility for ensuring the implementation of the Health The Corporate Communication Department and Safety Policy. developed the Code. Health and Safety Supervisor: The CEO approved the Code. • An HS Supervisor is appointed in each The Corporate Communication Department manufacturing unit to take responsibility for distributed the Code to all corporate employees ensuring the implementation of the policy and and collected the signed authorisation forms. compliance with local regulations. Managers Worldwide understand the Code and • If so required, the HS supervisor may explain it to their employees. allocate appropriate resources at each level of the organization to ensure the necessary In 2010 the Compliance, Responsibility and compliance. This may include roles for a Fire Ethics Committee “CREC” was formed, which Officer and a First Aid officer. reports to the Board of Directors. The CREC Committee is chaired by an independent NonCR Champion: Executive Director, consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors and Hikma’s Vice • A champion in each unit will also work with the Chairman who champions Hikma’s Corporate representatives appointed to ensure the day Responsibility program (further information about to day implementation and communication of the CREC is found under Principle 10). the Policy is fulfilled. The year 2011 marked the first full year of HSE Committee: operation of Hikma’s Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee, which focused on • Each manufacturing unit also has a formalising Hikma’s strong ethical commitment to dedicated HSE Committee to oversee that business integrity. operations are in line with the HSE policy. In 2011 the CREC hired a Head of Compliance to handle the Compliance function Group-wide; Employees’ well-being at work is looked after. and be responsible for the Code of Conduct along Individuals are trained to understand the hazards with a group of “compliance champions” from associated with their work, so that risks can be other departments, which is endorsed by the Vice appropriately managed. Health and safety laws Chairman. and regulations are understood and complied with to protect both workers and visitors in various The Corporate Communication Department facilities. will be responsible for collecting the signed authorisation forms, and to annually distribute the Employees enjoy a work environment that is Code to all corporate employees and collect the free from substance abuse, and benefit from a signed forms. worldwide “no smoking” policy across all factories and office buildings. Administration Programs OHSAS 18001 was aligned with ISO 14001 The cornerstone of Hikma’s social responsibility management systems. Hikma’s corporate Healthy, is that it cares for its employees and their families. Safety and Environment department added Hikma provides decent income and benefits 6 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC including but not limited to special child care that have dealings with Hikma were identified, assistance programs to working mothers and and underwent human rights screening. We employment of handicapped persons. also utilise Suppliers Audit Questionnaires that pertains to all the UNGC principles as it relates Hikma believes and invests in educating its to the environment, Human Rights, child labour, people and supporting them in their continued anti-bribery measures and other relevant issues professional growth. Programmes such as to help with assessing the suppliers’ practices Hikma’s Continuing Education Scheme offer and increase their awareness of responsible full funding for eligible qualified employees to operations and business ethics. pursue higher education. Through management rotation plans, employees are offered exposure to different parts of business and the opportunity to build a diverse range of skills and experience. The administration respects employees’ rights in line with the UNGC human rights principle. It upholds the employees’ right to privacy, and protects confidential employee information within legal and regulatory frameworks. Employment security is also protected through safeguarding employment and employability. Hikma audits all its main suppliers in regards to their employment practices, through a corporate responsibility supplier audit procedure. The practice was initiated in 2007 whereby the significant suppliers in addition to the contractors Communication on Progress Report 2011 7 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Actions • Health and Safety of sales force is covered by training and they are provided with class • Signing of the Code in 2011 by current and A medical insurance. Hikma provides high new Hikma employees. quality safe cars to medical representatives, as medical representatives require a lot of • In 2011, expansion began of the corporate trips to doctors. Medical representatives health, safety and environment function are closely monitored by their supervisors which started by adding an HS&E manager who need to be informed of any health and of the department. safety risks or accidents and required to take preventive action. • The Health, Safety and Environment policy was revised in 2011 and the new version was • Awareness sessions on healthy living and signed by the CEO of MENA Vice Chairman. stress reduction are conducted to all Hikma employees periodically. • The new version of the HS&E Policy was • Under its continuing development and circulated to all the employees and translated education scheme, Hikma held around 180 to the local language and printed on posters specialized training sessions in 2011, for the that were hung throughout the sites. employees at Hikma corporate in Jordan. This includes training in technical matters such • All new employees learned about Hikma’s as oncology and biosimilars, soft skills such Health and Safety Policy as part of their as leadership empowerment, and quality induction. assurance such as Pharmacovigilance. • All employees received training in Health and • Hikma provides scholarships for continuing Safety on a regular basis. education under its continuing development and education scheme. The number of • Each unit completed an annual Health and people covered by scholarships in 2011 was Safety review. 27 employees, including but not limited to employees from Portugal, Sudan and Algeria. • In February 2011 a series of specialized Health and Safety training sessions took • All new employees took a medical examination place at Hikma corporate entitled “Standard covered by the company. Additional periodic Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Emergency examinations may be required from time to Response Plan for Building (X).” The training time, also at the expense of the company. was taken by 189 factory employees. • The supplier audit procedure continued with • Orientation of the employees is the first the Corporate API and Strategic Sourcing measure that Hikma fulfills to ensure that its department auditing the significant suppliers employees are knowledgeable of the rules that they deal with and processing the and laws that protect them. In 2011 stage 1 of results back to the Corporate Responsibility the induction process was copied throughout department. the Hikma Group’s companies worldwide. The • The CR Champions carried out several first stage was modified and refined according campaigns: “You are Hikma” general to best practices and HR’s experience, and employee health day, first aid training, fire has been adopted by the various companies drill practice, anti-obesity campaign within in almost identical formats. In the pipeline is the company and in the local community, standardizing the stage two of the employees’ breast cancer day in line with the world breast orientation process in order to be distributed cancer initiative, and world heart day. and copied across the Group during the coming year. Performance • Hikma full time employees are offered several In 2011 the Code of Conduct was signed by 2260 benefits, including class A medical insurance, employees worldwide including managers and maternity leave, retirement provision through non-managers. It is incorporated in the induction social security, and a provident fund. There process for all employees. It has consistency and are different benefits provided to employees continuity since it was updated in 2008. This is the of different countries according to local last year that this version will be circulated and as regulations and job requirements. of 2012, the Code will be updated to include more 8 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC of an emphasis on anti bribery and corruption and Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: will be adopted more actively through awareness sessions and e-training. • LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism In 2011, 58% of our workforce was under the age of 30. In 2011, women comprised 28% of Hikma’s • LA10: average hours of training per employee total workforce. In certain jurisdictions however, per category women made up a much larger percentage of the workforce. In Portugal, for example, we employed • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors 235 women, or 75% of total employees. undergone human rights screening The total coverage of the OHSAS 18001 certifications for the Hikma Pharmaceuticals company facilities worldwide was around 35% by the end of 2011. The percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights in 2010 was 27%. In 2011 the audited increased to 43% of the significant suppliers and contractors. Communication on Progress Report 2011 9 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Three: As a fast growing multinational company, Hikma Pharmaceuticals is required to meet employees’ Businesses should uphold the needs and requirements in different countries freedom of association and the and cultures. Hence it is imperative that Hikma effective recognition of the right upholds the freedom of association necessary for a fair representation of its employees wherever to collective bargaining they may be. The employment matters standard in the Code of Conduct states the following: “Employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining are recognised and respected. There is a clear, transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” The Code of Conduct includes a Public Affairs and governmental interaction policy which covers lobbying practices: All public affairs activities undertaken by or on behalf of Hikma must be conducted ethically; must align with relevant local law requirements and applicable industry codes of practice and be approved in accordance with internal policies. Hikma employees will: Have the right to be involved in political and lobbying processes in their own time as private citizens, but must be clear at all times that these activities are not undertaken on behalf of Hikma. Systems, Processes and Programs In 2011, union rights were a major focus. In the MENA region the unions were integrated and involved in the policies made by the company that related to them before implementation. The union representatives and the company labor representatives negotiated the viability and appropriateness of the decisions and clauses of several policies that were being introduced or updated. In particular, the bonus scheme underwent negotiations with the unions and their interests were given priority, and the details were explained and discussed, with the laborers advice taken into consideration. The channels of communications between Hikma’s HR, operators and supervisors were strengthened and maintained during the course of the year. This step came in light of the Arab Spring that 10 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC was sweeping through the region, which in its in Morocco, Tunisia and Jordan. This is a total wake placed matters of human rights, including of 7 locations out of 11 countries, equivalent to workers’ rights, at the forefront. Thus it was 63% of Hikma Pharmaceuticals worldwide. In the necessary for Hikma to find ways to deepen its remaining sites, employees are represented by ties further with the labor unions and encourage members of the HR department. and assist workers, plus increase their awareness about their rights, the benefits of unionization and In every country where a Hikma union is found, their roles. Hikma joined the unions in adding employees are covered by collective negotiation services, and supported training to increase union agreements signed by the General Manager of members’ awareness about relevant issues, such that site and the Union leader. By the end of 2011, as proper professional negotiation methods and there were 4,220 employees covered by collective the rights that they are entitled to, and increasing negotiation agreements about working conditions their awareness about freedom of speech that is of a total workforce of 6,430 employees in Hikma fair, non violent and productive. In every country Pharmaceuticals, which is equivalent to 66% of where a Hikma union is found, employees are the employees. covered by collective negotiation agreements signed by the General Manager of that site and Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: the Union leader. • EC1: direct economic value, including Actions employee wages and benefits Labor unions were established in Arab • LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Co. (APM) in absenteeism Jordan, and in Hikma Egypt. In Tunisia and Morocco the unions were already at maturity, but • LA10: average hours of training per employee venues were looked into for further development. per category As for the Hikma sites in Europe and US the labor unions abide by the labor laws which have clear and extensive union directives which are implemented in full and overseen by specialized Hikma personnel. Unions are treated fairly and are reported as being satisfied with the treatment and provisions given to them and there weren’t any incidents reported this year with the labor unions in Europe and the US. The subjects covered by collective bargaining with trade unions and/or employee representatives over the past year included health and safety; remuneration, specifically, salary increases and bonus; medical insurance. They were also considered for professional training in addition to negotiation training. A visit is planned for 2012 from the International Labor Organization (ILO), which is conducting an independent pharmaceutical study for the Jordanian Ministry of Health which assesses the ties between unions, businesses and employees and will be highlighting Hikma in its study as a model pharmaceutical company in Jordan. Performance There is labor employee representation in the form of Unions in all our European sites: Portugal, Italy and Germany; as well as in the US facility. In the MENA employee representation is found Communication on Progress Report 2011 11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Five: Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the Hikma Pharmaceuticals has always adopted effective abolition of child labour standards that are consistent with established and globally accepted labour requirements and this is evident in all of Hikma’s subsidiaries. Ensuring our employees are properly taken care of is one of the core values and principles that Hikma was built on. Hikma’s Code of Conduct specifically states that “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child Principle Four: labour,” which falls within employee rights within Hikma “employee rights are safeguarded and Businesses should uphold the employment laws and regulations are complied with.” elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Hikma applies Human Rights standards along its supply chain. Hikma will not deal with any supplier who does not honour international labour standards. As mentioned in the Code of Conduct, 12 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC “Hikma seeks to engage with customers and manner, and appropriate measures were suppliers whose employment practices respect taken. human rights and whose ethical standards meet the standards set by Hikma.” • The labour laws of the countries that Hikma facilities are located in are put into effect and Systems, Processes and Programs communicated to managers within their anticorruption training to ensure fair dealings Hikma commits itself, at a minimum, to abiding by among employees. the local labour laws in each of its locations and in some cases, exceeding them. The labour laws • Signing of the Code in 2011 by current and in all the countries Hikma operates in prohibit the new Hikma employees. employment of minors under the age of eighteen. • The supplier audit procedure continued with Hikma follows strict accountability procedures the Corporate API and Strategic Sourcing that entail actions for rapid reporting of any department auditing the significant suppliers labour mistreatments. The actions entail a that they deal with and processing the Grievance Procedure that allows employees to results back to the Corporate Responsibility notify HR instantly of any labour grievances they department. experience and HR immediately take measures to remedy the issues in a responsible manner. Performance These procedures maintain Hikma’s high ethical standards and cover any mistreatments that In 2011 the Code of Conduct was signed by 2260 might occur between employees. Hikma applies employees worldwide including managers and accountability throughout all its operations and non-managers. It is incorporated in the induction has very open communication whereby any process for all employees. It has seen consistency employee can communicate the grievance to and continuity since it was updated in 2008. This the CEO personally and expect that steps will is the last year that this version will be circulated be taken to rectify it. Any grievance is treated and as of 2012, the Code will be updated to with utmost confidentiality. Employment matters include more of an emphasis on anti bribery and standard in the Code of Conduct states that corruption and will be adopted more actively “effective communication with employees is through awareness sessions and e-training about promoted, so that issues arising from business anti-corruption policies, and the inception of the decisions are addressed appropriately and in a online training plan started during 2011. timely fashion.” To ensure all Hikma employees are aware of Furthermore, Hikma utilises the Suppliers Audit these standards and abide by them, working with procedure to ensure that suppliers conform to preferred suppliers was incorporated in the Code international labour laws, including refraining which has been in effect since 2006. In 2011, from child, forced and compulsory labour. The further efforts were taken during the supplier significant suppliers in addition to the contractors audit and the number of responding suppliers that have dealings with Hikma were identified and increased by approximately 16%. have undergone human rights screening as part of the supplier audit procedure. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: Actions • SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies • Human Resources ensured that the employee bylaws, which comply with local labour laws, • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors are strictly followed by every employee and undergone human rights screening. necessary disciplinary action would take place if any of these laws were broken. • Employee bylaws are distributed to new employees and explained during the induction process. • Any grievances received by managers were processed to HR and dealt with in a timely Communication on Progress Report 2011 13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Six: Hikma is committed to providing employees with an environment free of all sorts of discrimination Businesses should uphold the and this is within Hikma’s overarching principles. elimination of discrimination The Dignity and Respect Principle from the Hikma in respect of employment and Code of Conduct states that: occupation “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” Hikma commits itself to ethical standards in employment matters as follows: “Hikma operates a discrimination-free working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged.” At Hikma: Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. There is a clear, transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion. Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with.” Systems, Processes and Programs Hikma prides itself on being an Equal opportunity employer and is dedicated to eliminating discrimination with the company. Matters pertaining to discrimination in respect of employment and occupation are covered in Hikma’s Recruitment Policy worldwide. The Policy states the necessity for “equal employment opportunity in hiring” in the globally acknowledged standards of equal opportunity. The Equal Treatment of Employees and Harassments Policy and Procedure states that 14 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Hikma applies “equal treatment of employees requirements in all areas of the Group’s and do not condone favouritism or inequality in business, which includes the elimination of any shape or form. Hikma does not discriminate discrimination in respect of employment and based on a person’s race, color, religious creed, occupation. age, sex, marital status, national origin, present or past history of mental or physical disability and • The programme of meetings of the CREC any other factors not related to a person’s ability expanded over the course of 2011. to perform a job.” • Also in 2011, a dedicated compliance officer This statement is also stated in Hikma’s was hired in Hikma’s corporate office to Sustainability Report 2011 (pg. 5/7). http://ar2011. coordinate the matters of compliance to hikma.com/index.php/sustainability/sustainablehealth, safety, environmental and labor quality?start=4 policies as well as anti bribery and corruption. This is an active process which is made clear to • The plan the coming year, 2012 is to move all managers. Any mistreatment or harassment forward the sexual harassment laws within is covered by the Grievance Procedure. Hikma’s Hikma’s by-laws and explain them in detail open door policy translates into a completely within the Code of Conduct, which are transparent process whereby employees can applicable in all its companies globally. express their grievance even to the CEO. However there are in place many HR personnel who handle Performance these situations quickly and professionally, all the while ensuring the employee’s privacy The Equal Treatment of Employees and and secrecy to ensure that there aren’t any Harassments policy was sent to all managers repercussions from voicing their concern. across the Group who in turn were asked to circulate the policy to their employees and update The labour laws in place in the US facility are in their policies manual. accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). It makes it unlawful to Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: discriminate in employment against a qualified individual with a disability. The ADA also outlaws • SO3: percentage of employees trained in discrimination against individuals with disabilities anti-corruption policies in State and local government services, public accommodations, transportation and • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors telecommunications. This booklet explains the undergone human rights screening part of the ADA that prohibits job discrimination. This part of the law is enforced by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and State and local civil rights enforcement agencies that work with the Commission. Actions • As evidence of its commitment to providing a discrimination free environment, Hikma introduced an “Equal Treatment of Employees & Harassment” policy in 2004. The policy was updated in 2009. • During the hiring process, recruiters are instructed and expected to eliminate any kind of discrimination and abide by the equal treatment of employees stated within the policy. • Hikma’s Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee (CREC) implements the principles of good corporate governance and ensures the fulfillment of compliance Communication on Progress Report 2011 15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Seven: Hikma strives to ensure the adaptation of environmentally friendly processes in all its Businesses should support a plants across the Group whenever possible. This commitment is reflected in the Code of Conduct precautionary approach to within the Citizenship Principle which states the environmental challenges following: “Hikma recognises the role it can play in its communities and believes in giving back to those communities. Hikma will promote economic and social development, environmental responsibility, and supports diversity and social integration.” Hikma stands by its environmental principle, which is mentioned in the Code of Conduct as follows: Hikma strives to protect the natural environment in which it operates, and sees sustainable development as a key element of its role as a responsible business. Hikma continues to work to reduce its impact on the environment, focusing in particular on minimising waste, analysing carbon emissions, monitoring and reducing energy usage, and minimising demands for water consumption. Along these lines, Hikma is committed to fulfilling the International Organization of Standardization (ISO) 14001 requirements or its equivalent in all the production facilities worldwide. ISO 14001 management systems were aligned with the OHSAS 18001. Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment department added the environment management requirements from ISO 14001 in addition to managing health and safety risks from OHSAS 18001. These standards related to environmental management help Hikma (a) minimize how the operations (processes etc.) negatively affect the environment (i.e. cause adverse changes to air, water, or land); (b) comply with applicable laws, regulations, and other environmentally oriented requirements, and (c) continually improve its practices to achieve annual re-certification. Health, Safety and Environment policy The clauses that relate to environmental matters in the HSE policy are as follows: We are working towards limiting that impact by educating our staff and encouraging them to think about their effect on the environment in everything they do. We are also actively exploring 16 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC ways in which we can reduce carbon emissions Operating Procedures (SOPs), and environmental across the group and reduce waste, particularly programs. harmful waste. Hikma is applying the environmental policy in Hikma expects all its units to maintain an operation every unit in order to improve operations from an that minimizes all negative environmental and environmental point of view. Hikma is keen on climate change impacts associated with our improving on all fronts including minimizing our activities. impact on climate change, water pollution, land contamination, and energy use, by setting goals As a Pharmaceutical Company, we recognize that specific to the environment and working hard to our operations have an effect on the local and achieve them. Responsibility for Environment is global environment and we seek the engagement held by the General Manager in each unit and of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing each business unit is responsible for implementing and maintaining the standards we set. the company’s Health, Safety and Environment policy at its location. • Hikma recognizes and accepts its environmental responsibilities and has Hikma is keen to do its utmost for the prevention established the following policy to minimize and management of environmental accidents. its impact on the environment where possible. There are Standards Operating Procedures (SOPs) for prevention and management of • We ensure that Hikma complies with and environmental accidents within the Health, Safety exceeds, where possible, the relevant and Environment Management function. environmental legislation. Actions • We aim to minimize our impact on climate change, water pollution, land contamination, In 2011 the HSE policy was a revised and energy use, etc. circulated in October, signed and endorsed by Hikma’s Vice Chairman. • We commit to the continuous improvement of our... environmental performance and will Actions taken to ensure the optimal results for be setting targets and goals to ensure that Hikma’s environmental policy include: we make progress on our performance in these areas and will transparently report our • Communicating the HSE policy to employees performance goals and metrics. through awareness sessions, team meetings, newsletters and posters. • We will listen to the environmental concerns of our stakeholders and we will • Encouraging employees to participate in openly communicate on our policies and Hikma’s environmental activities. management processes. • Training employees on the environmental • We require our contractors and visitors policies and all the related SOPs, to to also comply with all site environmental demonstrate the impact of the business on requirements and will work with our suppliers the environment and ways to minimise this and contractors, to bring our environmental impact. standards into alignment. • Periodic internal audits • We will ensure that this policy is periodically reviewed and applied to all of our processes • Management review meetings and operations. • Promoting sustainable development through Systems, Processes and Programs on-going initiatives to reduce waste, increase recycling and reduce energy consumption. The Hikma environmental policy is a framework for integrating environmental and social factors • Continuity for the ISO 14001 certification or into the management of Hikma’s supply chain. its equivalent It includes compliance with the environmental legislations, prevention of pollution, and the • Interacting with key stakeholders to resolve continuous improvement of the Environmental issues and help improve environmental Management System, all the related Standard performance. Communication on Progress Report 2011 17 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Performance Our environmental impact is assessed on yearly basis through our Global Reporting Initiative. We have continued with our commitment to achieve the target and goals of ISO 14001 or its equivalent to reduce the environmental impact produced by energy consumption, hazardous waste, water usage and electrical consumption. By the end of 2011 the coverage of the ISO 14001 certifications was around 25% for Hikma Pharmaceuticals. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • EN3: direct energy consumption • EN8: total water withdrawal • EN22: total weight of waste 18 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Eight: Hikma is committed to promoting environmental responsibility and utilizing environment-friendly Undertake initiatives to processes in all its plants across the Group promote greater environmental whenever possible. This commitment can be responsibility seen in several official documents such as the Code, Environmental Policy, and the company’s Annual Report. “Hikma strives to protect the natural environment in which it operates, and sees sustainable development as a key element of its role as a responsible business.” (Environmental Principle, Code of Conduct). Through the Community Impact and Support principle in the Code of Conduct, Hikma is “committed to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable donations, volunteering and the operation of its social and environmental policies.” Systems, Processes and Programs Promotion of the sustainable development of healthcare systems Hikma joins environmental and social consciousness by promoting the sustainable development of health care systems in areas where Hikma is present or has a commercial interest falls. Global Welfare • As a healthcare leader, Hikma is well placed to lead on important health and welfare related issues in the markets in which it operates. • It can play a valuable role in Jordan on leading on health areas such as TB and cancer care as desired. Equally, it can drive health issues at a group level and/or at a local market level. • Strong leadership on health and welfare issues relevant to the business and the markets it operates in and strives to operate in will enable Hikma to differentiate itself from its peers. • These can be health awareness campaigns, provision of free drugs, disaster relief support, education campaign and partnerships with national health bodies. The oversight of these initiatives lays with the CREC committee which reports to the Board Communication on Progress Report 2011 19 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC of Directors and is responsible for sustainable indicators) as well as water testing. development of healthcare systems within its Corporate Responsibility function (CR), and the • Hikma utilised Suppliers Audit Questionnaires implementation takes place with a dedicated CR that relate to the environment to help with department. assessing the suppliers’ practices and increase their awareness of responsible The Supplier Audit Questionnaire operations and business ethics. With regards to environmental matters, the Performance questionnaire asks whether suppliers have: By the end of 2011 the coverage of the ISO q Obtained certification for environmental, 14001 certifications was around 25% for Hikma social and or health and safety management Pharmaceuticals. system(s). In 2011, further efforts were taken during the q Published an environment/sustainability or a supplier audit and the significant suppliers and corporate social responsibility report (please contractors that were audited increased to 43%. send copy or provide web link) Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: q Established formal and regular consultation with local community and other stakeholders • EN3: direct energy consumption q Decreased use of resources, increased • EN8: total water withdrawal emission controls, or increased by-product recycling • EN22: total weight of waste q Marketing of products or services that are specifically environmentally friendly q Worked to improve local supplier relationships or provided technical assistance to suppliers q Programs to benefit the local community q Employee programs training, health, safety Actions • Hikma deployed reporting systems that aim to reduce energy consumption, waste, greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption: Global Reporting Initiative, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) audits. • Hikma’s Jordan facility continued to improve its operations and achieved a re-certification of the ISO 14001 and AMC obtained recertification of the ISO 14001 as well as Occupational Health and Safety Standard OHSAS 18001 certification. Hikma facilities worldwide improved their standards as required to be compliant with the ISO recertification or its equivalent in the country in which they operate. Hikma deploys periodic monitoring for direct and indirect emissions by direct measurement and indirect measurement through KPIs (key performance 20 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Nine: Hikma is committed to promoting environmental responsibility and utilizing environment-friendly Encourage development and processes when possible. diffusion of environmentally All of Hikma’s new buildings will be built in an friendly technologies environmentally friendly manner. Hikma is serious in its commitment to the environment as an integral part of its corporate strategy. This commitment is stated in several official documents such as the Code, the Environmental Policy, and the company’s Annual Report. Hikma stands by its environmental principle, which is mentioned in the Code of Conduct as follows: Hikma strives to protect the natural environment in which it operates, and sees sustainable development as a key element of its role as a responsible business. Hikma continues to work to reduce its impact on the environment, focusing in particular on minimising waste, analysing carbon emissions, monitoring and reducing energy usage, and minimising demands for water consumption Green Buildings All of Hikma’s new buildings will be built in an environmentally friendly manner. Hikma is serious in its commitment to the environment as an integral part of its corporate responsibility strategy. Systems, Processes and Programs The information system for reporting environmental impact, which inevitably leads to improving on technologies and processes, is a standard that is mentioned in the Code of Conduct as follows: COMMUNICATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND RECORDS Maintain information management systems to ensure that our records are maintained in compliance with applicable legal, regulatory, environmental, tax, employment, and trade requirements. Hikma submits reports and data to environmental associations such as ministry of environment and ministry of labor and Civil Defense in Jordan, as well as international organizations. Hikma is committed to fulfilling the ISO 14001 requirements Communication on Progress Report 2011 21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC or its equivalent. It is also dedicated to being an 2) Maximize sustainability through reduction of active member of the Carbon Disclosure Project carbon emissions (CDP). It also produces an Annual Monitoring 3) Reduce reliance on the electricity supply from Report to the International Finance Corporation the public supply network (IFC) as part of its long-standing partnership agreement. ECMs consist of two groups of technologies that enable the above objectives to be achieved: Environmental and Social Performance, Annual Monitoring Report (AMR) Energy Efficiency technologies enable the energy (both electrical and thermal energy) that is Hikma prepares a comprehensive Annual procured to be utilised more effectively within the Monitoring Report (AMR) for Hikma’s facilities facility. By improving energy efficiency, the user and operations for the IFC part of the World Bank does not need to use as much energy to deliver Group. This document displays the environmental the same tasks or processes. and social state and enables Hikma to ensure that its operations meet all the requirements of Decentralised Energy technologies enable the local regulatory agencies and applicable energy to be produced at or near the point of World Bank Group (WBG)/IFC policies and use, generally from renewable energy sources. Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines. This is in contrast to the traditional, wasteful and Systems must be put in place to ensure that increasingly costly method of buying energy that environmental externalities stay beneath WBG/ is generated in a centralised power station that IFC maximum levels and host country maximum may be many hundreds of kilometres from the levels. point at which the energy is needed. Hikma personnel are required to monitor, record, We strive to protect the natural environment and report environmental monitoring data focusing in particular on minimising waste, throughout the reporting period. analysing carbon emissions, monitoring and reducing energy usage and minimising demands As a part of its environmental efforts Hikma for water consumption. initiated a procedure to measure, monitor and record the all environment impact and aspects Energy, Waste and Water in our facilities such as air emission, dust, disposal water, electrical consumption, diesel Hikma streamlined its operations during 2011 consumption, pharmaceutical waste (hazardous by introducing energy saving, waste reduction and non hazardous) and used oil by third and water use efficiency systems in some of our approved party as per Jordan and international manufacturing facilities. Employees received regulations. training for reducing waste and managing resources more effectively. The Workplace Hikma’s consideration of the environment is Hazardous Materials Information System reflected throughout its processes, and this (WHMIS) was also introduced to better monitor is evident in its purchasing policy, which was and manage hazardous waste output. Hikma updated to state that Hikma is required to install encouraged employees across the Group environmentally conscious equipment in its to recycle paper in line with the company’s production units. commitment to establish an environmentally conscious work force. In addition, minimising The improvement on the environmental front for water consumption was done by implementing all processes is an ongoing effort. new manufacturing processes that treat water waste for re-use in irrigation, efficient utilisation Actions of water was implemented in manufacturing processes through the installation of a new stage Hikma Group is seeking to reduce energy costs for purification in order make the water re-usable and increase sustainability throughout all of its for irrigation. facilities by implementing Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs). Moreover, Hikma’s state-of-the-art lyophilised plant in Portugal that was inaugurated in 2011 There are three specific objectives surrounding is officially environmentally friendly, according to this vision: international standards. 1) Minimize energy costs 22 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Performance • Hikma AMC in Jordan dropped its gas energy consumption significantly, by 41% As a measure of its performance in applying environmentally conscious principles, Hikma • Hikma Portugal was also successful in continues to improve its operations in all reducing its gas energy consumption locations. The production facilities have achieved significantly by 43% re-certification of ISO 14001 and the OHSAS 18001 or their relevant equivalents worldwide. • In Saudi Arabia, there was also a decrease Hikma is committed to the highest manufacturing by 29.1% in gas consumption. standards with multiple FDA approvals. Waste management (non-hazardous and Protection of water resources hazardous waste levels) • In the USA the water from utilities was • There was a decrease of 42.6% of hazardous reduced by a third (33.5%). waste in Hikma Jordan. • Hikma Jordan’s well water consumption was • Hikma Portugal witnessed a decrease of reduced by 21.8% 21.3% • A decrease of 8.8% in well water consumption • Hikma USA experienced a reduction of 39.4% was witnessed in AMC Jordan • There was a reduction of non-hazardous Minimising environmental impacts from energy waste from utilization for administration work use of 62% in the Hikma USA facility. • In Hikma Portugal facility the energy Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: consumption in the form of electricity was reduced by 14.1% • EN3: direct energy consumption • In Hikma US facility there was a substantial • EN8: total water withdrawal reduction in electrical energy consumption of 39% • EN22: total weight of waste • Hikma Jordan was able to reduce its energy consumption in the form of diesel by 4.7% Communication on Progress Report 2011 23 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Ten: Hikma does not tolerate corruption in any shape or form and has undertaken strict measures to Businesses should work against ensure the compliance of all employees with these corruption in all its forms, standards. As Hikma is a public listed company including extortion and bribery. in the London Stock Exchange, it must abide by the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and implement the Share Dealing Code and Disclosure policies that follow strict guidelines regarding share dealing and prohibit the use of internal information for personal gain or insider trading. Hikma’s core Integrity Principle in the Code of Conduct explicitly states: Hikma does not condone or participate in any form of corruption and refrains from doing business with those who do not meet its standards. The Code of Conduct discusses anti-bribery and corruption in detail. Employees are expected to abide by the following standards of behaviour in the way that they conduct business: Hikma has a zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. All directors, officers employees, and other individuals working for Hikma and joint ventures in which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or giving, either directly or indirectly, money or anything else of value, as a bribe or inducement: to make, (or as a reward for making or not making), a decision that is favourable to Hikma’s interests; or to seek to gain an unfair business advantage or otherwise influence business activities; or which compromises their judgement or their ability to act objectively. This standard applies to interactions with to all individuals and corporate bodies with whom Hikma does business – healthcare professionals, customers, suppliers, professional bodies, regulatory authorities, and NGOs – regardless of where they are located geographically. At Hikma we will: Act honestly, ethically and with integrity in all company interactions Not engage in or condone bribery or any other form(s) of corruption Not give or receive gifts or hospitality where this could give rise to a perception of a corrupt purpose 24 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Systems, Processes and Programs Committee “CREC” The year 2011 marked the first full year of In light of the UK Bribery Act, there is a Compliance, operation of Hikma’s Compliance, Responsibility Responsibility and Ethics Committee “CREC” that and Ethics Committee, which focused on reports to the Board of Directors whose main focus formalising Hikma’s strong ethical commitment has been on formalising Hikma’s existing strong to business integrity. Full details of the work of commitment to business integrity, in accordance the Committee are set out on pages 73 to 75 of with the principles of good corporate governance Hikma’s Annual Report 2011. and in compliance with the Combined Code and Markets Law. A Head of Compliance and a department has been hired in the Hikma Corporate office, reporting The key functions of the Committee are to oversee directly to the CREC on compliance issues. Her the Group’s approach to compliance-related job is to coordinate the matters of compliance issues including the Group compliance function, to business ethics and corruption labor policies anti-corruption, whistle-blowing, statements and group-wide and in lieu the practices in the 11 policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles countries that Hikma is located in. and at Board level to set and review Group policy in the area of Corporate Responsibility (CR), Subcategories have been created with global and which is supported by the CR Steering Committee. corporate functions that will be involved with the Compliance department, in several directions, The CREC oversaw the updating of the Code of such as training, audits and investigations. Conduct and that its procedures are in place. In Hikma’s three divisional business heads have effect, Hikma is committed to engage employees taken responsibility for championing antiin transparent communications. The Code of bribery and anti-corruption compliance in their Conduct has a Speaking Up standard as follows: businesses. Hikma wishes to encourage an environment in Audits and other reporting mechanisms are in which full, free, and frank discussions can be held place to monitor corruption and anti-competitive on issues that concern our employees. Therefore, behaviour within the group. A full account can be Hikma has always had an open door policy found in the audit committee report. http://ar2011. regarding communication. hikma.com/images/stories/pdfs/Governance/ Committee%20reports.pdf Furthermore, we must hear from those who have any concerns about the ethics and integrity of Audit Committee our business. As part of your commitment to this Code, you have a duty to report to the Company There is an Audit Committee which reports as soon as possible any suspected violations of to the Board of Directors. The Committee has the Code, its supporting policies or any applicable an annual cycle of work relating to reviewing law or regulations of which you become aware. financial performance and forecasting, results announcements, internal control, risk Hikma commits to a number of Global Initiatives management and internal and external audit. The pertaining to anti-corruption. Being a signatory Audit Committee consists of five Independent to the United Nations Global Compact signifies Non-Executive Directors. No members of the Hikma’s commitment to aligning operations Committee have links with the Company’s with the UNGC’s ten universally accepted external auditors. principles, including anti-corruption, and Hikma continues to propagate its commitment for Internal Audit the fourth consecutive year by submitting this Communication on Progress report. Ernst & Young continued its management and execution of the Group’s internal audit function on Hikma’s commitment is also evidenced by being a global basis under a three year contract which a founding member of PACI (Partnering against commenced in 2009. The internal audit process Corruption Initiatives), an off-shoot of the World focuses on reviewing areas of business risk, Economic Forum. PACI is a business driven internal controls, and financial reporting across global initiative that seeks to fight bribery and the Group’s systems. The internal auditors report corruption. Participants commit to zero tolerance directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, of bribery and the successful implementation of a with regular reports of its findings made to the program to fight bribery and corruption. Audit Committee. Communication on Progress Report 2011 25 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Internal Control Speak-up The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Speak-up is a is a whistle blowing practice which Group’s systems of internal controls and risk is incorporated in the Code of Conduct due to management during the year and confirms its integral part in Hikma’s communications, and that it accords with the relevant guidance. The states the following: Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of internal control and has established a “Issues are best resolved early on, so that the continuous process for identifying, evaluating and potential for harm to Hikma, our employees or managing the risks the Group faces. This draws our counterparties, partners and communities is on the on-going output of the finance department reduced. on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external Wherever possible and appropriate, such reports auditors to the extent covered by their audit will be kept confidential and the information work. The Board is responsible for monitoring the provided will only be shared with those individuals ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for who need to know it. conducting a formal annual review of the Group’s policies on internal control. Hikma management will not tolerate any form of harassment or retaliation against persons making External Audit such reports. The Audit Committee is responsible for the Any reprisals or retaliation taken or threatened development, implementation and monitoring because of a report made under this Code would of the Group’s policy on external audit, which is themselves be a violation of this Code. undertaken by Deloitte LLP and for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external In most cases, such reports should be made auditors. directly to a line manager or supervisor. In cases 26 Communication on Progress Report 2011 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC in which this is not possible or is inappropriate, • The CREC administered the compliance the group’s compliance officers are eligible and function by hiring a Head of Compliance. qualified to receive such reports. • The Head of Compliance networked among Where permitted, confidential reporting lines are different companies and department functions also available. Details of other contacts are set to create awareness of the compliance out in our Guide to Speaking Up.” responsibility within Hikma. Managers were expected to educate their teams. Speaking up is a firmly held standard and non-compliance, including a failure to report • Head of Compliance selected a team of people a suspected or known breach, “can represent to become the “compliance champions” to serious misconduct, and may result in disciplinary assist in the formation and implementation of action being taken.” policies and procedures. A dedicated “speak-up” hotline is being • Compliance Department began updating the implemented across the Group. It will be an policies and procedures, including the Code anonymous hotline run by third-party operators to of Conduct, gift giving policy and speak-up ensure complete secrecy for all employees. hotline, which will be in effect in 2012 and 2013. As part of Hikma’s commitment to work against corruption, it makes sure that the stakeholders • The “speak up” hotline was set in motion; it it works with are also fair, ethical and do not is supposed to be functional in the US and in engage in nor tolerate any forms of corruption. some parts of Europe by 2012 and should be To understand suppliers’ ethical policies and implemented in the MENA during 2013. practices, an audit questionnaire is sent out to all suppliers. This measure of performance ensures compliance with international standards in ethical standards as well as environmental and human right standards. This practice is always implemented and new suppliers are always audited, researched and scrutinised. Actions • Employees are encouraged to report any suspicious activities. • There is ongoing education underway on the Share Dealing Code and Disclosure policies to ensure all employees are aware and in compliant with them. Currently, to ensure no insider information is used in share dealings. • Hikma issues a closed period for employee share dealing two times a year, usually 3 months prior to disclosing company results, and this is communicated clearly to all employees across the Group. • Training on healthy business practices is conducted to relevant personnel led by the Legal Department, and includes the API department, Finance, Corporate Communications and Medical Affairs divisional heads and senior members. • The programme of meetings of the CREC expanded over the course of 2011 to oversee the formalization of Hikma’s ethical compliance and supervision. Communication on Progress Report 2011 27 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Performance The Code of Conduct was signed by 2260 employees worldwide during year 2011, including managers and non-managers. It is incorporated in the induction process for all employees. It has seen consistency and continuity since it was updated in 2008. In 2011, further efforts were taken during the supplier audit and the number of responding suppliers increased by approximately 16%. According to the supplier audits carried for environmental and social factors, there weren’t any non-conformities uncovered. Hikma was awarded the 2011 ICSA/Hermes Transparency in Governance Award for the best audit disclosure for a FTSE 250 company. The award is given for clear communication which aides shareholder understanding. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies 28 Communication on Progress Report 2011 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
