GOOD FOR YOU SUSTAINABLE FOR THE PLANET ...in other words, our way of doing business GOOD FOR YOU SUSTAINABLE FOR THE PLANET ...in other words, our way of doing business LETTER from the chairmEn The one ingredient we would never like to see missing from what we produce is Quality. It’s something we’ve always pursued in doing business, and it’s the Know-How of the People who work with us that creates it day after day. Guido, Luca and Paolo Barilla What you are going to read in the next few Anyone who chooses a product made by our pages is a simple story. This is the story of the company must be able to do so with the same commitment of many People who, over the years, conviction that we and the People who work for have transformed cereals, tomatoes and cocoa us have. This is why we felt the need to recount into pasta, bread, sauces, and biscuits. This is what happens in the plants and all along the the story of Barilla, the Italian family company supply chain. Every gesture contributes towards that has been accompanying the grain of wheat realizing Barilla’s dream: “Give people what we on its journey since 1877 and is above all the would give our own children.” A dream that is not story of the People who choose to enrich so many only easy to utter, but which has been cherished moments of their lives with its products. for generations by a family, and that contains a The one ingredient we would weight of trust not to be taken for granted in the never like to see missing current historic moment. from what we produce is We however seek to keep it alive day after day Quality. and not only out of the respect we have for It’s something we’ve always those who preceded us, but because we have pursued in doing business, faith in tomorrow’s world and in those who will and it’s the Know-How of inherit and make it better still. The courage with the People who work with us which we work today is what we are sowing for that creates it day after day. tomorrow’s quality of life. The Earth, from which This translates into taste, the history of raw materials begins, teaches us safety and wellbeing. Today the rest: the small grain of wheat, contending we can also add a greater with the severity of winter, begins to sprout. awareness on the part of those who want food that is “good for them” but is also “good for the Planet”, i.e. contributes to a better future for the individual and society at large. Also with respect to this meaning of Quality, Barilla stands side by side with People. Guido Barilla, Chairman Luca Barilla, Deputy Chairman Paolo Barilla, Deputy Chairman INDEX 1. BARILLA AND ITS WAY OF DOING BUSINESS 08. Barilla is… …Quality Strategy for Sustainable Business 14. Building Knowledge 15. [ Focus ] Some Paradoxes in Food and Nutrition 2. 16. Building a Sustainable Company 18. Building Local Relations COMPANY MANAGEMENT 24. Group Governance 28. [ Focus ] Barilla in the International Food Sector Scenario 34. Financial Highlights of the Group 36. Non-Financial highlights of the Group 3. TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE AND INTEGRATED POSTER INSERT SUPPLY CHAIN. FROM The Durum Wheat Integrated Supply Chain FIELD TO FORK 42. The Integrated Supply Chain 44. [ Focus ] Sustainability of Agricultural Models 46. Sustainable Agriculture 50. Sustainable Supply Chains Raw Materials Production 64. Dialogue Projects with Retailers 4. TOTAL QUALITY IS SUSTAINABLE QUALITY 68. Sustainable Quality 70. [ Focus ] Critical Success Factors in Barilla Quality 72. Operational Quality Product Quality 76. The BCFN Index of Wellbeing Know-How 93. Listening to People 5. More choice and more knowledge for good Nutrition 98. More Choice, More Knowledge 100. [ Focus ] Eating Habits and Excess Food 102. The Double Pyramid and the INHES Project 107. Barilla Products 113. Education and Information for Families and the Community Appendix 1 116. Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area Appendix 2 128. Barilla’s Sustainable Business and Its Contribution Building Knowledge to People’s Wellbeing Building a Sustainable Company Building Local Relations BARILLA STORIES In this chapter 1. you will find out who BARILLA IS, what ITS products, brands and values are, and why BARILLA Barilla IS committed to implementing a sustainable business model. and its way of doing business [ Vision ] We help People live better, bringing wellbeing and eating enjoyment into their everyday lives. 1. BARILLA STORIES TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE AND BARILLA AND INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN. FROM FIELD 5. ITS WAY OF TO FORK More choice DOING BUSINESS 3. 4. and more knowledge for good 2. TOTAL QUALITY Nutrition COMPANY IS SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT QUALITY [ Mission ] Since 1877, Barilla has been the Italian family company that believes food should be a joyful, convivial experience, abounding in taste, and a form of sharing and caring. Barilla offers high quality, safe, tasty products. It is a believer in the Italian food model that combines superior quality ingredients with simple recipes, offering the five senses unique experiences. A sense of belonging, courage, and intellectual curiosity inspire our behaviour and characterize our People. Barilla has always linked its growth to People’s wellbeing and to the communities in which it operates. barilla good for you sustainable for the planet BARILLA is... “The Italian Food Company, since 1877”. If to this definition we add the word “ family”, which specifies not only the ownership, but also the way of doing business, we have the key data to describe the company. Being a family company imposes a long-term logic on the business, where today’s work is based on yesterday’s and becomes the building block [ 1877 ] for tomorrow’s, constituting almost a generational pact not only for its owners, but also for its workers and the territories the company operates in. Barilla is not just an Italian company, but the company that speaks for a The year 1877 recalls FOOD MODEL – the Italian one – all around the world. the basics: sound experience, 50 MILLION PEOPLE choose its products every technical competence day, in OVER 100 COUNTRIES. and entrepreneurial culture, which only make sense Being in the service of these People and all the others to come, carries with it a series of responsibilities. if we are looking The paradoxes linked to food in contemporary society help us to appreciate to the future, however. why a company that operates in the food sector can and must now make its resources and skills available to take part, in proportion to its size and possibilities, in solving global problems where food and nutrition play an increasingly determinant role. With over 130 YEARS of experience behind it, the company has decided to offer the public consumption choices that are compatible with the wellbeing of each individual, of society at large, and of the Planet, unstintingly pursuing this goal day after day. This document aims to explain why Barilla defines this way of operating as sustainable, and how this affects its strategies, actions and results. The Italian Food Group The Barilla Group is one of the largest Italian food manufacturers, a leader in the pasta market, European leader in ready-made sauces, Italian leader in bakery products, and Scandinavian leader in crisp breads. Engaged in all the categories that underpin the Mediterranean dietary model, Barilla provides products for daily use, seeking excellence in taste and paying constant attention to ensuring a balanced diet. Look at Over 1,000 PRODucts, suitable for different times the video throughout the day, are sold daily. [ Barilla values ] passion integrity intellectual curiosity courage trust 8 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business Value Market Shares ITALY francE GERMANY 40.1% Dry PASTA 19.9% Dry PASTA 12.7% Dry PASTA 28.8% Sauces 13.4% Sauces 25.4% Sauces 30.1% Breakfast 3.8% WASA CRISPBREAD 50.2% WASA CRISPBREAD 28.2% Bread 35.1% SOFT BREAD 24.5% Out of Meal 15.3% MORNING GOODS SWEDEN usa greECE 25.5% Dry PASTA 27.7% Dry PASTA 42.6% Dry PASTA 15.8% Sauces 58.8% WASA CRISPBREAD The Barilla Group Brands Every year 2,5 MILLION TONS of products under 16 brand names leave our plants: Barilla, Mulino Bianco, Voiello, Pavesi, Gran Cereale, Pan di Stelle, Wasa, Harrys (France and Russia), Lieken Urkorn and Golden Toast (Germany), Academia Barilla, Misko (Greece), Filiz (Turkey), Yemina and Vesta (Mexico). The Number1 brand, a Group company engaged in logistics activities, stands alongside the product brands. 9 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet ...qualitY eggs palm oil common wheat semolina tomatoes mills 3. Dialogue with Retailers and service to People packaging 4. Products “good for you, sustainable for the Planet” 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business The Quality of every Barilla product is the result of using superior raw materials, avant-garde production processes, long-term relations with retailers and relationships of trust with People. In the conviction that the wellbeing of the Company, People, and the Planet are different sides of the same coin. 1. Selected raw materials sesame and long-term relationships cocoa with Suppliers olive oil durum wheat 2. Advanced production processes and Quality management systems integrated mills plants transport barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Production Activity Around the World In 2011, Barilla’s production activity was divided among 36 plants and 9 mills in 9 countries. The location of the production sites is as follows: 9 in Italy (Marcianise-Caserta, Foggia, Pedrignano-Parma, Ascoli Piceno, Castiglione delle Stiviere-Mantova, Cremona, San Nicola-Melfi-Potenza, Novara, Rubbiano-Parma), 1 in GreECE (Thiva), 1 in Turkey (Bolu), 2 in America (Ames, Avon), 1 in MeXico (San Luis de Potosì), 6 in FrancE (Gauchy, Grand Prè-Chateauroux, Malterie-Chateauroux, St. Vulbas-Plain de l’Ain-Lione, Talmont, Valenciennes-Onnaing), 1 in Sweden (Filipstad), 13 in Germany (Celle + 12 Lieken), 2 in Russia (Solne, Ufa). 5 mILLS in ItalY (Pedrignano, Altamura, Castelplanio, Ferrara, Galliate), 1 mILL in GrEECE (Volos), 1 mILL in TurKEY (Bolu), 1 mILL in America (Ames), 1 mILL in Sweden (Filipstad). In 2011 construction began on a new plant at Rubbiano to produce sauces. Two Lieken plants in Germany were closed down. USA SWEDEN 1 GERMANY 1 2 1 RUSSIA 13 FRANCE 6 ITALY TURKEY 8 GREECE 1 1 4 1 1 MEXICO 1 SALES OFFICES PRODUCTION INTEGRATED SALES OFFICES AND PRODUCTION SITES PLANTS MILLS MILLS 12 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business Strategy for Sustainable Business Barilla is convinced that sustainable business creates value for the company, both for the short-and long-term horizons it operates within. 3 fundamental strategic directions: building knowledge Developing and sharing a vision of the future that tackles some major paradoxes linked to food and nutrition, while at the same time providing strategic guidelines for the company’s daily work. A central role is played here by education, a constant of the company’s conduct. building a sustainable company Managing the company to constantly improve processes and products under the profile of “Total” Quality in the company’s range, thereby contributing to the wellbeing of People and the Planet. building local relations Contributing to the development of the territories it operates in not only through company actions, but also as a “social entrepreneur” to demonstrate that it can act on some of those paradoxes via economic resources, but also and above all by means of the skills and scientific and technological resources developed over time by the company. The 3 strategic directions are divided into Some of the 23 operational goals 23 Goals Barilla undertakes to achieve its goals by means of: Developing systematic and coherent guidelines on the theme of the relationship with the territory and • A way of behaving and operating that respects the community, to be applied in all the rights of present and future generations, the contexts where the company operates. communities, its own People, its own suppliers. Reducing the Ecological Footprint • Its products and its way of proposing them all along Barilla’s supply chain. to the pEOPLE. Supporting employment potential in the agricultural sector with • Collaboration with the retailers, schools, an eye on managing the territory, local development, protection institutions, civil society. and cultural promotion. For all the goals and their development please see the cover insert. 13 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Building Knowledge If we cannot stop the continuous evolution of the Planet, we do have the moral duty to suggest directions and proposals to interact with it in a responsible way. Guido Barilla Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition 2011 The BCFN (www.barillacfn.com) is the think tank founded in 2009 with the aim of analyzing the major themes of food and nutrition through a multidisciplinary approach, and to disseminate the results of top international research to Results the general public. 9 The centre concentrates on 4 RESEARCH AREAS: Food for Health, Food for Sustainable Growth, Food for All, Food for Culture. scientific The year 2011 was important for the BCFN since it gained accreditation as an international institution. Received in January by the President of the Italian Republic publications and by Mario Draghi, Governor of the Bank of Italy from 2006 to 2011, in the following months the BCFN handed the recommendations and opinions devised 2 through various scientific publications to the Italian Embassies in France and the United States. The Center also carried on a dialogue with various European Institutions. Then, in October 2010, the BCFN was presented to the European Parliament in Brussels. The consolidation of the scientific work, by means of national events constant updating of works published in previous years, and the development of new themes, allowed an intensification of the opportunities for public debate on the most urgent problems of food and nutrition. 4 international events Webinar, seminars and, in particular, the Third International Forum held in Milan on 30 November and 1 December attracted a wide audience, from institutions to civil society, increasingly sensitive and oriented towards expanding their own awareness and sharing their contribution on the themes in question. The impact these themes have on the quality of life of People and our Planet, and the urgent need to find possible solutions is emblematic of the Barilla Group’s commitment 5 to the concrete path of knowledge and dialogue undertaken by the BCFN. webinar climate change access to food total of urbanisation 30,000 reduced agricultural productivity food excess economic growth in developing countries population increase live and streaming participants biodiversity water resources management 14 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business [ focus ] Some Paradoxes in Food and Nutrition Out of a population of over seven billion individuals worldwide, a good billion People are underfed or malnourished. Figures of Every year around 36 MILLION People die from lack of food. A further billion People suffer from overfeeding while around 29 MILLION die annually from illnesses linked to high-calorie diets. Speaking of the north and south of the world would mean grossly simplifying reality: at times, those dying from hunger live in the same country as those who become ill from the Paradox overeating. Sources: FAO, UN, WHO 2010 The constant increase in the population together with phenomena 1.1 billion of urbanization could lead to a worsening of these alarming data, notwithstanding the elimination of extreme poverty and hunger. Even if education and the safeguarding of health form part of the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals and, as such, are observed by undernourished People International Institutions and Organisms. While a large majority of the population has problems linked to 36 access to food, and while ANOTHER BILLION PEOPLE do not have a fundamental resource, i.e., drinking water, every year, three billion head of livestock are reared around the world. million People die from To feed these requires one third of the world’s agricultural undernutrition production. Intensive breeding is the second source of greenhouse gas emission i.e. the gas responsible for global warming. Here we are faced by yet another 1 great paradox, whether to use natural resources for feeding People billion People lack access or for breeding animals. to water There are many other similar examples to those illustrated above: suffice to think of the so-called conflictual use of agricultural resources for food and for the production of “first generation” biofuels, which begs the question whether it is right 80% of the food produced to propose resources as an (improbable) alternative to petroleum is destined for to produce energy that could be used to feed People. 20% Or wasted food – in the field, in the distribution cycle and in the fridge – which every year results in throwing away a quantity of food resources sufficient to feed the billion malnourished People of the global (on the food waste see page 20). population 15 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Building a Sustainable Company The creation and sharing of knowledge, also via circulation within the company of the vision and skills developed by the BCFN, is one of the foundations of Barilla’s sustainable business model. BCFN AREAS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS food for sustainable growth ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN COMMUNITY food for all food for health NUTRITION PEOPLE HUMAN food for CAPITAL culture EDUCATION AND DIALOGUE Education and Dialogue activities are cut across all areas. 16 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business An Example of “Research to Action” is the Double Pyramid One of the most original results obtained by the BCFN is the so-called “Double Pyramid” model, which allows People to assess and choose how to construct their own diet with awareness of the impact their assessments and choices have on their own wellbeing and that of the Planet. The Double Pyramid is also an indication of how the company should act, stimulating it to produce in a better way, to reformulate existing products, and invent new ones. Improving the nutritional Quality of products and introducing new ones increases Barilla’s competitiveness and, at the same time, allows People to choose what to eat, in relation to their own wellbeing, that of the environment, and that of future generations. If it is true that many of the Barilla brand products find themselves in areas of the Pyramid that have an overall environmental impact that is not so heavy for the Planet, this does not exempt the company from working to monitor and reduce its Ecological Footprint in production processes, which are long and complex and stretch quite literally “from field to fork”. The same reasoning applies to the supply chain: the Double Pyramid solicits wide consumption of agricultural products and for Barilla this translates into a stimulus to increase the relationship with the territory these products come from. Supplying the company via an integrated supply chain means ensuring greater control over production quality, but also to tend towards a stabilization of prices which often determines the investment capacity, if not the very survival of producers, as well as contributing to the wellbeing of the territory through the creation of work and opportunities for People. See also the stories: chapter 3 “Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain. From Field to Fork”, and chapter 5 “More Choice, More Knowledge for Good Nutrition”. 17 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Building Local Relations Barilla has an historical relationship with a territory, that of Parma and with a country, Italy. However, today it operates worldwide. This is the reason for the proposal to channel its educational and social commitment into a single company cause, involving the Group’s various brands. PRODUCT DONATIONS: in 2011, almost all production centres [ Non-Profit allocated part of their production to support organisations or activities to the tune of 4,487 tons. Of these 2,590 tons were donated to Feeding America and 1,070 tons to the Food Bank.The rest was allocated to other Guidelines ] associations, such as the San Vincenzo Association or other national charities. Product donations in Italy amount to over 3 million Euros. In the first months of 2012 MONEY DONATIONS: Overall, over 1 million 800 thousand Euros were donated (out of which 1 million 430 thousand Euros went to the Children’s Barilla drafted some guidelines Hospital in Parma). for all its foreign associates, regarding contributions to non-profit organisations worldwide. The basic principles are: • Favouring product Total Donations contributions over exclusively financial ones. DONATIONS TO • Preferring initiatives that FEEDING AMERICA allow Barilla People to become involved. • When selecting initiatives, favouring those of an educational and instructive 58 % nature, able to influence future generations. All contributions to non-profit organisations follow an annual 24 % 18 % budget. Initiatives are realized locally together with territorial organisations, and centrally DONATIONS DONATIONS TO THE TO OTHER monitored. FOOD BANK ASSOCIATIONS 18 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business Educational and Social Commitments Barilla undertakes to make its contribution to one of the greatest global food challenges, namely the presence in today’s world of a billion obese People and a billion malnourished People, also increasing knowledge. Barilla proposes to play its part through education and support, in order to correct this inequality. • For problems linked to a SURFEIT OF FOOD (obesity and excess weight), Barilla intends to support programmes and interventions that create wellbeing to foster correct healthy lifestyles for children of today and the future, through appropriate daily choices in terms of food, motor movement and the environment. • For problems linked to ACCESS TO FOOD, Barilla intends to cultivate collaborations worldwide that can become involved locally to support those who lack food. 19 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Product Donations and Collaboration with the Food Bank With respect to those who eat too much or too little, on the other pan of the Food Scale there are those who have no possibility of eating as they should and who live constantly with undernutrition. Frequently, these situations of nutritional poverty may be found not that far away. Our Group is well aware that on the market there are food SURFEITS [ Food throughout the supply chain, in which Barilla is involved, that can become WASTE. This is FOOD OF VALUE that can be donated to those who cannot find any for the moment or, unfortunately, forever. Bank ] Recovery of surfeits represents one last virtuous mile in the supply chain, which goes towards boosting the trust and positive expectations of People and clients. In addition it avoids the costs and consequences of disposal for the community, The FBAO (Non-profit Food offering added value both for the needy, direct beneficiaries of the donations, Bank Foundation) is an and the community as a whole, which can allocate its funds for other activities. organisation founded in line with the American Food Bank In 2011, Barilla’s plants donated to the organisation (in operation FBAO (Non-profit Food Bank Foundation), since 1967). In Italy the FBAO a quantity of produce equal to 1,070 tons. was born in 1989, from Starting from 2012, Barilla has strengthened its alliance with the Food Bank an idea of Danilo Fossati, Foundation by promoting company voluntary service projects, optimizing head of the Star food group, the work of recovering food surpluses via the Siticibo programme (programme to recover food not consumed in its canteens), giving instructions to plants and Don Luigi Giussani. outside Italy which wish to donate products through the European Foundation of Food Banks, developing activities in collaboration with retailers, and raising public awareness. The FBAO mission is to daily recover food surpluses from the entire agri-food supply chain to distribute them to charitable organisations in Italy. The FBAO together with another 21 FOOD BANK ORGANISATIONS, operating in Italy, make up the FOOD BANK NETWORK. The FB Network also includes 1 logistics platform in Parma, 1,500 volunteers who daily donate their time at the Network’s branches, 118 staff and 69 vehicles. In 2011, the FBAO recovered over 58,000 TONS of foodstuffs and also collected during the NATIONAL FOOD COLLECTION DAY, organised every year on the last Saturday of November, 9,600 TONS of foodstuffs, to then distribute these to over 8,600 CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS across Italy, helping 1,700,000 NEEDY PEOPLE. Per conoscere la FBAO clicca: WWW.BANCOALIMENTARE.IT 20 1. Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business 21 IN THIS CHAPTER YOU WILL FIND INFORMATION ON HOW 2. BARILLA IS ORGANIZED TO PERFORM ITS MISSION AND ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES THAT IT HAS SET. COMPANY MANAGEMENT [ Management ] Barilla’s management is consistently reasserting the commitments and responsibilities that should inform the conduct of business and corporate activities. BARILLA STORIES 1. TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE AND BARILLA AND ITS WAY OF DOING INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN. FROM FIELD 5. BUSINESS TO FORK More choice 2. 3. and more 4. knowledge for good Nutrition TOTAL QUALITY IS SUSTAINABLE COMPANY QUALITY MANAGEMENT There are three ingredients for success for companies that want to create longlasting value: the first is the management of corporate culture; the second governance systems that go beyond “corporate governance” to protect strategic effectiveness and management efficiency; and the third, leadership. Manfredo Manfredi, Barilla Group CEO from 1971 to 1991 and current member of the Board. barilla good for you sustainable for the planet GROUP GOVERNANCE The Barilla Group consists of approximately 50 companies controlled, either directly or indirectly, by the Parent Company Barilla Holding S.p.A. headquartered in Parma, Italy. The Company has adopted a “traditional” system of management and control, with a Board of Directors and a Board of Auditors both appointed by the Shareholders’ General Meeting. The Board of Directors (BoD) is the corporate body with the most extensive powers for ordinary and extraordinary management, except those Parma that, pursuant to the law or to the Articles of Association, are reserved to the Shareholders’ General Meeting, which is in charge of: • management direction; • assessing adequacy of the organizational, management and accounting structure; • assessing general performance. The current BoD consists of four Directors, whose term of office expires on the date of the next Shareholders’ General Meeting convened to approve the Annual Report for 2011. The Board of Auditors oversees compliance with the law and the Articles of Association, as well as with the principles correct administration. Its members are appointed with a term of office of three years and may be re-elected. The current Board of Auditors consists of three Standing Auditors and two Alternate Auditors, whose term of officeexpires on the same date as that of Directors. The Statutory Audit of the Accounts is carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2011. The Barilla Group is THE CHAIRMAN GUIDO BARILLA IS VESTED WITH THE headquartered in PARMA, ITALY POWERS TO SUPERVISE IMPLEMENTATION OF BOARD RESOLUTIONS AND CORPORATE STRATEGIES, The Parent Company AS WELL AS FOR THE LEGAL REPRESENTATION BARILLA HOLDING S.P.A. OF THE COMPANY WITH THE TWO DEPUTY CHAIRMEN, controls, either directly LUCA AND PAOLO BARILLA. or indirectly, 50 Equity investments in operating companies are held indirectly through Barilla INIZIATIVE S.R.L., the 85% of which is held by Barilla Holding S.p.A. and 15% by Gafina B.V. The Group’s organizational companies. structure is based on two operating companies, Barilla G. E R. FRATELLI Società per Azioni and Lieken AG, whollyowned subsidiaries. Governance of the main Italian subsidiaries is designed consistently with the environment in which they operate and, for foreign companies, it always refers to local legislations. THE MANAGEMENT OF BARILLA G. E R. FRATELLI SOCIETÀ PER AZIONI AND OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES IS SIMILAR TO THAT OF BARILLA HOLDING S.P.A. THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND THE ORGANIZATIONAL, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL MODEL OF THE COMPANY, PURSUANT TO ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE 231/2001 ARE MORE SPECIFIC. THE BOARD IS CHAIRED BY GUIDO BARILLA AND CONSISTS OF 9 DIRECTORS. 24 2. Company Management Shareholding and Controlled Companies 85% 50 BARILLA The Barilla Group INIZIATIVE consists of about S.R.L. 50 companies Barilla Holding Barilla G. e R. Fratelli S.p.A. SOCIETà PER AZIONI BARILLA INIZIATIVE S.R.L. 15% Gafina B.V. LIEKEN AG Management Principles Governance and Respect for the Rules Objectives Barilla’s management is consistently reasserting the commitments as to 2014 and responsibilities that should inform the conduct of business and corporate activities by all those who have relationships of any nature with Barilla, and, in order to achieve the set success target, bases Update of the Code of Ethics its activities on MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES shared by all those working and definition of a Code of Conduct within its global organization, such as: allowing the principles and values set by Code of Ethics to be translated • Honesty and Transparency. into practical instructions. • Social Responsibility. Developing an overall integrated view of the sustainability risks within • Centrality of People. company processes. • Employees’ Rights. • Environment Preservation. The Model 231 Barilla has adopted a model of organization, management and control of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Decree Law 231 of 2001. The Model includes specific procedures and controls aimed at preventing offences envisaged by the above Decree which could be committed by Directors, Auditors, managers, employees, or all those who have contractual, financial or business relationships with Barilla. On October 26, 2011 the BoD approved a new version of the Model, designed to adjust to the most recent regulatory and organizational developments. The Model consists of a GENERAL SECTION that summarizes accountabilities, offences and the relevant penalties, behaviours that relieve from accountability, and ten SPECIAL SECTIONS, which list the areas potentially at risk with respect to offences and establish rules of conduct for those working in these areas, as well as the relevant monitoring procedures. The CODE OF ETHICS is an integral part of the Model and refers to the “UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS “, the International Labour Recommendations and Conventions issued by the INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (ILO), the “EARTH CHARTER” and to the GLOBAL COMPACT of the UNITED NATIONS principles. THE SUPERVISORY BOARD (SB) consists of the heads of the Group Legal and Corporate Affairs and Group Internal Audit, and of an external member, who is a university lecturer and self-employed professional. The three members of the SB will be in office until January 31, 2014. The SB assesses the Model adequacy and effectiveness and oversees its implementation, reports to the BoD every six months and receives notices and suggestions from employees. 25 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Conflict of Interests Conflict of interest is a very sensitive issue in the field of corporate management, since it affects impartiality of the decision making process and jeopardizes full protection of the Company’s interests to the benefit of personal profit. To ensure maximum transparency, corporate officers and other people or entities having an objective opportunity to influence the Company’s decisions must absolutely refrain from using their positions, even implicitly, to influence Company decisions in such a manner that would benefit themselves, their relatives, friends and acquaintances for personal reasons, of whatsoever nature. All Barilla employees are required to report any situations in which they have or suppose to have a personal interest, either on their own behalf or on behalf of a third party, conflicting with the interests of the Company. This report shall be addressed to their immediate superior, the Board of Directors, the Board of Auditors and/or the Supervisory Board, in compliance with the provisions of the Italian Civil Code. [ Priority Risks ] Risk Management In 2011, the CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT project In 2011, specific projects were continued. The objective is to provide the Corporate Management implemented, which were designed with a tool to verify that the current risk level of the Group is in for the assessment of priority risk areas: line with its accepted level of exposure. The Company has defined • Volatility of raw material prices its accepted level of risk exposure and metrics shared across the (in the first place, durum and common Company for the measurement and assessment of each risk event. wheat) focusing on the combination Moreover, the adoption of a CORPORATE RISK REGISTER of physical and financial hedges, has allowed identification of the risk areas to which the company and the provision of tools to measure is exposed and the allocation of management responsibilities and assess their effectiveness. for each identified risk to the relevant organization departments. • The analysis of production stoppage risk measured based Risk MAPPING covers many key aspects of the Group’s on the mapping of the products that sustainable business, including possible risks relating to the management: are the most important for the Company, • of human capital, including people’s health and safety. identifying alternatives and available • of the supply chain. production capacities, as well • of environmental issues. as proposing technical solutions • of the relationship with customers and People. to minimize the occurrence • of relations with some key stakeholders, including media of critical phases in the production and public opinion. and distribution networks of the Group. • of the Information Technology area, for which the Group has a disaster recovery service in place for the majority • Mitigation of the risk of business of its applications, in particular those critical to operations. conducts not in line with the • Reputational risks are included in the Model. Global Governance by establishing common and shared policies. • The analysis of risks and impacts on corporate performance and business models resulting from macroeconomic stress scenarios in the main geographies where the Company operates. Please, see the 2011 Annual Report on the Group website www.barillagroup.com for a breakdown of the different types of risk to which the Company is exposed: market (including currency risk, interest rate and price risks), credit, liquidity and management risks. 26 2. Company Management 27 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet [ focus ] Barilla in the International Food Sector Scenario In 2011, the Barilla Group sales volumes were in line with the previous year, with price increases lower than inflation. The international crisis in progress for some years now, in 2011 had harsh consequences also for the food industry. Growth rates declined as well as households’ available income, along with the overall level of confidence of global markets. In Italy, political instability, rising unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, low growth rate and increased fiscal pressure caused a decrease in consumption. Also in 2011, the upward trend continued in all commodity prices, oil in the first place, with its cascade effect. The continuing growth in demand for agricultural products resulting from various factors, including new consumption of emerging countries, use of resources for animal feeding, competition between agriculture and biofuels, combined with the inability to meet such demand, caused a decrease in available agricultural products, with significant price increases (see also [FOCUS] Some Paradoxes in Food and Nutrition). The marked and ongoing volatility of prices, which results from the important role of financial players, as well as from national trade policies, such as duties and subsidies, has affected this situation. In this scenario, in 2011, the Barilla Group sales volumes were in line with the previous year, prices were essentially stable and profit margins decreased, since global demand for raw materials was not excessively limited by Europe’s non-growth and continued its highly floating trend. The new products put on the market were well received by People, who appreciated their quality and technical innovations, but their high price range has prevented, for the moment, their large-scale success. High-price niche products performed well, but the relating volumes were rather small. The reduction in consumption, including food, due to the decrease in households’ purchasing power, is the most worrying aspect of the crisis, since it affects primarily the middle segment of consumers, whom the majority of Barilla products are targeted to. 28 2. Company Management Consolidated Sales 2011 3,916 million of euro Vs 2010 (4,029 million). With respect to the same perimeter (excluding the sales of subsidiaries disposed of in 2010), sales were stable. Moreover preliminary data of the first quarter of 2012 report a slight increase in sales over the same period of 2011. This adds to the intensification of competition in distribution: the increasing scale of promotional sales specifically focused on certain categories and the “price war” between large retailers are the obvious expression of tensions in a sector that is less and less a neutral “bridge” between manufacturers and People, as well as more and more a key player with an independent business strategy. This increased complexity has called for a stronger commitment of the Group, focused on: 1. New significant investments to search for new efficiencies and to reduce production and structure costs. 2. Protection of sales volumes, accepting the challenge of competitive pricing, with the support of new promotional actions for customers. 3. Absorption by sales margins of changes in raw material costs, without transferring the latter on consumer prices. 29 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet The New Organizational Structure Since NOVEMBER 1, 2011 Barilla has adopted a new organizational architecture, with the aim of: • enhancing the Group’s INTERNATIONALIZATION process; • providing the units working on the markets with all levers to achieve the Company growth objectives; • ensuring efficient and effective coordination to all process units. Following the resignation of Massimo Potenza from office as CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the Company in November 2011, the new organization is responsible for the implementation of the Group strategy. 1 Construction of a GLOBAL CORPORATE IDENTITY anchored to the nutritional model defined. 2 STRENGTHENING of the Group brands on a global and regional basis. GROUP STRATEGY DIMENSIONS 3 GROWTH in new geographies and CONSOLIDATION in mature markets. 4 Launch of new PLATFORMS and entry into new PRODUCT CATEGORIES. 5 Access to new CHANNELS and development of new business MODELS. The new organizational architecture of the Barilla Group is divided into: GLOBAL FUNCTIONS: Process units that are engaged in a completely centralized management and are responsible for ensuring central management by defining global strategies, guidelines, processes and key performance indicators for all Units managed. GLOBAL FUNCTIONS REGIONAL FUNCTIONS: Market and Regional Units that are engaged in peripheral management of processes, programs, systems, resources, and key performance indicators. STEERING In the first few months of 2012, subsequent to the implementation COMMITTEE of the new organizational architecture, a new organizational Handbook was issued, which describes the logics, interrelationships and responsibilities of the Company management at all levels. REGIONAL The persons in charge of Global, Market and Regional Functions FUNCTIONS make up the Steering Committee, which performs its activities consistently with the direction given by Guido, Luca and Paolo Barilla. The Steering Committee meets weekly to discuss issues on the agenda, including sustainability ones. 30 2. Company Management The Sustainability Organizational Model Sustainability is recognized by Barilla as an all-encompassing driver to pursue strategic corporate objectives. Therefore, the Company Sustainability management system has been designed: • to ensure constant EXCHANGE between the inside and the outside; in other words, between the Company and its stakeholders; • to ensure transversality, integration and maximum sharing at ALL LEVELS of the organization. Exchange with the World The UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT is the largest voluntary initiative in the world for the promotion of sustainability. It was launched in 1999 by former Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan and is now led by his successor Ban Ki-Moon. Barilla is certain that participation in UN Global Compact will provide an important opportunity to share its path on the issues of sustainable development with other companies, institutions and civil society organizations. At the same time, it believes that exchange can enhance the Company’s ability to create long-lasting value, for example by cooperating with its supply chain, as well as to be better able to understand People’s needs in all the Countries where it operates. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Barilla has also undertaken to support the GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK ITALY. The CONSUMER GOODS FORUM is a network gathering more than four hundred companies belonging to the manufacturing, large-scale retail and services sectors. Barilla is part of several networks and organizations dedicated to sustainability issues. Since 2008, the Company has been a member of the SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE of the CONSUMER GOODS FORUM. In 2011, Barilla joined the 2°C CHALLENGE COMMUNIQUÉ, an international initiative involving entrepreneurs from all over the world, committed to attract the attention of national governments to ensure a successful transition to sustainable growth and an economy that takes into account climate change. www.theconsumergoodsforum.com www.unglobalcompact.org www.globalcompactnetwork.org www.2degreecommunique.com 31 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Parties Involved in the Sustainability Model Activities in 2011 PLAYER DESCRIPTION OBJECTIVE Barilla Nutrition It defines nutritional guidelines for Barilla products. Allowing reformulation of existing products and 6 University Professors involved as experts Advisory Board formulation/screening 4 meetings (2 operating ones of new products. and 2 strategic ones with the corporate top management). Barilla Laboratory It develops training on sustainability issues. Spreading and disseminating a “sustainability culture” at all 2,538 hours of training on sustainability issues for Knowledge levels of the organization. were provided & Innovation 300 people involved in Italy. Stakeholders’ Convened twice a year, it issues Providing the company its opinion on the Company with constant exchange on 2 meetings for a total of 160 participants. Permanent sustainability path. sustainability issues with a structured representation of Panel stakeholders. Barilla Center It outlines and explores the global scenario of food and Contributing to inspiration and training of the Company See dedicated paragraph in “Barilla and its way of doing for Food nutrition. People. Building knowledge business.” and awareness on food and and Nutrition nutrition issues. Stakeholders / Level / “Organization Control Function” International National Local Media/ / Communication and External Relations Department Scientific Community/ /Scientific Relations Unit Research, Development and Quality Department Institutions/ / Institutional Relations Unit NGOs and Civil Society/ / Sustainability and NGOs Relations Unit Institutional Relations Unit Barilla People/ / Internal Communication Unit Trade and Retailers / / Market Unit Europe Regional Managers Consumers/ / BDI & Marketing Department Regional Managers Research, Development and Quality Dep. Local Communities/ / Operations & Supply Chain Department Regional Managers Plant Managers Suppliers/ / Operations & Supply Chain Department Universities and Research Centres/ / Research, Development and Quality Department Scientific Relations Unit Barilla Lab Talent Attraction Unit Finance World/ /Administration and Finance Department 32 2. Company Management Managing Sustainable Business Barilla’s organizational model assigns responsibility for the management of Sustainability issues to CORPORATE TOP MANAGEMENT, i.e. to the Shareholders and the Steering Committee, which includes top managers (Directors and Regional Managers). They are in charge of approving and reviewing objectives and strategic projects necessary to achieve such objectives, as well as of regularly assessing key indicators of progress. Proposing objectives and projects, as well as monitoring and controlling Sustainability indicators are tasks assigned to the SUSTAINABILITY OPERATING GROUP, a standing group which includes all corporate functions. In 2012, Barilla will complete its organizational model by: • defining thematic guidelines relating to some key sustainability themes that are not yet regulated by the internal regulatory system (such as “relations with stakeholders” and “relations with local communities”). • allocating specific responsibilities to the functions in charge of the implementation of projects that are strategic to achieve Sustainability objectives, associated to the Management by Objectives corporate system. Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition HUMAN CAPITAL Barilla Laboratory for Knowledge & Innovation INTERNAL COMMUNICATION ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE Internal Audit The Sustainability Market Unit Europe Operating Group* BRAND DEVELOPMENT, INNOVATION AND MARKETING Functions / operations Parties involved QUALITY RELATIONS WITH THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RISK MANAGEMENT HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN *The operating group is coordinated by the SUSTAINABILITY UNIT, which operates within the COMMUNICATION AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT, enhanced in 2011. The Sustainability Unit is also responsible for the internal and external communication on sustainability issues and for the relationship with civil society organizations (NGOs). For other relationships with the academic, research and school world, please see also chapter 3 “Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain. From Field to Fork”, chapter 4 “Total Quality is Sustainable Quality”, chapter 5 “More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition”. . 33 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Financial Highlights of the Group The tables show the consolidated financial highlights of the year. All data are expressed in millions of Euro. Consolidated Sales Recurrent Gross Operating Profit (EBITDA ) 2011 2010 2011 2010 3,916 4,029 477 556 -2.8% Recurring EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and non-recurring costs; it is often associated to gross operating margin. EBITDA is very similar to the value of the cash flows Vs. 2010 (4,029 million). With respect to the same produced by a company, and, therefore, represents the perimeter (excluding the sales of subsidiaries disposed most significant indicator in order to assess its value. of in 2010), sales were stable. In 2011, the EBITDA to sales ratio was 12.2%, while in 2010 it was 13.8%. Payment of Dividends and Distribution Recurrent Operating Income (EBIT) of Reserves 2011 2010 2011 82 296 358 Recurring EBIT is earnings before interest, taxes and non-recurring costs (writedowns of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets); it is often associated Interest Paid to net operating margin. It identifies operating income, i.e. the income that the company is able to generate 2011 before return on capital, with the latter term including 36 both own capital (equity) and borrowed capital (debt). In 2011, the EBIT to sales ratio was 7.6%, while in 2010 it was 8.8%. In 2011, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of intangible assets totalled €181 million (€198 million in 2010). Staff Expenses 2011 2010 711 742 Earnings Before Taxes 2011 2010 These include all expenses relating to employees and temporary workers. The amounts refer to wages, to paid overtime, bonuses and incentives, 176 185 productivity, health insurance and supplementary This is calculated as the difference between EBIT plus insurance and employee severance benefits. extraordinary income, and extraordinary and financial expenses. 34 2. Company Management * Financial Needs The three boxes below represent the main methods through which the Barilla Group meets its financing needs. For more information, please refer to the Explanatory Notes in the 2011 Annual Report . Consolidated Profit or Loss * Net Indebtedness 2011 2010 2011 2010 76 27 688 683 The profit was affected by impairment writedowns For the relevant breakdown, please refer to the of intangible assets and extraordinary expenses for Explanatory Notes in the 2011 Annual Report. about €80 million. The consolidated profit (net of the portion attributable to minority interests) came to €63 million versus €21 million in the previous year. The profit for the year attributable to minority interests was approximately €13 million. * Revolving Credit Facility 2011 Short-Term Financial Assets 2011 2010 850 110 268 Entered into in June 2011 by and between Barilla Initiatives Ltd., Barilla G. e R. Fratelli Società per Azioni, For more information, please refer to the Explanatory and Barilla France SA on the one hand, and a group Notes in the 2011 Annual Report. of 12 leading international banks on the other, it has a five-year duration. As at December 31, 2011, this credit facility was used for a total of €380 million. Current and Deferred Taxes * Debenture Loans ($ million) 2011 2010 2011 2010 100 137 472 272 The tax rate, excluding the effect of negative These were issued by Barilla France SA, placed with extraordinary items, came to 39%, vs. 41% in 2010. institutional investors in the United States in December 2008 and July 2011; they were divided into several tranches (with maturities between 2013 and 2023 as detailed in the Explanatory Note in the 2011 Annual Report). These debenture loans, including the related hedging derivatives valued at mark-to-market, amounted to a total of €388 million at the year-end. 35 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Non-Financial Highlights of the Group The tables show the 2011 highlights of Barilla G. e R. Fratelli Società per Azioni relating to the following areas: nutrition, health and human capital, supply chain, environment, community, corporate management, People and education. 2011 Investments in the Community (€ million) Investments in the community included social expenses (€279 thousand), such as donations to 0.587 non-profit organization and sponsorships of social, theatrical and sport events, fairs, exhibitions and festivals, as well as social investments (€308 thousand), such as the expansion of car parks outside the Company plants, the construction of underpasses and cycle paths, and reforestation activities. NUTRITION Reformulated Products TOTAL 2011 with reduced salt content: 57 111 70 with reduced fat and saturated fat content:10 with increased content of nutrients (minerals, vitamins, omega 3): 3 Reformulated products 2010 with reduced salt content: 25 29 since 2008. with reduced fat and saturated fat content: 3 103 in the last three with increased content of whole grains and fibres: 1 years (2009-2011), of which 70 in 2011. 2009 with reduced sugar content: 3 4 with increased content of whole grains and fibres: 1 nutriTion 2011 Total Sales Percentage NUTRITION Nutritional Research 8.5% 4.8 141,000 tons Financial resources dedicated of reformulated products were in the last three years sold, amounting to 8.5% to nutritional research, of total sales. This figure scientific studies on nutrition, posted a 5.5% increase € million conferences and circulation compared with 2010. of scientific results. supply chain 2011 Percentage of Durum Wheat Grown Locally TOTAL Italy 81% of the durum wheat used in various brands of the 81% 71% Group is grown locally, i.e in the pasta producing country. The breakdown by country is the following: Turkey Mexico North America • Italy: 71% 100% • Greece: 81% • Turkey: 100% • Mexico: 100% • North America: 100% Greece (32% USA; 68% Canada) 81% 36 2. Company Management SUPPLY CHAIN 2011 “Critical” Raw Materials SUPPLY CHAIN Suppliers of “Critical” Cocoa Raw Materials 100% of cocoa 100% is purchased from In 2010, Barilla completed the audit of all the African suppliers that are processing plants of the main supplier of cocoa members of the and started these audits for new suppliers. For 2012 WCF (World Cocoa three audits have been scheduled to assess 100% Palm oil Foundation). This figure 11% of suppliers. posted a 25% increase vs. 2010. 11% of palm oil purchased is certified % of raw materials with by the Roundtable SUPPLY CHAIN Raw Materials guaranteed “sustainability” on Sustainable Oil over the total of the individual (RSPO). 2011 Quantities in thousands of tons sustainability-critical supply chain. Semolina Flour ENVIRONMENT 2011 Environmental Product Certification 1,000 340 46% of the volumes produced is EPDRye Sugar 50 50 certified (Environmental Product Declaration). Vegetable fats Tomato ENVIRONMENT 2011 Energy Consumption 45 39 Eggs Cocoa 3.22 GJ/t 23 9 Barilla’s energy consumption per unit Dairy products Animal fats 8 7 of finished product came to 3.22 GJ/ t in line with 2010. Specifically: the consumption of electrical energy totalled 1.3 GJ/ t, while thermal energy 1.9 GJ/t. ENVIRONMENT 2011 Total Water Consumption ENVIRONMENT 2011 Recyclable Packaging 96% The percentage of recyclable packaging increased from 85% in 2008 to 96% in 2011. Of these, 41% is made from recycled material. 2.5 million m 3 Barilla plants consumed about 2.5 million m3, saving about 566 thousand m3 of water compared with 2008, with consumption down by 19%. ENVIRONMENT 2011 Greenhouse Gas Emissions ENVIRONMENT 2011 Environmental Audits 0.28 tCO eq 2 Greenhouse gas emissions for 1t of finished product decreased by 21% compared with 2008. 105 Number of audits on environment, safety and fire prevention issues. 37 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SAFETY 2011 Frequency of Accidents HUMAN CAPITAL 2011 Expatriates Total 11 people were seconded abroad (4 to Sweden, 17 3 to France, 2 to the U.S., 1 to Germany) with Number of accidents / a 6.6% increase vs. 2010. hours worked by employees x 1000 Meal Solutions Europe Meal Solutions America 20.5 5.6 HUMAN CAPITAL 2011 Vacancies 38% Bakery Southern Europe Bakery Northern Europe % Vacancies covered internally 13.4 10.9 over total number of vacancies. Bakery Central Europe 35.9 SAFETY 2011 Severity of accidents Total 0.63 The frequency rate, calculated on the number of Days absent due to accidents/ accidents in relation to the number of hours worked by hours worked by employees x 1000. employees, came to approximately 17 (-31% vs. 2008). Meal Solutions Europe Meal Solutions America HUMAN CAPITAL 2011 Turnover Turnover rate calculated on the number of terminations 0.52 0.18 Bakery Southern Europe Bakery Northern Europe over the total number of staff with open-ended 0.34 0.06 employment contracts (resignation, dismissal, retirement, death) in Italy: 9% executives; 4.4% managers; 4.7% clerks; 5.2% salesmen; 5.3% workers. Sweden: 19%, Norway: 0.0%, Russia: 0.5%; Turkey: 10.1%. Bakery Central Europe HUMAN CAPITAL 2011 Expenditure on People Care 2.02 177 accidents occurred, -34% vs. 2008. The days 4.3% of employee cost in Italy of absence due to accidents significantly decreased, (vs 3,7% in 2010). The datum with the Severity Index at 0.63% down by -36% includes scholarships, pension compared with 2008. plans, special benefits, etc. PEOPLE 2011 Finished Product Analysed 120,000 Number PEOPLE 2011 Product Quality and Safety Percentage 95.5% 29 € million/year Financial resources invested for activities relating Increasing vs. the 2010 figure (equal to 113,000 lots) due to product quality and safety. to the increase in analysis frequencies in control plans and to checks on the lines in real time. The % of conforming lots also improved, which was 95.1% in 2010 and 93.2% in 2009. 38 2. Company Management PEOPLE 2011 Products with COMMUNITY 2011 Jobs and Plants Nutrition Facts Number of jobs 8,766 people work 88% 8,766 directly for Barilla in 41 production sites in 9 countries (Italy, Greece, Turkey, France, Germany, Number of plants Sweden, Russia, USA % of products with detailed nutrition facts (on the and Mexico). 41 package and on the website in accordance with current regulations) out of total products marketed. Slightly increasing compared to 2010. COMMUNITY 2011 Indirect COMMUNITY 2011 Educational Programmes Economic Impacts Number of people involved 710 indirect employees in manufacturing. in educational programmes. 209 employees and 16 agents in the Italian sales force, employing 309 subagents all over Italy. Casa Barilla 360 hostess/merchandisers engaged at points of sale. 200,000 1,050 people who work indirectly for Barilla in logistics. COMMUNITY 2011 Donations and Mulino Bianco Tour Product Giveaways Over 1 million 800 thousand Euro were donated (out of which 1 million 430 thousand Euro went to the Children’s Hospital of Parma). Moreover, in Italy, over 220,000 €3 million worth of products were given away for free. Giocampus 30,000 GOVERNANCE 2011 Breaches of the Code of Ethics Giocampus School 0 7,500 Number of breaches of the Code of Ethics. GOVERNANCE 2011 Human Rights Giocampus Snow 11 262 Audit SA8000 and other audits relating to human Giocampus Lab rights on suppliers of promotional items in the year. 7,500 39 IN THIS CHAPTER YOU WILL DISCOVER BARILLA’S ACTIVITIES 3. IN RELATION TO THE ENTIRE SUPPLY CHAIN. THIS IS A JOURNEY THROUGH OUR PRODUCTS TOWARDS FROM FIELD TO FORK. A SUSTAINABLE AND INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN. FROM FIELD TO FORK TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE BARILLA STORIES AND INTEGRATED 1. SUPPLY CHAIN. BARILLA AND ITS WAY OF DOING FROM FIELD TO FORK 5. BUSINESS 3. More choice and more 2. 4. knowledge for good Nutrition TOTAL QUALITY COMPANY IS SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT QUALITY [ Sustainable ] Sustainable agriculture helps to conserve natural resources, contributes to environmental protection, it is appropriate for the reference context and is positive from an economic and social perspective. Source: FAO 2011 [ Integrated ] In an integrated supply chain the different players are involved in projects of long-term strategic partnerships, working closely with the company and in collaboration with each other. barilla good for you sustainable for the planet THE INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN Seed producers, farmers, breeders, mills and plants. The life cycle of a product from field to fork, from raw materials [ Food Supply to consumption is a complex story with many players and protagonists. Chain ] Seed producers, farmers, breeders are the primary economic players that have always supplied the raw materials. The processing industry follows: mills and plants that process raw materials into food products, ensuring their quality, A sustainable, integrated food adequate health and nutritional properties. supply chain not only ensures Large-scale and small retailers, through stores, offer products to People, ultimately the real protagonists of this story. the quality of the products served at the table, but also the The key words of this story are SERVICE TO PEOPLE, RESEARCH and ABILITY TO INNOVATE to precede the evolution of social trends, choices development of all those involved and habits around the world. in the processes, as well as all the areas impacted today and in the future. Barilla’s mission is to bring well-being and the joy of eating to People through a portfolio of over 1,000 products that cover all daily consumption moments, from breakfast to dinner. Doing so in a responsible way, involving all the supply chain players is what makes the business sustainable. For more information on the To get an overview of one of Barilla supply supply chain visit chains refer to the Pasta Supply Chain www.barillagroup.com Insert. 42 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain 2011 Figures of Barilla Supply Chains 50 types of packaging materials 800 raw materials 1,200 suppliers worldwide Supply Chain Targets to 2014 Measuring the overall Ecological Footprint of 140,000 Barilla products in terms of Ecological Footprint, tons of fresh tomatoes Carbon Footprint and Water Footprint. Reducing the Ecological Footprint throughout 1,400,000 the Barilla supply chain. Developing and strengthening alliances with key suppliers of strategic raw materials and packaging for Barilla, aimed at ensuring security of supplies, quality and food production safety, and the respect of environmental/animal/human tons of durum wheat rights along the supply chain. Increasing the activities of dissemination and 1,300,000* training on the sustainable management model of Barilla throughout the supply chain to increase the involvement of farmers, institutions and business associations. Evaluating the potential inclusion of biodiversity issues in the management of strategic supply tons of common wheat and rye chains (growing specifications). *this number includes Lieken AG Supporting employment potential in the agricultural sector from the perspective of land 600,000,000 management, local development, cultural protection and promotion. Including clauses on the protection of environmental and human rights within supply contracts, in accordance with the provisions eggs of the UN Global Compact. 2,300,000 Increasing partnerships between Barilla and the distribution and retail worlds, to develop common activities based on the promotion of joint sustainability projects (in particular aspects of the agricultural supply chain, more than environmental protection, education). tons of products sold by the Barilla Group 43 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet [ focus ] Sustainability of Agricultural Models Namely cultivating while taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects. A sustainable agriculture The variables affecting agriculture in terms of efficiency and sustainability are many. “Sustainable” refers to those farming practices characterized by means: a theoretical and practical “system” approach, where the social , environmental , economic , and research and development aspects are held together by growing models designed to produce healthy and good quality food. [ EnvironSustainable farming is based on scientific knowledge and established practices: crop rotation, careful use of fertilizers and plant protection products, mental ] rationalization of mechanical work, cultivation of a wide range of plant species, soil conservation and land protection. In equilibrium with the natural The heritage of agronomic knowledge environment (thanks to adequate profiles of productive gathered by human beings is extraordinarily efficiency) and able to valuable and needs to be disseminated and withstand the impact of the effects of climate change. enhanced. To be sustainable, farming models must be tailored to the specific characteristics of the geographical, environmental and social conditions [ Social ] they are applied to. In harmony with the social Proper management of biodiversity and contexts whose development they should support. the coexistence of different production models can increase “resilience”, i.e. the [ Economic ] ability to adapt to adverse events. Investing in research and innovation means making agriculture more capable Able to ensure the economic of adapting to change. sustainability of farmers, their On the other hand, some of the problems that plague today’s agricultural and ability to support investment agri-food system are unrelated to the choice of an agricultural model versus and innovation, and access another, but are due to external factors: the case, for example, of possible to global trading channels. conflicting uses of land for the production of food or biofuel, and waste, in some cases high, along the supply chain. 44 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain TRANSITION SYSTEMS Transition to more productive and sustainable agricultural systems Sustainability Productivity PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION SYSTEMS SYSTEMS SYSTEMS with HIGH with LOW with OPTIMIZED external inputs external inputs external inputs adaptation reduction in the use replacement to specific of inorganic inputs of external inputs characteristics and introduction with diversified of the local context of soil conservation processes and enrichment practices External Inputs with an Impact on Cultivation $ Energy Physical Capital Employment Soil Quality Water Agriculture Education Knowledge Cultivated Market Area Health For more details see the website www.barillacfn.com and the paper “New Models for Sustainable Agriculture” published by the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition in November 2011. 45 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 1: BUILDING KNOWLEDGE Sustainable Agriculture The Barilla Group’s commitment to theoretical and applied research. BARILLA ALSO CARRIES OUT THEORETICAL AND [ 4 Areas of APPLIED RESEARCH ACTIVITIES ON SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE TOPICS. Research of In 2011 the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition, a centre of multidisciplinary the BCFN ] analysis and proposals that is part of the Barilla Group, developed a study on the different agricultural paradigms, describing the economic, environmental and social implications of the various agricultural models. will There be enough food in 2050? To provide tools for assessing alternatives for the future, thanks to its collaboration with the Millennium Institute, the BCFN developed a simulation model to evaluate the impact of various agricultural practices on the amount of food available in 2050. In particular, the model evaluated the impact of a sharp rise in oil prices on the agricultural system and the consequent availability of food worldwide. Food for Sustainable Growth SIMULATIONS BROUGHT TO LIGHT THAT: IS THE AREA DEALING WITH THE STUDY OF AGRI• in the future, as today, the problem CULTURAL PARADIGMS will not be the absolute availability of food worldwide, but its fair and equitable distribution in different geographical areas and population groups. • Sustainable agricultural models are much more “resilient”, i.e. have a better ability to adapt, and that’s why their adoption is recommended. “NEW MODELS FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE” 46 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain An Example of Applied Research: Sustainable Cultivation of Durum Wheat A multidisciplinary study in progress since 2009 in collaboration with HORTA, University of Piacenza. PURPOSE: [ Grain ] To identify the best sustainable farming systems applicable to the Italian production land, ensuring a high level of quality and food safety. Cereal grain. METHOD: 4 MACRO-AREAS have been identified where durum wheat is normally grown: the plains of Lombardy-Veneto, the Emilia Romagna region, Central Italy [ Greenhouse (Tuscany, Marche and Umbria) and Southern Italy and islands (Apulia, Basilicata and Sicily). For each macro-area the crop rotations normally used were compared Gases ] with alternative crop rotations suggested by good agronomic practices. SELECTED INDICATORS: • grain production: the production of each crop, including durum wheat, The most important impacts was estimated for each crop system. are related to the use • Carbon Footprint: the amount of greenhouse gases (GHGs), expressed as mass of CO2 equivalent. of nitrogen fertilizers during • Water Footprint: volumes of water consumed during the production cultivation and mechanical processes and due to natural evaporation of crops. operations in land work. • Ecological Footprint: the land and sea production surface needed to regenerate the resources consumed by a human population and to absorb Durum wheat growing requires the corresponding waste. operations that are relatively • gross income: the difference between Gross Saleable Production costly in terms of carbon and Production Cost of crops. • nitrogen use efficiency: the amount of grain produced per unit of nitrogen dioxide production, such distributed on the durum wheat crop. as ploughing, and a significant • DON risk: index indicating the risk of contamination of the grain by mycotoxins developed by pathogenic fungi. amount of nitrogen. MAIN CONCLUSIONS: • Assessment of the sustainability of a crop system through multidisciplinary analysis, combining various environmental, economic, agronomic and food safety indicators can clearly show in which areas and with what crop rotations you can get the best results. • The study found that in all parts of Italy proper application of traditional agricultural practices (including a rotation of different crops) ensures more sustainable production from an environmental point of view and improves farmers’ gross incomes. 47 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet The Barilla Decalogue for the sustainable cultivation of quality durum wheat in Italy is made to illustrate the project results to farmers. Enriched by numerous practical trials, the paper attaches great importance to the [ Decalogue ] adoption of favourable crop rotations, to the efficient use of resources and the proper use of technical means. The project envisages the implementation of pilot crops in different areas of Italy during 2012. In 2011 a similar study to that performed on durum wheat in Italy was carried out in Germany for Common Wheat. Based on the experience gained from these activities, an international project was launched to identify crop systems that can be considered more sustainable for strategic grains: Durum Wheat, Common Wheat and RYE, but also TOMATO in various countries: ITALY, FRANCE, GREECE, TURKEY, GERMANY, SWEDEN, CANADA and USA. APPLYING THE CORRECT CROP ROTATION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CAN BE REDUCED BY UP TO 55% (EQUAL TO -390 kg of CO2 EQ / T CULTIVATED DURUM WHEAT), RAISING THE GROSS INCOME OF FARMERS. 1. Alternate crops (include durum wheat in a Crop Rotation in the 4 Macro Areas favourable crop rotation). 2. Work the land while 1. PLAINS OF LOMBARDY-VENETO respecting it. CORN BASED* corn / durum wheat / corn / corn 3. Use the best variety to sow in BASED ON INDUSTRIAL CROPS soy / durum wheat / sorghum / common wheat relation to the distributional area. 4. Use only certified and 2. emilia romagna dressed seeds. CEREAL BASED* corn / durum wheat / sorghum / common wheat 5. Sow at the appropriate time. BASED ON INDUSTRIAL CROPS soy / durum wheat / corn / common wheat 6. Use the right amount of seeds. VEGETABLE BASED tomato / durum wheat / corn / common wheat 7. Cull weeds in a timely 3. CENTRAL ITALY manner. CEREAL BASED* durum wheat / durum wheat / sorghum / common wheat 8. Meter nitrogen fertilizers PROTEIN BASED protein pea / durum wheat / sorghum / common wheat according to plant needs. 9. Protect the plant FORAGE BASED alfalfa / alfalfa / alfalfa / common wheat from disease. BASED ON INDUSTRIAL CROPS sunflower / durum wheat / rape / durum wheat 10. Extend sustainability 4. SOUTHERN ITALY AND ISLANDS to farms. CEREAL durum wheat / durum wheat / durum wheat / durum wheat MONOCULTURE* FORAGE BASED forage / durum wheat / forage / durum wheat * Standard rotation of crops normally adopted in each area. 48 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain 49 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 2: BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE COMPANY Sustainable Supply Chains The Barilla Group’s Activities. Unlike the classical linear structure with a cascade sequence of supply chain operators, the Barilla model is CIRCULAR so as to involve the various players with collaboration projects: from the production of raw materials to projects with customers and the relationship with People (see Pasta Supply Chain Insert). In its day-to-day activities, Barilla is committed to make its supply chains more sustainable through projects and activities leading to the achievement of the goals for 2014 (see cover insert ). Progetti Projects to Make perSupply rendere Chains filiere le More più sostenibili Sustainable Barilla Sustainable Sustainable Energy Saving and Reducing Logistic Collaboration project Double Pyramid Agriculture. Packaging. Cogeneration. impacts and with small and and sustainable transport. large-scale retailers. diet. Earth 2016. Paper from Renewable energies. sustainable LCA studies and Assessment of Reduction in water forests. EPD certification. Environmental consumption. impacts of key raw Environmental ISO 14001. materials. labelling. Palm oil, cocoa and eggs, sustainability project. Raw Materials Production Distribution RAW PACKAGING plants transport TRADE PEOPLE MATERIALS mills Identify areas of strategic cooperation Reducing energy on sustainability consumption per issues with the main finished product by10%. European Retailers. Reaching 98% of recyclable Reducing CO2 emissions Contacting at least packaging. by 30% (plants 8 customers on Reducing the and main offices). potential areas of environmental footprint Applying the life Implementing the collaboration in along the Barilla value cycle assessment Reducing water Project to improve order to disseminate chain. to 100% of new consumption per the sustainability of the company’s product packaging. finished product Extending the other raw materials Developing projects sustainability by 30%. environmental labelling and packaging Purchasing 100% to reduce the model and ensuring the relevant of FSC or PEFC ISO 14001 Certification environmental impact assess partnership to 100% of new Barilla investments. certified paper. for 100% of the plants. of logistics. opportunities. products. Preparatory Activities to Achieve the 2014 Goals To complete the life cycle and path of the Barilla supply chains, see chapter 1 “Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business” and chapter 5 “More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition”. 50 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain Raw Materials Durum wheat, soft wheat, semolina, flour, rye, sugar, vegetable fat, tomato, egg, cocoa, dairy products and animal fats. common wheat durum wheat sesame packaging Critical rye eggs Strategic Supply eggs Chains promotions Supply Chains cocoa vegetable oils palm oil tomato [ Risk These are the main raw materials used by Barilla to manufacture its products. Some of these raw materials are considered STRATEGIC because of their Assessment ] importance in product recipes, whereas others may have CRITICAL elements from the point of view of sustainability. Barilla has developed a risk assessment model, through Raw Materials (tons in 2011) which it has identified the critical supply chains in terms of food safety, worker safety, environmental impacts and animal welfare. The “SUSTAINABLE GRAINS” 1,000,000t 340,000t 50,000t Semolina Flour Rye program and the “EARTH 2016” PROGRAM focusing on other strategic raw materials are the two main projects for a sustainable supply chain. The aim of the initiative is to 50,000t 45,000t 23,000t develop models for each raw Sugar Vegetable fats Eggs material supply chain and generate innovative projects and solutions. 9,000t 8,000t 7,000t Flour Dairy products Animal fats 51 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet di Durum % of grano duro Wheat Grownlocalmente Locally in the coltivato paeseProducing nelPasta di produzione Country della pasta 71% 81% 100% 100% 100% ITALY GREECE TURKEY MEXICO NORTH AMERICA plus: plus: of which: 10% FRANCE 9% FRANCE 32% USA 8% CANADA 5% ITALY 68% CANADA 5% MEXICO 5% BULGARIA 5% USA 1% GREECE The Durum Wheat Integrated [ Growing Supply Chain Contracts for Since 2006, Barilla has had an agreement with the Emilia Romagna Region, growers’ associations, farmers’ associations and agricultural cooperatives for High Qualithe production of High Quality Durum Wheat in Emilia Romagna. Following this experience, similar agreements based on the same principles were also signed in other regions of Italy. The agreements developed with the supply chain partners ty Crops ] optimise the selection of varieties, seed multiplication, wheat cultivation and preservation protocols. In 2011 Growing Contracts for High Quality varieties accounted for approximately 48% of the amount purchased (about 400,000 TONS) Growing Contracts for and thus reduced imports from abroad. This figure also includes the wheat used by High Quality varieties was third party mills. established to use production regulations to optimise The Aureo Durum Wheat The Aureo Durum Wheat variety is the result of twenty years’ work carried out in agronomic practices and the collaboration with key players of the durum wheat supply chain. use of fertilizers to reduce the Aureo results from a careful selection that has generated a top quality variety, with impact on the land, ensuring features found only in special grains of American origin, suitable for being grown in Central and Southern Italy. Whilst Desert Durum wheat is grown in the desert area a qualitative improvement of of the Southwest of the U.S.A. and requires a constant and significant use of water wheat both technologically for irrigation, the Aureo variety is grown in Italy without irrigation. (expected high quality) The amount of Aureo Wheat harvested in 2011 was used to replace part of the Desert Durum from the USA and used in special pasta: this has reduced the impact and in terms of food safety on water resources by approximately 1,000 m 3 per ton of durum wheat. Considering (mycotoxins and pesticide that the program involved about 41,000 tons of wheat in 2011, we can estimate a total saving of irrigation water of approximately 40 MILLION M3. Shifting residues). wheat growing from the USA to Italy has also led to a decrease of about 1,000 TONS OF CO 2 EQUIVALENT, caused by transport. United Nations Global Compact and the Suppliers After joining the UN Global Compact in 2011, Barilla undertook to promote the Ten Principles of the initiative throughout the entire value chain, setting the goal for 2014 to include clauses relating to human and environmental rights in SUPPLY CONTRACTS and general purchase conditions referring to Barilla Code of Ethics. Sedex Sedex, Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange, is a non-profit organisation, founded in 2004 to favour and guide the environmental and ethical performance of the supply chain at a global level. Sedex has prepared a WEB PLATFORM to enable suppliers to share information with customers on four pillars: labour standards, health and safety, environment and business integrity. Barilla joined Sedex in 2011. Starting in 2012, the Group will require all the suppliers located in high risk or low regulation countries to join the project and the platform to share their self-assessments and audit procedures on the four target areas. 52 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain 53 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet 54 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain Palm Oil, Cocoa, Sesame and Egg Supply Chains Cocoa and Palm Oil The suppliers of cocoa and palm oil are members of major international institutions responsible for sustainability across their supply chains. • 100% of the COCOA SUPPLIERS are member of the WORLD COCOA FOUNDATION and all the processing sites in Africa of Barilla’s main cocoa supplier are SA8000 certified. • 100% of PALM OIL SUPPLIERS are members of the ROUNDTABLE ON SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL. 11% of the palm oil used comes from supply chains certified by international independent bodies. Vegetable Oils: Environmental Impacts Beginning in 2010 studies on the environmental impacts of supply chains for the production of vegetable oils were carried out: palm, soybean, rapeseed, sunflower and olive oil. The review of the scientific literature and public data on the environmental aspects associated with the production chain (from cultivation of raw materials to the production of refined oil) showed that ALL OIL TYPES (soybean, rapeseed, palm, sunflower, olive) HAVE A SIMILAR CARBON FOOTPRINT. Whereas PALM OIL, if grown in a sustainable manner, has a Water and Ecological Footprint that is lower (-50% COMPARED TO RAPE OIL). Eggs: the Welfare of Laying Hens 85% In 2011 Barilla received the GOOD EGG AWARD from the international NGO “Compassion in World Farming” for the commitment taken on by the Mulino Bianco and Pavesi brands of laying hens will be regarding the welfare of laying hens, having decided to use reared cage-free EXCLUSIVELY EGGS FROM CAGE-FREE HENS. from 2012 Indeed Barilla plans farms, vegetable and additive-free feed programs with its suppliers. Over the course of 2012, 85% of laying hens (more than two millions) will be reared cage-free and Le Emiliane, Mulino Bianco and Pavesi brands will use only those eggs. Furthermore, all eggs used for Le Emiliane Barilla, Pavesi and Mulino Bianco are Category A. Sesame in Paraguay Sesame, one of the key ingredients of Wasa branded products, is a typical cultivation of tropical regions. To shorten the supply chain and better manage the quality of these seeds, Barilla has chosen to work with ONE SINGLE COMPANY that collects the sesame seeds from LOCAL COOPERATIVES and carries out the cleaning operations locally. 55 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Environmental Impact of the Main Raw Materials Each year the main supply chains are assessed based on environmental impact in terms of Carbon Footprint, Ecological Footprint and Water Footprint. In 2011, 24 supply chains underwent this assessment (12 more than in 2010). A database of the environmental impacts of different raw materials consisting of 158 items was established taking into account the influence that geographical areas of origins may have. Carbon Footprint: this represents and identifies greenhouse gas emissions responsible for climate change and measured as mass of CO2 equivalent, comparing the various gases emitted in terms of effects of global warming on the Earth to CO2 according to conversion tables defined by the International Panel on Climate Change (www.ipcc.ch). Water Footprint: this quantifies the consumption and methods of use of water resources; it is measured in volume (litres) of water. Ecological Footprint: this measures the amount of land (or sea) biologically productive that is necessary to provide the resources and to absorb the emissions associated with a production system. It is measured in m2 or global hectares. Main Supply Chains for Which Environmental Impact Was Calculated DURUM WHEAT COMMON WHEAT RYE EGG TOMATO 9 GEOGRAPHIC 6 GEOGRAPHIC 2 GEOGRAPHIC 1 GEOGRAPHIC 1 GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AREAS AREAS AREA AREA Italy Canada USA Italy France USA Sweden Germany Italy Italy Mexico Turkey East Europe UK Greece France Sweden Australia Spain OLIVE OIL SUNFLOWER OIL RAPE OIL SOYBEAN OIL PALM OIL SUGAR BUTTER MARGARINE CHOCOLATE COCOA APRICOT JAM BASIL CARROTS ALMONDS CRANBERRIES BANANA GRAPE APRICOTS MILK POWDER 56 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain Packaging Sustainable Packaging Project Barilla pays great attention to the packaging of its products, both in relation to purchases of paper, cardboard and film, and in its attempt to constantly improve the packages developed over the years. Table on the Packaging Improved in 2011 Recyclability of PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT DESCRIPTION ANNUAL REDUCTION Packaging Barilla has developed an analysis of the Packaging 54 tons of film entire life cycle of packaging to verify its weight environmental performance and consider optimisation alternatives. A specific tool has been developed to design more sustainable packaging. The percentage of technically recyclable packaging rose from 85% Wrapping 8 tons of film in 2008 to 96% in 2011, of which 41% optimisation comes from recycled material. Package 36 tons of film, 2008 weight optimisation and pallet saturation 14% transport reduction 85% Packaging 9 tons of film 2011 96% weight optimisation Paper and Sustainable Forest Management Barilla purchases more than 1.9 BILLION units of paper and cardboard packaging and more than 30 THOUSAND TONS of flexible film. 100% of virgin fibre used in the cardboard packaging is purchased from paper mills that promote responsible management of forests according to FSC or PEFC standards. The need to ensure the sustainability of supplies and management of the timber used have led to the birth and development of forest certification schemes such as the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) program and the PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Schemes). The philosophy behind both programs is guided by sustainable forest management leveraging on environmental protection, respect for human rights and cultural traditions, promotion of economic sustainability of forestry activities. Both programs include a strict Certification of Sustainable Forest Management. Packaging of Steamed Biscuits Steam cooking is an innovative technology developed and owned by Mulino Bianco. To further enhance all the aspects of sustainability related to this product, a great effort has been made to render biscuit packs RECYCLABLE. Biscuit packs generally consist of two coupled materials: the outer layer of paper and the metallized inner layer in plastic film (polypropylene) which ensures the tight closure of the package and product protection. The work has focused on the reduction of the amount of plastic material offsetting this decrease with an increase in the amount of paper, thus making the packaging recyclable through the paper recovery chain. The effective recyclability of the new material was verified by testing every step of recycling in collaboration with external specialised bodies, and tests confirmed that this solution can be recycled THROUGH NORMAL PAPER AND CARDBOARD RECYCLING PROCESSES. The first products that can boast this important innovation are steamed biscuits. For more information visit www.fsc.org and www.pefc.org 57 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Production Among Barilla’s objectives is not only sustainability in the supply of raw materials, but also the development of low CO2 emission activities in all processes, trying to minimize waste, reducing the Ecological Footprint and improving production efficiency. Barilla Group Investments for Environment, Safety and Fire Prevention in Millions of € 1.8 mln 2.4 mln 7.9mln ENVIRONMENT FIRE PREVENTION SAFETY Mills and some copackers are included. Costs Incurred by the Plants for Environmental Issues in Millions of € 2.3 mln 0.8 mln (1) Treatment expenses: waste management, treatment of air emissions and wastewater. (2) Prevention expenses: external services for (1) (2) environmental management, certification and TREATMENT COSTS PREVENTION COSTS authorization procedures. 58 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain [ Energy EffiHeat and Power: Energy Consumption and Saving ciency Award The energy consumption of Barilla covers the electricity used to operate production lines, air conditioning and to light the premises and outdoor areas, plus Barilla Gida ] thermal energy, which is used for baking products, drying pasta and heating the premises. Barilla’s energy consumption per unit of finished product in 2011 amounted to In 2011 Barilla Gida, leading 3.22 GJ/t, in line with those of 2010. pasta manufacturer in Turkey, Specifically, the consumption of electricity totalled 1.3 GJ/t and that of thermal was given the award “Energy energy 1.9 GJ/t. Efficient Industrial Facility” THE SIX-YEAR-OLD ENERGY SAVING PROJECT (ESP) WAS BORN organized by the General TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCTION Directorate of Renewable Energy FACILITIES AND IS NOW EVEN MORE INTERNATIONAL. of the Ministry of Energy and The Italian and French have developed a sophisticated system for measuring the Natural Resources of Turkey. consumption of electricity, gas and water. Barilla Gida increased its energy efficiency using natural gas and THE MAIN PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED ARE: electricity in its manufacturing Replacement and automation of refrigeration units Introduction of LED lights in parking lots and production areas High efficiency mechanical transmission plants and achieved 13% energy systems Introduction of stand-by functions of packaging machinery and conveyor saving between 2004 and 2010. systems Amendment of the process standards for cooking fume suction on some cooking ovens. [ ISO 14001 Certified Energy Consumption per Unit of Finished Product (GJ/t) Environmen3.36 3.25 tal Manage3.22 3.22 ment 2008 2009 2010 2011 System ] More than 70% of Barilla Energy Consumption in Absolute Terms (million GJ) and % products are manufactured in Contribution of Electric and Thermal Power plants that operate following a management system certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. This has led to the 4.9 million GJ 4.8 million GJ 4.8 million GJ 4.8 million GJ implementation of many projects aimed at improving efficiency Total Energy in the management of energy and water resources. In 2011, the Certified 41% 41% 40% 41% Environmental Management Electric Power System was extended to the mill in Altamura, with an Integrated Safety and 59% 59% 60% 59% Environment System. Thermal Power 2008 2009 2010 2011 59 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Use Emissions of CO2 equivalent in 2011 fell by 19% in absolute terms compared to 2008, with an increase in production of about 1%. This therefore generated a decoupling between production and CO2 emissions. Emissions of CO2 equivalent (Global Warming Potential) with respect to the finished product have decreased by 20% compared to 2008. As for the increase in energy efficiency, the Pedrignano complex has been powered by a gas cogeneration plant since 2009 and the Pasta factory in Caserta by a trigeneration plant (which in addition to electric and thermal power also produces refrigerated water) since 2011. The cogeneration plant in Foggia out of order due to a failure which occurred during 2012 is expected to be back in operation. In terms of renewable energies, two plants producing Wasa branded products, the Swedish plant of Filipstad and the German one of Celle, use power from hydroelectric plants. In 2011, Barilla met all the power demand from Mulino Bianco bakeries using a “Renewable Energy Certificate System” ( www.recs.org or www.mulinobianco.it). This has led to a reduction of 39% in CO2 to emissions to finished product in Mulino Bianco bakery plants between 2008 and this year. In 2011, the Pasta factory with the best ratio of CO2 (GWP) emissions to the finished product was BOLU, the best Bakery plant was FILIPSTAD. The plants that recorded the highest reductions of CO2 emissions per unit of finished product in 2010 were PEDRIGNANO and THIVA for Pasta, and CELLE and FILIPSTAD for Bakery. Decoupling of GWP (tCO2 eq./t) from the Volumes of Finished Product (million t) 1.50 1.48 1.47 1.46 1.49 1.45 0.51 0.50 0.47 0.44 0.41 0.40 0.00 tCO2 2008 2009 2010 2011 GWP per Unit of Finished Product (tCO2 eq./t) 0.36 Since 0.34 0.35 2008 0.32 0.32 0.3 0.29 0.28 -21% 2008 2009 2010 2011 60 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain Water Consumption and Saving The Barilla plants in 2011 consumed about 2.5 MILLION M3 OF WATER. Approximately 59% of the water used by the manufacturing plants was taken from owned wells or other underground sources, the rest from public water systems. In addition to its use as raw material in some recipes, water is also used for washing and cooling equipment, as well as for activities of irrigation, personal hygiene of employees, fire prevention and staff restaurants. In 2011 approximately 566,000 M3 of water were saved compared to 2008, corresponding to about 19% less water thanks to water-saving projects that have been developed for years in production plants. In particular, in 2011 efforts continued to eliminate cooling operations using non-returnable water. About 60% of Barilla manufacturing plants are equipped with wastewater purification plants, which significantly reduces their impact prior to discharge. In 2011 about 800,000 M3 (just over 80%) were discharged in public sewage systems, the remaining portion as surface runoff. In 2011, the pasta factories with the greatest reduction in water consumption on the finished product (over the previous year) were CASERTA, AMES and PEDRIGNANO, while among bakery plants were NOVARA, VALENCIENNES, CASTIGLIONE, PLAIN DE L’AIN with decreases that in some cases were in excess of 10%. Total Water Consumption in Million m3 [ Waste 3.1 3.0 2.6 2.5 3.2 Production ] Furthermore, in manufacturing 3.0 plants the focus on waste intensified with the aim of 2.8 decreasing the amount produced and increasing the 2.6 share intended for recovery or recycling. In 2011 the average recorded was 13 kg of waste per ton of 2008 2009 2010 2011 product; of which approximately 89% was intended for recovery / recycling operations. Total Water Consumption per Unit of Finished Product (m3/t) 2.5 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.7 1.5 1.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 61 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Life Cycle Assessment and Product Environmental Declaration Every product that comes to the table daily is the result of a process that determines [ LCA ] characteristics and specificity. To measure the Ecological Footprint of its products throughout their life cycle from farm to fork, Barilla has developed a system based on the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method. Started more than ten years ago, Life Cycle the LCA now involves about 53% of Barilla’s production worldwide. Assessment In 2010, the first among private companies, Barilla developed a system for calculating the environmental impact of products according to the LCA methodology Objective method of on the basis of the EPD MODEL: the only one that envisages a public inquiry evaluation and quantification into Product Category Rules (PCR). The system developed by Barilla leads to the publication of study results as Environmental Product Declarations (EPD). This of environmental energy system has been certified by Bureau Veritas, an independent body. loads and potential impacts 53 46 associated with a product / process / activity along the entire life cycle, from raw % today % of the Barilla of Barilla products products are accompanied by materials to end of life. are covered by LCA an Environmental Product studies. Declaration (EPD). Barilla Products with EPD 2009 2010 2011 • Semolina pasta in the • Wasa original, Wasa • Semolina pasta in the • Mulino Bianco: Pan • Arrabbiata sauce, classic blue box produced Solruta Sesam and Wasa blue box produced in Bauletto, Cracker non basilico sauce and pesto in Italy Havrenacke all European and North unsalted, Fiori d’acqua, • Wasa Husman American plants Tarallucci, Galletti, Fette • Gocciole Pavesi biscottate Armonie Wasa Husman: from Field to Retail 0.1 CULTIVATION OF Ecological DISTRIBUTION RAW MATERIALS Footprint 47 6.9 8.4 <1 464 global m2/kg 518 Carbon Footprint 3 707 gCO2 eq./kg 125 73 0.3 71 1.1 Water Footprint PRODUCTION PROCESS PACKAGING 594 PRODUCTION litres/kg 62 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain For more information on LCA visit the websites For more information on EPD visit the website www.footprintnetwork.org www.environdec.com www.waterfootprint.org Pasta: from Field to Retail CULTIVATION OF DISTRIBUTION 0.5 RAW MATERIALS 184 9.1 Ecological Footprint 0 779 11.3 1,668 global m2/kg 294 3 0.8 Carbon 0 Footprint 98 0.1 1,478 2 gCO2 eq./kg MILLS PRODUCTION 123 PROCESS 0.6 Water Footprint 1,693 litres/kg PACKAGING PRODUCTION Tarallucci: from Field to Retail 0.2 CULTIVATION OF Ecological DISTRIBUTION RAW MATERIALS Footprint 85 7.7 < 0.2 10 global m2/kg 953 909 Carbon Footprint 4 1,526 gCO2 eq./kg 340 3 0.9 148 1.2 Water Footprint PRODUCTION PROCESS PACKAGING 916 PRODUCTION litres/kg 63 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3: BUILDING LOCAL RELATIONS Dialogue Projects with Retailers Customers and Sales Network [ Consortium Barilla makes its sales in Italy and worldwide through a network of relations that its sales E-SAVE ] organisation establishes both with small independent retailers and with large-scale retailers. Modern retail through hypermarkets, supermarkets and proximity stores is, on the whole, the main channel for the marketing of Barilla Group products. In 2011 Barilla became part of a Consortium that aims to IT IS ALSO THANKS TO THE COOPERATION WITH THE develop services and tools for RETAILERS THAT OUR PRODUCTS REACH PEOPLE’S HOMES collaboration between producers WHERE THEY CAN FINALLY BE ENJOYED. and distributors to improve All along the retail chains, Barilla proposes a model of responsible management, designed to energy efficiency and reduce minimize environmental impact and waste, reducing the Ecological Footprint and complying with the Barilla Code of Ethics. environmental impact. The project is funded by the European Commission and will last 30 Next Level of Retailers’ months from January 2012. Collaboration COMPONENTS OF THE E-SAVE CONSORTIUM IN 2011, BARILLA DEVELOPED THE NEXT LEVEL OF AND COUNTRY OF ORIGIN RETAILERS’ COLLABORATION PROJECT. THE PROJECT IS 1. Intrasoft International AIMED AT EXPANDING BARILLA’S NETWORKING METHODS Luxembourg WITH CUSTOMERS AND DEVELOPING PARTNERSHIPS AND 2. Athens University of JOINT PROJECTS. Economics and Business The various topics that may be the subject of long-term collaboration include the key eleResearch center Greece ments of the company’s sustainable business and its good practices, in particular on aspects 3. Barilla G. e R. Fratelli Italy of agricultural supply chain, environmental protection and education. During the year, an analysis was conducted with the main purpose of identifying areas of 4. Quantis Sarl Switzerland shared interest with the major European retailers. The sustainability policies of 14 global 5. Ecole Polytechnique retailers were analysed, their strategic plans with our company on Sustainability issues were Federale de Lausanne identified to prepare an engagement plan. Switzerland AUCHAN and SIMPLY ITALIA are the first subjects with which Barilla has engaged in a 6. BOC Asset Management dialogue aimed at promoting some of their knowledge and actions, particularly with respect to the consumption model embodied by the DOUBLE PYRAMID developed by the Barilla GmbH Austria Center for Food and Nutrition. The dialogue started has the aim of leading to the definition of 7. Technische Universitaet concrete actions to be developed during 2012 and 2013. Dortmund Germany 8. Simplan AG Germany 9. Intelen Services Limited Cyprus 2011 Activities 10. ECR Europe ASBL participation in events to meet the retail world: Belgium 1. NIELSEN CONFERENCE (LINKONTRO) 2. CAPGEMINI WORKSHOP “FUTURE VALUE CHAIN TRENDS” 11. Meter Greece 64 3. Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain 65 4. In this chapter you will discover Barilla’s daily activities as TOTAL regards QUALITY OF THE PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES IN MANAGING THE GROUP. QUALITY IS SUSTAINABLE QUALITY [ Quality ] Quality has many characteristics, which are interrelated and which all contribute to defining the accepted meaning of Quality that we attribute to Barilla’s “Know-How”. BARILLA STORIES 1. TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE AND BARILLA AND ITS WAY OF DOING INTEGRATED SUPPLY CHAIN. FROM FIELD 5. BUSINESS 4. TO FORK More choice 3. and more knowledge for good 2. Nutrition COMPANY TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT IS SUSTAINABLE QUALITY The “visible part” of a product is what we eat, what People receive directly. But that’s just the tip of the iceberg. What we can’t see, the hidden part, is enormous and includes research, insight, planning and control. It consists of all those activities contemplated by the Barilla Quality System. barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Sustainable Quality Producing Quality means correctly interpreting People’s needs and satisfying them through Barilla’s range. In this sense there is no discontinuity between Barilla’s history and culture, [ Producing its present and its future. Even in the face of a change, an evolution in People’s requests, Barilla continues to offer QUALITY. Quality ] Clearly, this is Quality in the accepted Nowadays, a process is sense that the world at large expects from considered of Quality if the the company today and in the long term, products it produces, as well as being safe, good and named “Sustainability”. available, are also nutritionally THE CAPACITY TO GENERATE QUALITY DEPENDS ON THE EXCELLENCE balanced, respectful OF BARILLA’S MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, in turn based on the Quality of its People, on company values that respect its own history and on of the ENVIRONMENT coherent and efficient operating procedures. and PEOPLE’S rights, A management system is of Quality if devised according to pragmatically and are an integral part of the defined strategic directions that are concrete, long-term and respectful of future generations, the environment and the territories the system affects. development of TERRITORIES. The Barilla Quality Figures for 2011 55,000 raw material lots analysed 165 2,000,000 50 professionals dedicated to Quality and Food Safety analyses every year new products every year 120,000 29,000,000 product lots analysed Euros invested in activities and resources for prevention and product Quality control 68 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality The fundamental objective of “producing Quality” is to supply products that are safe, excellent, and contribute to a nutritionally balanced diet. Dynamism and Relativity: Objectives Two Essences of Quality Total Quality Dynamism in 2014 The concept of Quality varies over time and assumes a different connotation according to the era it refers to. It varies constantly at the rate of change of People’s needs, and the social and environmental conditions of the Community Making it easier for People to make aware and the Planet. choices, by providing the following information on the pack labels and/or websites of brands: We can define dynamism as the “flow” of the concept Detailed nutrition tables; Advice for a healthy of Quality in the time and place it belongs to. lifestyle; Consumption suggestions; Waste disposal procedures and other important Moreover, we can consider Quality as a “CUMULATIVE” concept: the environmental aspects. “qualitative” objectives achieved over time become consolidated and create an indispensable departure point for the development of new accepted meanings Developing initiatives to stimulate continuous of Quality. improvement, aimed at increasing People’s satisfaction and extending our listening platform. Relativity The definition of the concept of “Quality”, especially if referring to products Improving the Compliance Index of raw and services, relates to a specific human context, characterised by its own materials and finished products: continuing sociological, economical and cultural phenomena. to pursue an annual increase of 10% in the differential between 100% (total conformity) The concept of Quality depends on the People who and the bottom line value achieved that year. determine it and who appreciate it in the products they relate to. Extending the procedures with which Barilla listens to People on the themes of food People, as players in the contexts they live and purchase in, therefore have a safety and product and service quality fundamental role in assessing what constitutes a Quality product. But not only. at a global level in all the geographies where Quality also varies considerably from person to person: we do not all have the the company is present with its products. same expectations concerning the products and services we use. Today, the challenge for companies lies in perceiving these multiple needs and translating them into products that satisfy the major part of People’s expectations. DYNAMIC Quality: RELATIVE Quality: QUALITY THAT VARIES OVER TIME QUALITY THAT VARIES DUE TO DUE TO PEOPLE’S NEEDS, the Total HUMAN CONTEXT, social and environmental Quality SOCIOLOGICAL PHENOMENA, conditions of the Community ECONOMIC PHENOMENA, and the Planet. CULTURAL PHENOMENA. 69 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet [ focus ] Critical Success Factors in Barilla Quality Let’s go on, go on bravely. Pietro Barilla There are certain critical success factors that make Barilla what it is. 1. First and foremost the capacity to give value to its own history, knowing how to manage the COMPANY CULTURE over time, which would like to remain “squeaky clean”, but with a strong and ambitious identity. 2. Secondly, a propensity to listen carefully to market demand via a capacity to adapt, translated into PRECISE GOVERNANCE SYSTEMS that are decisive for strategic efficacy and management efficiency. 3. Last but not least, attention given to those People who offer their skill and pass their daily life in Barilla. This third factor is what we identify as LEADERSHIP. Which translates as: a vision of the future that sets itself concrete goals, realized incisiveness, an international perspective, ability to manage change, talent in guiding and motivating People. This not a leadership reserved for a few managers, but a shared value that nourishes a climate of diffuse entrepreneurship which is at the basis of Barilla’s identity and reputation. Over time, this way of proceeding, guided by sincere company values, such as courage and far-sightedness, has led us to be a “moral community”, in which each Barilla Person is the member of a large orchestra. Therefore, BARILLA QUALITY means quality in tackling innovative paths, pursuing improvement, not being complacent about the results achieved. Quality divided, from a technical point of view, into quality of our products, which is also innovation in terms of management processes, supply of services, management of costs and financial aspects, communication, image, marketing, technology and organisational models. And in addition means the quality of the relationships between all the People who work to realize Barilla’s dream. Genuineness in the relationships we build over time and that are made up of more or less simple values, such as professionalism, intellectual integrity, a vocation for innovation, professional humility, willingness to question ourselves, willingness to change, ability to integrate with colleagues and work in a team: this generates an organisational climate in which People feel a sense of belonging and participative management. This is the Quality with which Barilla has always built its world, led by an informed vision of the future. The identification of critical success factors of Barilla Quality was possible thanks to the Engineer Manfredo Manfredi, Barilla CEO from 1971 to 1991. 70 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality Evolution Stages in Barilla Quality from the 50s to Now These are just some of the stages in Barilla’s more recent history. In every decade, there have been activities that testify how the Group invested over time in projects and other activities to do with Quality, whether in attempt to better understand the needs of the moment, or projecting into the future. The The The The The The ‘50s ‘60s ‘70s ‘80s ‘90s 2000s years of great an increase in years in which Barilla invests in years of profound Barilla becomes ferment and sales volumes of Barilla is owned avant-garde plants. changes in increasingly interinnovation both 15% per annum by the American From Ascoli management national. Managing from the point is due in part multinational Piceno, to Foggia processes. a multinational of view of to considerable Grace. In ’73 and Melfi. company also production and investments in because of the 1991 means undermarketing quality. new strategies petrol crisis and Takeover standing global and management the associated of Misko. problems more 1953 structure, but exponential thoroughly, and Barilla equips itself also in the quality of sales which increase in raw material costs, 1993 sharing lines of action to resolve with its first autoTakeover mated plants and changed from the Italian them and make indirect to direct. government of Pavesi. new proposals. specialist workers. blocks the price Consequently, 1957 1960 of pasta. In order 1997 Barilla sets up New management to cope with this Investment in a think tank, which Barilla appears critical moment, logistics, Number 1 sees the collaboon television with structure implemented. Barilla invests in a is born. ration of some of Carosello. The era 1961 new quality brand. the most influenof a new use of 1999 tial experts in food communication Adoption of first 1975 First plant in and nutrition. techniques, a sort expense-revenue Mulino Bianco is of new “school” of budget. born. America, at Ames and conquest of the 2002 marketing. 1969 1978 American market. Takeover of Kamps and Harrys. Takeover of Wasa. Construction of First biscuit oven at Pedrignano plant Pedrignano. 2004 (Parma). Academia Barilla 1979 founded. Pietro Barilla buys back the company. 2009 Barilla Center for Food & Nutrition founded. 71 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 2: BUILDING a sustainable company Operational Quality People want to see “inside” the product, beyond the brand, what the company is like and how it operates. When we speak of SUSTAINABLE QUALITY in Barilla, we intend a wide concept: [ Quality ] whether referring to the QUALITY of PRODUCTS, or the Quality of the Group’s processes and SERVICES. The product is the most concrete response to People’s expectations. Of the product To be considered “of Quality” a product must be safe and good, with guaranteed Safe / Tasty / Innovative / nutritional and organoleptic characteristics, produced with controlled raw materials Healthy / Up-to-the-minute / that respond to the tastes and needs of those who consume it. However, an industrial product also represents a brand and the People who have created Excellent Quality-Price ratio / it. Those who purchase our products daily and put them on their table have a Produced with controlled perception of us that comes from our brands, but they know “inside the products” raw materials / Corresponding there is a Group, its values and its People. to the advertising / Respectful of the environment / Available / Fresh / Controlled / Including PEOPLE AND THEIR general information, method PREFERENCES of use and storage. ARE AT THE CENTRE OF BARILLA’S ACTIVITY of the Brand The brand identifies the product’s story and indicates the manufacturing company. For People the brand is a guarantee of Quality, not only of the Product, but also of Know-How. OF THE GROUP Barilla is an Italian company, that has been operating since 1887 and produces and exports the Spirit of Italy all over the world through its products. However in doing so, it is committed to respecting the Environment, People and the Community. 72 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality Quality from People’s Point of View Tools for Barilla to assess expected/perceived Quality: EXPECTED Quality: 1. Direct contact with People (freephone number, mail). what People expect from 2. Web channels: blogs, online forums, social networks… companies like Barilla, 3. Media: dailies, the press in general, television, radio… 4. Online initiatives to involve the public: e.g. Nel Mulino che Vorrei. that they trust and whose 5. Feedback from public initiatives, and information and training products they buy daily. sessions: Casa Barilla, Giocampus, A mangiar bene si comincia da Piccolini… 6. Analysis of Reputation among the scientific community. PERCEIVED Quality: 7. Sales figures/success of new products. how People perceive THE 8. Tasting Panel Test. BARILLA COMPANY AND ITS 9. Market Surveys. 10. Stakeholder Panels. PRODUCTS. 11. University Open Days and Employer Branding. This is a decisive factor 12. Scientific research working groups. for company REPUTATION. 13. Relationships with trade-union associations. 14. Relationships with suppliers. 15. Relationships with customers. Quality from the Company’s Point of View DESIGNED Quality: Barilla’s tools for planning, realizing how Barilla designs, and reporting: devises, plans its products 1. Research activities. and services to bring 2. Product and Process Development. quality to People and 3. Management of Processes in all corporate functions, with monitoring of specific indicators (KPIs). build value over time. 4. Specific projects for products and/or themes. 5. Selection, training and maximizing the utilization of its REALIZED Quality: People and developing its Know-How. 6. Internal communication tools: BarillaWorld. how Barilla operates 7. External communication tools: Annual Economic-Financial at the level of phases, Statement, Sustainable Business Report, Company Profile, Group Website, Scientific publications. processes, and products 8. External Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition communication throughout the supply tools: BCFN papers, Books. chain. 9. Advertising (press, mass-media and digital). 10. Educational activities and information supply. 11. Continuous improvement of product and management REPORTED Quality: processes throughout the value chain. how Barilla communicates 12. Training, Workshops and Seminars. 13. Working groups. via institutional 14. Internal/external exchange activities. communication and 15. Setting up specific panels of experts (Nutrition Advisory its products and how Board, BCFN Advisory Board). 16. Certifications in compliance with international standards it monitors its own approved by the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative). performance. 73 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Product Quality Raw Materials [ Food Barilla takes maximum care in selecting and obtaining raw and packaging materials, complying with Quality and Food Safety requisites. The “Supply Quality Safety ] Specifications”, an integral part of the purchase contract signed with suppliers, define the organoleptic, chemical-physical, hygiene characteristics plus the area of provenance of each of the 300 types of raw material and 50 types of packaging materials used. The whole Group is now subject to thorough control As a prerequisite, the food of quality and safety characteristics of all the raw materials used. product must be guaranteed safe for the health of the People In 2011, 55,000 LOTS OF RAW MATERIALS were who consume it. It is therefore analysed with a conformity index of 96.4% indispensable to guarantee, (an improvement compared to the 2010 result during the planning phase, of 95.8%). the development of products that are intrinsically safe while Organoleptic and Nutritional systematically guarding against Characteristics risks of contamination from The product must be perceived as excellent at the moment of consumption raw or packaging materials, and, at the same time, must encourage People to adopt a healthy, nutritionally balanced diet. production equipment and Moreover, emphasis must be given to the use of natural raw materials or, where distribution processes. Where this is impossible because of taste problems or technological reasons, using the scientific world is unable components extracted naturally; consequently the use of additives is limited with indisputable benefits for the product and People. to supply exhaustive answers regarding certain types of risk, because these have not yet been Controls on Finished Products thoroughly investigated and/or Quality controls are implemented across the board at the 41 production centres that produce more than 1,000 products. understood, Barilla adopts the principle of “precaution”. In 2011, around 120,000 LOTS OF FINISHED Above all, as regards: PRODUCT underwent organoleptic, microbiological and chemical physical Chemical, microbiological, controls with a conformity of 95.5%. biological and particle contaminants: Anything that did not conform was managed the product, in addition to complying by precise internal procedures. with the regulations in force, must respond to additional internal and/ or more restrictive requisites defined Packaging from time to time according to specific limit values. This must guarantee maintenance of organoleptic, nutritional and safety characteristics throughout the life of the product, when used as directed Allergens: this theme imposes criteria or under normal conditions of use. The pack, in addition to complying with when planning products, selecting the regulations in force, must transparently communicate to People clear suppliers, managing processes and complete information on the nutritional values, its expected life, storage able to contain the risk of cross and correct use, as well as suggestions People can use to regulate their contamination. However, the product eating habits. In addition, during the planning phase, other aspects must be must still carry clear indications on the considered as regards the advantages of use such as ease of transport, label of every allergen it contains. shelf and larder storage, closure after partial use. GMO: the product must be obtained from non-GMO raw materials, contain no fractions of GMO and not be derived from GMOs. For the information given on packs please see chapter 5: “More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition”. 74 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality 50 new products launched every year 103 the last three years to improve their nutritional profile products reformulated over Design and Realization These are the phases of a long process whose objective is to offer new products that can bring wellbeing and the joy of eating well into People’s lives every day. The process that leads to the birth of a new product can be split into several phases, that can be grouped into 3 MOMENTS. At the end of every phase the results are assessed and a decision is taken as to whether to continue down that particular development path. This is a process based on the interaction between various types of professionalism and skills, both inside and outside the company and built starting from an intense relationship between those who design and realize the product and the People it is destined for. 1. [ A Manual Each design team enjoys collaboration with a selected group of People who actively take part in the creation of new products. These are not simply testers of Knowbut creatives involved right from the very first phases of CREATION and DEVELOPMENT. Every year, Barilla invests its innovative efforts in dozens of projects, at different levels of progress, that are normally completed within How ] one to three years. This set of projects constitutes Barilla’s “innovation portfolio”, which is constantly being revised on the basis of defined priorities. For some time, Barilla has 2. been making use of Good To this end, in the DESIGN phase for new equipment, the hygiene specifications Manufacturing Practices, and running procedure must be defined. The technology used must be such that it safeguards as much as possible the integrity, naturalness and nutritional the manual of Know-How characteristics of the ingredients. This is the fruit of more than 50 DEDICATED containing over 600 RULES TECHNOLOGIES, many of which have been developed exclusively for the company, such as the recent introduction of ovens for steam cooking bakery regarding the hygiene requisites products. The Quality System allows control and verification of production of the production premises standards, right up to the arrival of the product on the shelves of large and small and equipment, but also staff retailers around the world. behaviour, which is fundamental to guarantee product Quality. 3. All of this would be completely unimportant, unless at the end of this avenue, To this end, the manual also there was no LAUNCH phase of a product with nutritional characteristics that supplies clear instructions are good for People’s health. Barilla offers tasty, practical products for daily on staff clothing and training. use, that contribute to a correct diet, and are accessible in terms of price. The company is constantly reformulating its products, in particular lowering the fat and salt content and increasing the quantity of fibre to create new products that have specific benefits and a high health value in line with PEOPLE’S NEEDS. 1 CREATION AND 2 DESIGN AND 3 LAUNCH DEVELOPMENT REALIZATION 75 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 1: BUILDING KNOWLEDGE The BCFN Index of Wellbeing Research beyond the GDP and Quality of Life. People represent the reference point of Barilla’s actions. Every product or service [ Food is designed to increase the wellbeing of the community, seeking to respect the resources the Planet offers. for All ] For some time, the scientific community has been commenting on the inadequacy of the current indexes which society has available for aspects linked to the progress and wellbeing of People. In particular, an analysis of Gross Domestic Product allows a check on the strictly economic aspects of a country’s production activities, but does not take into account BCFN Reference Area all the aspects connected with populations’ happiness and “good living”. In the face of this situation, today the business world is asking itself how it can better analyse changes in society and understand how it can efficiently contribute to the future of the Planet and the next generations. “Measuring people’s Barilla is trying to answer these wellbeing: questions, through the research and the BCFN Index” thinking coming out of the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition. In particular, with regard to society’s wellbeing, in 2010 it began research into existing indexes of wellbeing, and as a result, formulated its own, known as the BCFN Index. Consequently, in 2011 it carried out further studies in this sector, resulting in a more complete formulation. In 2011, the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition, BCFN, updated its first Wellbeing Index formulated in 2010. See chapter 1: “Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business”. 76 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality The necessary integration of other indicators (social and environmental) in the formulation of an all-embracing index, has been strengthened with elements relating to food, nutrition and lifestyle. This is unquestionably the distinctive aspect of the BCFN Index. The BCFN Index consists of two brief multidimensional indexes: The Index of Current Wellbeing which is a multidimensional measurement of the current wellbeing of individuals (what People live/experience today). The Index of Wellbeing Sustainability which measures the future dynamics/trends of current wellbeing. These two multidimensional indexes are in turn composed of three sub-indexes: • Lifestyle Index; • Wealth and Environment Index; • Personal and Interpersonal Relations Index. For each sub-index various indicators (KPI) have been analysed and assessed out of a sample of 10 selected NATIONS. Thus it has been possible to identify situations of greater or lesser equilibrium between the dimensions considered by the sub-indexes and more completely define People’s wellbeing and the Quality of their Lives. Moreover, this analysis indicates possible improvements, which People, but also private companies can become involved in. 77 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Sì.Mediterraneo: the Wellbeing and “Quality of Daily Life” of Barilla People OBJECT AND GENERAL AIMS: Si.Mediterraneo is a pilot project developed [ SÌ. in collaboration with the Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine of the Federico II University of Naples and the contribution of the Barilla Nutrition Advisory Board. The final aim is to increase the nutritional knowledge of Barilla People, starting MEDITERfrom an analysis of their eating habits and lifestyle. The project began in October 2011 at the two company canteens for office and plant staff at Pedrignano (Parma), RANEO ] the Group’s headquarters, where 1,500 People work. objectives: 1. Increasing Barilla People’s awareness of the benefits of the Mediterranean diet Not only does the and the relationship between correct diet and safeguarding of the environment through nutritional education activities and information supply in line with the Double Sì.Mediterraneo project Pyramid study sponsored by the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition (BCFN). represent an example 2. Improving the eating habits of Barilla People through a wider more diverse range of foodstuffs, in line with the proposed nutritional principles. of information supply on and promotion of the IMPLEMENTATION: Over the course of four weeks, information was provided on the Mediterranean Diet, the Double Pyramid, the nutritional value of food such Mediterranean Model among as products based on wholegrains or pulses, consumption of fish and white meat, Barilla People, but it can and reduction in sweet products. To this end, information panels were set up in the also be read as a concrete canteens, and illustrative place mats handed out along with leaflets summarizing the initiative’s main messages. As a consequence, also the canteen menus were activity, albeit experimental, modified with an increase in wholegrain products including pasta and bread, pulses, as well as an application vegetarian options, salads of cereals, vegetables, plus fish and less fatty meat, and of the Wellbeing Index more in general meals that respect the wellbeing of People and the environment, and provide high nutritional value, clearly indicated on the day’s menu. Also the identified by the Barilla Center so-called “cestini” were modified. These are quick meals that can be booked and for Food and Nutrition for delivered to the workplace in the case of meetings or other commitments. To verify the company’s daily activity. the impact of the project on the eating habits of Barilla People, consumption before and after the conclusion of the initiative was monitored. RESULTS: The main changes observed in the food choices are shown in the table below and expressed as a percentage variation in weekly consumption before and after the educational event. Sì.MEDITERRANEO office plant indicators totalS canteen canteen Number of “cestini” with vegetarian option +35% da 338 a 538 da 337 a 370 Quantity of cheese and eggs -20% -39% +4%* Quantity of pulses +55% +12% +152% Quantity of fish +40% +67% +16% Quantity of deli meats -24% -26% -21% Quantity of whole grain bread +41% +45% +39% Quantity of whole grain pasta +117% +116% +117% Quantity of white meat +52% +104% +22% Quantity of red meat -31% -47% -5%* Quantity of fruit and vegetables consumed +7% +6%* +7% * not significant from a statistical point of view 78 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality The food consumption in the canteen showed a decisive increase in those foods that are more in line with the Mediterranean Diet and a significant decrease in those furthest from it. Therefore, both from the point of view of quantity and content, the variations observed are unquestionably significant. Moreover, after implementation, staff were asked to fill in a questionnaire assessing the experience and any effects it had. Amongst the main results from the 600 questionnaires that were handed back, more than 80% said they enjoyed the initiative, and 50% of the total sample were satisfied or very satisfied with the proposal. Sì.MEDITERRANEO [ Indicators ] and the BCFN Wellbeing Indicators of psycho-physical Index and behavioural wellbeing in the BCFN Wellbeing Index In fact, the pilot experience at Pedrignano, while confined to a part of the company’s staff and not all the People round the world who consume food relating to the Sì.Mediterraneo produced by Barilla, nonetheless revealed a significant link between nutritional project: information activities and the offer of food in line with it, on the one hand, and an individual’s consumption patterns, on the other. From this point of view, the indicators relating to food consumption during Indicators of the project can be considered approximation indicators of some of those current wellbeing contained in the part of the BCFN Index relating to psycho-physical and behavioural wellbeing. Indeed, various international scientific studies claim that 1. Healthy life expectancy. these latter indicators are influenced by eating habits more than by factors 2. Obese and overweight adult such as the tenor or style of life. population. The use of the Si. Mediterraneo project among other Barilla People, apart from those at Pedrignano, for a lengthier period, will make it possible Indicators of to investigate more thoroughly and check on the effects of interventions designed to foster the adoption of healthier eating habits, characterized wellbeing by concreteness, practicality and applicability. sustainability 1. Variation in mortality due to cardiovascular pathologies. 2. Variation in mortality due to tumours. For a table showing the correspondence between sustainability indicators and the BCFN Index please see: Appendix 2. 3. Variation in mortality due to diabetes. To find out more about the Index: www.barillacfn.com 79 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Know-How Everyone who is a member of the Barilla Barilla organisation is heavily involved in reaching food People safety objectives and elevated quality standards in every part of the production process or Objectives service offered. for 2014 Every day, 8,766 PEOPLE work for the Group (excluding Lieken company staff). If we Developing an integrated vision of the include Lieken, not falling within the remit of this Report, this number rises to 13,141 sustainability risks within the company PEOPLE. In 2011, at a group level, the number of People employed directly at production, processes (also by coordinating milling and distribution sites amounts to 6,423 PEOPLE. Those involved indirectly in various analyses of risks present in production number 710. In Italy, the sales force includes 209 STAFF and 16 AGENTS the company). who employ 309 SUB-AGENTS deployed across the country. Hostess and merchandising agencies employ 360 PEOPLE indirectly for us. Meanwhile, 1,050 PEOPLE work indirectly Updating the company’s Code of for the Group in Logistics. Ethics as part of an overall review Barilla owes its success to all these People, which is why it tries to offer them a Quality of company ethics, with particular working environment that respects everyone’s needs. attention to the involvement of internal and external stakeholders. * data updated on 31.12.2011 Implementing the operational Barilla People Employed Directly 2011 model, defining global processes and drafting a set of regulations for permanent TEMPORARY TOTAL* Barilla’s sustainable business, as part of the company’s organisational and AMERICA 24 46 95 31 242 0 0 0 438 regulatory structure. AUSTRALIA 0 5 3 0 0 0 0 0 8 AUSTRIA 0 4 4 0 0 0 0 0 8 Zero accident objective: Reducing by 50% days of absence due to accident; BELGIUM 0 1 1 7 0 0 0 0 9 Reducing the absolute number BRAZIL 1 1 4 6 0 0 0 0 12 of accidents by 40%; Monitoring CANADA 0 2 1 4 0 0 0 0 7 the safety indices of external firms CROATIA 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 that operate as part of the Barilla organisation. DENMARK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FRANCE 22 123 288 124 902 20 2 12 1,493 Realizing a programme to circulate GERMANY 1 45 64 17 184 5 0 18 334 the vision, principles and practices of Sustainability for all the People in the JAPAN 0 2 2 0 0 2 0 0 6 company, starting from the “critical GREECE 4 24 42 20 121 0 0 0 211 populations”. ITALY 111 494 936 133 2,701 29 18 72 4,494 MEXICO 1 4 33 0 189 0 0 22 249 Guaranteeing constant updating and development of Barilla’s own staff NORWAY 0 6 9 56 6 5 0 0 82 (e.g. professional refresher courses, HOLLAND 1 5 2 0 0 1 0 0 9 development of leadership and shared POLAND 1 7 7 29 0 0 0 0 44 culture). RUSSIA 8 16 47 45 338 0 0 25 479 Increasing People Care activities in the SLOVENIA 0 2 1 0 0 1 0 0 4 main European countries with at least SPAIN 0 4 3 0 0 1 0 0 8 one intervention or initiative in areas SWEDEN 2 25 82 25 379 7 0 2 522 relating to People’s Wellbeing in line with the Index proposed by the BCFN: SWITZERLAND 1 6 5 3 0 0 0 0 15 Lifestyle; Wealth and Environment; TURKEY 3 30 70 21 208 0 0 0 332 Social and Interpersonal Relations. HUNGARY 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 TOTAL 180 854 1,699 521 5,270 71 20 151 8,766 EXECUTIVES MANAGERS CLERKS SALESMEN WORKERS CLERKS SALESMEN WORKERS 80 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality 81 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Quality Production Project The project “QB – Producing Barilla Quality” was created to raise the awareness of People working in its plants and to revive the dialogue on themes linked to Quality. Starting from November 2010, for the whole of 2011, operators, shift foremen and the heads of 8 Italian plants sat down together to swap personal experiences and share reflections, suggestions, and proposals for improvement. We asked them what “Barilla Quality” means, discovering that the emotions that came to the surface were so profound that their voices cracked. We asked these People to reacquire their pride as creators and custodians of the quality of those products they themselves offer their families, inviting them to assume concrete commitments, little daily gestures of caring about their own role. The answer? A veritable tidal wave of enthusiasm and words that were bursting to be expressed. The operators’ words plastered the walls of the plants, coloured the canteens, filled postcards: care, respect, trust, passion, collaboration, humility, were the most common terms. The messages mushroomed along with smiling faces in photographs and film projected along the corridors, rapid occasions of memory and acknowledgement: I was there, I’m part of this. Keeping awareness and discussion alive. Because “We are the Quality”. Training [ SchoBarilla recognizes its knowledge as a larship ] founding value, and unceasingly supports Barilla’s penchant for training continuous training and development and education is further bolstered by the offering of its People. of scholarships and research The BARILLA LABORATORY FOR KNOWLEDGE & INNOVATION fellowships. In 2011, Barilla is the unit responsible for accompanying the company on its cultural evolution: and the fulcrum of this management of knowledge and skills vital for the life offered a scholarship for of the company, a space for trying out training procedures and tools that are a MASTER IN HUMAN constantly being updated, a hotbed of projects that range from research into DEVELOPMENT AND FOOD strategic innovation to a strengthening of the Group’s cultural identity, from the dissemination of a leadership style hinging on the company’s values, to nutrition SECURITY at the Faculty and transmission of the wealth of in-house knowledge. of Economics of the Roma Tre University plus a research In 2011 the Barilla Lab created a total of 559 training initiatives, reaching a population of over 5,200 PEOPLE with an overall impact of around fellowship for the year 53,500 training hours. To these figures on directly managed training, 2012-2013 on the theme: must be added those of the activities organized by other Units with the support of the Lab, for a grand total of over 830 SESSIONS, with attendance figures “Food and nutrition: sustainable of 8,800 and a total of 73,800 hours provided. agriculture, management and innovation models”. 82 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality Over 2,500 hours were dedicated to training on themes linked to sustainability, with particular attention to the sustainability model adopted by the company as well as the sustainability of the agricultural supply chain, and with the participation of over 1,300 People in both obligatory and voluntary training activities (80% and 20% respectively). learning and LAB 2011 development training activities participants hours Orientation and induction 103 1,704 15,939 Leadership development 27 354 6,579 Learning unit 321 2,804 22,166 Innovation accelerator 3 270 1,550 Language learning 105 105 6,215 Other 277 3,542 20,353 Total 836 8,779 73,802 TRAINING 2011 TOTAL EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES WITH TRAINING % America 438 168 38.4 France 1,459 984 67.4 Germany 311 137 44.1 Greece 211 165 78.2 Italy 4,375 3,078 70.4 Russia 454 36 7.9 Northern Europe ( Sweden and Norway ) 590 445 75.4 Turkey 332 219 66.0 Total 8,170 5,232 64.0 83 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Attracting New Barilla People: Recruitment and Employer Branding In 2011, with a view to integration and internationalisation there was a redesign and implementation of governance, processes and tools concerning the selection and recruitment of new People. An e-recruiting platform was designed and implemented worldwide while the Group’s Employer Branding strategy was defined, with the objective of positioning the company globally as a prospective employer. The basic principles are: [ Managing 1. Business and Human Capital strategy. 2. Conquest of the hearts and minds of People in tune with the values Talent ] and behaviour of hip Barilla leaders, creating a relationship with potential candidates that is both rational and emotional. 3. Cross-fertilization, i.e. the contamination of technical and relational skills The goal of the Talent and knowledge. Management Programme is 4. Inclusion of different cultures and experience. 5. Being Barilla ambassadors and providing an enjoyable experience for to build a future generation of candidates throughout the selection process. leaders who personify Barilla’s 6. The identification of People able to anticipate future trends while staying true to our identity and values. values and vision of the future. 7. Bringing our “Know-How” to life, by organizing tours of our plants for the In 2011 1,311 PEOPLE new graduates or letting them enjoy the experience of cooking together attended around the world. at the Academia. 8. The change in approach in recruiting, i.e. the passage from the concept of “finding a job” to the concept of “undertaking a journey”. +46% international requests for work with respect to 2010. RESULTS 60% of the candidates encountered during the events to promote the Group were presented to line managers. 50% of these were offered a contract. 84 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality There were 50 Employer Branding initiatives in 2011 at 20 different universities around the world. We met with more than 1,500 STUDENTS from over 20 NATIONS in different contexts, which means that Barilla’s world reached over 30,000 new young professionals. The same year, the international network expanded, by forming a partnership with CEMS (a strategic alliance of 26 business schools and multinational companies in 4 continents), AIESEC (a global network of young people with over 64,000 members in 110 nations, at more than 2,100 universities), ESCP (international business school with campuses in five of Europe’s major cities, 1,200 graduates). International events were organised both in Italy and abroad (CEMS International Career Fair Budapest; MIT European Career Fair; London Business School Career Day; Absolventenkongress Cologne; GISMA MBA Career Fair Berlin; ECSP Europe Career Day; University of Gastronomic Science International Career Day; Welcome to International Students at the Polytechnic of Milan; International Day at Bocconi University; University of Bologna). We also scheduled and organised seminars, visits to the company and plants, and various professional family workshops: Marketing; Supply Chain; IT (Polytechnic of Milan; ASP Polytechnic; Technical University of Munich; Publitalia; DomusAcademy & Polidesign). 2011 Barilla Plants Visits PLANTS VISITS PEOPLE Ames 11 224 Ascoli 4 800 Avon 6 120 Bolu 17 174 Caserta 3 950 Castiglione 20 738 Celle 19 263 Cremona 7 198 Foggia 2 850 Grand Pré 5 30 Malterie 21 180 Melfi 15 631 Novara 7 103 Pedrignano 99 3,056 Philipstad 15 130 Rubbiano 5 262 San Luis Potosì 8 218 Saint-Vulbas 4 342 Talmont 4 545 Thebes 3 80 Valenciennes 1 15 TOTAL 276 9,909 85 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet 86 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality People Care In 2011 Barilla’s People Care structure was redesigned to include initiatives for employees in line with the level of wellbeing identified in the BCFN Index: Lifestyle; Wealth and Environment; Social and Interpersonal Relations. In the same year we finished an assessment of the initiatives and good practices in People Care around Europe Good Practices in Different European Countries FRANCE ITALY GERMANY SWEDEN GREECE Senior Agreement Family Day Family Consultant Dry Cleaning Scholarships Service for children Training Basic Family Education Health Gym and Sport of deserving (Intercultura, Dry Cleaning employees kindergarden, Special allowance scholarship, Giocampus) Pension Plan for extraordinary occasions Sì.Mediterraneo Sports incentives Project Parental Pay Special allowance Philanthropy for extraordinary Health check-ups occasions Health campaign Teleworking Barilla Essere Barilla scolarships and Summer jobs for School EXcellence employees’ children Newspaper Allowance Music Headphones CRAL for workers Apartments 10 days for new father 4,350 2,824 People covered by an additional People covered by an additional Health Insurance Policy. Pension Plan. Performance Management The system to manage individual performance has been extended to 100% of the managerial population. The overall annual business goals are translated in turn by the top management into individual objectives. Based on meetings with each associate, managers swap ideas on objectives, leadership skills, and competencies and formulate personalized development plans. The Top Management too is subject to this assessment. Managers’ performance is also assessed in relation to sustainability goals. For further information about Sì.Mediterraneo Project see previous pages and BCFN Index at Appendix 2. 87 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Internal Communication In 2011, the digital version of BARILLAWORLD – the weekly global company magazine, published in Italian and English – was joined by a paper version. Translated into 6 languages and published three times a year, it is destined for People from the plants in Italy and abroad. In both versions, by featuring articles on strategy and products, events and initiatives, BarillaWorld sets itself the objective of stimulating the culture of enterprise and innovation. The year 2011 saw the first edition of the event, ESSERE BARILLA a biennial recognition which will involve Italian colleagues and, starting from 2013, also foreign ones to reward our current and former People’s sense of belonging. Moreover, throughout the past year, a delegation of Barilla People left to VISIT GHANA to experience first-hand the projects sponsored by our company and carried out by a small American NGO. Again during the same year two promotion and internal communication campaigns were carried out – both onand off-line, in Italy and abroad – for two projects: BARILLA COMMUNITY PLATFORM, an in-house virtual tool created to improve People’s work and guarantee efficiency and speed for certain processes, and SÌ.MEDITERRANEO, a path of internal education to promote healthy sustainable eating (pages 78 and 79). Diversity For some years now, the Barilla Group has been acquiring a multinational feel, reflecting in its value identity the heterogeneity of the cultures of the countries where it is present. In 2011 the number of “expatriate” managers increased by 6.6% compared to 2010 to develop a more international culture. In 2011 ongoing innovative contracts, part-time and teleworking, amounted to 4.4% in Italy. While in America there were 2 part-time and 3 flexitime workers. Teleworking is used to allow the disabled to participate actively in the work. Women in a managerial position account for 31.5% of all managers. While women in an executive position account for 18.8% out of the total number of executives. Subdivision of Staff by Role and Type executives MANAGERS CLERKS salesMEN WORKERS TOTAL f 2010 2011 18.8% 19.45% 31.5% 37.6% 40.5% 47.3% 28.3% 13.2% 23.4% 17.4% 28.1% 27% m 2010 2011 80.55% 81.2% 62.4% 68.5% 52.7% 59.5% 86.8% 71.7% 82.6% 76.6% 73% 71.9% 2011 180 854 1,770 541 5,421 8,766 88 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality 89 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Safety at Work In 2011 there were 177 accidents, -34% with respect to 2008. The days of absence due to accidents significantly decreased, with the Severity Index at 0.63%, down by -36% compared with 2008. In 2011, the Frequency Index, calculated on the number of accidents in relation to the number of hours worked by employees, came to approximately 17 (-31% vs. 2008). TRAINING In 2011, on average, each employee received around 6 HOURS training on health and safety. Themes dealt with included: handling emergencies, fire prevention, first aid, the contents of Barilla’s Integrated Safety and Environment System Manual, the manual handling of loads, principles of ergonomics, safe use of fork-lift trucks, noise risk, electrical risk, dust risk, handling lifting apparatus, individual protective devices, training of supervisors, safety at work for external companies. SAFETY AUDITS AND FIRE PREVENTION In 2011 105 AUDITS were carried out to check on the work environment, health and safety, 86 of which specifically concerned Safety and Fire Prevention Accident Frequency Index number of accidents ÷ hours worked by employees x 1,000 Since 2008 Since 2010 28 29 -31% 24 23 -30% 25 17 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Accident Severity Index days of absence due to accidents ÷ hours worked by employees x 1,000 0.87 0.97 0.97 0.56 0.62 0.63 1.0 Since 2008 Since 2010 0.8 0.6 -36% +2% 0.4 0.2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 90 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality OHSAS 18001 [ Zero In 2011 Barilla’s Health and Safety Management System, was extended to comply with the British Standard Occupational Health and Safety Management System 18001, including the plants at NOVARA, FILIPSTAD, TALMONT Accidents ] and LA MALTERIE. Today, 81% of total production takes place at certified plants and the Integrated Last year, the plants at Safety and Environment System Plant Manual is available in 9 languages. ASCOLI (ITALY), AMES BARILLA HSE GUIDELINES (USA), SOLNE and UFA Guidelines are now available on the Machine Directive, the managing of ATEX (RUSSIA), GAUCHY risk, assessing Chemical/Dust Risk and the manual handling of loads, the (FRANCE) like a good management of external companies, and the Fire Safety Manual. Moreover, in 2011, work began to introduce a web system to manage better a part of the deal of the MILLS reached performance of external companies. the cherished goal of “Zero Accidents”. Extension of OHSAS 18001 to Plants SOLNE UFA GAUCHY AMES ASCOLI OHSAS 18001 certified in 2011 81% of total production carried out in certified plants (in 2011 Novara, Philipstad, Talmont, Malterie were added). Detail of Severity and Frequency Indexes Subdivided by Geographical Area 2011 pasta and sauces Bakery products 20.5 5.6 13.4 10.9 35.9 Frequency Index 0.52 0.18 0.34 0.06 2.02 Severity Index EUROPE AMERICA Southern Northern Central Europe Europe Europe 91 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet 92 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3: BUILDING LOCAL RELATIONS Listening to People Barilla guarantees People the right to be listened to and kept informed clearly and transparently. The evolution of the concept of quality is [ Contacts reflected in a change in the relationship between the company and People, based with on a growing request for information and transparency on the part of the People. People ] This process has seen remarkable acceleration, above all following the spread of digital social communities. For this reason, today it is vital that companies offer In 2011, Barilla’s Consumer communication channels that are immediate and accessible so that People can Service units had contact with receive timely replies on any aspect of the intrinsic characteristics of the offer: People for various reasons: raw and packaging materials, production processes and finished products including any pathologies linked to the use of foodstuffs. 30.3% information on Listening to People is an important OPPORTUNITY for Barilla: indeed the comments received are circulated round the company and promotional initiatives. used to improve products and services in order to satisfy customer and staff’s 23.1% product information. expectations more and more. 22.3% general inquiries The percentage of reasons for dissatisfaction about the company. out of the total number of comments has 19.6% expressions of fallen notably since 2010 (from 25% to 19.6%) dissatisfaction. and also compared to 2009. There has been steady increase in general interest about 4.7% inquiries about nutrition the company compared to last year (22.3%). or food safety. Moreover, People are increasingly interested in the launch of new products, on their availability on the shelf, novelties on new platforms, and new technologies. Reasons for Dissatisfaction 29% 25% 19.6% 30 20 10 0 2009 2010 2011 Listening to People on the Web By means of the Web, Barilla is trying to create interactive spaces where People can express themselves, ask questions, highlight critical points or make suggestions. The NEL MULINO CHE VORREI project, created in 2009, is now not just a laboratory of ideas, with over 10,000 SUGGESTIONS sent, but also a tool for listening and learning. Its natural evolution was the first “brand loyalty programme” based on participation designed to provide answers to questions about the brand, plus games that make it possible to identify and collaborate with the brand ambassadors. Lastly, the needs of internationalisation and communication on foreign markets have led to the definition of a system of digital communication designed to maintain coherence and consistency in the information provided. The Barilla and Mulino Bianco sites are just the first examples which, over time, will be extended to all the countries where the company is present. 93 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet The Main Questions People ask Barilla The “Quality Questions” are various and articulated: following the main questions asked to Barilla by People and the relative answers. Can I put good food on my table every day for an accessible price? Barilla guarantees good safe products at an accessible price. However, this price must be equally sustainable for everyone involved in the production supply chain: from supply of the raw materials, to the processing, packaging, distribution and sale. Barilla is a market leader in pasta in Italy and other countries where the Barilla brand is present, the quintessential symbol of Italian gastronomy, and with three leading brands at a local level (Misko in Greece, Filiz in Turkey and Yemina in Mexico). The company also offers ready sauces featuring over 40 different recipes to satisfy People’s tastes around the world. The bakery products cover different consumption moments from breakfast to snacks. This is a range that includes almost 180 products, the fruit of 35 different production technologies and in every price bracket. Can I be sure that the products I eat every day are safe for me and my family? Barilla carries out strict checks on its producTS. Quality control is applied in the Group’s 41 production centres that manufacture 900 products. In 2011, around 120,000 lots of finished product underwent organoleptic, microbiological and chemical-physical controls with a conformity of 95.5%. The whole Group is now subject to thorough control of quality and safety characteristics of all the raw materials used. In 2011, 55,000 lots of raw material were analysed with a Compliance Index of 96.4%. All cases of non-conformity with Barilla’s requirements resulted in the products not being used. Can I have new products, created and realized in an innovative way starting from raw materials other than wheat? Since 1975, with the creation of Mulino Bianco, Barilla has invested in activities not linked solely to wheat. This has not only allowed us to differentiate production and the consequent access to new market areas, but has brought good quality new products to the table to enrich the daily diet. As well as Mulino Bianco bakery products, there are also the products by Wasa and Harrys, which now represent an important part of Barilla’s production round the world. 94 4. Total Quality is Sustainable Quality Is this food produced with respect for human rights? Barilla has always respected Human Rights. Since 15 December 2011 Barilla has taken part in the initiative to promote the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. These principles cover: the Environment, Human Rights, Labour, and Anti-Corruption. From 2012 Barilla is asking new suppliers and co-packers present in areas deemed risky from a point of view of social and environmental rights, to join the Global Compact initiative before beginning to work with them. Will what I am eating make me stay well and preserve my health over time? Barilla pays a great deal of attention to the nutritional aspects of its products, as well as the organoleptic qualities, and occupies itself with informing People on the correct use of the foods it offers. This is because Barilla wishes to bring wellbeing into People’s lives and guarantee their good health over time. For the same reason the Nutrition Advisory Board was set up, an authoritative group of experts that steer the company’s decisions on nutrition. As for its products, Barilla is constantly reformulating them, in particular lowering the salt and fat content and avoiding the use of artificial colourings, preservatives and GMOs. Moreover it is committed to launching new products with a higher content of cereals, fibre, fruit and vegetables. In addition, Barilla tries to maintain a high profile in education and the provision of information, both by informing the general public via the product packs, and by way of various initiatives, promoting a healthy varied diet and correct physical activity. Are my dietary choices damaging to the Planet? Barilla pays a great deal of attention to the environmental aspects of its products. Beside the Food Pyramid of the Mediterranean Diet, the BCFN has constructed an Environmental Pyramid, reclassifying the same foods as regards their impact on the environment. The assessment of the environmental impact associated with each single foodstuff was calculated from public information and data processed using the method known as the Product Life Cycle Analysis. A method that calculates the water impact, emission of carbon dioxide and the area of the Planet necessary to regenerate the resources consumed to produce a single product and dispose of the relevant waste. Thanks to this Double Pyramid, Barilla has reformulated many existing products and launched many new products. In addition, Barilla is putting into place a Sustainability Management System to measure and improve the environmental and social impact of its business. In addition, Barilla tries to maintain a high profile in education and the provision of information, both by informing the general public via the product packs, and by way of various initiatives, promoting a healthy varied diet and correct physical activity. 95 5. IN THIS CHAPTER YOU WILL DISCOVER BARILLA’S MAIN ACTIVITIES TO PROVIDE MORE CORRECT INFORMATION ON, AND EDUCATION, IN EATING AND MOTOR ACTIVITY. CHOICE AND MORE KNOWLEDGE FOR GOOD NUTRITION [ Nutrition ] We have brought the Mediterranean Diet Model up to date, making it more suitable for a modern lifestyle. Gabriele Riccardi Professor of Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases at the University of Naples, and Member of the BCFN Advisory Board BARILLA STORIES 1. 5. TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE AND BARILLA AND ITS INTEGRATED SUPPLY WAY OF DOING CHAIN. FROM FIELD BUSINESS TO FORK More choice 3. 4. and more 2. TOTAL QUALITY knowledge COMPANY IS SUSTAINABLE for good MANAGEMENT QUALITY Nutrition [ The Double Pyramid ] The relationship between People’s diet, lifestyle and health is now scientifically proven and shared globally. In light of this, the food industry has a primary role in providing effective responses to People’s different lifestyles with products that suit demand and are appropriately supported by consistent and responsible communication campaigns. barilla good for you sustainable for the planet MORE CHOICE, MORE KNOWLEDGE For Barilla, the primary task of a large company that operates in the food and nutrition sector is to supply products that are healthy and designed to contribute to People’s wellbeing. Barilla is also committed to inform those who choose its products [ Mediterraon correct consumption and lifestyle, from childhood onwards. Every day, Barilla manufactures and markets products that People put on their nean Diet ] table and that are designed to meet the needs of those who consume them. The Company has chosen to follow the Mediterranean Diet model, but it also proposes a LIFESTYLE which skilfully combines TASTE AND WELLBEING, A healthy balanced diet conconsistent with specific research promoted by the Group and organised into various educational projects. Barilla is aware of the food paradox “obesity tributes to our daily wellbeing. and malnutrition” in the countries where it operates, and has long undertaken A varied diet combined with continuous information and educational activities, specifically structured regular physical activity and according to the addressees, either children from 3 years of age up, or adults. convivial meals are the basis EDUCATIONAL activities for children and teenagers are based on projects of the MEDITERRANEAN differentiated by age, and developed with the cooperation of nutritionists, sports DIET PYRAMID, UNESCO doctors, developmental psychologists, educators, paediatricians and auxologists. Intangible Cultural Heritage of INFORMATION AND TRAINING activities for adults are performed through Humanity 2010. the provision of information and suggestions on packs, initiatives to promote healthy eating models, supported by nutritional reformulation of products. Physical activity and convivial meals are the basis of the Mediterranean lifestyle. Please see chapter 1 “Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business”. Please see Research Activities in this chapter. 98 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition 46 new products Barilla 2011 Nutrition launched in 2011 for specific and Education Figures nutritional needs 111 products reformulated 468 products since 2008 with nutritional claims on packaging Nutrition and Education Objectives up 88% of packs to 2014 have a detailed nutrition facts table Ensuring autonomy and sustainability over time 34% to the activities of the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition, BCFN. Enhancing Barilla’s sustainability principles in the communication of the brands in its portfolio. Implementing continuous improvement plans to increasingly align current and future of packs supply with Barilla nutritional guidelines, provide recommended consumption taking into account the results of the Double amounts for a healthy lifestyle Pyramid studies. 67% Facilitating aware choices by People, by providing the following information on the pack labels and/or websites of brands: • detailed nutrition tables; • suggestions for a healthy lifestyle; • suggestions for use; • waste disposal methods and other relevant environmental aspects. of packs provide suggestions for a balanced diet Developing Barilla’s corporate cause “Balanceat” at both Group and brands levels, through education and training on overeating and support in access to food, also by 7,500 enhancing the experience gained through the Giocampus project. Developing education programmes on correct eating habits and lifestyles for all Barilla employees in the main countries where the Group operates. children involved in Giocampus School in 2010/2011 99 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet [ focus ] Eating Habits and Excess Food Unhealthy lifestyles and food supplies are driving eating habits increasingly away from the Mediterranean Model, even in the countries where it originated. This is due to social changes that have led to the emergence of bad eating habits. A. MAJOR SOCIAL CHANGES: • Increased sedentary lifestyle. • Destructuring of meal preparation: little time to cook, low consumption of fresh foods and fewer cooking skills. • Destructuring of time devoted to eating: fast and immoderate consumption of food. • Increased frequency of meals outside the home: less choice and more passivity of People with regard to correct food choices. B. MAIN BAD HABITS: • Reduced consumption of fruit, vegetables, pulses and whole grain products. • Taking meals alone or with the TV on. • No regular breakfast. • Reduced physical activity. All this has led to a dramatic increase in obesity. Particularly alarming are the data concerning children. According to the International Obesity Task Force, in the world school children who are obese or overweight are 155 MILLION, i.e., 1 OUT OF 10. In the European Union Member States every year there are approximately 400 THOUSAND MORE OVERWEIGHT CHILDREN and over 85 THOUSAND OBESE ones (2007 European Commission White Paper). Moreover, Italy ranks third in the world list for the highest number of obese children. For further information, please visit www.barillacfn.com 100 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition [ Food for [ Food for Health ] Culture ] BCFN reference area BCFN reference area According to the European Commission, cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in the European Union and the origin of approximately 40% of deaths, amounting to 2 MILLION A YEAR. The main causes of these diseases are tobacco and alcohol consumption, diet, physical activity and psychosocial stress. Both the problems associated with obesity and those associated with heart diseases represent a significant cost for the community. For cardiovascular disease alone, in 2006 the European Commission estimated a “OBESITY AND MALNUTRI“THE EXCELLENCE OF THE financial burden for the EU health services TION: THE PARADOX of MEDITERRANEAN WAY” of 110 BILLION Euro. This amounted to a per capita cost of 223 FOOD FOR OUR CHILDREN” EUROS per year, approximately 10% of the EU’s total health expenditure. 101 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 1: BUILDING KNOWLEDGE Double Pyramid The Barilla Group’s commitment to research. In terms of research activities, in 2011 the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition [ Food for focussed on the study of the Double Food-Environmental Pyramid (“Double Pyramid” paper, June 2010). Starting from the Mediterranean Diet food pyramid, an environmental pyramid was constructed on which foods were ranked according Sustainable to their impact on our Planet. It was thus demonstrated that the foods at the base of the Mediterranean Diet are also those with the lowest Growth ] environmental impact. The environmental impact associated with each individual food was assessed based on public data and information calculated using the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method, in terms of Carbon Footprint (generation of green-house gases), Water Footprint (consumption of water resources) and Ecological Footprint (land use). See chapter 3 “Towards a Sustainable and Integrated Supply Chain. From Field to Fork”. BCFN reference area This combination showed that foods have specular inverted placing in the two pyramids: those at the base of the Food Pyramid are those at the top of the environmental one. People’s health and environmental protection can be pursued with the same means. In 2011, the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition updated the Environmental Pyramid with new calculations made over the year. “2011 DOUBLE PYRAMID: HEALTHY FOOD FOR PEOPLE, SUSTAINABLE FOR THE PLANET” [ The Model ] The eating pattern traditionally adopted in the Mediterranean area is one of the most balanced in terms of nutritional profile and it is recognised as one of the top food models in terms of physical well-being and prevention of chronic cardiovascular diseases. 102 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition By combining the two pyramids, therefore, the Food and Environmental Double Pyramid was obtained, which shows that the foods which it is generally recommended to consume more of are also those that cause the lowest environmental impact. The Double Pyramid “for Those Who Are Growing” The Double Pyramid “FOR THOSE WHO ARE GROWING UP” follows Summary of Macrothe same approach as the “adult” version, combining the food pyramid with the environmental one, but is constructed based on the nutritional requirements of Guidelines for Healthy CHILDREN and TEENAGERS. Growth Adopting a healthy balanced diet that daily When considering children, or in general alternates all the main foods, will provide all the nutrients and micro-nutrients (calcium, People who are still growing (up to 20 iron, vitamins, etc.) which children and adoleyears of age), certain foods have scents require. a different importance. Avoiding excessive intake of calories due to consumption of high-calorie foods or with The guidelines issued by the USDA – United States Department of Agriculture high concentrations of fat. (one of the references considered), recommend a distribution of protein sources – in particular meat sources – that is different from that of adults. Correctly distributing nutrients throughout This recommendation does not affect the validity of the Double Pyramid: foods the day, ensuring a balance between with low environmental impact are still the ones which it is is recommended to intake of animal and vegetable proteins, consume more of. of simple and complex sugars (by eating fewer sweets, more bread, potatoes, pasta or rice), of animal and vegetable animal fats (using less lard and butter and more olive oil). Minimizing additional salt intake, in order to reduce hypertension risk factors, especially in adults. Splitting food intake into five meals a day: breakfast, morning snack, lunch, afternoon snack, and dinner. Avoiding food consumption other than the above five meals. Doing at least one hour of physical activity a day, including both sport and leisure activities. Reducing sedentary life as much as possible, in particular time spent in front of a screen (television and computers). For further information, please visit www.barillacfn.com. 103 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet INHES Project INHES is a research project sponsored by Barilla and aimed at identifying Italians’ eating patterns. OBJECTIVES: [ INHES ] • Identifying eating patterns, obtaining a complete picture of how Italians spontaneously combine food and drink. • Studying the effects that eating habits have on People’s quality of life. • Examining the differences between the various areas of the Country, ITALIAN NUTRITION between different age groups, social classes and between men and women. AND HEALTH SURVEY • Identifying the level of compliance with the Mediterranean Diet Model. • Identifying the elements or factors of people’s life influencing his/her This Project was created to eating choices. study changes in the eating habits of Italians using a METHODS: SAMPLE SELECTION: a population-representative sample of 10,000 ITALIANS scientific approach. The INHES was invited to participate in this study, which was subdivided into different age Observatory was set up by the groups. Selection was made randomly. Participants were contacted both by letter Research Laboratories of the and by phone and were provided with a “Food Portion Atlas” allowing them to easily identify the amounts of each food consumed. CATTOLICA UNIVERSITY of CAMPOBASSO and is a INTERVIEW: 30 MINUTES, by phone, by appointment. From breakfast to dinner, this project gave a “photograph” of Italians’ daily eating patterns. However, the scientific structure engaged INHES OBSERVATORY does not focus only on food, but on the study of lifestyle in the field of prevention and as a whole. This is the reason why participants were asked not only what and when, in the study of relationships but also “how” they eat, in order to acquire data that are seemingly trivial, but have been proven significant by recent scientific studies on the food-health relationship. between lifestyles and health. It consists of doctors, PROJECT DEVELOPMENT: epidemiologists, nutritionists, The project activities started in November 2010, and by January 2012, 14,500 letters had been sent inviting participation in the study and 4,878 telephone calls had biologists, experts in scientific been made. communication and IT. INHES was carried out thanks to BARILLA’s sponsorship. 14,500 4,878 10,000 LETTERS SENT WITHIN ITALY PHONE CALLS PARTICIPANTS 104 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition 105 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet 106 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 2: BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE COMPANY Barilla Products Reformulation of Existing Products and Launch of New Products A large part of the products in the Barilla Group’s portfolio rank at the base of the Food Pyramid and daily consumption of these foods is appropriate for a balanced diet. The Company is committed to continuous improvement of existing products and the launch of new ones that are consistent with the nutritional models that we promote. Barilla is aware of the importance of a healthy diet and in the last few years has promoted the values of Wellbeing, namely, healthy eating and an active lifestyle, first and foremost through its products. 0 products 103 products improved in 57 products with salt content containing GMOs the last 3 years reduction in 2011 15 reformulated products with 46 new products designed 70 new products the removal of additives in 2011 to meet nutritional needs reformulated in 2011 Over the last three years, 103 PRODUCTS have been improved, of which 141,000 tons were sold in 2011, accounting for 8.5% of total world sales. NO Barilla PRODUCT contains GMOs, hydrogenated fats or oils, or artificial colourings, and strict criteria are applied in selecting ingredients to ensure quality and safety. In 2011, 15 products benefited from the ELIMINATION OF ADDITIVES. (Harrys Soft Bread: Extra Moelleux Brioché; AMS Brioché; Pain de mie nature canapé; Toast foie gras; Toast au saumon; Toast noix; Toast aux figues; Toast spécial huitre; Mini canapé LC; Mini tout ronds nature; Mini tout ronds brioché; Pavé fois gras Moorning good Harrys; Brioche Tranchée Nature; Brioche Tranchée Light; Brioche Tranchée Trendissime). Since 2009, 98 NEW PRODUCTS have been launched designed to meet specific nutritional needs, with sales in 2011 exceeding 30,000 tons, accounting for approximately 1.8% of total world volumes (these amounts also include the new whole grain products). In 2011, 46 NEW PRODUCTS were launched, designed to meet specific nutritional needs. Among these, the Mulino Bianco products: the cups of the “Storie di Frutta” range, 2 new “Storie di Frutta” smoothies and 3 types of “Liberi per Natura” steam-cooked biscuits, the Grancereale brand cups, 3 Wasa brand new products and 6 new Wasa Breads. All the new products have been designed to offer specific nutritional intake without affecting their taste and the pleasure of good food on all occasions. 107 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet New Products Designed to Meet Specific Nutritional Needs 7 0 1 0 24 0 7 4 2008 Total for the year 8 2009 Total for the year 35 Products based on whole grains Products based on vegetables 10 3 3 1 17 11 3 15 Products based on fruit 2010 Total for the year 17 2011 Total for the year 46 Functional products Gaining Health Project [ Nutrition For Barilla, improving the nutritional profiles of its products is not only a business Advisory commitment: it is also a contribution to the initiative promoted by the ITALIAN MINISTRY OF HEALTH, “Gaining Health”, which involves many factors related to people’s health, including the improvement of food products with a focus on Board ] salt content. Barilla has followed up its participation by significantly reducing the SALT CONTENT of numerous products. After the success in 2010 of the reformulation of the first products (Tascotto e Applying the research results to Pan Bauletto Bianco con Fibra), in 2011, the Group has put other reformulated product design or reformulation products on stores’ shelves, which qualified to have the Gaining Health is not easy. To tackle the task, Project logo on their pack. These are 20 NEW PRODUCTS: Pan Carrè; Piadelle Classiche; Piadelle Sfogliate; Pan Bauletto Bianco; Cuor di Pane; Pan Barilla has set up a Board of Bauletto 5 Cereali e Soia; Pan Bauletto al Grano Duro; Sfilatini a Grano Tenero; expert nutritionists who have Tartarughe al Grano Duro; Pagnotta al Grano Duro; Pagnotta Rustica; Filone Rustico; Filone al Grano Tenero; Pagnottelle Classiche; Pagnottelle Hot Dog; helped to convey knowledge to Spaccatine Integrali; Grissini Torinesi; Grissini Friabili; Sgranocchi; Raggianti. researchers and professionals Not only is this initiative in line with the Group’s objectives for continuous of the company. improvement from a nutritional standpoint, but also represents an important cooperation between a public institution and private businesses. This knowledge has been translated into nutritional guidelines for the design of Investments in Research NEW PRODUCTS and to steer the improvement of on Nutrition existing ones. In line with the Taking into account research activities and participation in national and international conferences (10 in 2011) and making full use of the analyses Double Pyramid, the priorities carried out by the Nutrition Advisory Board and product reformulation, for the expansion of the product range include the following: products based on Barilla invested 4.8 million Euro in cereals, fruit, vegetables and research on nutrition in the last three pulses. The products are also years. formulated to limit intake of certain nutrients that are often consumed in excess, such as sodium from salt, total fats and saturated fats in particular. 108 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition Products that Were Reformulated to Improve Their Nutritional Profile 0 0 0 0 3 1 3 0 0 0 Products based on whole grains 2008 Total for the year 3 2009 Total for the year 4 Reduction in sugars Reduction in salt 1 0 25 0 3 0 0 57 3 10 Vitamin products 2010 Total for the year 29 2011 Total for the year 70 Reduction in fat and saturated fat content We believe that a fundamental role in [ Informing food education is played by the immediate People ] family: this is why our TV commercials have a daily life setting, and where possible In addition to nutritional and environmental information on outdoors. its products, Barilla provides information on its product Plasmon Misleading portfolio through the traditional mass media: television, radio and Defamatory Comparative and press. Advertising The advertising style tries to Between late November and early December, Plasmon began a sensational comparative advertising campaign against Barilla providing misleading data, also in convey messages that go the way they were published, making it appear that some Barilla products, and in beyond simple product particular those of the Piccolini line, were suitable only for adults, and not for children in general. Barilla filed an urgent petition with the Law Court of Milan against this promotion, but also spread violent and unjustified attack, requesting its termination. The Court, with an immediate an active lifestyle and the decision which was later upheld in two further instances of proceedings, banned principles of a balanced diet. this advertisement, deeming it misleading and defamatory. Barilla also applied to the Advertising Self-Regulation Jury, requesting, also in this case, the termination The creative and emotional of the comparative advertising campaign. Also the Self-regulation Body prohibited the continuation of the comparative campaign, again because of its misleading and style calls People – especially defamatory nature. children – to consume proIn the two proceedings, Plasmon maintained that the “Piccolini” trademark and the “A Mangiare Bene Si Comincia da Piccolini” slogan were deceptive, but both the Court ducts in moderation, with an and the Advertising Self-regulation Jury rejected its petition for an injunction prohibiting always active lifestyle. their use. However, the Jury did prohibit the slogan from being used in a context leading to the belief that Piccolini meant infants under three years. Also subsequent to this, In early 2012, and for the Barilla has accelerated the process to have all packs of the “Piccolini” line bear a clear first time, Barilla associated statement of the product’s intended use “for adults and children over three years”, as already planned since February 2011 and implemented starting from this date. messages on their way of doing sustainable business Both the Law Court, before which the proceeding is continuing for damage with a communication in the compensation, and the Advertising Selftraditional media, such as the regulation Jury considered comparative new Mulino Bianco advertising advertising admissible in itself, but illegal in this case since it was performed in such a campaign. way that made it seriously misleading and defamatory. 109 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Communicating Through Packs Packs are one of the means by which the Company communicates its commitment to the People who buy its products. On product packs, for example, in addition to the complete list of ingredients and the potential presence of allergens, there are suggestions for a healthy lifestyle. There is also information on the ideal consumption amounts and suggestions for a tasty and healthy preparation of the product. OVER 468 PRODUCTS, EQUAL TO 34% OF TOTAL PRODUCTS, HAVE HEALTH OR NUTRITION INFORMATION ON THE PACK. Products with Suggestions for a Healthy Lifestyle [ Communication ] 25% 22% 31% 34% Barilla uses different channels 2008 2009 2010 2011 to communicate with the People who buy its products: packs, websites, social Products with Nutrition Facts Tables networks. However, all messages on all channels, must comply with THREE SIMPLE RULES, which are essential principles: 85% 87% 87% 88% 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Providing information that is more comprehensive than those provided for by Products with Suggestions for Use labelling regulations. • Backing up product quality with rigorous 41% 57% 66% 67% scientific data. 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Including, especially in communications on Commitment to the Environment products for children, For Barilla, the information given on its packs must not only concern food and information about healthy nutrition, but also the environmental quality of Barilla products and how everyone lifestyles. can contribute, through their behaviour, to environmental protection. For example, People are provided with indications on the correct container to dispose of the product pack complying with differentiated waste collection. These indications use encoded symbols. The objective is to transform waste into a resource. Many products have been assessed using the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) method and their rating is available on the website www.environdec.com. For more opportunities for further study, visit www.mulinobianco.it 110 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition Nutritional and Environmental [ Scientific Information on the Web PublicaThe Web represents an excellent opportunity to involve People and convey messages that otherwise would not find space on packs or would require far tions ] more time and detail than traditional media can allow. For this Barilla has a three-year strategic plan, aimed at defining the directions and guidelines for positioning in the digital world. Websites are not the only place for brand communication. The importance of social networks is increasing, in order to both In 2011, Barilla’s applied constantly convey novelties and to engage People in real experiences, right up research experience was to the product testing. Mulino Bianco, Barilla and Pan di Stelle have their own Facebook profile, while other platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, Flickr and reported in several scientific Youtube have been used to develop promotions and product launches. Barilla publications, including: has increased its presence on mobile digital media devices, such as tablets and smartphones, with Mulino Bianco games apps for teenagers, and, above all, through the iPasta publishing platform, which, with over 700,000 downloads, is • Poster “6th Probiotics, today the most downloaded Apple app of an Italian brand in the world. Prebiotics and New Foods” Rome Sept 11 – 13 2011, “In Vitro Effect • 64% of the websites presenting Barilla of Four Natural Flours. Fermentation on Gut products contain nutrition facts tables. Microbiota Parameters”. R. Chitarrani, P. Carnevali, • 71% of the websites presenting Barilla S. Maccaferri, P. Brigidi, products provides detailed suggestions A. Klinder, G.R. Gibson, A. Costabile. for better use of the products. • Poster WORLD IMMUNE • 43% of the websites presenting Barilla REGULATION MEETING products provides suggestions for – Davos 24-27 March a healthy lifestyle. 2011, “Immunological Changes in Elderly Subjects after Probiotic Supplementation”. A. Finamore, M. Rosselli, E. Brasili, P. Carnevali, E. Mengheri. I-Pasta: 700,000 downloads worldwide. The most downloaded App of any Italian brand. 111 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Many Barilla brand websites suggest a virtuous connection between lifestyle, eating habits and environment. One example is the Mulino Bianco website, a virtual place where People can not only discover all the novelties from the “Mulino”, but also have the opportunity to learn about the analysis of Barilla products’ life-cycles, energy resources used, utilisation of waste and how to improve their consumption habits and lifestyle. Moreover, in 2011, GRANCEREALE created a FACEBOOK PAGE, where, in addition to promoting the product, good habits which are more respectful of the Planet are circulated. 112 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition SEE STRATEGIC DIRECTION 3: BUILDING LOCAL RELATIONS Education and Information for Families and the Community Training and Information for Families Also in 2011, Barilla provided a number of training and information activities on healthy food and lifestyle in the main cities around Italy and abroad: • CASA BARILLA: an initiative to spread Barilla’s culture of eating well and conviviality values: the pleasures of Italian cooking through seminars, hands-on classes with chefs, and game playing, related to cooking contests, as well as tastings of various recipes. The Casa Barilla Project has been implemented in several European Countries (Italy, France, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland) directly involving over 200,000 PEOPLE IN 19 CITIES. • CUCINA INTEGRALE TOUR: a project aimed at spreading suggestions for natural, tasty, as well as nutritionally balanced, dishes. • PICCOLINI GRANDI CHEF TOUR: held in the main Italian shopping centres, and dedicated to healthy, correct nutrition for children. • IN 2011 THE DOUBLE PYRAMID IN THE MAIN CITIES: “Good for you, sustainable for the Planet” was presented at the “Casa Barilla” tour stops. An important information initiative held to spread the research wealth developed by the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition; specifically the results showing that a Mediterranean lifestyle is also compatible with respect for the environment in which we live and for the Planet that is our home. The MULINO BIANCO TOUR is the food education project undertaken from 2009 to inform and make Italians aware of proper and healthy eating. Behind this initiative, the food education projects “Colazione all’Italiana” and “Buona Merenda” developed by Mulino Bianco in cooperation with a multidisciplinary group of experts. In 2011, the “Momenti di Pane” project was also implemented. Particular attention is paid to children who have a dedicated permanent space, for “edutainment” (education and entertainment) activities: “Alla scoperta dei segreti degli Amici del Mulino”, “Laboratorio Mani in Pasta”, “Laboratorio Cibo ed Energia”, “Laboratorio Orto” and “Giocacolora”. 30 In 2011, the tour involved: and celebrated 220,000 its hundredth stop in Rome. Italian cities People 50,000 children DURING THE 2011 TOUR SMALL MANUALS WERE DISTRIBUTED ON “WHOLE GRAIN CEREALS: HEALTH, WELLBEING AND TASTE” AND “LESS SALT TO GAIN HEALTH” AVAILABLE ON THE GROUP’S WEBSITE: WWW.BARILLAGROUP.COM. MOREOVER, A SUITABLE VERSION OF THESE BOOKS FOR A MEDICAL PUBLIC WAS MADE AND DISTRIBUTED AT SEVERAL SCIENTIFIC CONFERENCES. 113 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Educational Activities for Children Aged 3 to 5 Years “A MANGIAR BENE SI COMINCIA DA PICCOLINI” is an educational and advertising communication project promoted by the Barilla brand Piccolini targeting CHILDREN FROM 3 TO 5 YEARS. The project aims at raising children’s awareness of the principles of healthy correct eating, as well as the rules for sharing meals and cooking with adults. In 2011 this initiative was implemented for the second year and extended to 6 ITALIAN REGIONS: Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Piedmont, Tuscany, Veneto and Puglia. A chef, a nutritionist, a paediatrician and a psychologist were involved in this initiative implementation, who proposed a tool-kit to support teachers and families along this path, offering a range of ideas and activities to be carried out in class and at home in a team effort that places children at the centre and their role as active players at meals. Moreover, small manuals were given to teachers and parents as a supporting tool in the activities to be carried out with children. Educational Activities for [ Giocampus Children Project ] The GIOCAMPUS PROJECT is aimed at promoting wellbeing culture and healthy lifestyles for young people and their families in the Parma area. SCIENTIFIC This project is based on a structured educational course that targets children and teens from 5 to 16 YEARS of age, parents, educators and paediatricians, so that CONFERENCES IN 2011 the whole community can be involved in the promotion of a lifestyle based on correct June “Paediatricians, Family, motor activity, healthy nutrition and, in general, on a culture of wellbeing, which is vital to the growth of new generations. School: a Strategic Alliance” in The project is supported by a PUBLIC-PRIVATE ALLIANCE: the Municipality of the 67th National Congress of Parma, the University of Parma, the Provincial section of the Italian National Olympic the Italian Society of Paediatrics. Committee (CONI), the Regional Office for Education, the Parma University Sports Centre and Barilla are the promoters of a project aimed at the community well-being 10th Congress of the European involving the entire city. This educational activity involves, directly and indirectly, Paediatric Association in Vienna. 30,000 PEOPLE. Giocampus is available for children and teenagers throughout the year with educational activities divided into three phases: SCHOOL, SNOW and July Memorandum of SUMMER. Understanding between Giocampus Scientific Committee and the Italian Society of Paediatrics with the objective of presenting the project to the Italian scientific community and carrying out a study on the Giocampus has implemented the collection scientific approach of the project. of qualitative and quantitative data on September Diabetes Voice, the participants with the aim of achieving quarterly magazine of the Interscientific validation of the program. The national Diabetes Federation, published “Italy’s Giocampus an first evidence will be available from 2012. Effective Public-Private Alliance Against Childhood Obesity.” SIPPS (Italian Society of Preventive And Social Paediatrics) XXIII National Congress, Milan. The Giocampus experience was presented in two sessions. To learn more about the projects, visit www.piccolini.it and www.giocampus.it. 114 5. More Choice and More Knowledge for Good Nutrition Giocampus SCHOOL [ Giocampus In 2010/2011 this Giocampus phase involved 28 SCHOOLS, for a total of 325 CLASSES and approximately 7,500 CHILDREN, in a wellbeing education Project ] course focussing on MOTOR ACTIVITY AND FOOD EDUCATION. Motor activity was carried out in the presence of Masters in Motor Activities ISEF (Italian Physical Education Higher School) graduates or graduates in Motor Sciences. Food education with Masters of Taste (graduates in Gastronomic The Giocampus project Sciences). ALLOWS THE PROMOTION OF A WELLBEING CULTURE thanks to • 100% of the teachers involved said THEORETICAL-PRACTICAL they can confirm participation in the TRAINING in FOOD EDUCATION for parents, Giocampus School Project next year. children and teachers of third, fourth and fifth grade during • 98% of the teachers involved the project school phase. said that the project was well up to expectation. Giocampus SNOW This is an educational winter holiday week. In 2011, 262 CHILDREN AND TEENAGERS (8-15 years) took part in it and were subdivided into three shifts of 6 days each. The week’s goal is to make young people more aware and self-sufficient through an innovative formula that combines exercise and techniques with healthy eating. As well as a Master in Motor Activities, since 2011 this phase has also involved a Master of Taste. • 100% of participants rated the Snow programme as excellent or good. • 79% rated the organisation as excellent. Giocampus SUMMER In 2011, this phase celebrated its 10th anniversary. It involved 3,197 PARTICIPANTS, substantiating that this project meets the needs of the community. Giocampus Summer provides children and teenagers with 20 motor activities, games and expressive workshops (including care of vegetable gardens, the laboratory of taste). Every day a menu is provided which is designed to ensure variety, correct energy intake and hydration based on the program of motor education and climate conditions. A paediatrician monitors the implementation of the program. • 81% of the participants’ parents rated the project organisation as excellent. Giocampus LAB For the theoretical part, the Scientific Committee teachers deal with the subjects that are the basis of proper nutrition education while the children are supported by Masters of Taste. The hands-on section is held at the Academia Barilla Kitchens, where all the players involved, together with qualified chefs, make recipes consistent with the concepts learned. At the end, the dishes prepared are shared. In 2011, Giocampus LAB, in its third edition, involved 123 TEACHERS, 200 PARENTS and 200 CHILDREN, who shared their experience. 115 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet APPENDIX 1 Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area 116 117 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Environment Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope % of production covered by LCA 50 53 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding studies Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. % of volumes covered by EPD 31 46 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Ecological Footprint Durum Wheat for Export, from field to Including Ecological Footprints of Wasa Semolina pasta, bakery distribution: 11 global m2/kg. Husman, Pasta and Taralluccio. products (Tarallucci) and Wasa Crispbread chains. Carbon Footprint Durum Wheat for Export, from field to Including Carbon Footprint of Wasa Husman, Semolina pasta, bakery distribution: 1,364 g CO2 /kg. Pasta and Taralluccio. products (Tarallucci) and Wasa Crispbread chains. GWP (Global Warming Potential) Emissions of CO2 equivalent CO2 equivalent emissions decreased Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding (%) reduction in emission of CO2 decreased by 13% in absolute value by approximately 20% in absolute value Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, equivalent despite a production increase of compared with 2008, despite a production mills, Number1. about 2%. The ratio of CO2 equivalent increase of approximately 1%. On the other emissions to finished products hand, the ratio of CO2 equivalent (GWP) decreased by 15% compared with emissions to finished products decreased by 2008. 21% compared with 2008. % total direct and indirect 26.2 26.2 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding emissions of greenhouse gases Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, per ton of transported products mills, Number1. Total Energy Consumption 4.8 Million GJ; electricity contribution: 4.8 Million GJ, 41% electricity contribution, Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding (Electricity + Thermal Power) 40%; thermal energy contribution: 1.9 Million GJ, 59% thermal power Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, 60%. contribution, 2.8 Million GJ. mills, Number1. Energy consumption per unit 3.22 GJ/t 3.22 GJ/t Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding of finished product Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Water Footprint Durum Wheat for Export, from field to Including Water Footprints of Wasa Husman, Semolina pasta, bakery distribution: 1,592 litres/kg. Pasta and Taralluccio. products (Tarallucci) and Wasa Crispbread supply chains. Total water consumption 2.6 2.5 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding (Million m3) Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Water consumption per ton 1.8 1.7 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding of finished product (m3/t) Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. % reduction in total consumption 13 19 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding of water compared with 2008 Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. % reduction in water consumption 15 20 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding per finished product compared to Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, 2008 mills, Number1. 118 Appendix 1: Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Water withdrawal distribution Approximately 60% of the water used Approximately 59% of the water used by the Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding by the manufacturing plants was manufacturing plants was withdrawn from Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, withdrawn from owned wells or other owned wells or other underground sources, mills, Number1. underground sources, the remaining the remaining part from public water systems. part from public water systems. Total water discharge broken About 800,000 m3 to public About 800,000 m3 to public sewage Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding down by quality and destination sewage systems (just over 80%), systems (just over 80%), the remaining Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, the remaining part as surface runoff. part as surface runoff. mills, Number1. % of plants equipped with 60 60 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding wastewater purification systems Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. % of plants that are ISO14.001 60 of Production Units, 60 of Production Units, Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding certified 73 of production. 73 of production. Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. % of recyclable packages placed 94 96 Barilla GeR Fratelli. on the market % of packaging made from 40 41 Barilla GeR Fratelli. recycled material Total weight of waste per ton of 14 13 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding product (kg/t) approximately 90% recovery/ 89% recovery/recycling (average). Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, recycling (average). mills, Number1. Number of sanctions for 1 administrative sanction for a 1 administrative sanction for a manufacturing Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding non-compliance with manufacturing plant due to a failure plant due to a formal non-compliance Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, environmental laws and in the management of the purification relating to monitoring of emissions into the mills, Number1. regulations system. atmosphere. Environmental investments, Safety Environment: about 5; Environment: 1.8. Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding and Fire Prevention (Million €) Fire prevention (including mills Fire prevention 2.4. Harrys Russia, Number1. and co-packers): about 3.5; Safety: 7.9. Safety (including mills and co-packers): 11.5. Environmental expenses by type Waste disposal, emissions treatment Treatment expenses: 2.3. Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding (Million €) and environmental restoration Prevention expenses: 0.8. Harrys Russia, Harrys France costs: 1.75. (Gauchy) Prevention and environmental and Ames plant. management costs: 0.65. 119 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Nutrition Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Number of products reformulated 29 70 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding to improve their nutritional profile Harrys Russia. Products that have benefited 24 57 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding from a significant reduction in salt Harrys Russia. content Products that have benefited from 3 0 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding an increase in fibres and whole Harrys Russia. grain flours contents % of products in its portfolio that No Barilla products contain No Barilla products use hydrogenated fats or Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding contain no artificial colourings hydrogenated fats or oils. 99% of oils, or artificial colourings. Harrys Russia. and no hydrogenated fats or oils Barilla products contain no artificial colourings. Products with nutrition or health 450 (34% of total). 468 (34% of total). Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding information on the packages Harrys Russia. Products that have benefited from 12 15 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding the elimination of additives Harrys Russia Number of initiatives for good Participation in national/international 10 attendances at national/international Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding nutrition events + Giocampus + circulation events + Giocampus + the “Gaining Health” Harrys Russia. of the Nutrition and Sustainability programme of the Italian Ministry of Health. Double Pyramid + the “Gaining Health” programme of the Italian Ministry of Health. % of total sales volume of 45,000 tons of reformulated 141,000 tons of reformulated products, Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding consumer products, broken products, equal to 3% of total sales equal to 8.5% of total sales in the world Harrys Russia. down by category with a in the world. (about 100,000t of reformulated products reduced content of saturated launched in 2011 only). fat, trans-fatty acids, sodium and added sugars Number of new products launched, 17 46 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding designed to meet specific Harrys Russia. nutritional needs % of total sales volume of Sales of new products providing Sales of new products providing specific Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding consumer products, broken specific nutritional intakes exceeded nutritional intakes exceeded 30,000 tons, Harrys Russia. down by category, which contain 20,000 tons (approximately 1.2% of accounting for approximately 1.8% of total ingredients enriched in nutrients total volumes in the world). volumes in the world. such as fibres, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives Research carried out in 28 21 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding cooperation with national and Harrys Russia. international Universities and Research Institutes Economic resources dedicated 5.1 (2008 -2010). 4.8 (2009 -2011). Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding to nutritional research, scientific Harrys Russia. studies on nutrition, as well as to conferences and presentation of scientific results (Million €) Number of products with 2 20 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding the logo of the Italian Ministry Harrys Russia. of Health within the “Gaining Health” programme 120 Appendix 1: Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Number of communication Data not available in 2010 3 communication campaigns: Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding campaigns (mass media/web) “Buona Merenda” on www.mulinobianco.it Harrys Russia. carried out featuring nutrition, “Meno sale per guadagnare salute” with the most relevant examples and “Alimenti integrali salute benessere”, both with booklets for the general public (distributed during the “Tour del Mulino”) and for the medical community (distributed at scientific events, see SINU Conference, Italian Society of Human Nutrition). Number of new whole grain Data not available in 2010 17 new whole grain products launched. Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding products launched Gran Cereale Bars (3), Wasa Bars (3), Wasa Harrys Russia. bread crumbs (1), Wasa Mineral plus (1), ISHS Biscuits (2), Wasa soft bread range (6). Governance and Human Rights Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Breaches of the There were no breaches There were no breaches Barilla GeR Fratelli. Code of Ethics of the Code of Ethics. of the Code of Ethics. Total number of discriminatory There were no incidents. There were no incidents. Barilla Holding, the Parent incidents and actions taken Company controlling Barilla GeR Fratelli and Lieken (Germany). Activities identified as entailing Data not available in 2010 Cocoa and palm oil supply chain. Measures Barilla Holding, the Parent significant risk of child labour designed to prevent exploitation of child Company controlling Barilla and measures adopted to labour: all Barilla suppliers have signed the GeR Fratelli and Lieken contribute to its elimination general purchase conditions, whereby they (Germany). have undertaken to abide by the Company’s Code of Ethics. Use of certified suppliers. Activities with high risk of Data not available in 2010 Cocoa and palm oil supply chain. Measures Barilla Holding, the Parent forced or compulsory labour and designed to prevent exploitation of child Company controlling Barilla measures adopted to contribute to labour: all Barilla suppliers have signed the GeR Fratelli and Lieken their abolition general purchase conditions, whereby they (Germany). have undertaken to abide by the Company’s Code of Ethics. Use of certified suppliers. Measures adopted in response to There were no corruption incidents. There were no corruption incidents. Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli corruption incidents excluding Harrys, Barilla (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. 121 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Supply Chain Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Number supplies chains of the Durum wheat supply chain, currently The tomato supply chain is fully controlled Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli most important agricultural raw being extended to soft wheat, rye, through Barilla growing regulations that are excluding Harrys, Barilla materials on which control has and tomatoes. applied by all growers’ organizations. Currently (USA), Yemina and Vesta, been extended being extended to soft wheat and rye. Wasa, Filiz, Misko. Main raw materials used by Barilla Semolina: 1 million t; Flour: Semolina: about 1 million t; Flour: Barilla GeR Fratelli. 400 thousand t; Rye: 50 thousand 340 thousand t; Rye: about 50 thousand t; Sugar: 50 thousand t; Vegetable t; Sugar: about 50 thousand t; Vegetable fats: 45 thousand t; Tomato: fats: about 45 thousand; Tomatoes: about 28 thousand t; Eggs: 25 thousand 39 thousand; Eggs: about 23 thousand; t; Cocoa: 9.5 thousand t; Dairy Cocoa: about 9 thousand; Dairy products: products: 8 thousand t; Animal fats: about 8 thousand; Animal fats: about 7 7 thousand t. The sum of these thousand. raw materials accounts for 90% of the total. Packs broken down by raw About 2 billion packs made of About 2 billion packs made of Barilla GeR Fratelli. material used paper and cardboard; more than paper and cardboard; more than 30 thousand t of flexible film. 30 thousand t of flexible film. % of durum wheat grown locally, 76 (excluding Yemina and Vesta) 81 Barilla GeR Fratelli. i.e. in the country where the pasta Data by country: Italy 71; Greece 81; is manufactured Turkey 100; Mexico 100; North America 100 (32 USA; 68 Canada). % of durum wheat demand 43 (approx. 350,000 t) of the Italian 48 (approx. 400,000 t) of the Italian Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli procured through the growing demand for wheat. demand for wheat. excluding Harrys, Barilla contracts made (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko Number of the important supply 12. An environmental impact 24. The database of the environmental impact Barilla GeR Fratelli. chains for which the relevant database was created containing caused by the various raw materials has environmental impact has been 120 items. reached a total of 158 items. measured % of the palm oil demand from 100% of Barilla suppliers of palm oil 100% of Barilla suppliers of palm oil Barilla GeR Fratelli. RSPO suppliers are RSPO members. are RSPO members. 11% of the palm oil purchased is RSPO-certified. % of audits on critical supply In 2010, Barilla completed the audit 3 new audits scheduled for 2012 to reach Barilla GeR Fratelli. chains of all the African processing plants coverage of 100% of suppliers. of the main supplier of cocoa and started these audits for new suppliers. % of suppliers that are members 85% of suppliers are members of 100% of suppliers are WCF members Barilla GeR Fratelli. of the International Cocoa ICCO and WCF Organization (ICCO) and the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) % of main suppliers and 100% of Barilla suppliers signed the 100% of Barilla suppliers signed the general Italia: Barilla GeR Fratelli contractors that are audited with general purchase conditions, whereby purchase conditions, whereby they have escluse Harrys, Barilla regard to human rights and the they have undertaken to abide by undertaken to abide by the Company’s Code (USA), Yemina e Vesta, relevant measures adopted the Company’s Code of Ethics. of Ethics. Specifically, labour procurement Wasa, Filiz, Misko. Specifically, labour procurement shall entail a series of certifications attesting shall entail a series of certifications to the legitimacy of the contracts used. attesting to the legitimacy of the contracts used. 122 Appendix 1: Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area Community Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Jobs, number of plants and their 24 production plants, 9 mills for 24 production plants, 9 mills for grinding Barilla GeR Fratelli. location grinding wheat in 9 Countries. It also wheat in 9 Countries. It also has 8 logistic has 8 logistic platforms in Italy. The platforms in Italy. The number of staff directly number of People directly employed employed in production plants, mills and in production plants, mills and distribution is 6,423 People. distribution is 6,762 People. Analysis and description of the Indirect employment in manufacturing Indirect employment in manufacturing totals Barilla GeR Fratelli. main indirect impacts taking into totals 711 People. The Italian sales 710 People. The Italian sales force includes account externalities generated force includes 212 employees 209 employees and 16 agents, who employ (indirect employment and local and 16 agents, who employ 325 309 sale subagents deployed across the suppliers relating to significant sale subagents deployed across Country. Barilla also works with agencies locations of operations) the Country. Barilla also works with providing hostesses and merchandisers agencies providing hostesses employing a total of 360 People at the points and merchandisers employing 150 of sale. Meanwhile, 1,050 People work People at points of sale. Meanwhile, indirectly for the Group in Logistics. 1,282 People work indirectly for the Group in Logistics. Impacts on communities of Product donations: Product donations: Barilla GeR Fratelli. projects for dialogue, cooperation 1,675 tons. 4,487 tons for over 3 million Euro. and partnership (type, number, Cash donations: Cash donations: dedicated resources, effects), 4 million Euro (including over 1 million 800 thousand Euro. including donations the value of product donations). Community visits to Barilla plants Total visits: 335; People 7,181. Total visits: 276; People 9,909. Barilla GeR Fratelli. Formal notices against decisions Formal notice issued by the Province There were no formal notices. Barilla GeR Fratelli. taken by the Company of Cremona for CO2 emissions into the atmosphere by a Barilla plant. Development and impact of The San Demetrio School Project Investment in the Children’s Hospital Barilla GeR Fratelli. investments in infrastructure continued with the construction of for approximately and services provided mainly for the school gym, used by the over 1 million 300 thousand Euro. “public utility” through commercial 300 students of the town and commitments, donations of neighbouring communities. Financial products/services, pro bono assistance was provided amounting activities to 1 million Euro. 123 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Human Resources Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope % weight of the cost of the 3.7 4.3 Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli People Care activities on labour excluding Harrys, Yemina cost and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko, Barilla (USA). Frequency Rate of Accidents 25 17 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Severity Index of Accidents 0.62 0.63 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Training hours per employee on 7 training hours per employee on 5.6 training hours per employee Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding health and safety health and safety. Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Fatalities 0 0 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, mills, Number1. Accidents: absolute number and 261 accidents (-3% over 2008). 177 accidents Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding % difference compared with (-32% over 2010, -34% over 2008). Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, previous years mills, Number1. Audits on Safety and Fire 120 audits on environmental issues, 105 audits on environmental issues, safety Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding Prevention safety and fire prevention, of which and fire prevention, of which 86 focused Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, 93 focused specifically on Safety specifically on Safety and Fire Prevention. mills, Number1. and Fire Prevention: a 50% increase compared with 2009. % of People covered by an 100% of permanent and temporary 99.6% of total People. Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli additional Health Insurance Policy employees. excluding Harrys, Barilla 87% of total People. (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. % People covered by an additional 64% of People in Italy. 64.7% of People in Italy. Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli Pension Plan excluding Harrys, Barilla (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. People Care Initiatives Creation of an organizational unit Good Practices: France agreement with Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding dedicated to People Care. senior People, basic training; Italy: family day , Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, Barilla America ranks among the top education for families (Intercultural initiatives, mills, Number1. 50 companies in terms of benefits kindergarten contributions, scholarships, supporting fertility and adoption. Giocampus), Sì.Mediterraneo project, Life and permanent disability philanthropy, health campaign, Essere Barilla, insurance. newspapers, CRAL (employees’ recreational club); Germany: consultancy service for families; Barilla scholarships, laundry service, pension plans, sports incentives, special allowance for extraordinary occasions; Sweden: laundry service, sports incentives, special allowances for extraordinary occasions, benefit for maternity/paternity leave, health check-up, telecommuting, summer jobs for employees’ children, headphones for workers, apartments, 10 days of leave for new fathers; Greece: Barilla scholarships. 124 Appendix 1: Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Types and frequency of application 4.4% 4.4%; America: 2 part-time, 3 flexible work; Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding of existing innovative contracts: job Sweden: 33 part-time, Norway 41 part-time. Harrys, Yemina and Vesta, sharing, teleworking, part-time, etc. Wasa, Filiz, Misko % of women broken down by Executives 7.9 Executives: 18.8 Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli occupational level Managers: 31.1 Managers: 31.5 excluding Harrys, Yemina White collar workers: 31.7 White collar workers: 40.5 and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. Sales force: 13.2 Sales force: 28.3 Blue collar Workers 20.9 Blue collar Workers 23.4 America Total: 28.1 Executives 31 Managers: 44 White collar workers: 63 Plant workers: 14 % plants with OHSAS 69 81 Barilla GeR Fratelli, excluding 18001 certified Harrys Russia, Yemina, Vesta, management system mills, Number1. % of employees covered by 100% of management People. 1,746 People (100% of management People), Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding an annual performance 64% of white collar People. Harrys, Yemina and Vesta. management system Rate of turnover. Calculated on 13.5% executives; 4.4% managers; 9% executives; 4.4% managers; 4.7 % white Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli the number of terminations of 2.9% white collar workers; 6.5% sales collar workers; 5.2% sales force; 5.3% blue excluding Harrys, Yemina permanent staff by professional force; 3.3% blue collar workers. collar workers. and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. level. In America: 7.3%. Sweden: 19%; Norway: 0.0%. Russia: 0.5%; Turkey: 10.1%. Turnover rate by age and gender Data not available in 2010 Italy: 5.6% men and 5.0% women. Age: from Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding 21 to 30: 7.62%; from 31 to 40: 3.71%; from Harrys, Yemina and Vesta, 41 to 50: 1,02%; from 51 to 60: 11.34%; Wasa, Filiz, Misko. over 60: 55.76%. Employer Branding Initiatives Barilla 2010 Employer of Choice Employer Branding Initiatives 50 events Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding on a sample of 12,351 university in 20 universities worldwide. Over 1,500 Harrys, Yemina and Vesta, graduates and undergraduates students from more than 20 countries were Wasa, Filiz, Misko. from 73 Italian universities. met in different situations, 30,000 new young professional reached. International network expansion: organization of international events in Italy and abroad. +46% increase in the international applications received compared with 2010. 60% of the candidates met at Employer Branding events were introduced to line managers and 50% of them were offered a contract. % of internships paid 100 100 Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding Harrys, Barilla (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko % of internships transformed 66.70 71.40 Italy: Barilla GeR Fratelli into fixed-term/permanent excluding Harrys, Barilla employment contracts (USA), Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. % of distribution of the Company 30 Visits to BarillaWorld: 1,850 a month. Barilla GeR Fratelli. magazine “BarillaWorld” 125 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope % of “expatriate” contracts + 10 + 6.6 Barilla GeR Fratelli. compared to the previous year Total number of employees, 9,106 People: 4,665 in Italy, 1,506 8,766 People: 4,494 in Italy, 1,493 Barilla Holding excluding broken down by type, employment in France; 591 in Russia; 572 in in France; 479 in Russia; 522 in Sweden; Lieken. contract and geographical area Sweden; 432 in the United States; 438 in the United States; 334 in Germany; 344 in Germany; 335 in Turkey; 332 in Turkey; 249 in Mexico; 211 in 253 in Mexico; 216 in Greece; 63 Greece; 82 in Norway; 44 in Poland; 18 in in Norway; 45 in Poland; 17 in the the Benelux; 15 in Switzerland; 12 in Brazil; Benelux; 16 in Switzerland; 10 in 8 in Australia; 8 in Austria; 6 in Japan; 4 in Brazil; 9 in Australia; 7 in Austria; Slovenia; 1 in Hungary; 7 in Canada; 1 in 6 in Japan; 3 in Slovenia; 1 in Croatia and 8 in Spain. Hungary; 1 in Croatia; 5 in Canada and 9 in Spain. % of positions with mapped Job 1,300 1,500 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding Description Harrys, Yemina and Vesta, Wasa, Filiz, Misko. % of positions covered internally Data not available in 2010 38 Barilla GeR Fratelli. and not by external selection 126 Appendix 1: Key Performance Indicators by Sustainability Thematic Area People Indicator 2010 2011 Consolidation Scope Number of raw material lots 54,000 lots analysed 54,000 lots analysed Barilla GeR Fratelli. analysed and % of fully95.8% fully conforming. 96.4% fully conforming. conforming lots Number of finished product 113,000 lots with about 120,000 lots Barilla GeR Fratelli. lots analysed and % 95.1% conformity with 95.5% conformity of fully-conforming lots % breakdown of reasons for 6% nutritional or food safety requests; 4.7% nutritional or food safety requests; 23.1% Barilla GeR Fratelli. being contacted by People 20% for information on products; for information on products; 22.3% for general (requests of info on promotional 23% for general inquiries about inquiries about the Company; 19.6% to express initiatives, nutritional requests, the Company; 25% to express dissatisfaction and 30.3% for information on product information, reasons for dissatisfaction and 26% for information promotion initiatives. The % of reasons for dissatisfaction). on promotion initiatives. The % of the dissatisfaction decreased compared with 2010 reasons for dissatisfaction decreased (from 25 to 19.6%). It is pointed out that People compared with 2009 (from 29 to 25%); are increasingly interested in the products: general requests to the Company information on new launches, their availability increased (from 16 to 23%). These on the shelf, the novelties on new platforms, mainly concerned requests proposals for new technologies. for cooperation or sponsorship, and contacts with the trade. Activities and resources for 28.5 million Euro a year Approximately 29 million Euro a year. Barilla GeR Fratelli. prevention and control of product quality % of reasons for dissatisfaction 25 19.6 Barilla GeR Fratelli. over total contacts % of products with detailed 87 88 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding nutrition facts (on the package and Harrys Russia. on the website in line with current regulations) % of products with suggestions 31 34 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding for a healthy lifestyle/balanced Harrys Russia. diet on the packages and on the website % of products with consumption 66 67 Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding suggestions (optimal or maximum Harrys Russia. amount to be consumed), on the packaged and on the website Projects to involve People Casa Barilla, Cucina IntegraleTour, Casa Barilla Cucina Integrale Tour, Piccolini Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding Piccolini Great Chef Tour and Tour Great Chef Tour and Tour del Mulino Bianco Harrys Russia. del Mulino Bianco (49 Italian cities, (30 Italian cities, 220,000 People involved, 275,000 People involved, including including over 50,000 children), presentation over 70,000 children). of the Double Pyramid. Information on the web On the Internet: 60% of site contains 64% of sites contains nutritional facts tables; Barilla GeR Fratelli excluding nutritional facts tables, 53% provides 71% of sites presenting products provides Harrys Russia. detailed recommendations for better recommendations for better consumption consumption of the products and of such products; 43% of sites presenting 47% provides suggestions for a products provides recommendations for a healthy lifestyle. healthy lifestyle. 127 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet APPENDIx 2 Barilla’s Sustainable Business and Its Contribution to People’s Wellbeing 128 129 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet BCFN INDEX The BCFN Wellbeing Index is a multidimensional index to measure and compare People’s level of wellbeing in a selected group of developed Countries. Studying wellbeing and developing an Index is part of a wider debate, which [ Index ] aims at assessing People’s wellbeing using tools that go beyond the traditional measurement of Gross Domestic Product of the Countries analysed. The tables in this section provide insight on the relationship between the strategy adopted by Barilla as a sustainable company and the wellbeing The peculiarity of the Index index developed by BCFN. developed by BCFN is that it takes fully into account THE INDEX IS DIVIDED INTO TWO nutrition and eating habits as a SYNTHETIC MULTIDIMENSIONAL INDexeS: variable of wellbeing. 1. The BCFN Index of current wellbeing, which is designed to measure People’s current wellbeing (what people live/feel today); THIS IS THE REASON 2. The BCFN Wellbeing Sustainability Index (which is designed to measure the dynamics/future trends of the current level of wellbeing). WHY BARILLA HAS STARTED REFLECTING Each sub-index is measured using several indicators. ON AND ANALYSING The 23 GOALS and RELEVANT INDICATORS MONITORING BARILLA’S ITS SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE WAY of DOING BUSINESS have been taken into BUSINESS OPERATIONS consideration in the light of their relationship with specific indicators of the BCFN Index. IN ORDER TO The relationship between sustainability indicators and BCFN sub-indexes was UNDERSTAND HOW classified as DIRECT, INDIRECT or MANAGEMENT. THESE COULD BE An example of DIRECT RELATIONSHIP is the reduction of fat and sugar contents in products: in this case a sustainable business practice produces an MEASURED BASED immediate impact on People’s present and future wellbeing. ON THE WELLBEING INDEX. On the other hand, an example of INDIRECT RELATIONSHIP is the investment in innovation in nutrition, thanks to which favourable impacts on People’s wellbeing can be generated. Some aspects of Barilla’s sustainable business model cannot be linked directly or indirectly to wellbeing as classified by the BCFN Index, but are its preconditions. For example, sustainable management of the supply chain cannot possibly be measured using the Index indicators, but it is essential to achieve the present and future wellbeing of People. These elements of the sustainability model have been defined as “MANAGEMENT”. 130 Appendix 2: Barilla’s Sustainable Business and Its Contribution to People’s Wellbeing This analysis showed that 52% of sustainability objectives have a potential direct or indirect impact on People’s wellbeing, while in the case of indicators, 44.3% of these have a direct impact, and 21.3% an indirect impact on People’s wellbeing. In other words, over seventy percent of what Barilla does and over half of what it will do has a direct or indirect impact on People’s wellbeing, as defined by the BCFN Index, while many other activities are its preconditions. Specifically, Barilla’s current commitment read through its indicators is particularly evident in the Index areas relating to psycho physical wellbeing (49%) and environmental wellbeing (26%), substantiating its desire to propose an offer that is “Good for you, Sustainable for the Planet”. % Sustainability goals in Relation to bcfn Index 26% 26% 48% direct INdirect MANAGEMENT % Sustainability indicators in Relation to bcfn Index 44.3% 21.3% 34.4% direct INdirect MANAGEMENT That analysis performed this year is only a first step, which will allow Barilla’s sustainable action to be monitored and steered also by using an important tool introduced by BCFN, namely the Wellbeing Index. To learn more about the Barilla Center for Food and Nutrition, see chapter 1: “Barilla and Its Way of Doing Business”. 131 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Indicators Stories Area Type of Indicators Number of Direct Indicators BCFN Reference Indicators (n) with Regard to the BCFN Index Total emissions (2); Adjusted net saving (1); Sustainable 4 Intensity of freight and passengers road Agriculture Projects traffic (1); Change in available income (1). SUPPLY CHAIN Adjusted net saving (2); Total emissions (2); Healthy life expectancy (1); Overweight and obese People (1); Change in the Sustainable Raw 3 mortality rate from cardiovascular diseases Materials (1), Cancer (1), Diabetes (1); Obese and overweight People between 11 and 15 years of age (1); Average daily individual consumption of calories (1). Adjusted net saving (7); Total emissions (6); Renewable sources contribution to energy Water Consumption 7 supply (1). INTEGRATED AND Adjusted net saving (7); Total emissions (6); SUSTAINABLE Renewable sources contribution to energy SUPPLY CHAIN Energy Consumption 7 supply (1). Total emissions (5) Adjusted net savings (2); Water Footprint (1), Urban waste (1). ENVIRONMENT Waste 7 Total emissions (4); Intensity of freight and passengers road traffic (2); Water Emissions 4 Footprint (1). Adjusted net saving (4); Urban waste (3), Total emissions (2); Water Footprint (1). Packaging 4 Healthy life expectancy (4); Spread between youth unemployment rate and total unemployment rate (1); Rate People Care 7 of participation in permanent training (2); Use of antidepressants and mood stabilizers (1). TOTAL HUMAN Healthy life expectancy (4). QUALITY CAPITAL Safety 4 Rate of participation in permanent training. Training 2 132 Appendix 2: Barilla’s Sustainable Business and Its Contribution to People’s Wellbeing Stories Area Type of Indicators Number of Direct Indicators BCFN Reference Indicators (n) with Regard to the BCFN Index Overweight and obese People between 11 and 15 years of age (4); Physical activity Educational projects (3); Healthy life expectancy (1); Overweight targeting the adoption 4 and obese People (adults) (1); Average of healthy lifestyles daily individual consumption of calories (1); Mortality rate from cardiovascular diseases COMMUNITY (1), Cancer (1), Diabetes (1). Economic impacts Change in available income (3); People (employment, 5 at risk of poverty (2); Inequality in income infrastructure and distribution (2). services) Change in mortality rate from cardiovascular disease (5), Cancer (5), Diabetes (5); Obese Products with enriched 5 and overweight People between 11 and15 nutritional factors years of age (5); Healthy life expectancy (5); Obese and overweight People (5). MORE CHOICE AND MORE Change in mortality rate from cardiovascular KNOWLEDGE Reformulated products disease (4), Cancer (4), Diabetes (4); Obese NUTRITION and new products 4 and overweight People between 11 and15 launched for specific years of age (4); Healthy life expectancy nutritional needs (4); Obese and overweight People (4). Change in mortality rate from cardiovascular Nutritional information disease (2), Cancer (2), Diabetes (2); Obese through packages and 2 and overweight People between 11 and15 media years of age (2); Healthy life expectancy (2); Obese and overweight People (2). Healthy life (7); Obese and overweight People between 11 and 15 years of age Nutritional (5); Obese and overweight People (5); PEOPLE information through 7 Change in mortality rate from cardiovascular packages and media diseases (5) and diabetes (5); Average individual consumption of calories (5); Physical activity (2); Change in mortality rate from cancer (1). N.B.: This table shows all the Indicators which, in relation to a comparative analysis with the BCFN Index, have a direct impact on People’s wellbeing. The Indicators are divided according to the Histories of this Report. The indicators which have an indirect effect or concern management have not been given. 133 barilla good for you sustainable for the planet Goals Stories Area Direct Goals with Respect to BCFN Index BCFN Reference SUPPLY CHAIN Reducing the Ecological Footprint throughout Water Footprint; Total emissions; INTEGRATED ENVIRONMENT Barilla’s supply chain. Adjusted net saving; Urban waste; AND Intensity of freight and passenger SUSTAINABLE road traffic. Zero accident goal: Healthy life expectancy. • Reducing by 50% days of absence due to accident; Safety • Reducing the absolute number of accidents by 40%; • Monitoring the safety indices of external TOTAL HUMAN firms that operate as part of the Barilla QUALITY CAPITAL organisation. Training ensuring constant updating and Rate of participation in regular developing the skills of Barilla company updating programmes. Training People (e.g. professional training, leadership development and shared culture). Developing the Barilla “Balanceat” corporate Healthy life expectancy; Obese cause both at a company and a brand level, and overweight adult population through educational activities, training in excess (adults); Change in mortality rate COMMUNITY food and support for food security, also by from cardiovascular disease; Cancer; capitalizing on the experience gained through Diabetes; Obese and overweight the Giocampus project. People between 11 and 15 years of age; Physical activity; Average daily individual consumption of calories. Developing education programs on healthy Healthy life expectancy; Obese eating and lifestyle for all Barilla employees in and overweight adult population the main Countries where the Group operates. (adults); Change in mortality rate MORE CHOICE NUTRITION from cardiovascular disease; Cancer; AND MORE Diabetes; Obese and overweight KNOWLEDGE: People between 11 and 15 years of age; Physical activity; Average daily individual consumption of calories. Simplifying informed choices by People, by Healthy life expectancy; Obese providing the following information on the pack and overweight adult population labels and/or websites of brands: (adults); Change in mortality rate Product • Detailed nutrition tables; from cardiovascular disease; Cancer; PEOPLE Total Quality • Advice for a healthy lifestyle; Diabetes; Obese and overweight and Listening • Consumption suggestions; People between 11 and 15 years of to People • Waste disposal procedures and other age; Physical activity; Average daily important environmental aspects. individual consumption of calories; Total emissions; Urban waste. N.B.: This table shows the goals which, according to a comparative analysis with the BCFN Index, have a direct impact on People’s wellbeing. The goals have been subdivided according to the stories recounted in the Report. On the other hand, goals which have an indirect effect or concern management have not been given. 134 Appendix 2: Barilla’s Sustainable Business and Its Contribution to People’s Wellbeing 135 BARILLA G. e R. Fratelli Società per Azioni with Single Shareholder subject to the management and coordination of BARILLA INIZIATIVE S.r.l. Registered Office: Via Mantova 166 43122 Parma, Italy Share Capital Euro 180,639,990.00= fully paid up Tax Code and registration with the Business Registry of Parma 01654010345 R.E.A. (Administrative and Economic Register) of Parma no. 169.146 VAT NO. 01654010345 Tel. +39 0521 2621 Fax +39 0521 262083 e-mail sostenibilita@barilla.com www.gruppobarilla.it www.barillagroup.com By Barilla Communication and External Relations Department In collaboration with FONDACA Editorial coordination MSL ITALIA Graphic Design Visualmade, Milan Photography Archivio Barilla Stefano Zardini Photolithography and Printing Grafiche Step, Parma Product printed on FSC® certified paper.
