Sustainability Progress Report 2011 Why Route 2 The role of business in society is changing. For Maersk Line this provides a welcome opportunity to challenge the way we think about our business and the industry we are part of. It forces us to plot a better, more sustain­able course. We call this new path ‘Route 2’. It is a shorthand for our journey to become a stronger, more profitable and sustain­ able company. CONTENT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Content Introduction Low impact shipping This is Maersk Line 7 Low impact shipping 66 Introduction 8 Does distance matter? 69 About the report 13 Addressing carbon emissions 72 From the CEO 16 The Triple-E: The largest and most energy efficient container ship 79 Better trade Recycling materials 80 Addressing sulphur emissions 82 Better trade 18 Protecting biodiversity 86 Enabling emerging market trade growth 20 MAXimising West Africa’s trade potential 24 Supply chain innovation The WAFMAX effect – Highlights 26 Partnerships for better trade 30 Supply chain innovation 88 The case of the Indian banana trade 34 Procuring responsibly 90 Supporting legal trade 38 Partnerships with ports and terminals 92 Fighting corruption 40 Supporting ‘dry port’developments Developing and supporting communities 42 for better trade flows in Indonesia 95 Engaging with ports on waste handling 96 Service excellence Ship owners join fuel optimisation drive 97 Reducing the impact of containers 98 Service excellence 46 Supporting a new business model 48 Workplace sustainability Increasing supply chain efficiency through on-time reliability 50 More transparency more choice in shipping 52 Workplace sustainability 100 Energy efficiency: At the heart of our differentiation strategy 57 Improving employee engagement 102 Advancing collaborations across industries 59 Mobilising employees 107 Improving the footprint of seafood transport 63 A safe workplace at sea 109 Coming up: Innovations to improve the supply chain 64 Container safety issues 114 Addressing security risks 117 Stakeholder engagement and partnerships 122 What do our stakeholders think? 125 Reporting on progress 127 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 5 THIS IS MAERSK LINE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 This is Maersk Line By transporting fresh food and prodPutting customers first At any given point, the largest shipping ucts between world markets, sea One of our key goals is to transform the lines transport more than 3% of the freight offers people accessibility customer experience in the container globe’s gross national product2. This and availability of goods from many shipping industry. We believe that taking makes Maersk Line one of the key parts of the world at any time of the out the complexity in dealing with shipenablers of the global economy. A posiyear. ping lines will go a long way in improving tion that brings great opportunities, the customer experience. but also responsibilities. At a glance In Maersk Line we are 25,000 people Our progress is based on strategic partwith 325 offices in 125 countries around nerships and close collaboration with the world. Our fleet of more than 600 key customers, and an eagerness to ships sail every major trade lane on the constantly improve our service offerings globe, and make about 35,000 port through innovation and optimisation. calls every year. Maersk Line is the largest shipping company in the world with Energy efficient shipping a global market share of 15%. Shipping accounts for 3-4% of man-made CO2 emissions worldwide1. While conAbsolute reliability tainer shipping is by far the world’s most Maersk Line is an integral part of the energy efficient means of transporting supply chains of thousands of compagoods over long distances, it is overall nies. Our goal is to help our customers still a large source of greenhouse gases. optimise their supply chains. Ensuring 2011 Company facts: that our customers’ cargo arrives safely We work to reduce Maersk Line’s imand on time is at the core of this. pact significantly, improving and inno• 325 offices in125 countries vating our way towards lower CO2 Working closely with customers, we have emissions, cleaner water and air, and • Number of container ships: introduced the concept of absolute more responsible lifecycle manage600+ reliability in shipping. Our new service, ment of our vessels. Daily Maersk, offers daily vessel depar• Number of containers: ture times from four Asian ports to three Our goal is to be a low impact shipping 3.4 million TEU ports in northern Europe with an on-time line and maintain our leadership in energyguarantee. efficiency. • Port calls every year: 35,000 Reliability is at the heart of our business Enabling global trade • Market share: 15% model. We are consistently ranked as Maritime transportation has been, and the most reliable carrier among the continues to be, at the core of interna• Number of employees: world’s 20 largest shipping lines by tional trade, accounting for around 90% 25,000 people independent third parties. of globally traded goods. 1 International Maritime Organization (IMO) 2 World Shipping Council, 2009; IMO, 2009 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 7 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Introduction Today, there is little doubt about the role of human society in creating climate change. Ecosystems are already under change is likely to impact the ability of the world community to deliver economic growth for the long term. is a reality until alternative fuels and new energy sources are commercially available and scalable. Our business has pressure, such as clean fresh water, a key role to play in supporting the agricultural soil, forests and fisheries. The global transportation business transition to more environmentally Unless countries and industries reduce generates significant levels of greensustainable forms of energy. their footprints significantly, climate house gas emissions. At present, this Food and goods shipped on different routes in 2010 and 2050 Maps: Tonnage shipped on different routes in 2010 and 2050, million tonnes. Towards 2050 BRICs nations growing from USD 21.6 customers to ensure that infrastruc174 262 As a key player and enabler of global billion in 2001 to USD 154.5 billion in ture and capacity bottlenecks do not 2010 Intra-Asia trade, Maersk Line is exposed to 20095. hamper prosperity and cause unwanted 715 132 some of the biggest global issues impacts. 174 262 1.363 and mega-trends. While these trends In the last 50 years, international trade in 286 Intra-Asia influence our business in many ways, manufactured goods has increased over Economic development 715 65 59 132 we would like to also see our role as 100 times, from USD 95 billion to USD 12 and poverty 1.363 47 actively working to shape the future trillion6. This recent history of global economic 555 286 59 of some of these global issues. development has created significant 123 65 Containerisation has helped accelerate benefits, particularly in the alleviation of 47 555 We are uniquely placed to do so. We are this trade growth. Today around 90% of poverty. It has taken China only 20 years starting to evaluate the kind of scenarios global trade uses sea transport7. Maersk (1991-2010) to double its average per 123 these issues will present over the next Line is the biggest shipping line in the incapita income from USD 2,000 to USD 20-30 years. And we are forming our dustry. We play a significant role in the 4,260 and India only 10 years to increase response accordingly. global marketplace connecting customits per capita income from USD 329 in ers with new markets. 1991 to USD 1,265 in 20108. The global Economic development middle class grew to 1.8 billion people 2050 and trade Trade shifts demand change between 1980 and 2009, an increase of Global economic output has developed We expect the volume of goods moving 700 million, and is anticipated to grow rapidly alongside population growth. from Asia to North America and Europe to by 3 billion more in the next 20 years9. 411 566 Between 1990 and 2010 global GDP continue to increase. Simultaneously, raw Intra-Asia has grown from USD 25 trillion to USD materials from Latin America, Oceania and Exports growth and access to global 1.538 310 75 trillion3. Africa will increase to supply Asian markets help raise the living standards 411 4.190 566 manufacturing industries. As the GDP of many people, but many economies Intra-Asia 876 1.538 174 An important element within this ecoof countries on these continents rises, are still held back by poverty and a lack of 233 310 nomic growth is that patterns of trade the returning trade flow will also grow. healthcare and education. 4.190 115 1.402 are shifting from the developed world to 876 174 emerging economies. In the last five Asia will become an increasingly imporThe environment and 446 233 years, emerging markets have been tant customer as well as a producer. natural resource constraints 115 1.402 responsible for 80% of GDP growth Intra-Asian trade will therefore increase It is impossible to talk about economic 446 and overall represent half of all GDP, significantly. The shipping industry has development without recognising the compared to a third 30 years ago4. a major role to play in supporting these significant consequences this has trade flows and making sure they are already had and will continue to have for New trends in trade flows will have important implications load, thus resulting in empty backhauls and logistical Trade between emerging economies is managed effectively. We will need to the environment and the amount of for our industry and the means by which we will support waste. Shipping lines are constantly looking to optimise also a growing trend, with trade between partner with governments, ports and natural resources available on the planet. global trade most effectively. For example, increasingly shipments to avoid empty capacity. Capacity optimisation unbalanced trade flows will challenge the utilisation of will become increasingly important to maintain high 3 Goldman Sachs GS Sustain, The die has been cast: A new age of accelerating consumption, constrains and competition , April 2011 ships if some exports cannot be paired with a returning energy efficiency per container in global shipping. 4 www.economist.com/node/18895150 5 The China Society Yearbook, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), 2011 6 Globalisation shakes the world: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6279679.stm 7 International Maritime Organization (IMO) 8 International Monetary Fund (IMF) 9 www.worldbank.org Source: Xynteo analysis in “The Road Ahead”, TATA Consultancy Services, 2011. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 8 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 9 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Maersk Line’s response unable to tackle the issues in isolation. years. Our investments need to generate While the challenges are severe, it is also Collaboration and partnerships are value for the long-term, and on many true that leading businesses and other forming across sectors, across industries different parameters. It is this outlook players are starting to re-think the role of and between public and private sectors. for long-term economic growth and business in society and how they can We too are seeking ways to collaborate shared value along with our commithelp provide viable solutions. and examples include our participation ment to drive industry-wide change that with the World Economic Forum, Susmakes us uniquely positioned to be part It is exciting to follow the developments tainable Shipping Initiative and innovaof a solution. of many global organisations, including tive programmes with customers where some of our biggest customers, who are the objective is the optimisation of supply revising their business models to improve chains and creation of shared value. what are seen as systemic rather than industry-specific challenges. It makes sense for us to take the lead in our industry given our size, position and We welcome this development and support of the A.P. Moller – Maersk want to play our part in it. Similar to our Group. Our operations require largecustomers, we recognise that we are scale investments, often spanning 25-30 2040: A vision for industry-wide change Maersk Line is a founding member of • Financing new technology to aims to play a key role in making this the Sustainable Shipping Initiative increase efficiency, diversify the vision for the industry a reality. (SSI) alongside leaders from across energy sources used in shipping the shipping industry and respected and radically reduce greenhouse To find out more about the SustainNGOs WWF and Forum for the Future. gas emissions. able Shipping Initiative, visit: The SSI aims to leverage members’ ambition and position to deliver more • Reducing the lifecycle impact of www.forumforthefuture.org/ sustainable value chains and plan how container ships by designing project/sustainable-shippingshipping can contribute to and thrive vessels that can be recycled more initiative in – a sustainable future. efficiently and that use fewer hazardous materials. Case for action In May 2011, the SSI launched a Case • Producing a standard of standfor Action which highlights the global ards to drive improved sustainachallenges facing the shipping indusbility performance in place of the try over the next 30 years and the risks disparate range of sustainability and opportunities they will bring. Key standards currently governing trends include new patterns of world the industry. trade, shifting global economic and political power, rising fuel costs and • A step change in energy techno­ changing customer demands. logy innovation and uptake, with key opportunities and barriers Step changes towards 2040 identified and improvements made Following this, in November 2011 the in the level of consultation between SSI launched its Vision for 2040. This shippers. outlines key areas of action and specific work streams to help the industry The first set of work streams will be respond to these trends. These include: launched during 2012 and Maersk Line MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 10 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 About the report This is the second sustainability proThis report also tries to reflect the sense we are making sure Maersk Line is a gress report from Maersk Line. It reof change Maersk Line is driving and great place to work safe, inspiring ports on the progress we have made what it will mean for our customers, our and rewarding too. in 2011 against our strategy and own business and society as such. 1 commitments and captures the iniI hope you enjoy reading about Route 2, tiatives that moved us forward on At the heart of the report and as ever, welcome your feedback on Better trade our journey to become a more susare five chapters: our progress and how we can go further. tainable company. • Better trade (18-42) looks beyond our industry's current business models 2 Introducing Route 2 This year we have structured our report and explores the opportunities and impacts of addressing some of the 3 Service in a way that reflects the broadening world's key challenges in global trade excellence scope of our strategy – under the heading including resource scarcities, poverSoren Stig Nielsen Low impact 'Route 2'. From the launch of Daily Maersk ty alleviation and environmental polHead of Sustainability, shipping to the creation of a joint vision for lution. Maersk Line the industry, the testing of algae-based biofuels and various innovative customer • Service excellence (46-64) reports on partnerships, Route 2 captures the broad our work to improve our customers’ path that we are taking in partnership supply chains by making our offerings 4 with our stakeholders. more reliable, simple and sustainable. In the report we address the fact that our • Low impact shipping (66-86) captures Supply chain innovation business is inextricably entwined with the the progress we have made in reduc5 major drivers of the changes the world ing the impact of our fleet on the enviwill see. We have set out to actively reronment, people’s health, biodiversity spond to these challenges. In the report and finite resources. Workplace sustainability we discuss how we go about that and what we have achieved. • Supply chain innovation (88-98) explores some of the new approaches We don’t pretend to have all the answers, we are developing with logistics but we are committed to report on the partners to improve our own and our progress we make in a transparent and customers’ supply chains and deliver balanced way. At the same time, we see on shared ambitions. this report as a good opportunity for engaging our stakeholders in issues and • Workplace sustainability (100-117) brings challenges that we can’t solve on our own. it all back home, with a review of how MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 13 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Maersk liner business * Maersk liner business cash outflow 2011 Our employees 2009 2010 2011 Number of full time employees (FTEs) 29,977 a 29,347 a 30,792 Gender (female representation) % 35 a 37 a 37 Employee engagement % 71 77 Performance appraisals % 51 73 B 92 Safety Lost time injury frequency (LTIF)** frequency 1,14 0,83 0,57 Fatalities** number 0 1 0 Taxes paid 1% Investments, net 11% Suppliers 82% Environmental performance Energy consumption 2009 2010 2011 Fuel oil 1,000 tonnes 10,392 9,792 10,817 Diesel 1,000 tonnes 6C 3C 3 Natural gas 1,000 tonnes 1C 3C 2 Electricity 1,000 MWh 85 D 99 D 121 Energy consumption g GJ 420,437,539 E 396,180,108 E 438,121,369 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) GHG emissions H 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 32,641 E 30,766 E 34,168 Employees 6% Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1 GHG Protocol) CO2 1,000 tonnes 32,391 30,518 33,849 CH4 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 47 44 47 N2O 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 156 147 165 HFC 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 43 PFC 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 0 SF6 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 0 HCFC 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 0 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2 GHG Protocol) CO2H 1,000 tonnes 47 57 64 CH4H 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 0 N2OH 1,000 tonnes CO2 eq 0 0 0 Other air emissions SOX I 1,000 tonnes 574 E 541 E 597 NOX 1,000 tonnes 820 E 773 E 854 VOCS 1,000 tonnes 13 E 12 E 14 Particulate matters 1,000 tonnes 78 74 71 Other resource consumption Steel consumption 1,000 tonnes 0 0 0 Waste total G 1,000 tonnes 201 C 249 C 158 – recycled (composting, reused, recycled) 1,000 tonnes 80 C 147 C 58 – solid (landfill, on-site storage, incineration) 1,000 tonnes 121 C 101 C 100 – hazardous (controlled deposit) 1,000 tonnes 0C 1C 0 Water Consumption 1,000 m3 288 329 329 – surface water 1,000 m3 16 22 15 – ground water 1,000 m3 60 64 42 – rain water 1,000 m3 0 0 0 – municipal water supplies /water utilities 1,000 m3 212 243 272 Spills (oil) m3 3 2 10 Economic performance 2009 2010 2011 Revenue USD million 18,288 24,022 25,108 Electricity cost USD million 13 D 16 D 19 * Container business includes Maersk Line, Safmarine, MCC Transport and other container related activities. ** Operational scope. – = Not available a Group princple on FTEs adjusted to include joint ventures accounting to regular financial consolidation rules. b Excludes seafarers. c Diesel, natural gas, and waste has been restated due to incorrect unit measures reported in certain entities. Subsequently, emission calculations have been restated as well. d Subsequently changed due to the above changes. e Reported waste figures for ships have been estimated based on type of waste and discharged. f Reefer electricity consumption at terminals incurred for 2009 and 2010 was allocated to the Liner company having reefers at the terminal some internally and other externally. This principle has been abolished, and all reefer consumption at the terminals is therefore reported by APM Terminals. 2009 and 2010 has been restated accordingly.ERS rail electricity consumption in Germany restated for 2009 and 2010 due to omission of reporting. g The converter for Gas to direct energy consumption restated h District heating included in the scope 2 emission calculations i Converter for SOx on Heavy fuel restated back in time based on measurements of sulphur content MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 14 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 15 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 From the CEO I am pleased to present you with Improving our energy efficiency is key to • M  aersk Line became a safer place to Maersk Line’s second Sustainability reduce our impact, and we are building work with relatively fewer accidents. Progress Report. It provides a on solid performance. Since 2007, we snapshot of our performance in have reduced our CO2 footprint per • W  e partnered with customers, 2011 and the work we have done to container by 15.6%. governments, suppliers and others in improve our services and overall improving local infrastructure and financial, social and environmental Introducing Route 2 increasing trade in emerging markets. performance. Industry specific challenges and pressing global issues such as climate change, • W  e supported communities in need Even though Maersk Line is more population growth and food security through active relief aid involvement competitive and responsive to customer demand important change in the way in Japan, Horn of Africa, Liberia and needs than ever, we faced a significant we and many of our customers operate. the Philippines. financial loss in 2011. On top of Business as usual is not an option. relentless turbulence in the global Our view of a more sustainable future • W  e are investing for the future by economy, overcapacity and the and the actions to get there are captured testing biofuels and investing in downward trend in freight rates put under the heading ‘Route 2’. This is our exhaust gas cleaning technology pressure on our bottom-line result. way of suggesting that there is a better and ballast water treatment sysalternative; one that is both profitable tems. We look to minimise our imOverall, the global liner shipping industry and sustainable. pacts for the long term by integratfaces some fundamental challenges. It ing Cradle to Cradle methodology is not profitable. It is extremely volatile. I am proud of how much Maersk Line into ship building activities and innoAnd it is to a large extent still perceived has achieved over the last year. I would vating ship and container designs. as a commodity business. particularly like to highlight the following to you: • W  e concluded 2011 with record high That needs to change. At Maersk Line, top quartile employee engagement we have set out to transform liner • M  aersk Line improved customers’ – a fundamental prerequisite for shipping. The launch of Daily Maersk was supply chains by providing the most driving the changes that are needed an important milestone in 2011. We will reliable shipping services in the in Maersk Line and the industry we continue to innovate our products and industry at a lower environmental are part of. services to help our customers optimise footprint per container compared their supply chains and save cost. both to the industry average and our I hope you enjoy reading the report and own 2010 performance levels. that our 2011 performance will spur Today, the environmental impact of demand for even more innovation, greater running our fleet of 600 container ships • M  aersk Line's fuel switch programme transparency and positive change in 2012. is significant in absolute terms. It is a reduced sulphur emissions by 65challenge we do not take lightly. In 2011, 95% in 11 ports in Singapore, New Soren Skou our absolute air emissions increased Zealand and Sweden. Partner, member of the A.P. Moller Maersk with the expansion of our fleet. Executive Board, and CEO of Maersk Line MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 16 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Better trade Goals Progress in 2011 Enable emerging Maersk Line grew its cargo volumes to and from market trade growth emerging markets by 15%. Partnerships for Maersk Line joined the New Vision for better trade Ag­riculture to help our customers in the agricultural sector enhance global food security, improve environmental sustainability Supporting the sustainable modern age and creating wealth for millions of people all and advance economic opportu­nities. SUGAR development of industries over the world. Yet, the enormous wealth generated over Maritime transportation has been, and continues to be, a key the last few centuries still remains out of reach for many and Maersk Line published its first socio-economic vehicle of global trade accounting for around 90% of globally has brought with it significant degradation of our natural study on the implications of unlocking trade in traded goods. environment. an emerging market. At any given point, the largest shipping lines transport more As we move towards a scenario with increased resource than 3% of the globe’s gross national product10. This makes scarcities, pollution and higher population, we recognise that Supporting Maersk Line’s Know Your Shipper program Maersk Line one of the key enablers of the global economy – “business as usual” will not be sufficient. We are committed legal trade was piloted in two countries. bringing great opportunities as well as responsibilities. to finding new ways of boosting economic activity and promoting social progress without damaging the environment. Maersk Line launched a global company There has been much debate over the past decades on the To that end, we are working together with our customers, reporting site for misdeclared, illegal and benefits and downsides of global trade. On one hand, global civil society and regulators to support the sustainable develundesired commodities. trade has been instrumental in lifting economies into the opment of industries and their supply chains. Fighting Maersk Line trained 19,740 employees in anticorruption corruption (77% of Maersk Line personnel). Maersk Line reached out within the shipping STOP CORRUPTION industry and formed the Maritime Anti-corruption Network (MACN) together with like minded industry players. Developing Maersk Line's main container businesses and supporting collectively spent more than USD 2 million on communities donation and sponsorship activities in our local DISASTER RELIEF communities, not counting the value of in-kind & PREPAREDNESS donations such as employee time, freight and container donations. Maersk joined the Logistics Emergency Team (LET). 14 Maersk employees were trained to be deployed as support to the UN in the event of large scale disasters. ENVIRONMENTAL EMPOWERING PROTECTION FOR TRADE Maersk Line was active in relief aid support in Japan, the Philippines, Horn of Africa and Liberia. 10 World Shipping Council, 2009; IMO, 2009 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 19 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Enabling emerging market trade growth “Unilever has a bold ambition to double its business and halve its environmental impact and has underpinned this ambition with the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan; nothing less than the basis of a new The centre of gravity of the world Since 1990, global trade has increased New transport corridors are emerging, business model. Quite simply, the only way we will economy is shifting, with more four-fold, and trade between emerging especially between Asia and Africa, Asia countries making a significant conmarkets has grown twenty-fold. and South America, as well as between achieve our ambition is by working in partnerships with tribution to global output than ever Asian markets. before. Our success now and in the future is very all our stakeholders – from suppliers to NGO's. much linked to the further success of At Maersk Line we are adapting our prodThis is gradually reducing the importhese growing markets. At the same ucts and services towards the new reality. Unilever products are sold in more than 180 countries. tance of the G7 group of economies, time, Maersk Line can play an instrumentransforming global trade flows, and tal role in linking these economies more We have a strong presence in emerging markets, some creating new growth opportunities for effectively to key trading partners all Maersk Line and our customers. over the world. of which suffer from poor infrastructure. Supply chain collaboration plays a crucial role to become faster, more cost efficient and more sustainable in our end to end operation. We are looking to others outside our industry to help us improve this. Our partnership with Maersk Line is a great example. The focus of this partnership is on improving and leveraging services in shipping but also on issues such as sustainable sourcing of raw materials, which depends on critical infrastructure. Value chain collaboration offers opportunities to win in common markets and support a sustainable growth model for us and our partners.” Simon Smith Vice President, Logistics, Unilever MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 20 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 21 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Unique services and ships to emerging markets FELIXTOWE BREMERHAVEN ROTTERDAM GENOVA BARCELONA BUSAN ALGIERS SHANGHAI TANGIERS SUEZ NINGBO XIAMEN FUZHOU In 2011, we reshuffled our global netJEDDAH YANTIAN works and introduced a number of JEBEL ALI JAWAHARLAL NEHRU NANSHA / HONG KONG unique new services and ships to accommodate trade growth in emerging markets. Overall, we grew our cargo volumes APAPA TEMA to and from emerging markets by 15%. SINGAPORE Daily Maersk SAMMAX TANJUNG PELEPAS The service offers daily vessel departure The vessels connect East Coast South times from four Asian ports to three America and Asia and call key ports in ports in northern Europe with an on-time Brazil. With their high number of reefer guarantee. It works as a conveyor belt plugs, the SAMMAX vessels provide our SANTOS with consistent transportation time on customers with global reefer expertise. WALVIS BAY ITAJAI any day of the week. The vessels are highly efficient and tailorPARANAGUA made for customer demand and needs DURBAN Rumba in these high growth trades. In 2012 RIO GRANDE CAPE TOWN MONTE VIDEO The service connects South America SAMMAX vessels will also be deployed directly to the Middle East and India. in Europe connecting major ports in BelBUENOS AIRES It comes with a high reefer capacity and gium, Netherlands, UK and Germany to offers loading points at key ports in Brazil East Coast South America. and wide coverage in the Mediterranean and Middle East. It is ideally suited to WAFMAX SAMMAX serve the protein market between Brazil The vessels are deployed on the trade DAILY MAERSK and the Middle East as well as resin, between Far East Asia and West Africa. RUMBA plastic, textile and fruit exporters. They are described in detail on page 24-28. WAFMAX MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 22 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 23 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 MAXimising West Africa’s planning capabilities of the many small to medium sized West African businesses. trade potential The environmental and human health impacts While environmental pollution and emissions from trade remains a peripheral priority for many people living in West Africa, environmental impacts of trade are not negligible and a significant share of this derives from maritime transportation. One major pollutant from shipping is sulphur dioxide, causing acidification and Maersk Line is introducing 22 new – the time between a container is Tema in Ghana in increasing their capacity impacting the health of the people who container ships to West Africa. discharged from a vessel and till it exits and turnaround times. By reducing live close to ports. The port of Apapa is Designed to enable higher port prothe port facilities – are nearly quadruple vessels’ waiting time in the ports and located within 2 km of the city-centre of ductivity in West Africa, the ‘WAFthose of Asian ports12. enabling faster discharging and loading Lagos and the port of Tema is located apMAX’ vessels help reduce important of containers, the WAFMAX vessels will proximately 5 km from the city-centre of barriers for continued trade growth Low port productivity contributes to enable speedier trade flows in and out of Tema. More than 12 million people live in the region. high trade cost and inflated pricing West Africa, at a lower cost for all stakewithin a radius of 25 km of the two ports. of consumer goods. Transportation and holders involved. Due to the port productivity benefits and Africa rising logistics costs in West Africa are in fact the increased efficiency of the WAFMAX Africa’s economy is growing rapidly. Over among the highest in the world and As the majority of the container ships vessels, sulphur emissions will decrease the past decade six of the world’s ten imported goods are out of reach for currently calling West African ports are by 20% in Apapa and 13% in Tema from fastest-growing countries were African many West African consumers. At the relatively small in size (between 1,700– 2013 onwards. and in the period 2011-2015, seven of the same time, the economy continues to be 2,500 TEU) and unable to meet the spetop 10 fastest growing economies will heavily dependent on commodity exports cific conditions of the ports, the waiting While of a more global nature, CO2 emisbe in Africa. West Africa stands out in this of oil and mineral reserves, resulting in a time spent getting in and out of West sions from shipping on the Far East Asia respect. In 2011, Ghana's economy was significant outflow of empty containers. African ports is significant. – West Africa trade are also significant. predicted to be the fastest growing in the Ultimately, the West African population West African customers using the WAFworld and in Nigeria annual growth has bears the costs of the current system Besides delivering almost twice the MAX vessels will however be able to been around 9% during the last 10 years.11 and its inefficiencies. number of containers in one vessel call, reduce CO2 emissions of their goods by up the physical dimensions of the WAFto 30% compared to the industry average. Significant challenges remain for Africa Introducing WAFMAX MAX vessels along with an automated as large inequalities continue to persist In response to the trade growth between container lock feature enables faster in income and human development. Far-East Asia and West Africa, Maersk discharge of containers and can provide While economic growth is likely to reduce Line is upgrading its services to West a safer working environment for port the proportion of the population living Africa by introducing 22 new container stevedores. on less than USD 1.25 a day, the African ships from 2011-13. The WAFMAX vesDevelopment Bank estimates that povsels are the biggest container vessels to Improvements still needed erty will remain a fact of life for around a ever serve the region. They can carry Important challenges remain to be third of the people living in Africa for the 4,500 containers (TEU) and have been addressed in order for West African next 40 years. The Bank concludes that designed specifically to accommodate communities to benefit from the full Africa needs a long-term average of 7% the lower drafts in West African ports ‘WAFMAX effect’. Among other things, annual GDP growth across the continent and enable a more efficient operation. this includes overcoming the current for poverty to decline significantly. capacity constraints in West African The WAFMAX effect on port ports to meet future growth; making the Barriers to growth and terminal operations customs declaration processes more In West Africa, ports and container terThe WAFMAX vessels will support imefficient and transparent; improving minals are among the least efficient and portant ports and terminal operators in and expanding the inland transportation most congested in the world. Dwell times West Africa such as Apapa in Nigeria and network; and upgrading the logistics 11 International Monetary Fund 12 Harding, Pålssonand Raballand, 2007 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 24 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 25 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 The WAFMAX effect Growing trade relations between Far East Asia and West Africa – Highlights In 2011, container volumes between Far East Asia and West Africa grew by 25%, mainly due to large GDP growth in Ghana. continue but at more moderate levels due to lower economic growth in West Africa with an estimated 9% in 2012 lower-priced Chinese products in growing West African markets such as Ghana and Nigeria. In comparison, container volumes grew and 5% in 2013. by approximately 6% between Europe and West Africa. China’s need for resources and commodities is a key driver of increased trade For the coming 1-2 years, growth in flows between Far East Asia and West container volumes are expected to Africa along with growing demand for A study by Copenhagen Economics looked into the current and future impacts of the WAFMAX vessels in Ghana (Tema) and Nigeria (Apapa) and estimated the following effects of the WAFMAX vessels by 2013: Increased port productivity West African ports and terminal opnegatively impacting their efficiency. year in Apapa and up to 12% per year erators face one of the most chalBy 2013, WAFMAX will reduce port in Tema – or approximately 1 full day lenging environments in the world, turnaround time by up to 20% per saved per vessel call. WAXMAX features • Capacity: 4,500 containers (TEU) • Length and stability designed for more cranes to operate at the same time. • Fully automatic twistlocks enable faster discharge of containers and a safer operation. BUSAN SHANGHAI NINGBO Reducing port XIAMEN turnaround time by: Catalysts for trade and economic growth in West Africa UP TO UP TO FUZHOU NANSHA Reduced transportation Increased trade potential Reduced environmental footprint 12% 20% TEMA APAPA and logistics costs Increased trade is a key vehicle of GDP Increased trade in and out of West Africa Transportation and logistics costs in growth and a necessary condition for means increased emissions of both local TANJUNG PELEPAS West Africa are among the highest in poverty alleviation in West Africa. and global pollutants. The introduction the world. By 2013, WAFMAX can help Based on the estimated increase in port of WAFMAX will reduce absolute sulbring down shipping, inventory and conproductivity, the WAFMAX has a potenphur dioxide emissions in the ports by gestion costs by USD 131 million per tial to increase trade flows by USD 760 20% per year in Apapa and 13% per year WALVIS BAY year in Apapa and USD 80 million per million per year in Nigeria and USD 490 in Tema compared to a situation without year in Tema to the benefit of shipping million per year in Ghana by 2013. WAFMAX. Furthermore, the WAFMAX lines and West African importers and vessels will have a 30% lower CO2 footexporters. print per container moved compared to the industry average on that trade. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 26 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 27 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Partnering with ports and terminals for MAXimum effect Getting ready to receive the WAFMAX are key to bring down waiting time and reached in October 2011 when the termivessels requires close collaboration help terminal operators prepare for the nal delivered an all time high productivity between Maersk Line and the receiving large incoming volumes of the WAFMAX of 64 container moves per hour on a ports and terminals in West Africa. vessels. WAFMAX vessel. Examples of joint efforts include training of pilots and stevedores along with In some ports such as Walvis Bay in careful stowage planning to ensure that Namibia dredging has already been the vessels are navigated safely to shore conducted to accommodate a fully and containers are discharged safely loaded WAFMAX vessel. In the port of and efficiently. Fixed berthing windows Tema, an important milestone was The value of time for Fouani For Nigerian-based importer of electroncan be as high as 20-30 days. For cusWAFMAX shipments in 2012 and expect ics, Fouani, transportation time and relitomers with a turn-over of USD 10 million to reach 95% reliability of WAFMAX ability are key to the success of the comper month, the financing costs of keepshipments from 2013 and onwards pany. Fouani imports its products from ing an extra 30 days inventory can Asia and assembles them locally before amount to a cost of more than USD 2 mildistributing them to its more than 1,200 lion per year based on a 20% interest customers nationwide. For this purpose, rate which is the going rate in Nigeria. the company is highly dependent on the timely arrival of its goods. In cooperation with our partners in key West African ports, Maersk Line will be Sometimes delays in the port of Apapa able to deliver on-time for 75-85% of the fouani “With Maersk Line’s new WAFMAX service we have already seen variation go down to as low as 1-2 days. This saving is an important piece in making our business more efficient in the long run and helping us to offer a more competitive price to our customers.” Mohammed Hassan Fouani Managing Director, Fouani Nigeria Limited MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 28 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Partnerships for better trade As we grow our business in emergCommodities related to agriculture and Supporting NVA goals ing markets, we have the opportunity forestry, refrigerated cargo and food To engage in these vital global debates, and responsibility to create value on and beverages make up approximately during 2011, Maersk Line became a social, environmental and economic 40% of Maersk Line’s global cargo. member of the New Vision for Agriculparameters. ture (NVA). NVA is a private-sector led Agriculture’s importance will grow in the initiative under the World Economic We have embarked on this journey by coming years. On current projections, by Forum which aims to increase the exploring opportunities for partnerships 2050, global food production will need to contribution of the agriculture sector with customers and relevant stakeholdincrease by 70% to feed the planet’s 10 to global food security, environmental ers where we can leverage the positive billion people. Accounting for 70% of sustainability and economic opportunity. impacts of our business to promote suswater use and up to 30% of the global tainable development of key industries. greenhouse gas emissions, the sector In NVA we join our customers in their significantly contributes to and is threatpursuit of concrete goals towards a One industry where we believe we can ened by environmental degradation. At more sustainable and inclusive growth make a difference is agriculture. the same time, no other sector is more trajectory. instrumental in fulfilling the essential Better trade through needs of the global population, facilitatsustainable agriculture ing economic development and fuelAgriculture is one of the key industry ling growth, especially in developing sectors driving emerging market growth. and emerging markets. Our commitment is based on our support for the NVA goals of Food security Economic development Environmental sustainability 20% 20% 20% Increase agricultural Decrease the rural population living Decrease greenhouse gas emissions produce by on less than USD 1.25 per day by from agriculture by MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 30 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 “Trade and infrastructure play a critical role for food security. Food needs to be traded to move from surplus to deficit areas to the benefit of all parties, often across international boundaries.” Roger Janson Business Unit Leader, Cargill Ocean Transportation Cargill: Promoting food security and low impact trade Cargill is an international producer provide the greatest production effiShipping Initiative to support Maersk and marketer of food, agricultural, ciency and can be renewed so that proLine and others in doing exactly that financial and industrial products duction can continue for many years. job, but with a smaller environmental and services. The company employs footprint.” 138,000 people in 63 countries. Trade and infrastructure play a critical role for food security to the benRoger Janson Cargill emphasises the need for creefit of all parties, often across Business Unit Leader, ating global food and energy supply international boundaries. Trade helps Cargill Ocean Transportation chains in a responsible manner. For create jobs, supports local econoCargill, food security depends on ismies, raises living standards and sues such as sustainable production, contributes to a more food secure efficient use of markets and trade. global population. “For the global food system to beMaersk Line’s business plays an come more productive, sustainable important role by connecting internaand reliable, agricultural raw materials tional markets. We work together need to be grown where resources with Maersk Line in the Sustainable MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 33 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 The case of the Indian banana trade MERCHANT EXPORTER HARVESTS BANANAS BANANAS ARE TRUCKED TO PACKING STATION BANANAS ARE WASHED, SORTED AND QUALITYASSURED BANANAS PACKED INTO BOXES AND THEN A CONTAINER FOR EXPORT CONTRACT FARMER ATTENDS BANANA PLANTS CONTAINER TRUCKED TO TERMINAL CONTRACT FARMER PLANTS BANANA The journey of the banana om s • Clear – Cu st ce – TISSUE an CUSTOMS CLEARANCE In 2011, we offered our perspectives banana trade to significantly reduce AT TERMINAL on the Indian banana trade through our post-harvest waste levels through the Maersk Line study13: first socio-economic impact study. establishment of an unbroken cold chain Unlocking the Indian from pack-house to end-consumers. banana trade The study was conducted together with $ $ CONTAINERS LOADED ONTO SHIP BANANAS SOLD AT BANANAS IN CONTAINERS SHIPPED TO the Danish research institute Applied Many emerging and developing econoMaersk Line is a key partner to WHOLESALE MARKETS AND RIPENING ROOMS MARKETS IN THE MIDDLE RETAILERS IN THE MIDDLE EAST Economics and Health Research and mies lack sufficient cold chain infraIndian export industries and an EAST Firstline Communication. It looked at structure. In India, for example, around important stakeholder in the the emerging Indian banana trade in 20 – 30% of locally grown fruits and emerging banana export trade. Risks if trade detail, and discussed the opportunities vegetables rot in transit. This amount is Current state Future potential is not managed well and challenges associated with growing equivalent to the total annual consumpIn 2011, members of Maersk < 1% 25 million tonnes the trade across all aspects of the Indian tion of fruits and vegetables in the UK. Line’s sustainability team, alongbanana value chain. side external consultants visited • W  ill growing the banana export Over the course of the years, Maersk Line India to learn first-hand about The proportion of Indian bananas Up to 25 million tonnes of bananas be able to pull Indian small-holder The banana: food for thought has invested heavily in innovations in conthe Indian banana export model, that are currently exported. This can be freed up for consumption if the banana farmers out of poverty? Bananas are the world’s most popular tainer technology, such as Maersk Line’s its growth potential and the represents just 0.3% of all internaexport productivity gains are replicated fruit. They are a staple commodity for StarCare™ and Quest II (see page 64). contribution it can make to tionally traded bananas. to the domestic sector. • W  ill increased export mean that local many developing countries and very India’s social and economic consumers have less access to an im190,000 important to food security. They also These innovations mean that fruit crops development. portant daily food crop and domestic make up around 9% of Maersk Line’s such as bananas can now travel long 28 % price increases? refrigerated cargo business – a trade we distances, up to 50 days, with minimal Our research found that: India’s share of world banana proContainers exported from India can expect to grow over the coming years. waste and loss of freshness, giving fruit • Increasing banana exports has duction, making it the world’s largest increase from 3,000 in 2010 up to • W  ill external inputs such as chemiproducers around the world new opporthe potential to bring significant banana producer. 190,000 yearly by 2025. cals and fertilisers negatively imDespite being the world’s biggest protunities to advance into new export economic, social and environpact the health of banana workers USD 1.612 billion ducer, less than 1% of Indian bananas markets. mental advantages to India and the local environment? are exported. 80% of global banana 20 – 30 % production currently originate from We believe our assets and expertise • T  o expand the export trade, The proportion of Indian fruits and can be generated to the local economy.  an emissions from export growth • C large-scale commercial farms, but can contribute to reducing the current major investment is needed, vegetables estimated to go to waste in be lowered by giving priority to 96,000 most Indian farmers are smallholders. waste level and realising some of the along with close collaboration India due to the absence of an effective carbon-efficient transportation Getting the same quality, economies export possibilities. We have shared our between domestic and intercold chain. This amount is equivalent solutions? of scale and security of supply when study with exporters, buyers, authorinational stakeholders in the to the total annual consumption of jobs and more than 400,000 dependproduction is spread across hundreds ties and academia who, like ourselves, industry fruit and vegetables in the UK. ants. or thousands of farms is challenging. can have an impact on future develop60 % ments of the trade. • C  ritical upgrades in India’s cold Reducing food waste through chain infrastructure will be 3,000 an unbroken cold chain important to unlocking future Containers are per year currently exIncreased earnings for farmers of A key finding in our Indian banana case growth potential ported out of India equivalent to what 60%; with a 106% rise for workers. study was the ability of the emerging is exported out of Ecuador in one week. 13 The study can be downloaded at maerskline.com MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 34 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 35 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 13˚ 13˚ 13˚ 13˚ 13˚ “Growing bananas in a sustainable way for export in India could hold the potential to benefit the livelihood of What is a cold-chain? Indian farmers as well as local wildlife and biodiversity. Improved soil fertility, creation of sustainable jobs and Transporting fresh produce over long chain’ an uninterrupted series of storcost effective way. distances is an essential element of age and distribution activities, is a critirefuge for wildlife would be important focus areas global food distribution, but most wastcal component. Our cold chain skills and assets can help age of perishable goods in transportaproducers and exporters optimise their to ensure sustainable development of the Indian tion comes directly or indirectly from Maersk Line is a global leader in the desupply chains and reduce the amount poor temperature control. velopment and provision of cold chains. of food wasted during transportation, banana export.” We offer refrigerated containers that as well as boosting the productivity and Marcel Clement To minimise these losses and extend can transport fresh produce all the way efficiency of the food sector. Senior Manager Europe, Sustainable Value Chains, Rainforest Alliance the shelf life of fresh produce, a ‘cold from the farmer to the consumer in a MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 36 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supporting legal trade “Maersk Line has joined forces with other shipping lines operating in the UK to reduce the risk of shipping illegal waste. Our cooperation with the industry has been beneficial from both ends. We want to avoid doing unnecessary spot checks, as we know the business is operating on a tight schedule. This cooperation has Globally, illegal trade undermines leUK’s Environmental Agency to reduce misdeclarations and risks for potential enabled us to work more efficiently, with controls earlier gitimate business and distorts socithe risk of shipping illegal waste out of illegal commodities. Reporting on incietal and economic development. the country. We take it very seriously dents and risks in countries and capturin the process.” when illegal waste is discovered in a ing the learnings in one central platform The Environment Agency for England and Wales As a reputable company, we recognise Maersk Line container. At the beginning enables us to discover patterns, for that there is a risk to our brand if our serof 2011, Maersk Line received informaexample with regard to the specific vices are misused to facilitate illegal trade. tion that we had unintentionally transtrades and bookings. This type of inforWhile our customers are responsible for ported about 70 containers of used tyres mation and intelligence is an important the legality of the cargo, our stakeholdto South Korea from the UK. The shipnext step in helping prevent illegal cargo ers are increasingly demanding a more ment was not legal and we cooperated getting on board Maersk Line ships. We active role from shipping lines in helping with the authorities to ensure that the believe that reporting these incidents to reduce illegal trade. However, shipcontainers were returned to the UK. In will ensure global focus on relevant ping lines only have the right to open and addition, we provided information to issues. The roll-out of this reporting investigate a sealed container if it is estienable the authorities to investigate platform will continue in 2012. mated to pose a severe security or safety further and find the responsible shipper. risk. To reduce the risk of carrying illegal Know Your Shipper trade, we therefore need to be smarter in Illegal trade of The “Know Your Shipper” program was spotting any risks in our systems and wildlife species piloted in 2011 to enable proactive analycollaborating with relevant stakeholdIllegal trade of wildlife species undersis of commodities and shippers. This ers to mitigate those risks. mine countries' efforts to protect their involved dedicating internal resources to natural resources. Some whale and identifying high-risk shippers and spotBecoming part of the solution shark species are covered by CITES, the ting misdeclarations. The program has Some of the most challenging issues international convention on trade in so far only been piloted in a handful concerning international trade go well endangered species, and it is Maersk of countries, but has already provided beyond our immediate area of control. Line’s policy to not accept any cargos useful knowledge on many trade lanes. However, for each challenge there is also declared as involving whale or shark. an opportunity to become a part of the However, in November 2011, the Danish The Mismatch Analysis initiative was The issue of illegal waste On the same time, a lot of the cargo solution. For Maersk Line, supporting ininewspaper Politiken informed that a also launched with the purpose of Illegal waste is a major concern and Maersk Line carries on return routes tiatives and developments to strengthen Maersk Line shipment did contain shark discovering shipments where reported poses a large risk to the public health back to Asia (‘backhaul cargo’) contains legal trade is vital. This is best done by meat. Following this incident, we are name and actual commodity show a and the environment in destination waste materials, i.e. paper and metal, engaging in cross-sector collaboration improving communication of this policy mismatch, e.g. where the shipper name countries. that re-enter new production cycles. with key customers, authorities and in areas where the risk of shipping shark refers to biscuits and confectionary but credible third party organisations to is high. This work will continue in 2012. the commodity booked is cotton or It is estimated that, on average, approxiSuch global recycling patterns would advance our shared agendas. textiles. This analysis allows us to make mately one out of ten containers expor­ted not be possible without cost efficient Spotting the issues the right judgements when suspicious from European international seaports sea freight – and without it our ships Illegal waste at the booking stage cases arise. is related to waste. 10% of the waste would not be fully utilised. Many The UK is a major exporter of waste and In 2011, Maersk Line initiated a more cargo containers is exported violating advanced recycling businesses prosper Maersk Line has worked together with systematic approach towards cargo applicable environmental rules. from this opportunity. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 38 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Fighting Corruption “I am very impressed by the efforts taken by our employees every day. In some locations, it takes a lot of skills and experience to mitigate and circumvent the pressure for facilitation payments while honoring our commitments to customers to deliver on time.” Peter Rønnest Andersen Chief Financial Officer, Maersk Line Corruption has emerged as one of detained, or in worst cases the crew can the world’s greatest challenges. Clear policy on be exposed to severe extortion situaCorruption has a negative impact on anti-corruption tions. To that end, our policy on anticountries, communities and busicorruption recognises personal safety Maersk Line ships and offices are therenesses impeding economic growth The Maersk Group’s policy on antias the main priority. fore requested to submit incident reports and sustainable development. corruption has a zero tolerance when they face challenging situations. for bribes. We oppose facilitaThe reports also identify best practices In some countries corruption is pervation payments and work actively 19,740 employees and suggestions for improvements that sive and has infiltrated most aspects of towards reducing them with the completed Maersk Line’s can be implemented globally. The reports society. Laws are not enforced uniformly ultimate goal of elimination. anti-corruption course help us leverage countries’ knowledge and without discrimination, and compaon appropriate anti-corruption measnies are likely to encounter demands for Our policy obligates us to work In 2011, we launched a mandatory ures and form the basis for prioritising bribes or extortion attempts in meetagainst corrupt practices by cone-learning course for all Maersk efforts and resources geographically. ings with public officials. stantly focusing on anti-corrupLine employees. tion measures. Local Maersk Line organisations are also Facilitation payments The course was completed by 77% asked to map risk areas proactively. By in shipping of the global organisation. increasing transparency we can verify The shipping sector operates with the equip employees worldwide in applying payments on a detailed level and over whole world as a workplace, and depends anti-corruption measures in their local In addition, face to face worktime demonstrate reductions in facilitaon frequent interaction with public offienvironment. It also gave employees a shops are continuing with the purtion payments. cials. A big challenge in the shipping better understanding of the challenges pose of building capacity locally by industry is the frequent and persistent seafarers and employees in the most implementing a “train the trainer” The industry gathers demands for low value amounts exposed regions face every day. Employconcept. To date over 470 employto address corruption demanded by public officials to facilitate ees have also been provided with checkees have been trained in high risk In the fight against corruption, much can port operations (‘so called facilitation lists and guidance on how to handle a countries. be gained when companies in the same payments’). Typically, the demands are challenging situation. sector join their forces and work together. for cash, cigarettes or soft drinks . Fighting corruption is challenging the Open culture and At the end of 2010, Maersk Line initiated It is our policy to oppose facilitation norm in some countries. It takes extenstructured reporting a discussion among like-minded ship payments and work actively to reduce and sive experience by employees to oppose Having a good understanding of local owners to investigate whether there eventually eliminate them. We took severor minimise demands for facilitation challenges is an important prerequisite was sufficient common interest to adwith head offices in Denmark, Norway, and solve specific challenges. One of al steps in 2011 to progress on this journey. payments while ensuring our operation for taking on the challenge. So is having a dress these challenges together. A high Germany, UK, US and Sweden. the ambitions of the network is to seek is not being impacted. company culture where issues are being level of interest led to the creation of support from government bodies and Employees discussed openly to find the best course the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network The purpose of MACN is to share best international organisations to target take on the fight Opposing demands in the interaction of action. There is a lot to be gained from (MACN) in January 2011. Maersk Line practices among its members and align corrupt practices in challenging jurisIn 2011, more than 19,000 Maersk Line with public servants can reduce demands best practice sharing as our seafarers served as the facilitator for the network policies and approaches in the field dictions and ways to address the root employees completed Maersk Line’s in one country and lead to severe conseand office personnel, regardless of locain 2011. The members of today represent of anti-corruption. The network also causes. anti-corruption course. The course helped quences in another. The ship can be tion, face similar challenges. different areas of the shipping sector endeavours to collaborate to address MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 40 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 41 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Developing and supporting communities Investing in causes of material signifidisturbing volcanic eruptions and a The four companies come together cance to the communities we are part tsunami in Japan that no one will ever when a natural disaster with an impact of enhances the long-term success of forget. on more than 500,000 people suddenly global and local communities as well occurs. The team coordinates transport as our business. The frequency and closeness of natural and storage of aid goods where there is a disasters and the dreadful famine in the need. Their efforts and expertise bridge WFP/Siegfried Modola Maersk Line’s community development Horn of Africa made strategic relief the resource gap during the first 3-6 and support programme encompasses support an important priority in 2011 weeks, while the UN and other aid agenthree pillars: disaster relief support, and put optimal planning, on-time cies are ramping up their efforts. environmental protection projects and delivery and employee preparedness projects that help develop new social to the test. The logistics challenge during the first and economic opportunities for underphases of any disaster is often severe privileged communities through global Life-saving logistics and the response to this challenge can trade. These are areas where Maersk Getting the right products, to the right make a big difference in how the disaster Line’s business can have the biggest place, at the right time takes on new impacts local communities in the long positive impact on communities, by meaning when roads, airports, bridges, term. OTHER YELLOW SPLIT PEAS 18 % 20 % leveraging our core expertise through and other logistics infrastructure are seAlso commercially Maersk Line makes a differcollaborative efforts. verely damaged or destroyed. To overIn the long term, strategic relief aid ence by transporting more than 22,800 concome logistics barriers and to maximise supports social stability which again tainers (TEU) of food aid for our customers, the UN World Food Programme and the US Aid, in 2011 focus on disaster relief the positive effects of our business and supports the restoration of local econBEANS 2011. 2% In 2011, the world experienced a record expertise, Maersk became members of omies and growth – critical societal high number of tornadoes, unprecethe Logistics Emergency Team (LET), factors that we depend on as a logistics LENTILS 3% dented flooding, rampant earthquakes, together with Agility, TNT and UPS. company. VEGETABLE OIL 19 % WHEAT 3% Maersk Line shipments WFP/Laura Melo RICE 4% US Kenya  110 CEREALS US Ethiopia  69 5% US Djibouti  65 US Pakistan  57 CORN MEAL 5% US Tanzania  40 US Togo  33 FLOUR 7% SOY US Bangladesh  18 14 % US Sri Lanka  17 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 42 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 43 BETTER TRADE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 The employees in Maersk Kenya took an active role in donating and transporting food supplies. Pictured are Maersk employees in Mombasa “Maersk’s donation has been especially timely as we loading food for malnourished people. continue to reach out to millions of people affected by the drought in the Horn of Africa. With these containers, we’ll be better able to store food that is essential for our nutrition activities” Monica Marshall Global Head of Private Partnerships , the UN World Food Programme Employees on stand-by Maersk Line continued its services in the An international pool of experts in wareregion, as one of the few shipping lines. Japan house management, transport manWe took the necessary precautions to agement, customs management, port ensure the safety of our seafarers and Maersk Line offered: operations, communications and supmonitored the developments closely. • 125 containers (TEU) of transply chain management are on stand-by The efforts of our captains and crews port including end-point delivery. in each of the four companies. throughout this difficult time have not gone unnoticed. Overall, the continua• 2 7 containers (TEU) were 14 Maersk Line employees have been tion of Maersk Line’s services was shipped for free. trained to be deployed if a disaster strikes essential in keeping the supply chain to and there is a need for their logistics and from Japan intact at a critical time. • U SD 88,000 was donated by expertise. They are trained in safety, Maersk employees. The amount security and ethics in order to provide Horn of Africa famine was matched by the company. effective support to the UN World Food With famine across Somalia, Ethiopia Programme and the UN Logistics Cluster. and Kenya, the UN partners scaled up the urgent humanitarian lifesaving Earthquake and operations. Maersk Line prioritised aid tsunami hit Japan cargo to the area and prepared the Horn of Africa When the massive earthquake and tsunecessary capacity by reorganising its nami struck Japan, the Logistic Emerservice networks. Maersk Line donated in-kind gency Team stepped in and facilitated services valued at USD 150,000: the transportation of aid relief items. Existing services were upgraded with • Transportation from additional ships to optimise cargo flows Mombasa to Northern Kenya The distribution of the relief goods was to the affected areas. Maersk Line complicated and challenging as the donated cash and transportation to the • 3 0 containers of corn soya earthquake and tsunami had caused World Food Programme from Mombasa blend critical damage to the domestic infrato Northern Kenya. The donation constructure. During the aid relief period, sisted of 30 containers and corn soya Maersk and some of its service providers blend (a fortified nutritional food used to took care of the logistics response out of combat malnutrition), as well as the the port of Qingdao in China, including transport. The containers will be used to cargo handling and sorting, storage, and store nutritionally-enhanced food in 28 inland transportation. of the World Food Programme's distribution sites in the region. In spite of the Fukushima nuclear disaster and the series of nuclear meltdowns, MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 44 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Service excellence Goals Progress in 2011 Rethinking our service Improve customer Customer satisfaction with Maersk Line rose by In 2011 we set out to rethink our business focusing on the value Change is key as we and our customers respond to massive satisfaction 5% from a score of 5.8 to 6.1. The result is an imwe can add to our customers’ supply chains. global challenges such as climate change, food scarcity and provement over our 2011 target of 5.75. poverty. We still have a long way to go to change shipping, but Change is necessary in shipping. We have a whole new generain 2011 we nevertheless made important progress, collaboCustomer satisfaction with Maersk Line’s envition of customers that expect a different kind of service and rating with customers on new game changing solutions. ronmental performance increased by 6% from quality from us. We are committed to driving change in global 5.3 to 5.6. The result falls slightly short of our 2011 shipping so that companies around the globe can optimise target of 5.7. their supply chains, reduce waste and grow profitably. Increase supply chain Maersk Line’s average global on-time delivery score efficiency through rose to 87.5% in Q4 2011, an increase from 70.2% on-time reliability in Q4 2010, and from 82.9% in Q3 201114. Maersk Line maintained its status as the most reliable of the top 20 shipping lines across all the trades covered by Drewry. Daily Maersk helped move Maersk Line to 94.2% in Q4 2011 on the Asia-Europe/Mediterranean trade lane, an increase from 87.5% in the previous quarter. Provide our customers Maersk Line services were 8% more energy with energy efficient efficient than the industry average, a decrease INDUSTRY AVERAGE shipping in efficiency from 10% in 201015. MAERSK LINE IN 2011 Transparency and Maersk Line discloses its CO2 performance of every choice in the industry vessel and main trade lanes on maerskline.com and in this report. ? ? ! Clean Cargo Working Group collected the CO2 performance of all shipping line members including their CO2 performance on every trade lane. But all shipping lines, except from Maersk Line, remain anonymous. 14 Drewry 2011 schedule reliability report on top 20 shipping lines. 15 Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) data from mid 2010. The annual CO2 emissions data for all shipping lines are released in May every year. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 47 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supporting a Many of our customers, including our own company, are starting to work with closed loop business models. Developing closed-loop supply chains will demand innovative collaboration among supply new business model chain entities, taking into account reverse resource flows. Our business has an important role to play in optimising the flow of products and reducing supply chain waste. TAKING OUT WASTE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS The world is changing for our cuslife cycle of their products – from the way ble and easier to manage. We are doing tomers. Major global challenges such they source raw materials, to making it that in several ways by increasing supas climate change and dwind­ ling easier for consumers to recycle materials ply chain efficiency and reducing waste resources are creating a new business at the end of a product’s life. through reliability, creating more choice environment. Concerns are rising for customers through better standand companies are increasingly being Part of the big picture ards of transparency in our industry, held accountable for the impact of This big picture perspective is key to creand innovating new solutions to imtheir products and their operations on ating a sustainable future. But there are prove the supply chain. PRODUCT USE the environment. Many of our cusstill areas of the supply chain that are tomers are responding to this change, difficult for our customers to measure, WASTE developing more sustainable prodor control. Up until now, transportation ucts and ways of doing business. and shipping of goods has been one of those areas. In the drive towards a more sustainable REPAIR & REUSE DISTRIBUTOR value chain, customers are starting to At Maersk Line, we are dedicated to look at production in terms of the bigger helping our customers develop a suspicture. Increasingly, they are taking tainable business model by making the responsibility for managing the entire supply chain more efficient, more visiREMANUFACTURER MANUFACTURER “We are very interested in learning from our value chain partners, and sharing our insights and lessons learned in the pursuit of business sustainability. Information RECYCLING SUPPLIER NETWORK within the value chain is a fundamental building block for insight, know­ledge, innovation to reduce risks, costs, and to develop value added services among value-chain participants.” Mr. Neil McKenna EXTRACTED Vice President, Transportation, Canadian Tire MATERIALS MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 48 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 49 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Daily Maersk helped move Maersk Line's on-time delivery score to 94.2% in Q4 2011 on the Asia-Europe/ Increasing supply Mediterranean trade lane, an increase from 87.5% in the previous quarter. chain efficiency through on-time reliability When products arrive early, customcompared to the same period in 2010, inventory buffer at both origin and destiers face capacity problems. If prodand from 82.9% in the third quarter of nation significantly. Customers can simucts are late, they face a delivery 2011. Our goal is to further decrease ply choose to reduce their warehousing problem. When customers can count customers’ supply chain cost and waste capacity. Absolute reliability and optimal on each and every container arriving through a global average of 95% planning also takes away the need for on time, supply chain cost and waste on-time reliability. To this end, we introlast minute air freight which is costly and can be reduced. duced the concept of absolute reliability has a higher footprint. by the end of last year. It is therefore an integral part of our Higher profit and less CO2 business model to be reliable and ensure Cutting supply chain waste Absolute reliability in shipping reduces on-time delivery of customers’ shipThe new service ‘Daily Maersk’ offers cost, time spent on freight management ments. In 2011 Maersk Line ranked highdaily vessel departure times from four and energy consumption. Moreover, est in Drewry’s report on top 20 shipAsian ports to three ports in northern Daily Maersk produces 13% less CO2 ping lines’ schedule reliability. Maersk Europe with a guarantee of every conper container compared to the industry Line’s average global on-time delivery tainer arriving on time. With daily deparaverage on the Asia-North Europe trade. score rose to 87.5% in the fourth quartures and a consistent network flow, And containers arriving on time are ter of 2011, an increase from 70.2% Daily Maersk can reduce customers’ essential to pricing and profits. Without Daily Maersk With Daily Maersk Weekly departures Daily departures “Daily Maersk is a highly anticipated product offering Transit times and buffers A fixed cargo availability date Unreliability. In the shipping industry only every second Absolute reliability. All containers on 12 corridors from Asia that will support us at present to achieve on time container arrives on time to North Europe arrive on time No compensation for unreliability If a container is delayed, Maersk Line will pay back $100-300 delivery of our product to our distribution centre with a Industry average of 55.4g CO2 per container (TEU) per km 48g CO2 per container (TEU) per km (13% CO2 less than industry average) fixed transportation time. This arrangement, along with the flexibility of daily cut-offs at origin and cargo available for pick up, assisted us currently to optimise the planning of our supply chain.” Mats Samuelsson With Daily Maersk customers can simply choose to cut out their warehousing capacity. Global Shipping Manager, H&M MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 50 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 More transparency The shipping industry faces an important communication task in making its scope 3 emissions more visible. We customers, especially where there is a good case for lowering shipping’s share of the product lifecycle impact. – more choice in shipping are making progress with some of our Making the industry’s environmenMore energy efficient Checking the tal performance 100% transparent services compared to ‘carbon blind spots’ lays the groundwork for benchthe averages Ocean shipping’s impact on the product ? marking. Some shipping lines do not disclose their lifecycle varies substantially from product environmental performance, and those to product. As ocean freight remains one Benchmarking is important to create that do, disclose it anonymously. We of the most energy-efficient ways of choice for our customers – choice on are therefore left to benchmark our pertransporting large amounts of cargo, the which services customers want to buy formance against estimated industry share of the impact is often relatively and choice regarding which suppliers averages only. Maersk Line’s target is to small. Nevertheless, in some cases, ocean Shipping remains in many cases a blind spot in the total lifecycle impact of products. they want to engage with. offer our customers services that are at shipping can make a big difference to a least 10% lower on CO2 compared to the product’s overall environmental footprint. We experience that customers certainly industry average, a position which Maersk want to have a choice about their own Line gained in 2010. However, shipping remains in many supply chain impact. Lowering their cases a blind spot in the total lifecycle The case of orange juice impact is important to their business We estimate that our CO2 gap to the impact of products. The exercise of growth, risk mitigation and sustainabiliindustry average was approximately 8% collecting data from all supply chain ty strategies. Nobody should have to in 2011. This estimate is based on mid entities is complex and time consuming. Orange juice highlights the case for product. Orange juice from concentrate “It’s important to inform consumers take decisions in the dark on such impor2010 industry emissions data collected And as emissions from ocean shipping raising consumer awareness. At Tesco, requires significantly smaller quantiabout the choices they have. And it’s tant items. We believe strongly in 100% by Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG). fall under the category of ‘scope 3 emisfor example, oranges for its wide ties of material to be transported to important to work together with our transparency in shipping to offer more The industry's CO2 emissions data are sions’, manufacturers have some­times range of orange juice products are the UK to make up the final product. suppliers to reduce the impact of choice and differentiated services. released every year in May16. failed to take them into account. sourced from right across the world, products. Our goal is to reduce our including places such as Brazil, South Tesco has carbon footprinted over supply chain emissions by 30% by Africa and Egypt. They are transported 1,000 of its own brand products. The 2020.” over seas to processing facilities in carbon footprinting of products the UK. helps to identify the sources of CO2 Helen Fleming emissions in the life cycle of the prodHead of Climate Change, Tesco “We compete on hard parameters such as reliability Tesco reminds consumers that when ucts Tesco sells, from the growing of you buy a carton of freshly squeezed the ingredients, the manufacturing and cost. To include the environment on the same high orange juice, the impact on the enviof the product, the packaging, the ronment can be twice as big as when processing, the transportation, storcompetition parameters, we need the industry to play you buy one which is made out of age in the shop to the trip to the super concentrate. market, and the way the product is by the same rules, so that our customers do not have used. By identifying the key points in Freshly squeezed products incur the the lifecycle where carbon emissions to make decisions in the dark.” greatest transport impacts due to the are greatest, Tesco is better able to Lucas Vos greater mass of material required to make carbon reductions. Chief Commercial Officer, Maersk Line be transported per liter of orange juice 16 The industry averages are only calculated once a year in May, leaving us to compare our 2011 performance with an estimated 2010 industry average. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 52 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 53 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 EUROPE MIDDLE EAST/INDIA CO₂: 77.8 G/TEU/KM 2% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: ASIA NORTH AMERICA (EAST COAST) EUROPE NORTH AMERICA CO₂: 55.7 G/TEU/KM 3% CO₂: 70.3 G/TEU/KM ASIA NORTH EUROPE CO₂ ADVANTAGE: 9% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: CO₂: 48.6 G/TEU/KM 6% 17% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: ASIAMIDDLE EAST/INDIA CO₂: 53.6 G/TEU/KM CO₂ ADVANTAGE: ASIA NORTH AMERICA (WEST COAST) CO₂: 58 G/TEU/KM EUROPE AFRICA 4% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: CO₂: 89.4 G/TEU/KM -3% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: ASIA SOUTH AMERICA CO₂: 62.9 g/TEU/KM 11% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: ASIA MEDITERRANEAN CO₂: 59.6 G/TEU/KM 16% EUROPE SOUTH AMERICA CO₂ ADVANTAGE: CO₂: 79.6 G/TEU/KM 2% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: CO2 efficiency: Ahead of industry averages Map: The map shows Maersk Line’s CO2 emissions on main trade lanes, per ASIA AFRICA TEU container per kilometre17. It also CO₂: 69.5 G/TEU/KM 7% CO₂ ADVANTAGE: includes the CO2 advantage we provide our customers with on these trade lanes, compared to estimated industry averages18. For example, Maersk Line is approximately 11% lower on CO2 on the Asia-South America trade compared to industry averages. On some trade lanes Maersk Line's footprint is higher than industry averages. The Europe – Africa trade is an example (CO2 advantage: -3%). 17 2011 data submitted by Maersk Line to Clean Cargo Working Group in February 2012. 18 2010 data from Clean Cargo Working Group. 2011 data from the industry is available in May 2012. Source: Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 54 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 55 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SERVICE EXCELLENCE The challenges of getting to 100% transparency While the industry has come a long way, • C  redible rating schemes that communicate performance in a logical, smart way are not yet complete. select and deselect services. Consequently, shipping companies could expect customers to reward environmenFocusing on manufacturers and exporters around the world still do not have enough visibility into shipping lines' environmen• E  nvironmental performance is not yet fully integrated into all strategic tal performance. Moving up the ladder energy efficiency tal footprints to compare their perforlevels of decision making, such as the on verification mance. This is a major issue, not just for industry’s booking and quotation The most important milestone was Maersk Line and its customers, but for systems. reached in 2010 when Maersk Line the entire industry, which risks falling as the first shipping line got its CO2 behind if it fails to rise to the challenge of Our vision for choice emissions verified by an independent making its environmental performance and transparency third party. In 2011 we made further transparent. We are pushing for a scenario where progress on verification. We increased everyone in our industry fully discloses the number of spot checks and expandThe challenges are: their carbon performance, ship by ship, ed the scope to include more aspects of 748,500 ton less CO2 sponds to the yearly CO2 footprint of emissions per container will be half of • Customers have no guarantee that trade lane by trade lane. In this ideal environmental performance, such as Maersk Line provides customers with an 80,000 Brits or a USD 15,000,000 saving those of the current industry average. the data they receive is correct. In future, everyone would measure their waste handling, ballast water handling environmental advantage. In 2011, in CO2 offsetting cost. spite of more shipping lines getting performance in the same way, and the and energy efficient technology on Maersk Line’s 169 key customers saved The energy efficient Triple-E ships will emissions verified by an independent data they produce would be indepenboard. close to 748,500 ton CO2 by shipping In 2013, when the first new Maersk give consumers in Europe access to third party, still too few shipping lines dently verified. with Maersk Line compared to the Line Triple-E ships will be deployed on products shipped in a more sustainable invest in improving data quality. The increase of vessel spot checks and industry average. The CO2 saving correthe Asia–Europe trade lane, the CO2 and cost efficient way. If we can achieve this, environmental the bigger scope led to Maersk Line 8% 25% • Th ere is no credible industry benchperformance would become hard-wired becoming the first shipping line verified mark for capturing information about into industry decision-making processes. in Clean Shipping Index in 2011. environmental performance other A simple A-G rating of energy efficiency than CO2. would make it easy for customers to Differentiating service providers using advanced Greenhouse gas emissions model Canadian Tire is one of Canada’s mostlegs of product movements. Canadian efficiency while reducing costs and shopped general retailers, offering Tire can therefore quantify its carbon exposure to risk.” Lower on CO2 CO2 per TEU will be reduced everyday products and services to footprint and measure the impact than industry average before 2020 if not more! Canadians through more than 1,700 of tactical and strategic operational Mr. Neil McKenna, retail and gasoline outlets from coast decisions made in its network. Vice President, Transportation, 15.6% 50% to coast. Canadian Tire “Maersk Line is a global leader in susCanadian Tire’s businesses are charged tainability and this model now allows with increasing their economic and us to differentiate service providers environmental performance through by their carbon emission intensity and the lens of business sustainability. integrate that into our future cargo Their scope is that of the extended allocation plans. value chain, transportation of products being one out of three key segments. Innovation is a social process, and the collaboration of our two companies on To this end, Canadian Tire has created reducing the energy, carbon footprint an advanced Green House Gas model and waste in our collective value chain CO2 per TEU reduced Triple-E ships are expected to emit 50% that allows them to measure the carwill also strengthen the competitive since 2007 less CO2 than the current industry bon emissions for all transportation position of our companies, increasing average on the Asia-Europe trade MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 56 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 57 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Advancing collaboration across industries The shipping supply chain is made ness principles into transportation We have a long way to go to advance up of many different players. To make management. The CCWG participants collaboration in the supply chain. The our industry sustainable, we have to make up more than 30 leading multiprogress made in CCWG between the break down the silos along the value national manufacturers, retailers, and many members is at times a slow chain. By collaborating and sharing shipping lines, which collectively move process. Fortunately, the aspect of information effectively, we can align more than 70% of global liner shipping inclusiveness helps ensure that the around the same sustainable goals. capacity. steps forward are taken by a very large group of stakeholders. We would Our work in Clean Cargo Working Group The collaborative work in CCWG helps like to see more customers joining (CCWG) is a good example of collabobuild a more solid foundation for susCCWG to encourage advancement ration across industries. CCWG is a tainable development across the supply and collaboration toward standards business-to-business forum hosted chain. The group is collecting the CO2 and further transparency. by Business for Social Responsibility trade lane impact from all shipping (BSR). This important advisor helps the lines, a significant milestone towards shipping industry integrate environmore transparency and benchmarking. mentally and socially responsible busi“It is no longer an option not to know where our products come from, how they were produced and to whom they go. Transport companies play a particularly important role in fostering deeper cross-sector collaboration required to meet growing demands for more transparency and sustainability in the supply chain. Companies that offer up viable solutions for transparency and choice will be rewarded by the market.” Aron Cramer President and CEO of BSR MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 59 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 One to one collaboration al goals are not very widespread yet, we share of more virtuous transport is In 2011, Maersk Line also advanced colbelieve that collaboration on concrete strategic to many of our customers; for laboration with key customers on inditargets helps build the foundation for example by replacing trucks with rail “Working together with a logistics supplier that actively vidual CO2 reduction targets. For examlow impact and closed loop businesses. transport wherever possible and air with ple, we achieved an 8% CO2 reduction for We would like to see this type of colocean freight. works to reduce the climate impact of their own operaEvian bottled water which we commitlaboration expand across industries and ted to in 2010 as part of the Danone supply chain parties. In 2011, we assisted several customers tions will also help Tetra Pak in achieving our target” Carbon Pact programme. in adjusting their transportation netFrom air and road to works to more efficient modes, helping Maria Hellstrom Committing to common sustainability water and rail them reduce cost and the environmental Global Environment Manager, Tetra Pak goals is a great way of optimising supply Reducing the carbon intensity generatimpact of freight. chains. While commitments to individued by transport by strengthening the Helping Outokumpu switch to rail Meeting targets through supplier collaboration Outokumpu is a global leader in stainLooking for more sustainable transporduction. In October 2011, containers Tetra Pak makes the processing and customers reduce the impacts of Tetra Pak tracks greenhouse gas emisless steel manufacturing and employs tation at their production plant in Avesstarted to move by rail all the way from packaging solution for many of the well products from food processing and sions for outbound shipments of pack8,000 people in more than 30 countries. ta, Sweden, Maersk Line was contacted Avesta to the ocean terminal in Gothenknown food and beverage products packaging. aging material. They minimise them by Outokumpu believes that stainless early summer 2011. The Outokumpu burg where they load on Maersk Line people consume every day. The enviavoiding air transport, using rail where steel will play an important role in the production plant in Avesta is well vessels. This new setup eliminates a ronmental profile of those products Tetra Pak’s environmental ambition possible and by consolidating shipments. sustainable development of global equipped with industrial railway tracks truck roundtrip of 240 km per move and has been enhanced over the years touches various industries in the value infrastructure. all the way up to their loading platform. saves annually around 60 ton of CO2. as Tetra Pak has developed leaner chain, including shipping. Their goal of The question remained whether we food processing and filling solutions, capping climate impact across the As part of long-term targets for reduccould coordinate rail transportation for The advanced setup is cost efficient, improved the environmental per­ value chain despite company growth, ing CO2 emissions, targets for transthe full inland part for their overseas exremoves trucks from the road and formance of the cartons and increased highlights the case for more sustainaportation have been included in the port goods. takes out the terminal lifts from truck the recycling. That helps Tetra Pak’s ble shipping and transportation. Outokumpu Energy and Low-carbon to rail in Eskilstuna. Programme. The choice of transportaMaersk Line made an assessment and tion mode is an essential part of this found a rail operator that could arrange programme. the container pickup with rail from pro“Our expectations for Maersk Line are that we together go as far as we can with the well known factors of environment in logistics, like load factors, modal switches, engine efficiencies etc. At the same time we need to focus on innovation to secure that next generation logistics can start to reduce the major impact that transportation has on emissions globally.” Robert Ingvarsson Group Transport and Travel Manager, Tetra Pak MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 60 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 61 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Improving the footprint of seafood transport To offer our customers the option of technology and Novozymes' microperature makes lobsters go dormant for transporting live seafood by ocean organisms allow the sturgeon to stay the 10-day journey to Europe, reducing freight, we have worked together in the same water without being harmed problematic build-up of waste products with Aqualife A/S on a patented by waste build-up. in the water. logistics solution. The sturgeon can now be safely shipped Twelve containers of lobster were sucAqualife’s technology makes it possible to Abu Dhabi by sea, saving energy and cessfully shipped from Halifax to Rotterto transport up to 14 tonnes of live shellcosts. As a result we have been able to dam during the development phase, and fish in a container. They provide land carry out the largest-scale transport of Aqualife has set up ‘aquaports’ in Halifax based technology for storage and ensure live fish ever, and reduced CO2 emissions and Holland to collect lobsters for distrithe cold chain is unbroken between the by 90% compared to conventional live bution. Maersk Line started making export and import markets. Together fish transportation methods. stops in Halifax in May 2011, transportwith Aqualife and biotechnology compaing up to four containers of lobsters per nies we have helped enable a more effiFresh shellfish that week to Rotterdam. We plan to extend cient mode of transport for live seafood. won't cost the earth the technology to other species such as Together with Aqualife we found better mussels, oysters, clams, and snow crabs. Caviar from the desert ways to carry live lobsters and crabs Until recently, the Royal Caviar Company from Halifax, Canada to Rotterdam, Previously all 15,000 tonnes of Canadian in Abu Dhabi transported most of their The Netherlands. Aqualife’s technology lobsters that reach Europe a market sturgeon and sturgeon eggs from aerates the water the shellfish are transworth around USD 215 million were “Today more than 5% of the world annual seafood Germany to Abu Dhabi by air. Maersk ported in, and reduces the temperature transported by air. Ocean freight is now Line and Aqualife’s patented container to one or two degrees Celsius. The tema carbon and cost efficient alternative. catch is transported by air to meet increasing consumer demands for fresh or live seafood. With the joint efforts between Maersk Line and Aqualife, we can accommodate those consumer needs by displacing the air shipments with ocean shipments and, as a direct result, minimise the carbon impact on the global environment by more than 90%.” Erik Winther CEO, Aqualife A/S MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 63 SERVICE EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Coming up: Innovations to improve our customers' supply chain Maersk Line operates the largest ations can impact the quality and lead to Quest II builds on Quest I’s success in refleet of refrigerated containers in waste. To keep our customers’ goods at ducing the reefer container’s energy the world. Our 230,000 reefer cona constant temperature at all times, consumption by 50%. With Quest II on tainers transport temperature senMaersk Line has developed a new conboard, the reduction of energy and CO2 sitive cargo for customers around tainer cooling system called Quest ll; it reduction is estimated to reach an averthe globe. The impact on society of stands for ‘Quality and Energy Efficiency age of 65%. reefer containers is vast, allowing in Storage and Transport’. The system is consumers all over the world to innovative because it makes use of its Quest II boosts China enjoy fresh produce at any time of surroundings – the weather. vegetables exports year. In 2011, Maersk Line invited Chinese The Quest II software offers a sophistivegetables exporters in Janin to learn Recent innovations in container technolcated control which lets cooling and heatabout the features of Quest II and the ogy, such as Maersk Line’s StarCare™, ing functions run only when necessary, new export opportunities Quest II could mean that fruit crops can now potentialwhich in turn prevents energy loss. That facilitate. ly travel up to 50 days with minimal losssounds simple but the system is in fact es and their freshness retained. Technolextremely smart. It measures how much Quest II meant that export opportunities ogies such as these are creating new time it is feasible to turn off cooling, were realised for producers in Janin to opportunities for our customers to reach heating and reduce fan speed while mainnew markets in Haiti, Senegal, Argentina, more distant markets without eroding taining the exact cargo temperature. Equatorial Guinea and Uruguay. Typical the quality of their products. import countries include Russia, NetherThe most sensitive cargo groups in the lands, Brazil and Colombia. Quest II – Safeguarding cargo chilled temperature range were selected quality at a lower impact for laboratory testing and live trials in 2011. In 2011, Quest II helped increase North Some of the most sensitive commodities It was proven that Quest II maintains China vegetables exports with Maersk such as chilled meat, live shellfish or bathe same high quality of our customers’ Line by almost 20%. nanas depend on very precise and stable cargo throughout the entire journey. temperatures; even the smallest fluctu4˚ Quest II maintains the same high quality of our customers’ cargo throughout the entire journey but uses only one third of the energy. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 64 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Low impact Goals Progress in 2011 Reduce CO2 by 25% shipping CO2 was reduced by 1.4% per TEU con2007 15.6% Reduction 2011 per container (TEU) from tainer in 2011, obtaining a total reduction 25% CO2 REDUCTION 2020 own and chartered ships of 15.6% per TEU since 2007. TARGET by 2020 (2007 baseline) The 2011 reduction falls short of our 2011 3% year-on-year CO2 reduction target. Our absolute CO2 emissions increased in 2011 as our fleet expanded with 70 container ships. Taking the impact out of distance Shipping’s significant contribution to the global economy has Our ambition is to be a low impact shipping line, while growing Minimum 10 fuel switch Maersk Line’s fuel switch programme renot been without environmental impact. Some argue that our contribution to the global economy. We need to take our implementations duced SOx emissions by 1,480 tonnes in re-localising production and consumption is the answer. environmental impacts out of ‘distance’, and not just CO2. In before 2015 2011. However, absolute SOx emissions essence, that means making the distance travelled by goods rose with the expansion of our fleet. We are not convinced that distance is a bad thing – neither and resources irrelevant in environmental terms. It’s not for the producers worldwide looking for new markets, nor for as easy as it sounds, it’s work in progress – but a change in 3 fuel switches were implemented; in the products’ environmental sustainability. But we know that shipping we’re committed to lead. Singapore (65% SOx reduction), in New the shipping industry needs to improve its environmental Zealand (80-95% reduction across 9 performance substantially if it is to enable trade growth in a ports) and in Gothenburg (90% reduction). low carbon economy. To date, Maersk Line has implemented 6 fuel switch programmes. Cradle to Cradle passport for We formed a partnership with our Triple-E ships supplier Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. Ltd. (DSME) in Korea on developing Cradle to Cradle passports for Triple-E ships. Together, we now have an extensive task ahead of us to build a new material documentation system describing the material composition of ships to ensure better recycling. Protect marine We committed to installing a ballast environments water treatment system on all ships being built in 2012 and onwards. We became members of the World Ocean Council to enable marine research and transparency on the state of the world's oceans. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 67 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Does distance matter? Globalisation and the reduction in Focus on hotspots transport costs have contributed to To radically reduce the environmental an exponential growth of distances impact of today’s production, consumpcovered in supply chains. Our busition and supply chains, we need to ness plays a role in that. address the material impact within each value chain. In some cases, transportaOcean shipping is the most cost efficient tion is a hotspot with a relatively high means of mass-moving goods across impact on products’ lifecycles. In those large distances and the most energy cases, the environmental impact can efficient mode of transportation if you often be reduced significantly by changlook at the impact of transportation ing transportation mode and increasing (km) per product (tonnes). But shipping logistic efficiency. is nevertheless accountable for 3-4% of the world's CO2 emissions19. Distance In many cases, transportation has a does matter. small impact on products’ life­cycles – even in spite of great distances between Given today’s environmental challen­ges, production and consumption. it is understandable that people debate whether or not there is a need for food That being said, distance does matter, and other products to travel great disbut cutting it is not the only answer – tances across the globe, as part of very taking out the negative impact of large and complex supply and demand 'distance' is. That is the outset of Maersk networks. Line’s environmental strategy which focuses on addressing the environmenTo this end, producers worldwide are tal hotspots in shipping and facilitating weighing their decisions by taking varismarter transportation of goods. ous aspects into consideration. Transporting and storing less and distributing In turn, smart transportation helps enalocally, for example, make sense in cerble smart and efficient production of tain situations. food and goods. Raw materials should be grown where resources provide the While the impact stemming from transgreatest production efficiency. And food portation can be reduced by minimising and goods need to be traded to move the distances covered in supply chains, from surplus to deficit areas. Our route we believe that the needed impact to low impact shipping is a commitment reduction across industries will not only to advancing efficiencies in and beyond come from shorter supply chains. our own industry. 19 International Maritime Organization (IMO) MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 69 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 “In recognition of our responsibility to constantly monitor and reduce our carbon emissions, the adidas Group is incorporating emission relevant information into the selection process of ocean freight providers. Our Air freight: expectation is that our providers are permanently 5.4 kg CO2 looking into improved ways of shipping our goods with less carbon emission but by maintaining or improving the service levels. It’s not about meeting but exceeding and setting new industry standards” Volker Daut Head of Dest. Transport & Logistics, adidas Group Superstar II’s energy efficient journey The adidas Group is reducing the environCO2 compared to 0.36 kg CO2. To put this mental impact of transporting its prodfigure in context, a single person's CO2 ucts, particularly by minimising the use emissions for a flight from London to of air freight. To get the full picture of New York are about 900 kg. ‘ocean versus air’, the adidas Group ran a pilot project in 2011. They followed the The adidas Group compares shipping adidas Superstar II’s journey from the lines’ performances factory near Dongguan, China to an Environmental performance has been adidas store in Nuremberg, Germany. included in the adidas Group’s tendering process for shipping lines as a formal The project team collected all the CO2 criterion. Shipping lines need to submit data, from the pick-up at the factory information on ISO 14001 certification, Ocean freight: right through to the final product delivery and identified which steps in environmental policy, sustainability strategy and activities. 0.36 kg CO2 the journey contributed the most carbon emissions. Shipping the pair of Superstars by air has nearly 14 times the carbon emissions of sending them by ocean freight: 5.4 kg MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 71 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Addressing “In 2011, we have been successful in creating tools and carbon emissions transparency on fuel consumption; these tools will enable us to deliver significant environmental benefits in 2012.” Niels Bruus Director, Energy Efficiency, Maersk Line Maersk Line accounts for 0.1% of Reducing fuel In 2011, Maersk Line improved its fuel Re-examining its transportation network the world's CO2 emissions. In 2011, consumption is key consumption management system for our fleet of container ships emitted Our environmental performance is closely the global fleet. The system tracks fuel 33.8 million tonnes of CO2 to the air. tied to our consumption of fuel. CO2 is use by each ship on every voyage and By re-examining its transportation from the most carbon-intensive modes transportation. As an example, the produced as ships use petroleum-based compares real performance with an opnetwork through the lens of sustainaof transport (air and trucking) to less company shifted product routing using Maersk Line operates the biggest fleet of fossil fuels, primarily ‘bunker fuel’, to timum modelled performance. The difbility, Levi Strauss & Co. reduced greenintensive modes, such as rail and all-water services to the U.S. East container ships in the world – more than power the engines. In comparison with ferences between the two, the potential house gas emissions by 50-60% in container ships, adopting efficient Coast. This reduced dependence on 600 ships and about 3.4 million TEU conother petroleum products, bunker fuel cost and CO2 savings, and recommenda2008. In 2009 the company was able processes and partnering with transtrucking and increased ocean transtainers. Today, the environmental impact is extremely crude. tions on improvements are distributed to reduce carbon emissions by more portation service providers. portation, a more efficient mode of of running a fleet this size is significant in to all internal stakeholders on a monthly than 700 metric tonnes and save money transportation. absolute terms. It is a challenge we do not Slowing down 600 ships basis. while continuing to meet service levels. Levi Strauss & Co. also made changes take lightly. In 2011, our absolute air emisToday, the single biggest impact on fuel to its international shipping routes sions increased with the expansion of our consumption is speed. Slowing down Today, anyone with a significant influThe contributions came from shifting to reduce the carbon footprint from fleet. While our size comes with a subhelps us increase energy efficiency. It also ence on fuel consumption in Maersk Line stantial footprint, it is also our scale and means we can better ensure arrival at an has fuel consumption in their perforsize that will help enable our journey toagreed time because the lower average mance scorecard and the incentives for wards low carbon shipping. speeds give us the flexibility to speed up fuel efficiency are very clear. Perforif something unforeseen happens. mances are compared, and a monthly “As a company dedicated to building sustainability We are building on solid performance. report rates each service’s energy effiSince 2007, we have reduced our CO2 The way we manage our 600 container ciency based on an A-G rating system. into everything we do, we’re focused on reducing our footprint per container by 15.6%. ships and navigate them through the oceans is thus of crucial importance to In 2011, Maersk Line reduced its fuel environmental impact at every level of our supply chain, Improving energy efficiency includes a our environmental performance. A tiny consumption per container (TEU) by wide range of measures ranging from speed increase, as little as 0.5 knot, 2.7% this way, corresponding to a total including transportation and distribution. Through the making the most of our daily operation could increase fuel consumption by 6%, cost reduction of USD 135 million. and planning, using new types of techcorresponding to a cost increase of USD changes we’ve made in partnership with companies nologies, to innovating our ships and 340 million20. container technology and designs. like Maersk Line, we have reduced total miles traveled, saved fuel, reduced greenhouse emissions and saved money. This reduces cost, and our customers receive 600 X our product in a more timely manner.” Senior Vice President of Sourcing and Supplier Management, Levi Strauss & Co. Rob Wiley 20 Calculations based on a fuel price of 600 $/metric ton. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 72 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 73 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 “In shipping, our main expectation is that our suppliers invest in reducing their carbon footprint and minimizing their negative effects on the environment, namely pollution. Strauss supports Maersk Line’s continuous efforts to become a more sustainable company” Moshe Riany Vice President, Supply Chain, Strauss Israel Can ships run on algae, The role of captains Fuelling large ships New hull, engine and propeller designs straw and wood? and voyage planning on micro-algae optimised for slow steaming mean In recent years, biofuels for transportaIn 2011, our captains made more than We believe diversifying our fuel supply that CO2 emissions per container moved tion has grown from science fiction to 35,000 voyages. Experienced captains will help us reduce our impacts further. by Triple-E will be approximately half something much more real. For example, can save significant quantities of fuel Using biofuels for shipping is still a those of the current industry average EU regulation now requires biodiesel to through careful planning of a ship’s relatively new technology, but in Sepon the Asia–Europe trade. Triple-E will be blended with diesel for road transporvoyage from start to finish. We have tember 2011 our container ship Maersk give Maersk Line’s customers access tation. codified the many tricks of their trade Kalmar steamed off with two tank conto one of the most energy and cost in our innovative fuel and cost saving tainers on the deck full of 30 tonnes of efficient modes of transportation in While it is technically possible for contool “Eco Voyage”, developed with algae-based Soladiesel. The biofuel was the world. tainer ships to run on biofuels, price, inputs from many of our captains. used in different blends throughout the availability and sustainability are currently voyage from Germany to India. barriers to wide scale production and The software recommends the most fuel uptake of these fuels. efficient voyage based on factors such as The trial, conducted in partnership with voyage time, weather and sea conditions, Maersk Line, Limited (MLL) and the US We need lower grade, sustainable biofuocean current, the draught of the ship, Navy, proved that microscopic algae can els that can be scaled up at the right and the fuel efficiency of the ship at difin fact fuel large container ships. The price. We are therefore very excited that ferent speeds. In 2011, our Eco-voyage tool cost of high quality algae-based biofuel the Danish Advanced Technology Founhelped us reduce fuel consumption by 1%. is currently too great for regular comdation is funding a research platform on mercial use, but we believe that with furdeveloping biofuels for shipping, which Using waste heat ther development biofuels such as those includes leading global actors in biofuel to power our ships derived from algae may be possible to development such as the University Maersk Line is the first in the industry to use regularly for container shipping. of Copenhagen, Novozymes and DONG install waste heat recovery systems as a Energy. standard on all new ships. A waste heat Triple-E class efficiency recovery system captures the engine’s becomes reality As part of this platform, we will seek to hot exhaust gas to produce extra energy In 2011, we made a quantum leap in innodevelop biofuels tailored to the specific for propulsion and reduces fuel convating the ship and engine designs of the needs of shipping and ship engines. We sumption and CO2 emissions by approxinear future, ordering 20 Triple-E class hope this will prove to be an important mately 9%. ships. The first of these 18,000 TEU ships first step in making biofuels for shipping will be deployed in 2013, bringing with it a commercial reality! 39 Maersk Line ships, including 3 chartered new economies of scale, energy efficienships, now have a waste heat recovery cy and unprecedented environmental system. 42 Maersk Line ships on order, performance. including the 20 new ‘Triple-E’ class ships, will all have waste heat recovery systems. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 75 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 1% 50 20 Triple-E class ships will cut the emissions by approximately 9% Our Eco-voyage tool helps us reduce fuel consumption by % Our innovative waste heat recovery system reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by approximately per container compared to the current industry average on the Asia-Europe trade MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 76 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 77 The Triple-E: In 2013, the first Triple-E ships will be deployed on the Asia-Europe trade lane. The capacity of the ship will be 18,000 Energy efficiency The Triple-E is designed and optimised for lower speeds. The unique hull design, The largest and most energy TEU (more than 16 % greater than the largest ship built so far, Emma Maersk). energy-efficient engine and system that uses exhaust gas to produce extra energy to help propel the ship, make the efficient container ship The vessel order reflects Maersk Line’s ambition to continuously develop competitive and attractive shipping servicTriple-E unmatched in energy efficiency. Economy of scale es for our customers The Triple-E breaks the world record in container ship capacity scale by more than 16%, without requiring more engine power. This design takes economy of scale to a new level. Environmentally improved These vessels reduce CO2 emissions by more than 50% per container moved, compared to industry average on the Asia-Europe trade. Follow the Triple-E's on worldslargestship.com LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Recycling materials Space Shuttle L: 37.2 m H: 17.9 m Airbus 380 L: 73 m In 2011, Maersk Line took delivery of ships can be properly recycled. To that A challenging task ahead H: 24 m 18 ships. In the construction our supend, Maersk Line’s next generation It will not be easy to map all the individual pliers used approximately 400,000 ships, the Triple-E class, will come with a parts of the world’s largest ships and it metric tonnes of steel, 2,000 tonnes ‘Cradle to Cradle passport’. will take much of the next two years to of copper, 4,000 tonnes of coatings, develop the passport. We need to en1,200 tonnes of mineral wool, 400 The passport will be a comprehensive, gage with many suppliers and partners Hot Air tonnes of plastic and rubber and 80 living document, describing the material to develop and feed data into the Cradle Balloon L: 24 m tonnes of glass, amongst many other composition of the ship – the most to Cradle passport. H: 30 m materials. The sheer scale of what comprehensive material documentation we do makes material choices very system the shipping industry has ever Some of this important work takes place important. seen. With the Cradle to Cradle passport as part of the Sustainable Shipping Pyramid of Khufu London Eye Maersk Line is expanding the scope from Initiative (SSI) which facilitates the L: 214 m L: 135 m H: 137 m H: 135 m Finite resource with safe and effective recycling to recycling necessary collaboration and sharing of Blue infinite recycling potential that reuse materials to a much greater expertise. The work stream partners L: 51 m H: 93 m Whale L: 33 m Steel tops the list of resources we use to extent. include Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine H: 12 m Sydney maintain and grow our fleet of ships and Engineering Co. Ltd. (DSME), Carnival Opera House USS Nautilus L: 183 m containers. There is around 4.7 million With the development of the Cradle to Corporation, Forum for the Future and L: 97.5 m H: 67 m tonnes of steel in our fleet – equivalent Cradle passport, the Triple-E ships will Maersk Line. H: 21 m to 1,300 Eiffel Towers floating at sea. become the first ships that function as material-banks for the container ships of Iron for steel is a finite resource when the future. it's gone, it's gone. Some projections estimate that steel will run out in about 60 years’ time, some say there is enough steel for longer than that. In any case it is PROPELLER HULL a finite resource, and extracting it is energy intensive. Fortunately, steel can 100 m Material composition be recycled indefinitely without significant loss of property or performance. Carbon 0.2% SEA WATER Manganese 1.6% PUMP Sulphur 0.05% Reusing materials with Phosphorus 0.05% Cradle to Cradle passports a new ‘passport’ Silicium 0.5% Iron 98% for the world's largest ship In 2011, we sold 9 ships, some of which had not yet reached the end of their The Triple-E's will come with a Cradle to service life. It will be the final owner, not Roughly 98% of the new Triple-E’s 60,000 metric tonnes is made from steel. But there is also copper, Cradle passport a comprehensive docuplastic, wood, glass and other minerals throughout the various bits and pieces of her 400 metre Maersk Line that oversees the recycling length, all of them manufactured by hundreds of different suppliers. All of it will be documented in mentation system describing the materiof these ships. But we still see it as the Cradle to Cradle passport. al composition of the ship. our responsibility to ensure that all our MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 80 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Addressing “Electrolux welcomes initiatives to reduce the impacts sulphur emissions of shipping on people's health and the environment. Maersk Line's focus on reducing SOx emissions fits well with Electrolux own commitment to sustainability across our whole supply chain.” Henrik Sundstrom Vice President of Group Sustainability Affairs, AB Electrolux A full two-thirds of the world's popuimplemented in Singapore, all 9 ports of sufficient in the bigger scheme of things. lation 4 billion people live within New Zealand and in Gothenburg. The To address what we believe to be one After years of investigating SOx scrubber technologies, we have found a feasible solution 400 kilometers (240 miles) of a immediate effect was a 65% reduction of the biggest issues in shipping, all together with BELCO®. The scrubber system is being installed and tested on Maersk Taurus. seacoast21. of SOx emissions in Singapore, a 80-95% shipping lines need to cut their SOx The technology promises to cut SOx emissions by reduction in New Zealand and an expected emissions. After all, it is SOx reductions In 2011, Maersk Line emitted 600,000 90% reduction in Gothenburg. across the entire industry which will tonnes of sulphur, of which a significant make a real difference to people’s health part was emitted at or in the proximity In 2011, we concluded our fuel switch and the environment. of coasts. This makes the sulphur emisprogramme in Houston, a successful sions (SOx) of our ships – and their collaboration between the Port of Cleaning the exhaust gas impact on air quality and health – an Houston Authorities, the US EnvironAnother way of reducing SOx is to clean increasingly important dimension of mental Protection Agency (EPA) and the exhaust gas from ships. After several our efforts to reduce impact. Maersk Line. The programme saved the years investigating SOx scrubber techport’s inhabitants the exposure to 303.6 nologies, we found a feasible solution After 2015, the fuel sulphur content for metric tonnes of SOx. together with BELCO®. Their advanced any ship in an Emission Control Area22 exhaust gas cleaning system will be must not exceed 0.10%. We welcome In 2012, the North American ECA20 will implemented on our container ship the stricter regulation on sulphur as an become effective and consequently Maersk Taurus in 2012, as a first in the important way to reduce SOx emissions reduce SOx emissions significantly. container industry. in shipping. Since 2006, Maersk Line has conducted The USD 600,000 investment in the There are several ways a shipping line 6 voluntary fuel switch programmes installation and operation of the scrubcan reduce SOx emissions; through fuel worldwide. We call them voluntary ber promises to cut SOx emissions by switching to low sulphur fuel, cleaning because they go beyond regulatory 97%. the exhaust gas and using alternative requirements. fuels. We are committed to reduce our SOx impact beyond regulatory requireWe have committed to at least 10 fuel ments, and our long-term aspiration is to switch programmes before 2015. Fuel drive global SOx emissions towards zero. switches are prioritised for locations where SOx concentrations are high and The primary focus within our Zero SOx where we can partner with ports and programme is to reduce SOx emissions in other stakeholders to share the cost of the proximity of port city areas. switching to cleaner and more expensive fuels. Switching to cleaner fuels In 2011, our Zero SOx programme included While our fuel switch programmes have 3 more fuel switch programmes from an immediate positive effect for the regular to low sulphur fuel. These were inhabitants of those ports, they are hardly 21 www.peopleandplanet.net 22 ECA covers North Europe and as of mid 2012 North America and Canada. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 82 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 83 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Map SOx emissions emitted by Maersk Line in proximity of coastal areas. The circles reflect the concentrations of our SOx “The NOAA-Maersk Line collaboration is a model for emissions. government-industry cooperation in environmental research. NOAA's unique scientific expertise and Maersk Line's leadership in performance transparency on vessel emissions have produced research results proven to be a win for all involved.” Craig McLean NOAA's Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research Fuel switch strategy In 2011, Professor James Corbett, University of Delaware, a leading academic on pollution from shipping, helped us develop specific recommendations for Maersk Line’s future fuel switch programmes. Our fuel switch strategy takes into consideration current and future SOx concentrations worldwide as showed in blue on this map. Public-Private Partnerships for transparency on SOx The research of leading environmental research institutions such as the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) helps put SOx emissions on the agenda. Creating transparency on SOx emissions and their impact on public health and the environment is important to mobilise shipping lines and authorities to reduce the emissions across the entire industry. In 2011, a partnership between Maersk Line and NOAA enabled the necessary data and analysis for a study measuring the impact of California Air Resources Board’s fuel-switching requirement. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 84 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 85 LOW IMPACT SHIPPING SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 7,000 Protecting biodiversity It is estimated that at least different species are carried in ballast tanks around the world. When invasive species hitch a ride change up to 10 million cubic metres of researchers who want to measure the from one part of the world to another water every year, this measure is not sufocean health using samples from all over on big ships it is a major threat to ficient, also not in light of anticipated the globe. local ocean flora and fauna. regulatory developments. In 2011, Maersk became members of the Ships carry ballast water to provide staSo in 2011 we committed to installing a World Ocean Council (WOC). The purpose bility, aid steering and control trim and ballast water treatment system on all of the membership is to partner with likedraft. But ballast water often originates new ships built in 2012 and onwards. minded companies and engage with the from ports and other coastal regions rich This system cleans the water thoroughly scientific community to enable systemin plankton and other marine organisms. before releasing it back into the sea. atic and regular reporting of standardised Discharging ballast water originating We expect that the IMO Ballast Water oceanographic and atmospheric data. from one marine environment into Convention will enter into force in 2012 another can introduce alien species into making ballast water treatment the norm Our objective is to facilitate strategic a marine ecosystem, threatening its going forward. scientific programmes on our ships, ecological balance. preferably sharing open source data Using our assets to globally. The data also benefits Maersk To reduce the impact on biodiversity measure ocean health Line by improving our understanding of Maersk Line discharges ballast water As our ships are present in every ocean currents for route planning, and for midway on the journey. But as we exocean they are attractive platforms for reducing our impact on biodiversity. “Maersk is making significant progress in its commitment to protect marine biodiversity, reduce the impacts of its operations and better understand the oceans. By joining the World Ocean Council international ocean industry alliance for Corporate Ocean Responsibility the company is leveraging its leadership to achieve even greater results in advancing ocean sustainability.” Paul Holthus Executive Director, World Ocean Council (WOC) MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 86 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supply chain innovation Goals Progress in 2011 Why sustainability matters 50% of operational spend Suppliers accounting for 22% of our in our supply chain registered in Maersk operational spend were registered in Maersk Line has more than 10,000 suppliers. Our procurement Responsible Procurement the programme and acknowledged our spend in 2011 was more than USD 17 billion. What we buy, how Programme Third Party Code of Conduct. we buy it and who we buy it from matters — from a corporate and societal perspective. Especially as we operate assets with a thirty-year lifespan. We need to think long term together Supplier partnerships Maersk Line worked together with with our suppliers and partners. for supply chain ports, terminals and authorities globally improvements to improve port productivity, ballast Forging new links with others in the logistics chain in planning, water management and support the collaboration and R&D efforts helps us improve our perfordevelopment of hinterland infrastrucmance and service offerings. Risks are reduced as standards ture. are improved throughout the chain. And knowledge and expertise is leveraged for all parties involved. Fuel efficiency of charter Maersk Line formed a partnership with vessels on par with Maersk ship owners on optimising charter 25% CO2 REDUCTION 2020 Line owned vessels vessels' fuel efficiency by integrating TARGET (Goal: 25% CO2 reduction per Maersk Line's performance manage5.8% Reduction container from 2007 to 2020) ment approach. In 2011, the CO2 footprint of the charCHARTER tered fleet was reduced by 5.8% per VESSEL container (TEU/Km). Introduce sustainable Maersk Line issued a new procurement floorboards in Maersk Line policy on container floorboards to avoid containers illegally logged timber in our containers. In 2011 we purchased 504,000 TEU containers with floorboards adhering to our policy's requirements and became members of Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC). MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 89 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Procuring responsibly Maersk Line’s operational costs in 2011 Container terminal activities and bunker fuel represent the two biggest operational cost items for Maersk Line. Figures: million USD Other depreciations and amortizations: 697 Vessel sharing agreement cost: 712 Daily running costs: 639 Terminal expenses: 4,339 Through responsible procurement, container terminals, ship yards, container join but has not yet registered their Maersk Line can help improve how manufacturers, energy companies a.o. companies in our system. Vessel charters business is conducted with suppliers, and represent a wide range of industries (excl. amortization): 1,336 in line with international standards and geographies. Going forward, we will be assigning clear and conventions, and reduce risks to priorities for the registered suppliers our operation and brand. Our target for 2011 was to introduce the and engage actively with the suppliers programme to key suppliers representing identified as high-risk vendors. To facilitate this, Maersk has developed approximately 50% of Maersk Line’s a Third Party Code of Conduct which operational spend. First year of outlines our expectations to suppliers implementation and key business partners in the area of Suppliers sign up to The Responsible Procurement programenvironment, health and safety, human Maersk Line’s Responsible me is still in its early days. Our commitand labour rights and anti-corruption. Procurement Programme ment to Responsible Procurement is for The Code of Conduct was launched in In 2011, we introduced the Maersk the long-term and the programme will Bunker fuel: 3,929 the second half of 2011 and is being Responsible Procurement Programme continue to expand over time. We are implemented through Maersk Line’s to approximately 300 suppliers who convinced about the benefits it will bring Intermodal expenses: 2,979 Responsible Procurement program. have subsequently acknowledged our about and the opportunity to engage Third Party Code of Conduct. They with suppliers in long-term strategic 4,700 of our suppliers are in scope for account for 22% of our operational development. the programme. They include ports and spend. Another 13% has been invited to Equipment maintenance and repair: 230 Port expenses: 1,330 Leasing, incl. depreciations: 795 Our progress in 2011: • Suppliers accounting for 35% of • 22% accepted the invitation, ac• 90% of Maersk Line’s procurement Maersk Line’s operational spend knowledged our Third Party Code staff relevant for the programme has were invited to join the Responsible of Conduct and registered in the completed the Responsible ProcureProcurement program. Responsible Procurement system. ment e-learning programme. (target 50%). (target 50%). (target 80%). MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 90 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 91 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Partnerships with ports and terminals Supplier partnerships for tures and more efficient fuel consumptheir environmental and social impacts supply chain improvements tion at sea through slow steaming. throughout their supply chains. By Ports and container terminals are a The result is a better service for our measuring their own impacts, ports can key node of global supply chains and customers at a lower cost and with play an important role. More integrated, essential gateways in channelling lower carbon emissions. transparent supply chains allow cusgoods to consumer markets worldtomers to identify opportunities for wide. Providing crucial infrastrucBoosting port productivity performance improvements across the ture for world trade, they bring about Together with our partners in the termientire value chain. job opportunities for thousands of nals, Maersk Line has launched an initiacitizens, local societal development tive to boost productivity. In all simplicity Port performance on CO2, SOx, NOx, and global wealth creation. we work on site with the terminal opwater and waste will increasingly superator for several weeks to determine plement the typical ‘hard’ selection critePorts are a part of our customers’ supply which actions we both can take in order ria that shipping lines apply, such as cost, chains and an essential component to to eliminate waste and variation from productivity, capacity, draft and safety. our business, our customers and nations the process. Because many of the issues are similar in “We see immense opportunity in further improving our worldwide. They will increasingly be our industries, there is a strong case for involved in bringing value to the final It is a mutual responsibility to increase collecting and sharing data along the vessels’ fuel efficiency, and a crucial element of success consumers as part of an integrated port performance, and the benefits will value chain. supply chain. be visible to both, as well as to our is productivity and reliability during port stays, especially customers and the environment. Close To this end, Maersk Line advocates a If ports and their hinterland infrastrucfollow-up is key to success and this will standardised approach to measuring in light of increasing vessel sizes. Looking at the develture can function in a way that minimises be an ongoing partnership. the environmental footprint of the environmental impacts and maximise terminal operations. Programmes like opment over the last 10 years, we have unfortunately the many societal benefits ports bring Improving supply the Sustainable Shipping Initiative and about, the end results will benefit both chain transparency Clean Cargo Working Group can help to seen that our average vessel call size is increasing at a business and consumers and the local Worldwide, logistics-based buildings such establish performance benchmarks, communities through which those as warehouses, ports and distribution enabling ports to commit to goals for higher pace than productivity, i.e. we are on average goods pass. centres contribute 371 million tonnes of improvement. CO2 each year23. Similar to shipping lines, staying more time in port. Amongst other issues, this Ships’ energy efficiency they depend on fossil fuels and are depends on port performance almost completely powered by nonis detrimental to our fuel spend, and hence we will work The reliability, cost efficiency and susrenewable energy sources. As ports tainability of shipping lines are all closely expand, their impact on the surrounding even closer with our business partners in the terminals linked to the productivity of ports. environment is becoming more and more important. to reverse this trend.” High port productivity, with quick loadSoren Rodgaard Thomsen ing and off-loading of ships, means It is increasingly important to our cusGeneral Manager, Terminal Strategy, Maersk Line less time spent in port, timely departomers that they are able to measure 23 Low-carbon, high growth, 2011, by TATA Consultancy Services MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 92 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 The case of the Indonesian ‘dry port’ Indonesia is an important exporter Dry ports can play a key role in promoting Better access of oil and gas, electrical appliances, economic development in inland areas to global markets plywood, textiles and rubber. As an by integrating regional transport and Besides facilitating a modal shift from archipelago country of more than logistics into international networks. road transport to lower carbon rail, our 17,000 islands, Indonesia relies on cooperation and participation in the proseaports for exports and imports. The aim of the dry port is to improve the ject has meant that we can today offer nation’s trade flows by bringing the port our customers better access to global The port productivity of the Indonesian to the manufacturing neighborhood. markets and help Indonesia become main ports is considered slower comMaersk Line was consulted for the develmore internationally competitive. pared to most ASEAN countries, with opment of the project. We shared best many of the commercial ports and hinpractices and collaborated with the Maersk Line was the first shipping line to terland infrastructures suffering from assigned project partner from the govconnect Cikarang Dry Port with other limited capacity and congestion. ernment, Jababeka Group, to maximise ports of call around the world. Unilever the value of the dry port for the shipping was the first customer we served using Tanjung Priok Port, the biggest sea port in industry and our customers. the dry port. Indonesia, is the gateway for more than 60% of the country’s containerised cargo throughput. The region consists of more than 2,500 manufacturing companies, including the likes of Mattel, Ikea, Nike, “When infrastructure challenges impede Adidas, LG and Samsung. It is becoming the biggest industrial area in the country. international trade flows and our service, Indonesia initiative to we have an opportunity to contribute with reduce logistics cost logistics expertise and push for positive In 2011, Indonesia proposed an initiative to reduce the uncertainty of lead time national developments. We are thrilled and logistics cost stemming from infrastructure challenges for the business to be part of this success story which players and the shipping industry. has leveraged our business and created The national initiative concerns a new social and economic value for Indonesia ‘dry port’ in Cikarang – the first such port in Indonesia. A dry port is an inland interand customers worldwide.” modal terminal directly connected by road or rail to a seaport. It operates as Jakob Friis Sorensen a centre for the transshipment of sea President Director of Maersk Line, Indonesia cargo to inland destinations. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 95 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Engaging with ports Ship owners join fuel on waste handling optimisation drive Maersk Line does not discharge any conducting four workshops with port To improve the standards in these ports About two thirds of the container of Maersk Line owned ships. Our experiIn 2011, Maersk Line’s reporting system waste in the ocean except for organic authorities in Rotterdam, Antwerp, we are sharing best practices from fleet sailing under the Maersk flag ence shows that major efficiency gains was installed on the first 140 charter waste. This means that adequate reSingapore and Hong Kong to understand Rotterdam and Antwerp. is owned by other companies, and can be made from factors such as the ships. The first batch of Energy Efficiency ception facilities must be available the barriers and possibilities for safe chartered by Maersk Line. So the tuning of engines, choice of hull paint, Scorecards was published in the beginin the ports to ensure safe and waste disposal. Getting more ports on board performance of these container ships and timing and quality of hull and propelning of 2012. responsible handling of waste. In 2011, we defined a pilot project to map is important to meeting our target of ler cleaning. Rotterdam and the performance of 12 deep sea ports in reducing CO2 by 25% per container Maersk Line’s reporting system and In 2010, we developed a standard operAntwerp lead the way north Europe. Rotterdam and Antwerp from 2007 to 2020. Extending our performance scorecard setup enables benchmarking ating procedure describing how the venRotterdam and Antwerp are rated will be used as role models to ensure that management approach between vessels, meaning owners can dors in ports should handle the sludge ‘green’ in our rating system because they sludge and waste is handled safely in all On average, Maersk Line owned vessels In 2011, we took an important step by excompare how sister ships within their and garbage disposed of by our ships. handle sludge and waste in an environof the north European ports. are estimated to be around 5-10% more tending Maersk Line’s performance manfleet are performing. Though Maersk We rate the vendors based on this procementally safe way. Our ratings testify to fuel efficient than the chartered fleet. agement approach to the chartered fleet. Line carries the cost of the bunker fuel, dure. In 2011, 37 of 159 vendors were the two ports’ consistent leadership The pilot project will also be used to guide owners will be incentivised to perform rated ‘red’ by our organisation as they did on safe waste handling activities. They ports in the rest of the world on how to Our goal requires collaboration and coorThe ship owners welcomed our initiative well so that they have good results to not live up to the standards described in continue to raise the bar and now work improve port reception facilities ensuring dination as the chartered fleet is covering a and request to supply performance and report when charters are renewed. our operating procedures. to improve the performance of port sludge and waste is handled in the best diverse group of around 80 different comother data about their vessels. The data reception facilities even further. possible way. panies including major and minor players. was used to develop theoretical models In 2011, the CO2 footprint of the The exercise on following up on ‘red‘ of performance for every type of ship – chartered fleet was reduced by 5.8% flagged vendors is in its early stage. We recommend our ships not to dispose Our long-term goal is to boost the charand baselines against which real perforper container (TEU/Km). In 2011, we made some progress by of sludge and waste in 'red' rated ports. tered fleet’s energy efficiency to the level mance can be compared. “We are pleased to join Maersk Line’s fuel efficiency optimisation drive. It came at a good time for us, soon after the launch of our new environmental department charged with improving our environmental performance. Our joint project challenges us to focus on performance in new and radical ways.” Mark Rawson Environmental Manager, Zodiac Maritime Agencies Ltd MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 96 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 97 Supply chain innovation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Reducing the impact of containers There are 17 million containers in cirbetween 1.2-1.5 million cubic metres of responsible forestry. MCI has now comculation in the world today, about hardwood annually. missioned several thousand containers 10% of them owned by Maersk Line. with these replacement materials. Hardwoods sourced from tropical Certified wood, recycled forests still form an important complastic or bamboo We expect to buy a further three million ponent of containers. They provide a We created a new procurement policy, such containers in the next five years. durable flooring system, but bring requiring that containers floors must unwanted social and environmental come from responsibly-managed hardA large proportion of our container fleet impacts where the source of the wood forests certified by the Forest will thus have sustainable floorboards timber is unclear. Stewardship Council, or from alternative within a relatively short time span. Certimaterials, particularly bamboo and recyfied floors will be in all Maersk Line conIn 2011, following three years of research cled plastic. tainers within 18 years, the typical lifeinto alternatives together with Maersk time of a container. Container Industry (MCI), we made the MCI produced its first FSC-labelled decision to end the purchase of containers container for Maersk Line in Dongguan, In 2011, Maersk Line became members using uncertified tropical hardwood China in April 2011. The container is fitof FSC. floors a component currently consuming ted with hardwood floor from certified Maersk Line Policy It is the policy of Maersk Line that 3. Bamboo floor. all orders for production of dry and special containers must comply with 4. Non-tropical wood species from the standards for container floor controlled, responsible forestry, materials, as described below and in such as birch and larch. order of the following priorities: As a direct result of the new policy, 1. Non-wood recyclable or sustainable non-certified tropical hardwood will waste product container flooring no longer be accepted. such as recycled plastic. 2. FSC certified hardwood floor, which entails both the wood and the supply chain must be FSC certified. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 98 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability Goals Progress in 2011 Becoming a better and safer workplace Top quartile employee Maersk Line’s employee engagement Our employees provide the skills and innovative thinking that engagement (employee score improved from 71% in 2010 to 77% 2009 2010 2011 drive our business. To ensure our long-term success we want engagement score of 76%) in 2011. 80 everyone to be healthy, safe and engaged. 60 40 Maersk Line’s employee engagement 20 Our latest employee survey shows that 91% agrees that Maersk score on sustainability improved from Line is making a genuine effort to be socially and environmen83% to 91%, and is the highest score in Employee Engagement tally responsible. The commitment from employees to drive the annual survey. this agenda forward is key to deliver on our promises. Drive towards Maersk Line reduced its Total Recordable zero accidents Case Frequency (TRCF) by 13% to 2.08 – the number of recordable incidents per million man-hours worked. Minimise risk of All attacks on Maersk Line operated security incidents vessels were averted through different precautionary measures. Maersk Line’s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) membership was renewed by US customs. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 101 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Improving employee engagement At Maersk Line, employee engagepaid off with an employee engagement and environmentally responsible’ beat ment is crucial for our company’s score of 77% (percentage of employees all other statements at a favourability performance in the broadest sense. responding in favour of four selected rate of 91%. engagement statements), a major imHighly engaged employees deliver a whole provement on the previous year’s 71%. Managers are different level of customer service, with a Top quartile engagement in comparable more effective different energy and motivation. They are industries is at 76%. The annual survey reveals that 88% of all more willing to exceed expectations and employees have a good relationship better equipped to make the right deciThe number of employees being ‘exwith their manager. The figure is closely sions. Engaged employees mean happier tremely satisfied with Maersk Line as a linked to the manager effectiveness customers and better results. place to work increased to 84% an all scores which increased by 2 percentage time high and higher than the top quartile points to 83%. Every year we measure employee enof comparable industries. The employee gagement. Our employee engagement feedback improved positively across all Manager effectiveness include leadersurvey assesses employee attitudes 55 survey statements by 4% in average. ship skills such as living the values, giving and perspectives towards the company, timely and relevant feedback, supporting leaders and the overall work environSustainability affects open two way communication and emment across the organisation. Last year, employee engagement ployee development. 97% of our 25,000 employees globally Maersk Line employees continue to provided their feedback. respond very favourably toward the The voice of seafarers company’s efforts to develop sustainably. The employee engagement survey for Employee engagement seafarers includes questions related to increases again This year the statement ‘my company is the daily vessel operation. In 2011, 53% of Efforts to maintain high engagement making a genuine effort to be socially 5,847 seafarers responded, filling out the survey on paper. Their engagement score is ing positive about career opportunities back session in order to discuss the “Our commitment to sustainability is a good compass lower compared to that of office staff (62%) and the quality of the food served survey input with his or her team, and but improved from 59% to 65% over 2011. on board (63%). subsequently follow up with appropriate and source of motivation. It is an important part of being and timely action. The highest scoring category is Safety & Taking action an innovative and inspiring place to work and vital to Security, and environmental consideraon employee feedback Employee engagement is viewed as a tions were rated highly positively as well. Based on the survey results we have fundamental factor for all aspects of our attractiveness as an employer.” On the lower end of the scale are items identified Career & Development as one company success in Maersk Line. Bill Allen such as satisfaction with the support of the most important improvement Employee engagement is therefore an Head of Group HR, A.P. Moller-Maersk and acting Head of HR for Maersk Line from the Crewing Manager (56%), the areas across the organisation. Moreover, integral part of our leaders’ performanagement of relief times (58%), feelevery manager is asked to hold a feedmance scorecards. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 102 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 103 90% 91% Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Voice of employees My company is innovative and My company is making a seeks out new ideas. genuine effort to be socially (2010: 86%) and environmentally responsible. (2010: 83%) 89 I know my company's vision for the future. (2010: 82%) % 86 Voice of seafarers 93% My company treats people equally with respect to gender, race, nationality, religion etc. On board I am encouraged % (2010: 82%) to consider environmental impacts of my actions. 84% I am extremely satisfied with my company as a place to work. (2010: 78%) MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 104 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 105 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Maersk Line employees by region Mobilising employees 6% 16% 31% 15% North America North Europe West & Central Asia North Asia People: 1,135 People: 3,361 People: 6,374 People: 3,177 Mobilising employees around our can add value is essential to increase company strategy remains an impordemand for more responsible and envi4 sustainability tant focus area to further integrate ronmentally efficient shipping services. e-learning programmes sustainability into our business. launched in 2011 In 2011, the commercial organisation In Maersk Line the integration is being launched a campaign to help the sales driven from many different functions force engage with customers on the Eco-Advantage in the company. There is no doubt that long-term strategic value Maersk Line An introduction to environmental our leadership’s commitment to sustaincan bring to customers’ supply chains. issues in shipping, our sustainability has been a key driver of the The goal is to focus customer meetings ability strategy and environmenprogress made so far. on factors that help bring our customer tal initiatives. Completed by 133 success, for example waste reduction sales managers. CO2 reduction in through on-time reliability and a lower personal scorecards supply chain footprint. Responsible procurement In Maersk Line, CO2 reduction is on the Explains procurement employscorecard of senior management as well Training for employees ees how to work with the Maersk as our CEO. During 2011, Maersk Line's In 2011, we worked to increase the general Responsible Procurement proformer CEO, Eivind Kolding was tasked awareness and understanding of the gram, system and tools. Completwith reducing CO2 emissions per consustainability issues inherent to our busied by 37 procurement managers. tainer moved by at least 3%. ness. Four global training programmes were launched and more than 20,000 Anti-corruption To that end, Maersk Line’s fleet manageemployees completed one or more of Educates employees on how to ment function has been successful in the courses. tackle demands for bribes and incentivising fuel and CO2 reduction facilitation payments in differthroughout the organisation. Managers’ ent challenging situations. Comperformances are compared, and a pleted by 19,740 employees, 77% monthly report rates each service’s of all Maersk Line staff. energy efficiency based on an A-G rating 5% 5% 5% 17% system. In 2011, Maersk Line reduced Safe Transportation Latin America Mediter­ranean Sub-Saharan Africa Asia Pacific its fuel consumption per container (TEU) Demonstrates how actions or by 2.7% this way. non-actions on land affect the safety of those at sea. Completed Articulating our by 548 employees. value proposition ‘Delivering best environmental performance’ is an integral part of our value People: 1,066 People: 1,021 People: 1,017 People: 3,553 proposition to customers. Employees’ ability to articulate how Maersk Line MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 106 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 107 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 A safe workplace at sea Our seafarers’ safety is a priority for and maintains the company’s Safety The 140 recordable cases are on par with Maersk Line, and it is a focus we will Management System for our vessel our performance in 2010 (143). Factoring never lose sight of. Our goal is to operation. in the growth of our fleet and resulting drive our operation towards zero increase in ‘exposure hours’, our Total accidents by continuously reducing 391 injuries on board Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF25) risks and improving the safety 391 work related accidents24 were reportimproved by 13% in 2011. Maersk Line’s behaviour of our people. ed on board our container ships in 2011. TRCF in 2011 was 2.08 against a target 140 of them are ‘recordable’, meaning of 2.15. In 2011, the new function ‘Marine Standthey were medical treatment injuries, ards’ was formed in Maersk Line. Marine restricted work injuries and lost time Standards is tasked with monitoring and injuries, also called Total Recordable improving Maersk Line’s Health, Safety, Cases (TRC). Fortunately, we did not exSecurity and Environmental performance perience any workplace fatalities in 2011. 3.5 TRCF KPI TARGET 3.2 TRCF LTIF 3.0 2.5 2.15 2.0 2.08 1.5 1.19 1.0 JAN 10 JULY JAN 11 JULY 24 Total number of accidents includes LTI, RWI, MTC and FAC. 25 The frequency of all recordable safety related cases (measured: lost work cases + restricted work cases + medical treatment cases, per million man-hours worked). For KPI measurment the TRC have been weighted (LTI: 1.0, RWI: 0.6, MTC: 0.2) MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 109 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Risk areas: Manual handling Manual handling includes a wide range activities. In the Maintenance category and Maintenance of manual handling activities, such as the highest risk area is maintenance We are continuously monitoring and lifting, lowering, pushing, pulling or carwork on pressurised equipment. Equipinvestigating any work place injury rying. In 2011, manual handling injuries ment containing a liquid or gas under that occurs. Our monthly safety report increased from 21 to 29 cases. That is pressure (such as boilers and steam shows the reported injuries for each concerning as manual handling often heating systems) must be handled with field of activity. It helps our organisaresults in back injuries affecting longerextreme care. Minimising risks when tion examine trends and prioritise term personal health and wellbeing. working with pressurised equipment will efforts. In 2011, some of the highest therefore continue to be a focus area. injury and risk areas were Manual In 2011, we registered a 40% increase in handling and Maintenance. injuries occurring during Maintenance Activity Total LTA RWA FAC MTC Anchor handling 1 0 0 1 0 Bunker transfer operation 2 1 0 1 0 Cargo operations 17 5 3 7 2 Crane operations 2 0 0 1 1 Domestic (cooking and cleaning) 24 1 0 22 1 Enclosed space activities 1 0 0 1 0 Equipment overhaul Major 12 2 1 5 4 Equipment overhaul Minor 35 3 5 25 2 Falling object 6 0 2 4 0 Gangway/pilot operations 5 0 1 3 1 General movement 34 5 5 21 3 Maintenance Major 16 3 1 9 3 Maintenance Minor 87 8 10 56 13 Manual handling 29 5 3 16 5 Mooring/Unmooring 12 2 0 8 2 Off-duty activities 7 1 0 5 1 Other (i.e. slips or burns) 61 6 5 44 6 Painting/Blasting 8 0 1 5 2 Safety drill, training 4 1 0 2 1 Shore leave 1 0 0 0 1 Tank cleaning 1 0 0 0 1 Trapped by something collapsing 2 1 0 1 0 Unknown 2 0 1 1 0 Use of power tools 8 1 1 3 3 Welding/burning 10 0 1 8 1 Working aloft (at heights) 4 1 0 3 0 Total 391 46 40 252 53 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 110 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Focus on mooring paid off Recognising and reporting near miss in which we share risk assessments, In 2010, we identified the mooring operaincidents can make a major difference to best practices and action plans in a tion as one of the highest injury and risk the safety of our employees. History has responsible manner. areas. Mooring is the operation of securshown repeatedly that most accidents ing a container ship to a fixed quay or were preceded by warnings, near acciWhen an injury berth by means of mooring lines or cadents or narrow escapes. happens on board bles. To improve our safety performance Safety meetings are held every month in 2011 we launched a ‘Safer Mooring’ In 2011, a Near Miss Safety Campaign on all Maersk Line ships to discuss safety campaign on our ships. helped us get reporting of near misses on performance and decide on proactive the radar. Subsequently, near miss reports measures. When an injury does happen In 2011, injuries occurring during moorincreased from 5,518 reports in 2010 to it is crucial that it is being thoroughly ing operations decreased by 30%. 13,148 reports in 2011, an increase of investigated and measurements are We are not satisfied with the fact that 240%. taken to prevent it from happening injuries still occur during this critical again. When an injury report is submittask and will continue our focus on safe Following up on near misses ted by a ship, the injury is discussed in mooring operations in 2012. When a near miss report is submitted by detail with Marine Standards and subsea ship, it is reviewed by the Marine Standquently an action plan is made. In 2011, Taking near-miss reporting ards department who provides assisMaersk Line added extra human reto the next level tance to the crews in preventing the near sources to ensure sufficient following up In 2011, we launched a campaign to miss from happening again. Captains on injury reports. improve the reporting of near misses on can view their near miss statistics and ships. A near miss is an unplanned event compare it to their peers. The statistics Port authorities that did not result in injury, illness, or help the crews spot trends and risk areas. inspect Maersk Line ships damage – but had the potential to do so. The commitment of the crews to report During the last two years we have seen Only a fortunate break in the chain of on near misses is essential to our safety an increase in Port State Controls (PSC). events prevented the injury. culture. It helps us create an open culture The trend is more frequent and detailed inspections. The inspection is performed age for PSC deficiencies, which is approxiby PSC officers who go on board to verify mately one deficiency per inspection. Voice of our seafarers 89% 0 FATALLITY that the condition of the ship and its equipment comply with international In spite of having increased our focus on conventions, and that the vessel is PSC inspections we unfortunately had 46 LOST TIME INJURIES manned and operated in compliance five ship detentions this year. with applicable international law. Avoiding fatigue through say they receive relevant 40 RESTRICTED WORK ACCIDENTS In 2010, PSC officers inspected 194 ships rest hour reporting safety training 90% through 265 inspections. In 2011, the Crew members on Maersk Line ships number increased to 202 vessels and must get the rest time required by law. 54 MEDICAL TREATMENT CASES 494 inspections. In 65% of the inspecCompliance with rest hour rules remains tions, no deficiencies were recorded. a priority. We are following the principles issued by the ILO 180 Convention to 251 FIRST AID CASES As a consequence of more rigid PSC inmonitor the hours of work and rest. agree that Maersk Line is spections, we launched several initiatives committed to employee safety 93% 200 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY to guarantee improvement. We have deIn 2011, we took several initiatives to veloped guidelines on preventing deficienensure the limits are not being violated. cies, and findings in PSC audits are shared A Rest Hour Awareness Campaign was 13148 NEAR MISSES across the fleet. We initiated a benchlaunched to improve the rest hour planmark study together with Boston Conning on vessels. Captains and crews sulting Group who looked at our PSC perhave been trained in rest hour planning, feel that Safety rules are Giving more attention to the bottom of the pyramid (near misses) helps us in our goal to eliminate the top of the pyramid (accidents and fatalities). formance. The report shows that we are and rest hour reports are issued on a consistently enforced on board on par with the container industry avermonthly basis. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 112 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 113 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Container safety issues Exploding reefer containers We reached out to other shipping lines tative measures to restore safety and In 2011, Maersk Line grounded 844 through the industry association, the confidence in the reefer container transrefrigerated containers following World Shipping Council (WSC) and subportation industry. three tragic fatalities and a number sequently also the Container Owners' of accidents onshore. The refrigerAssociation (COA), and later on to The issue of ated containers exploded on three reefer machinery manufacturers, leading overweight containers separate occasions in Itajai, Brazil forensic and test institutes amongst Overweight containers pose safety and Cat Lai, Vietnam. others with the objective of sharing risks to people and assets throughout knowledge and best practices in comthe entire transportation chain. They After a thorough investigation, we bating this threat. remain a serious issue in almost all found out that the explosions were regions and trades. caused by contaminated refrigerants Steps to prevent the issue from recurallowing an otherwise inert system ring have been taken with further initiaIn the shipping industry wrongly declared to react violently. Together with the tives in the pipeline, for example the containers cause issues in vessel planmain producer of the refrigerants we development of new testing methods ning and stowage. If there are too many located the main source to be a counand procedures. We hope that the indusoverweight containers stowed on deck, a terfeit product. try continues to collaborate on prevenship may lose stability and even capsize. MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 114 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Maersk Line is in favour of the introduction of mandatory weighing of containers prior to loading. That would ensure Over the past five years, Maersk Line, in comparison, lost on average 42 containers annually. While severe weather Safe Transportation In 2011, Maersk Line launched Addressing correct weight declarations and help shipping lines reduce accidents and loss of containers. We support and conditions can have an impact, some can also be attributed to human error. a saftey training programme for employees to highlight how actions or non-actions on land security risks encourage the International Maritime Overall, we have been able to maintain a affect the safety of those at sea. Organisation (IMO) to establish such relatively low figure because of careful legal requirements. and systematic checks and procedures The course was completed by from the time of accepting the booking 548 employees. Containers overboard until the container is physically loaded on There is a public perception, including board. Our personnel and service providwithin the International Maritime ers at land and sea will continue to spot Organisation (IMO) and the EU Comand isolate containers that may have mission, that around 10,000 containers potential safety risks. Dealing with siderable economic impact to global, rewithin the shipping industry, is also are lost overboard container ships the threats of piracy gional and local economies, which suffer responsible for Maersk Line’s strategic every year. We are making progress in forming an Piracy continues to pose a considerfrom increased cost on import and exapproach to fight piracy and for coordiindustry wide initiative that will help able impact on our seafarers and port. Piracy is also a threat to the environnation with international partners. If true, the safety and environmental risk shipping lines know the exact gross business in general. The constant ment as it forces speed increases and would be substantial. The container weight of containers before loaded threat impacts the safety and wellthereby creates higher air emissions. Ship Protection Measures carrier industry association therefore on board our ships. Knowing the exact being of our employees, our service Prior to applying defensive measures assembled data for the past three years. weight on board will help us further and cost. Countering piracy remains According to private risk assessment on ships, a thorough voyage risk They arrived at an average annual loss of reduce the number of containers lost a high priority. provider MaRisk, piracy around Somalia assessment is conducted in order to approximately 675 containers, including overboard. Our overall objective remains resulted in 213 attacks and 30 hijackings define the specific protective measures those resulting from single catastrophic zero containers overboard. According to the International Chamber in 2011. Though the number of successto be applied on the individual vessel elements (defined as 50 and more of Commerce there have been 421 ful hijackings have been halved compared e.g. razor wire, extra lookout, safety containers lost in a single event). pirate attacks and 42 hijackings worldto 2010, the number of attacks have not gear and safety drills. wide in 2011. Though many of these decreased. The main reasons for this are incidents originate from armed robbery believed to be the increased efforts initiThe shipping industry is increasingly stealing cargo or personal belongings ated by the shipping industry and the finding it necessary to use armed guards from crews, the majority is aimed at continued international political will to on vessels to ensure the safety of the hijacking crew, ships and cargo for fight piracy. The better cooperation and crew. However, arming merchant vessels ransom. Most of these attacks occur in information sharing among the naval deals only with the symptoms of piracy the waters surrounding the failed state entities and the industry also contriband is not a long term solution to the root of Somalia. utes to the reduction of piracy attacks. causes. By the end of 2011, 10 ships and some However, the present international activi170 seafarers were held hostage by ties have not deterred the pirates from Somali pirates. attacking merchant vessels and incenVoice of seafarers 85% tives for piracy remain high in Somalia. The impact of piracy is devastating in many ways Anti-Piracy Coordinator Piracy from Somalia has a negative As a result of the development in piracy impact on stability in East Africa as a activities in 2010, Maersk Line decided whole and causes a number of problems to top already in-place initiatives by locally, regionally and globally. employing a dedicated person to head our Anti-Piracy coordination and to be First and foremost piracy is a threat to Maersk Line’s point of contact regarding the merchant seafarers who risk being piracy related issues. say Maersk Line is committed to attacked, wounded, taken hostage or security (e.g. against piracy, theft killed whilst transiting the waters to The position as Anti-Piracy Coordinator, and armed robbery) maintain global trade. Piracy has a conwhich is believed to be the first of its kind MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 116 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 117 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Workplace sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Piracy attacks 2011 “A.P. Moller has become an industry leader demonstrating their commitment to the principles of supply chain security and trade facilitation. A.P. Moller’s long term, active participation in the Customs-Trade Partnership Program along with their cooperation and contributions over the years stands out as a model corporate citizen who is truly dedicated to building the strongest government to business partnership in the world.” Sean E. Doherty Acting Director C-TPAT, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Source: MaRisk 2011 Attacks The threat of terrorism C-TPAT re-validation of Attempted attacks On September 11, 2001, combating Maersk Line and Safmarine the threat of terrorism became the While a voluntary agreement, the C-TPAT U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s program has gradually evolved into (CBP) number one priority. an industry standard, which many of our customers include in their service On that day, the movement of goods contract requirements. Maintaining “No single actor can successfully fight piracy alone – the and people into the US came to halt. our membership in good standing is Shortly after 9/11, CBP developed important in order to retain and attract root causes creating piracy can only be solved through the ‘Customs-Trade Partnership against business. Terrorism’ (C-TPAT) as the first coordia comprehensive and international led engagement.” nated response between industry and In 2011, Maersk Line and Safmarine sucgovernment to secure US borders. cessfully renewed its C-TPAT memberHenrik Ehlers Kragh ship following a re-validation effort by Head of Anti-Piracy Coordination, Maersk Line The C-TPAT program is a joint initiative U.S. Customs trade security specialists. between CBP and trusted partners including US importers, terminal operators, shipping lines, and other supply Promoting comprehensive and Maritime Security Centre, Horn of have a strong voice keeping momentum chain entities focusing on securing and internationally led Africa as well as other high-level intertowards fighting piracy. the international supply chain. The engagement national stakeholders. C-TPAT program is also considered the In 2011, we continued our efforts in Finally, we maintain our good relations “restart” mechanism of international keeping piracy on the international We continue to exchange information, with authorities, facilitate training of trade, should any future attack occur. agenda through engagement in seniorexperiences and policies regarding piracy special forces and continue to discuss level counter piracy conferences in with the two major shipping companies, potential solutions to piracy with politiDubai and London. We actively engage MSC and CMA CGM. Our three compacians, ship owner associations and with organisations such as Combined nies represent approximately 36% of international partners. Maritime Forces, NATO Shipping Centre container shipping worldwide; united we MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 118 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 119 Stakeholder engagement and partnerships SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Stakeholder engagement and partnerships SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Stakeholder engagement Forrest Stewardship Council (FSC) FSC is an independent, non-governmental, World Economic Forum: New Vision for Agriculture The World Economic Forum is an indeWorld Ocean Council (WOC) The World Ocean Council brings together the ocean business community to drive and partnerships not-for-profit organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests. Established pendent international organisation committed to improving the state of the world by engaging business, political, global leadership and collaboration in ocean sustainability and responsibility. In 2011, Maersk became members of as a response to concerns over global academic and other leaders of society WOC and is co-chairing the research prodeforestation, FSC is a pioneer forum to shape global, regional and industry gram “Smart Ocean/Smart Industries” where the global consensus on responagendas. with the WOC and rig operator, Transosible forest management convenes. cean. The aim of the program is to exMaersk Line became members of FSC in The New Vision for Agriculture (NVA) is pand the collection of ocean and atmos2011 when we issued a new floorboard led by 27 global partner companies of pheric observations from ships and policy to prevent illegally logged timber the World Economic Forum that span platforms in order to improve the modelin our container floors. the full food value chain and beyond. The ling and predictability of weather, ocean External stakeholder engagement is knowledge pool allowing for better straCustoms-Trade Partnership fsc.org initiative aims to address the major chalconditions and climate change. pivotal to our ambition of becoming tegic planning. Exchanges with regulaAgainst Terrorism (C-TPAT) lenges of global food and agricultural oceancouncil.org a more sustainable company. We cantors and key government actors have Shortly after 9/11 the U.S. Customs and Maritime Anti-Corruption sustainability through multi-stakeholdnot, should not and do not operate in brought us closer to creating a level Border Protection’s (CBP) developed the Network (MACN) er and market-based approaches, exWorld Shipping Council (WSC) a vacuum. industry playing field. Strategic customer C-TPAT as the first coordinated response The members represent different areas ploring models for collabo­ration that The World Shipping Council is an active partnerships have helped us to better between industry and government to of the shipping sector with head offices can spark the necessary step-change participant in policy debates that will We are sensitive to the expectations and understand customer needs, enabling secure US borders. in Denmark, Norway, Germany, UK, US and needed in agriculture. Maersk Line beaffect the liner shipping industry, its pressures from our ever growing staketargeted product and service innovaSweden. The purpose of the network is to came members of NVA in 2011. customers, and the economic vitality of holder universe and therefore engaging tion. Finally, thought leadership diaThe C-TPAT program is a joint initiative share best practices, align approaches to weforum.org all trading nations. In addition to trade, in open exchange is no longer something logues in cross-industry forums have between CBP and trusted partners incombat corrupt practices, and collabosecurity and customs initiatives, enviwe consider optional, but increasingly a generated new visions for what our cluding US importers, terminal operarate in addressing specific challenges. World Food Programme: ronmental issues have been a very license to operate. industry could aspire to in the future. tors, shipping lines, and other supply The network also aims to seek support Logistics Emergency Team (LET) active area of new policy development. chain entities focusing on securing the from government bodies and internaAgility, Maersk, TNT and UPS are experts The WSC is working with legislators, For this reason, Maersk Line sought out Clean Cargo Working international supply chain. Maersk Line tional organisations to target corrupt in transport and logistics. The four comappropriate government agencies, the and further developed strong bonds Group (CCWG) was invited into C-TPAT at the end of practices in challenging jurisdictions and panies have formed a partnership called International Maritime Organization as with our primary stakeholders through The CCWG is a business to business col2002. encourage solutions to the root causes. the Logistics Emergency Teams (LET) a respected advisor to support the strategic partnership and network enlaboration between 30+ global influential c-tpat.com lending its support and expertise to the estab­lishment of internationally uniform gagement. We also actively engaged shipping lines and their customers. CCWG UN Global Compact – LEAD World Food Programme during largeenvironmental standards. more broadly in dialogues with acadeis hosted by the business oriented NGO EU Authorised Global Compact LEAD responds to the scale natural disasters. worldshipping.org mia, government, think-tanks and NGOs. Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Economic Operator (AEO) critical need for leading companies to wfp.org To maximise the benefits of partnerand has the objective to promote more Similarly to the U.S. Customs-Trade Partstep up and reach new levels of social and ships, we implemented a stakeholder sustainable container transportation. nership Against Terrorism, the EU develenvironmental performance. Launched in strategy that will continue to form the oped its own Authorised Economic January 2011, the A.P. Moller-Maersk backbone of our engagement in the CCWG is a recognised source of highOperator (AEO) programme to improve Group was invited to be a part of a new years to come. quality environmental performance data. safety and security in the international platform for corporate sustainability The group has developed a standardised supply chain. leadership. The mission is to challenge Our stakeholders have encouraged us to CO2 calculation methodology for conthe approximately 50 participating comfurther challenge ourselves, raising the tainer shipping as well as easy-to-use Maersk Line became a certified member panies to implement the Blueprint for bar on our performance and highlighting tools that enable customers to calculate in October 2008. Over time this voluntary Corporate Sustainability Leadership. areas for improvement. Innovation netthe environmental footprint in their supframework is expected to evolve into an unglobalcompact.org works and scientific partnerships have ply chain. industry standard. increased the span and depth of our bsr.org ec.europa.eu LEAD MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 122 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 123 Stakeholder engagement and partnerships SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 What do our stakeholders think? SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Sustainable Shipping Initiative (Forum for the Future) The Sustainable Shipping Initiative (SSI) What do our brings together some of the biggest names in the maritime sector to plan how it can contribute to and thrive in stakeholders think? a sustainable future. Its members are leading companies from around the world and NGOs Forum for the Future and WWF. The cross-industry group represents ship owners and charterers, shipbuilders, engineers and service providers, banking, insurance, and classi­ fication. In 2011, the Maersk Group commiswell on many of their priority issues not This is important feedback. As our susIn May 2011, the SSI launched a ‘Case for sioned independent survey organileast our innovation capability, quality tainability strategy enters its third year, Action’ analysing the social, environsation Globescan to carry out a brand service, financial strength and high safewe are aware that we need to continue to mental and economic challenges shipreputation survey of all Maersk busity standards – factors which have long improve our employee and customer ping faces and how best to react to nesses including Maersk Line. been key priorities within Maersk. Their value proposition, and engage more them. In response, the SSI has now pubbelief in our ability to open new markets openly with stakeholders so that we lished its shared vision of an industry in Globescan asked a group of 400 stakegives us confidence in our plans to adunderstand their concerns and they can 2040 which is resilient, socially and enviholders drawn from customers, employvance emerging markets trade. see the changes we are making. As a ronmentally responsible and profitable, ees, NGOs, investors, government and result we are building our efforts in linked to a first set of practical work media their impressions of Maersk Line But our stakeholders were less conthese areas and focusing harder on comstreams, through which the SSI will and its competitors. It's been good to vinced in other areas – for example our munication, stakeholder engagement begin to make Vision 2040 a reality. learn that Maersk Line is generally well commitment to integrate sustainability and relationship building. forumforthefuture.org perceived and 80% of our stakeholders into investment decisions, and the level would be happy to recommend us. of transparency we offer. Globescan's conclusion was that our solid business fundamentals support Globescan also asked respondents On different human resource issues, a strong reputation, and that our suswhat issues they felt were most imporwe still have some way to go, with some tainability strategy could strengthen it tant to Maersk's brand and reputation, employees being concerned about the further. and how Maersk Line is performing. We reward structure and whether their voicwere encouraged to find we are doing es are being sufficiently heard. “Maersk Line has a license to act boldly on the global stage. With that comes high expectations that extend beyond the balance sheet. Maersk Line is seen as an “Delivering on Sustainable Shipping Initiative’s joint vision organization that not only can, but indeed should, play a for our industry will help drive needed change in operating lead role in connecting people and markets to advance models thereby allowing economies to grow, trade to global development. We think that will only benefit the develop and social wealth to spread.” Morten Engelstoft company in the long term.” Eric Whan Chief Operating Officer, Maersk Line Director, GlobeScan MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 124 MAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 125 Reporting on progress SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 2011 Reporting on progress Maersk Line’s 2010-2015 sustainabilping. We believe transparency is one of of industry-specific areas, and to rally ity strategy defines our company’s the most important enablers for prosupport for goals we share with many priorities and targets. We review the gress and commercial demand for more stakeholders. progress on our targets regularly and sustainable shipping operations. update targets according to rising expectation and ambition levels. The In this way, the report is also a means for five scorecards in this report reflect us to push for change within a number any adjustments made vis-à-vis our priorities in 2011. We will report regularly on how Route 2 is contributing to our objectives, 2012 and beyond. Furthermore, we will continue to disclose the CO2 performance of every Maersk Line owned container ship. In 2012, this data will be made available on our website maerskline.com. Maersk Line’s emissions data is independently verified. The performance and progress data captured in this report is summarised in the A.P. Moller – Maersk Group Sustainability Report 2011-2012 which is externally assured. Besides reporting on 2011 progress and challenges, we have tried to give a sense of some of the practices we put in place during 2011 that we think will play a part in the long-term future of logistics and trade. These thoughts aim to spur dialogue and debate in and outside our industry. Our main goal with reporting continues to be to increase transparency in shipMAERSK LINE ROUTE 2 127 We value your feedback If you have any questions, comments or suggestions about this report or our performance, we welcome your feedback. You can send your comments to: Maersk Line Esplanaden 50 1098 Copenhagen K Denmark Attn: Sustainability Email: soren.nielsen@maersk.com Telephone: +45 3363 3363 Editor Louise Kjaergaard Design and layout Halbye Kaag JWT Print KLS Grafisk Hus A/S Printed in Denmark 2012 For more information please see: The A.P. Moller Maersk Group Sustainability Report 2011: maersk.com 'Unlocking the Indian banana trade' by Maersk Line: maerskline.com Sustainable Shipping Initiative Vision 2040: forumforthefuture.org Clean Cargo Working Group: bsr.org/en/our-work/working-groups/clean-cargo Maersk Line Manifesto: changingthewaywethinkaboutshipping.com/ Triple-E ships: worldslargestship.com Route 2: maerskline.com Forward looking statements The report contains forward looking statements on expectations regarding the achievements and performance of Maersk Line. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, as various factors, many of which are beyond Maersk Line’s control, may cause actual results and development to differ materially from expectations contained herein.
