2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Contents The 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes in detail how we put this commitment into practice. Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 14 Extending our risk intelligence  20 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 29 Reducing our environmental footprint 38 Being a good corporate citizen 46 Being an employer of choice 54 Ensuring good governance  61 Corporate responsibility in context: climate change 64 Corporate responsibility in context: microinsurance 66 Other Swiss Re publications 68 Independent assurance report on the Swiss Re Group consolidated CO2 emissions 70 Memberships, awards and index listings 72 GRI content index, with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references 74 Swiss Re Cover Parametric and index-based insurance products track specific data 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation correlated with risks such as drought, windstorms, floods or earth­ quakes (eg the amount of rainfall for drought or flood risks). When ﻿ Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 these “triggers” reach a critical level, payouts are made automatically. www.swissre.com Because parametric and index-based products offer low costs and ﻿ 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report rapid payments, they help bring insurance protection to people in emerging countries. For more information on Swiss Re’s innovative ﻿ Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Graphs Category: Risk & Catastrophe risk transfer solutions, see pages 14–19. Scriptographer Plugin Copyright © 2008 Swiss Re ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Executive statement Dear stakeholders We take pleasure in presenting our 2011 product developed in Haiti addresses the Corporate Responsibility Report to you. ﻿ risks from earthquakes, windstorms and The fact that we have been publishing such excessive rainfall; the R4 Rural Resilience an account for more than ten years is a pilot for Ethiopia and Senegal covers testament to our long-standing commitment drought risks; as does a solution for Mali to acting responsibly. This present edition developed through the Global Index also serves as our formal “Communication Insurance Facility. Focusing on weather on Progress” for the UN Global Compact, phenomena, these products also help whose principles we will continue to communities adapt to some of the effects ﻿ implement. of climate change. The commitment to being a responsible In the Group’s risk management, where an company has several important dimensions. important goal is to first identify and then In our understanding, a key element is ﻿ avoid or reduce certain environmental, social the objective to take a long-term view and and ethical risks, we have made further to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. Based on the criteria laid down in progress. When Swiss Re introduced a new our Sustainability Risk Framework, a total ﻿ set of corporate values in 2011 – client of 158 business transactions were submitted centricity, agility, team spirit, passion to to our “Sensitive Business Risks” process ﻿ perform and integrity – we made sure ﻿ for careful review. Through our SONAR pro­ that they were firmly based on underlying cess (SONAR = systematic observation ﻿ principles that include this long-term view. of notions associated with risk) we also examined 205 risk notions that may be In terms of our practical steps to enable sources of emerging risks. sustainable progress, we currently consider six areas to be particularly relevant: our Ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders and business solutions, risk management, risk partners plays an essential part in the ﻿ dialogue, our own footprint, corporate re/insurance business. The insights gained citizenship and our role as an employer. from these exchanges allow us to obtain a These six focus areas form the backbone ﻿ better understanding of major risk develop­ of the present report; we have devoted a ments; conversely, we also share our ﻿ chapter to each of them to review last year’s risk expertise to help society manage risks most important activities and achievements. ef­fectively. In 2011, we produced or ﻿ In addition, we offer you more detailed co-produced several new publications and background information on two sustainability hosted a range of stakeholder dialogue topics that are high on Swiss Re’s agenda: events at our Centre for Global Dialogue. climate change and microinsurance. Microinsurance formed a focus of our efforts in the core re/insurance business in 2011. ﻿ In cooperation with various partners, we succeeded in creating several innovative solutions that bring insurance protection to people on low incomes. The MiCRO 2 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Executive statement Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès As a reinsurer, we do not generate a large provide assistance to some of the worst environmental footprint through our own affected communities and set up Groupoperations. Nevertheless, it has been a firm wide relief efforts after the tragic events in part of our overall commitment to corporate Japan and East Africa. At the same time, ﻿ responsibility and of our climate change we continued to support development pro­ strategy to reduce our CO2 emissions and to jects that focus on natural catastrophes, improve energy efficiency. Through the climate change and sustainable water man­ Greenhouse Neutral Programme, we have agement. Community Days and Charity of achieved a total reduction in CO2 emissions the Year, the two Group-wide volunteering per employee of 54.4% since 2003, while programmes for our own employees, were offsetting the remainder. In 2011, we also introduced at additional locations. launched a new two-year cycle of our COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme, which To conclude, we would like to directly provides subsidies to our employees for address our more than 10 000 employees investments that reduce their private worldwide. Through your expertise and carbon footprint. In the first five years of the dedication you have ensured that 2011 was programme, we were able to grant a total of a successful year for Swiss Re and made almost 4 000 such subsidies. our company what it is. We would like to thank you sincerely for your efforts. This Unfortunately, 2011 saw the highest losses report contains information on how we, in from natural and man-made catastrophes ﻿ turn, strive to act as a responsible employer in history. With our long tradition of acting and further encourage diversity ﻿ as a good corporate citizen, we wanted to and inclusion across our company. Zurich, May 2012 Walter B. Kielholz Michel M. Liès Chairman of the Board of Directors Group CEO ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Global diversification and a solid balance sheet ﻿ sustain Swiss Re’s ambition: to be the leader in the ﻿ wholesale re/insurance industry. Swiss Re at a glance In 2011, Swiss Re realigned its legal struc­ Our new corporate structure Swiss Re is a leader in wholesale reinsurance, ture and operating model to better reflect The new structure of the insurance and risk transfer solutions. ﻿ the company’s strategic priorities. The new Swiss Re Group consists of a Our clients include insurance companies, listed holding company is now parent to holding company, Swiss Re corporations and public-sector bodies. ﻿ three distinct Business Units: Reinsurance, Ltd, with three distinct Busi­ Our capital strength and knowledge enable ﻿ Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®. ﻿ ness Units corresponding to the risk-taking on which economies depend. The Reinsurance Business Unit will report Swiss Re’s core activities in Property & Casualty and Life & Health reinsurance, direct corporate Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, segments. insurance and direct life Swiss Re has operations around the globe. insurance: At the end of 2011, we had 61 offices ﻿ Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s new holding ̤̤ Reinsurance in more than 20 countries. Based on “net company, is a joint stock company, listed ﻿ ̤̤ Corporate Solutions premiums earned and fee income from on the SIX Swiss Exchange, domiciled ﻿ ̤̤ Admin Re® policyholders” in 2011, our ten biggest in Zurich and organised under the laws of markets were: the United States, the ﻿ Switzerland. No further Group companies United Kingdom, Australia, China, Canada, have shares listed. Germany, France, Japan, Italy and ﻿ the Netherlands. In the past year, they accounted for 80.0% of the Group’s total business. Our global presence Americas 9.3 Net premiums earned ﻿ and fee income in 2011 (USD billions) (USD 9.1 billion in 2010) 33 Number of offices﻿ as of 31 December 2011 (28 in 2010) 2788 Number of employees Regular staff as of 31 December 2011 (2 694 in 2010) For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/about_us/ 4 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Who we are and what we do The business model of reinsurance Re/insurance By providing risk mitigation and pursuing long-term investment strategies, re/insurers protects society and support innovation and economic growth. enables progress. Swiss Re has a new corporate structure, but our fundamental re/insurance business model remains the same: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurancebased capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against up-front premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. Europe Asia-Pacific Total (including Middle East and Africa) 8.6 4.3 22.2 (USD 8.5 billion in 2010) (USD 3.0 billion in 2010) (USD 20.6 billion in 2010) 17 11 61 (17 in 2010) (11 in 2010) (56 in 2010) 6973 1027 10788 (6 682 in 2010) (986 in 2010) (10 362 in 2010) ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do Our business segments Swiss Re’s business segments have been based on products: Property & Casualty and Life & Health (supported by Asset Management). ﻿ The new listed holding company is now parent to three distinct Business Units: Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®. Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Property & casualty and life & health insur­ Corporate Solutions offers innovative, highAdmin Re® takes on closed books of iners choose Swiss Re for its innovative quality insurance capacity for single and force life & health insurance business, entire reinsurance solutions, capital strength and multi-line programmes worldwide, either lines of business or the entire capital stock expertise. Alongside sophisticated risk on a standalone basis or as part of struc­ of life insurance companies, thus helping modelling and a geographically diversified tured and tailor-made solutions. In addition, clients to divest themselves of non-core portfolio, insurance and public-sector it provides customised risk transfer solutions business, reduce administrative costs and clients can benefit from our leadership in to mid-sized and large, multinational release capital. Swiss Re is a leader in ﻿ insurance-based security solutions ﻿ corporations across the globe to assist in this field, with a record of more than fifty and services for comprehensive risk mitigating their risk exposure. successful transactions. management. Net premiums earned in 2011 Key financial data by product line The table below provides a simplified overview of Swiss Re’s key financial data. USD millions unless otherwise stated 2010 2011 Total assets 228 403 225 899 Total investments 156 947 162 224 Total liabilities 201 497 194 612 Total debt* 29 225 20 668 Shareholders’ equity 25 342 29 590 Retained earnings 19 651 22 227 29% Life Total revenues 28 835 28 083 24% Property Premiums earned 19 652 21 300 18% Casualty Net investment income 5 422 5 469 12% Specialty Net realised investment gains 2 783 388 11% Health Total expenses 26 160 25 208 4% Admin Re® Claims and claim adjustment expenses 7 254 8 810 2% P&C non-traditional Life and health benefits 8 236 8 414 Income tax expense 541 77 Current taxes 696 106 Deferred taxes –155 –29 Net income ** 863 2 626 Earnings per share in CHF (basic) 2.64 6.79 Dividends on common shares 319 1 035 Return on equity in % 3.6 9.6 * Total debt expressed as total carrying value ** Net income attributable to common shareholders 6 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Who we are and what we do Group structure Operational Group structure Board of Directors Chairman Vice Chairman Members of the Board of Directors Group Executive Committee Group Group CEO Members of the Group Executive Committee Corporate functions Finance Risk Management Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® Enabling units ̤̤ Globals ̤̤ Regions & Specialty ̤̤ EMEA Products ̤̤ Americas ̤̤ Property & Specialty ̤̤ Asia ̤̤ Casualty ̤̤ Life & Health ̤̤ Corporate Solutions Products Business Units ̤̤ Claims, Accounting & Liability Management Asset Management ̤̤ Chief Investment Office ̤̤ Rates Operations ̤̤ Communications ̤̤ Human Resources ̤̤ Information Technology ̤̤ Legal ̤̤ Logistics ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing ﻿ to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our practical actions. Swiss Re has a long-standing commitment This long-term view is embedded in ﻿ Our commitment to to being a responsible company. A key Swiss Re’s normative framework and enabling sustainable element in our understanding of what this governance (ie the Group Code of ﻿ progress underpins means is the wish to contribute to sus­ Conduct). It is one of the principles that Swiss Re’s values. tainable value creation, for the benefit of ﻿ form the foundation of our values: our clients and society at large. ̤̤ Being open, honest and transparent in everything we do; ̤̤ Treating everyone with respect; ̤̤ Taking the long-term view, playing our part in enabling sustainable progress; ̤̤ Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. Group Code of Conduct: “Swiss Re is committed to the principles of sustainability: it generates economic wealth which maintains ecological and social impacts at a level that enables future generations ﻿ to meet their needs.” For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/about_us/our_values/ For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate put this long-term view into practice. Our responsibility approach focuses on six areas across ﻿ Our formal commitment to corporate Swiss Re’s business which we regard as ﻿ responsibility sets forth how we seek to ﻿ key to sustainable value creation: General commitment “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest ﻿ and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government regulators and the general public – with respect and integrity. ﻿ In particular, we aim to take a long-term view, playing our part in enabling sustainable progress. Sustainability as a guiding principle Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development that ﻿ meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations ﻿ to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social well-being. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate responsibility, the principle of sustainability ﻿ is a key criterion: ̤̤ Business solutions Within our core business (reinsurance and asset management), we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. ﻿ To this end, we actively work together with our clients and partners, both in the ﻿ private and public sectors. ̤̤ Risk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. In this way, we seek to identify and appropriately address sustainability-related, ethical and emerging risks in our core business. ̤̤ Risk dialogue We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to advance our understanding ﻿ of the changing risk landscape. By sharing and extending know-how, we aim to help our clients and society develop effective responses to key risks. ̤̤ Our footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and logistical operations as well as guidelines to our procurement activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. ̤̤ Corporate citizenship Playing an active role in society beyond our core business is important to us. ﻿ We support selected humanitarian and development aid projects across the world, while promoting volunteering and charitable work at our business locations. ̤̤ Our employees We want to provide our employees with a working environment conducive to their personal and professional development. We nurture a culture of diversity and ﻿ inclusion across the company, offer excellent training possibilities, and provide a range of health and other benefits. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Governance and management chapter highlights some key features of responsibility Swiss Re’s corporate governance regime, At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, the including the Group Code of Conduct: task of overseeing implementation of ﻿ ̤̤ Creating solutions for sustainability our commitment to corporate responsibility ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence has been assigned to a Committee of the ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Board of the Directors: It is one of the respon­ ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint sibili­ties of the Chairman’s and Governance ̤̤ Being a good corporate citizen Committee to periodically monitor the ̤̤ Being an employer of choice Group’s sustainability and citizenship ̤̤ Ensuring good governance activities. In addition to these chapters focusing on At the level of operative management, our main activities, the 2011 Corporate corporate responsibility activities are driven Resposibility Report includes two special forward by a number of organisational sections on the topics of climate change entities. These include: Global Partnerships, and microinsurance, both of which are of The six main chapters Environmental & Commodity Markets, special relevance for Swiss Re in terms ﻿ of this Corporate Sustainability & Political Risk Management, of corporate responsibility. By devoting a Responsibility Report Group Asset Management, Construction, separate section to each of these topics, ﻿ review our achievements Emerging Risk Management, Issue Manage­ we seek to provide more detailed back­ in 2011; the two special ment & Messages, Internal Environmental ground information on them: sections provide Management, Global Services, Corporate ̤̤ Corporate responsibility in context:﻿ background information Citizenship and Human Resources. Sustain­ climate change on two key topics. ability & Political Risk Management also ̤̤ Corporate responsibility in context:﻿ carries out certain coordination functions microinsurance between different units. New Group structure Disclosure and accountability In 2011, Swiss Re realigned its legal struc­ As part of our commitment to corporate ture and operating model to better reflect responsibility, we have voluntarily reported the company’s strategic priorities. The new on our performance in this respect for more listed holding company is now parent to than a decade. The range of topics covered three distinct Business Units: Reinsurance, in the yearly reports has gradually widened. Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®. While early editions had a strong focus on Starting in 2012, our financial reporting will environmental concerns, later editions be based on the new corporate structure. gradually extended their focus to social and governance issues. Since 2007, we have This realignment does not affect the struc­ published a comprehensive “Corporate Res­ ture and scope of our corporate respon­ ponsibility Report”, guided by best practice sibility reporting. Swiss Re’s commitment to in corporate responsibility reporting. corporate responsibility applies to all business segments, and the report conti­n­ Content definition and scope ues to cover the whole Group, including ﻿ The content and structure of the present the three Business Units and all subsidiaries. report reflect the way in which we seek to implement our commitment to corporate As in past years, the report’s scope is responsibility. Each of the six priority areas limited to our own operations. While we do defined in our commitment is covered ﻿ provide information on our sourcing and with an individual chapter. An additional procurement policies, we do not report on the performance of our suppliers because the reinsurance business does not involve ﻿ a proper supply chain. 10 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and The present report succeeds the 2010 UN Global Compact edition and covers the calendar year of As far as applicable to a business-to-business 2011. We plan to maintain our yearly company in financial services, the report publishing cycle and to present our next takes into account the G3 Sustainability Corporate Responsibility Report in the Reporting Guidelines of the Global Repor­t­ second quarter of 2013, covering the year ing Initiative (www.globalreporting.org). ﻿ of 2012. It will assess the progress made We also indicate the application level that against our key goals for 2012, stated on the report meets in our own assessment ﻿ page 12. (ie “self-declared”). The detailed GRI content index is included in the report on pages ﻿ Corporate responsibility goals 74–76. This also incorporates our “Commu­ Each year, we publicly state our main cor­ nication on Progress” for the UN Global porate responsibility goals and then report Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org), in on our progress made against them in the line with its recommendations. following year. Below is our progress report on the goals defined for 2011: Report on our 2011 corporate responsibility goals ̤̤ Further build and deepen relationships with public-sector clients through ﻿ our newly created Global Partnership business function. Worked with different partner organisations to develop several innovative products that provide insurance protection to vulnerable, low-income people. ﻿ See pages 14 –18. ̤̤ Complete further regional studies to help clients devise cost-effective adaptation strategies to climate change, based on the Economics of Climate Adaptation methodology. Engaged in negotiations, but completed no further studies, reflecting difficulty of reaching agreement among decision-makers to direct resources towards long-term issues. ̤̤ Continue to embed our Sustainability Risk Framework into core business operations and advance the insurance industry’s adoption of such risk management practices. Assessed a total of 158 sensitive business transactions and made a major contribution to developing the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). ﻿ See pages 21–22. ̤̤ Maintain 50.6% reduction in CO2 emissions per employee under post-crisis business conditions and increase gains in energy efficiency to 32%, both measured against 2003 baseline. Arrived at a total reduction in CO2 emissions per employee of 54.4% and an improvement of energy efficiency by 38.3% since 2003. See pages 38–40. ̤̤ Leverage our comprehensive risk expertise to support communal capacity building projects, and further enhance employee engagement worldwide. Supported several projects providing humanitarian assistance or fostering community development, and expanded our Group volunteering programmes to additional locations. See pages 46–52. ̤̤ Foster an inclusive corporate culture that enables diversity and ensures equal opportunities across the Group, thus leveraging the competitive advantage of ﻿ a diverse workforce. L aunched a series of change initiatives addressing “Inclusive Leadership”, “Unconscious Bias”, “Women in Leadership” and “Own the Way You Work”; integrated Diversity & Inclusion principles into recruitment and talent policies. ﻿ See pages 55–56. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility goals for 2012 These are our main corporate responsibility goals for 2012. We will report on our progress made against these goals in the next report. Further strengthen cooperation with privateand public-﻿ sector partners to improve communities’ risk resilience, with ﻿ a particular focus on microinsurance solutions. Explore further opportunities to help clients devise ﻿ long-term adaptation strategies to climate change, based ﻿ Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle on the Economics of Climate Adaptation methodology. Category: Categorytitle Share results from our research on risks in the renewable energy sector with clients to advance effective climate mitigation strategies. Strengthen competency and accountability of business lines ﻿ to address sustainability risks directly, and deepen dialogue on sensitive issues such as Scriptographer fossil fuelPlugin extraction. Maintain reduction in CO2 emissions 10 per employee by 50% and improvement in energy intensity50 by 38% against 2003 baselines, as the company pursues its growth strategy. Extend the scope of ourCopyright corporate citizenship activities to © 2010 Swiss Re projects in the health sector including social entrepreneurship, thereby leveraging Swiss Re’s expertise. 12 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Creating solutions for sustainability We seek to develop innovative solutions that help tackle sustainability challenges. Focus areas are natural catastrophes, climate change and insurance cover in emerging countries. Swiss Re’s core business is to offer re/insu­r­ ̤̤ Climate change adaptation: While Index-based insurance ance solutions that provide effective financial reducing CO2 emissions remains essential, products: protection against risk. This generates we believe it is indispensable to develop A key requirement of insur­ tangible added value for our clients, while instruments that facilitate adaptation to ance protection for people on protecting society as a whole and enabling climate change. low incomes is that it is progress. ̤̤ Emerging and developing countries: We affordable and quick. Indexstrive to create products suitable to based products help achieve As part of our commitment to corporate extending insurance cover in these nonthis: the chosen index utilises responsibility, we place emphasis on deve­l­ traditional markets, especially for people specific data that are highly oping innovative risk transfer products ﻿ on low incomes. correlated with the actual risk that help address environmental and social to determine losses (eg the challenges. In doing so, we work closely In 2011, the main focus of our efforts was measured amount of rainfall with our clients and partners, both in the on solutions that help low-income people in for drought or flood risks). private and the public sector. Currently, developing countries build better lives. We Pay­ments are then made these innovations include one or more of were involved in the development of several auto­matically when the index the following elements: microinsurance solutions that create financial reaches a critical level. ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or “cat protection for hitherto uninsured people. bonds”: We are a leader in the devel­ These innovative parametric and indexopment of these products, which enable based products provide insurance cover large risks to be transferred to the capital against drought, earthquakes, hurricanes markets. and ex­cess­ive rainfall. ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We ﻿ are a pioneer in creating innovative insurance solutions that use an index to determine payments. ̤̤ Public-sector clients: In addition to ﻿ direct insurers and corporate clients, we seek to develop risk transfer solutions ﻿ for governments and various public-sector organisations. For more information on climate change, see﻿ Corporate responsibility in context: climate change on pages 64–65 For more information on microinsurance, see﻿ Corporate responsibility in context: microinsurance on pages 66–67 14 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating solutions for sustainability Drought poses a substantial threat to the livelihoods of farming communities in Senegal. The R4 Initiative, developed with our partners, aims to help some of these communities become more resilient to drought-related risks. The R4 Rural Resilience Initiative such desperate and self-defeating measures The recent severe drought in East Africa as selling their tools or spending their seed sharply revealed once again how vulnerable money for the next growing season. Since farming communities are to abnormal weather data for the area are incom­plete, weather that disrupts food production. With the programme uses satellite data to few savings to fall back on, subsistence calculate the index. farmers are totally exposed to the vagaries of the weather – which, to make matters A special innovation of the programme is worse, may become even more volatile as that the farmers can pay their premiums by the climate changes. working for local community projects, which are designed to reduce the risk of The R4 Rural Resilience Initiative, which ﻿ drought-induced crop failure through ﻿ we developed with Oxfam America ﻿ such measures as improved irrigation and (www.oxfamamerica.org), the UN World soil management or planting trees. Food Programme (www.wfp.org) and ﻿ local partners, is designed to help small­ holder farmers better cope with the consequences of drought. The name “R4” In the R4 Initiative, the indicates that it simultaneously addresses insured farmers need four different aspects of risk: risk transfer not pay their premiums (ie insurance), risk reduction, prudent ﻿ in cash; instead, they risk taking (credit) and risk reserves (savings). can work for local The programme was first launched in community projects Ethiopia and has now been expanded to designed to reduce the farming communities in Senegal. Two ﻿ risk of crop failure due more African countries are to be included ﻿ to drought. in the future. In risk transfer, R4 protects the farmers against drought through an index-based product: They automatically receive payouts whenever the amount of rainfall over a certain period falls below a pre-defined, critical level. This could help them avoid ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating solutions for sustainability In combination, the four elements of the ﻿ populations. MiCRO’s key innovation is a R4 Initiative – insurance, risk reduction, hybrid product that combines a parametric credit and savings – aim to assist farmers in and a basis risk insurance cover. This means achieving sufficient financial stability to that the policy pays out within a few weeks begin investing in technology and resources. of a disaster, while closely mirroring the Ultimately, this will empower them to move actual damage on the ground. The MiCRO from subsistence to small-scale commercial solution thus enables Fonkoze to respond farming, a vital precondition to becoming quickly to the problems faced by their clients less vulnerable to volatile weather conditions. while remaining solvent. At the same time, ﻿ it offers effective, timely protection against HARITA natural catastrophes to the insured The R4 Rural Resilience Initiative builds on microentrepreneurs and their families. the success of HARITA (“Horn of Africa Risk Transfer for Adaptation“), an earlier project The programme covers earthquakes, hurri­ we set up with Oxfam America and other canes and excessive rainfall. It was launched partners. Originally focusing on just one vil­ in cooperation with Fonkoze, which has lage in northern Ethiopia, HARITA is one of made the product available to its almost the first weather index pilot programmes in 60 000 female clients. However, MiCRO Africa to have been successfully expanded. has been designed as a “scalable” facility Enrolment grew from 200 families in 2009 that can be extended to other catastrophic to 13 000 families in 43 villages by 2011. risks as well as additional countries. The MiCRO programme Of those, more than 1 800 farmers in seven in Haiti won the villages received payouts in 2011. MiCRO was officially launched in March “Company Launch of the 2011 and, by the end of the year, nearly Year” award conferred The MiCRO initiative in Haiti 6 700 clients had experienced qualified by The Review magazine The earthquake that struck Haiti in January losses. Fonkoze provided loan relief and and was described as 2010 caused human suffering on a devasta­ cash payments totalling more than USD ﻿ the “most significant ting scale, killing more than 220 000 people. 1.9 million, for an average relief per client ﻿ new venture in an area Beyond its immediate fatal impact, the of around USD 280. MiCRO was named of market need”. disaster also destroyed the livelihoods of “Company launch of the year” at the World­ numerous grassroots entrepreneurs. This wide Reinsurance Awards 2011 of The dramatically demonstrated the country’s Review magazine, a global insurance trade need for better insurance protection against publication, and described as the “most natural disasters. significant new venture in an area of market need”. In addition, Swiss Re proudly Against this background, Swiss Re sought received the “Global Partner of the Year” to contribute to a solution that would 2011 Award from Fonkoze. effectively alleviate some of the financial hardships Haitian microentrepreneurs face Extending MiCRO to cholera following a natural disaster. In partnership At the annual meeting of the Clinton Global with Fonkoze (www.fonkoze.org), Haiti’s Initiative (www.clintonglobalinitiative.org) largest microfinance institution (MFI), and in September 2011, Swiss Re, Fonkoze and Mercy Corps (www.mercycorps.org), ﻿ Mercy Corps announced their joint commit­ we helped develop the Microinsurance ment to designing and implementing a Catastrophe Risk Organisation (MiCRO). second MiCRO programme in Haiti. Build­ MiCRO is specifically targeted at the informal ing on the initial cover for natural sector in Haiti – the micro-entrepreneurs catastrophes, the new scheme will offer who have set up small businesses to provide Fonkoze’s clients real-time protection for their families and to improve their eco­ against loss of income due to a spike in the nomic situation. Having access to insurance level of reported cholera victims. protection helps them to recover more quickly after a natural catastrophe. MiCRO is the latest of a series of innovative insurance solutions that, like R4, we ﻿ have helped develop for hitherto uninsured 16 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating solutions for sustainability Global Index Insurance Facility cycle of development and asset creation. In 2011, we entered into a technical partner­ Index insurance is particularly suited for this ship with the International Finance Corpo­ purpose because it is transparent, has low ration, IFC (www.ifc.org), the private-sector transaction costs and enables rapid claims arm of the World Bank, with the objective ﻿ payment. of further developing its Global Index Insur­ ance Facility (GIIF). GIIF was created as a In 2011, the focus of our collaboration with platform to im­prove access to index-based GIIF was on establishing index-based insurance pro­ducts in developing countries, agricultural insurance schemes in Africa: In especially for farmers and people in eight countries we set up pioneering agrarian communities. schemes involving counterparties such as corporations, banks, public-sector entities Most communities in developing countries and NGOs. In doing so, we have helped lack insurance protection against natural establish innovative distribution models, hazard risks. Earthquakes, floods, storms which lower transaction costs, and have Maize is an important crop in Southern Mali. As part of our collaboration with the Global and droughts can thus wipe out the liveli­ further refined index construction. Through Index Insurance Facility, we helped set up a hoods of entire families in an instant. Wellthe use of remote sensing technologies, for project in the Sikasso region that insures designed and affordable insurance schemes example, we can now offer index insurance farmers against harvest shortfalls due to not only help avoid these devastating con­ in cases where this was impossible a few drought (see page 18). sequences, they can set in motion a virtuous years ago. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability The International Finance Drought insurance for maize farmers in Mali Corporation (IFC) One of the GIIF projects we were involved in during 2011 provides insurance IFC is a member of the World protection to maize farmers in Mali, focusing on the region of Sikasso. Though this Bank Group and the largest region receives more rain than other parts of Mali, drought poses a latent risk to ﻿ global development institution the local farming communities. focused exclusively on the private sector in developing PlaNet Guarantee (www.planetguarantee.com), a microinsurance specialist and one countries. Pursuing the of our partners in the project, has worked with local institutions to offer farmers vision that people should financial protection against harvest shortfalls due to drought and, as a result, against have the opportunity to the inability to pay back loans. escape poverty and improve their lives, IFC offers The index used in this risk transfer product measures “relative evapotranspiration” – investment services, evapotranspiration being the sum of water evaporation from plants and soil. When the advisory services and thirdindex falls below a critical, pre-defined level in the maize growing period, this party asset management. indicates that the farmers are facing drought conditions; they then automatically www.ifc.org receive payments. The index draws on satellite data. This is necessary because the region’s climate is characterised by large variations within small areas. Data from meteorological stations neither provide the necessary level of detail nor do they cover the whole area with the required accuracy. Prior to this pilot, the farmers in Sikasso had very little or no experience in dealing with insurance. For such innovative pilots to succeed, it is vital that the beneficiaries understand them. Therefore, PlaNet Guarantee, in cooperation with project partners Oxfam, provided training to the farmers involved on the concept of insurance in general as well as the functioning of index-based products in particular. In 2011, most of the farmers who had decided to buy the insurance cover received payouts. National agriculture scheme in Vietnam providing advisory services, technical Vietnam, like many other Southeast Asian support for pricing and loss calculation, and countries, relies heavily on its agricultural acts as the lead reinsurer behind Vina Re. sector. Agriculture contributes 22% to GNP, 30% to export turnover and employs about Under the pilot scheme, rice production is 60% of the 89 million strong population. At insured in seven provinces through a yield the same time, Vietnam is highly exposed to index insurance product. This pays out natural disasters such as typhoons, flooding automatically to all farmers in an affected and drought. In bad years, economic losses area if the rice yield is below the five-year as a result of natural disasters can reach 5% average at commune level and per season. of GDP. Furthermore, the country is thought Livestock is insured in some com­munes to be strongly affected by climate change. across nine provinces. The cover comprises mortality due to natural disasters and, to a Providing effective insurance against crop limited extent, outbreaks of epidemic failure and establishing a safety net for diseases. Aquaculture production (catfish farmers is thus a priority for a country like and shrimp), meanwhile, is insured in some Vietnam. Since 2010, Swiss Re has been communes across five provinces. The cover working with the Vietnamese government also includes impacts from natural disasters to establish insurance products for rice, as well as one disease. livestock and aquaculture. In 2011, the government commissioned a three-year pilot scheme for these products, involving the two largest national insurers, Bao Viet and Bao Minh, as well as the Vietna­mese reinsurer Vina Re. Swiss Re has been 18 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating solutions for sustainability Non-life ILS underwritten Insurance-linked securities and hurricane Irene in the US resulted in by Swiss Re Swiss Re is a leading player in the insu­r­ total insured losses of USD 108 billion and, USD millions ance-linked securities (ILS) sector. ILS are as a result, some of the bonds suffered capital market instruments, typically in losses, too. Yet, the ILS market as a whole 2000 bond or derivative format, designed to meet proved resilient, with new issuance ﻿ 49.7 1500 the risk or capital management needs of ﻿ for the year totalling USD 4.58 billion ﻿ a transaction “sponsor”. In exchange for a (USD 4.1 billion for non-life issuance). 1000 coupon or premium payment, the sponsor 500 receives single or multi-year collateralised Our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries protection for specified risk events. If such ﻿ underwrote and distributed to institutional 0 an event occurs, the sponsor receives all or investors non-life ILS worth USD 435 mil­ 2008 2009 2010 2011 part of the principal; otherwise this is ﻿ lion on behalf of Swiss Re during 2011. They  as a sponsor paid back to the investors in full at maturity. underwrote and distributed an additional  as an arranger for clients USD 891 million of non-life ILS for clients. Insurance-linked securities are particularly The combined total of USD 1326 million well-suited to provide protection against was equivalent to about one third of the peak risks – events that happen infrequently whole ILS market. but tend to lead to high losses, for example earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are used for both risk and capital management purposes in the property & casualty and the life & health Through insurancebusiness. For reinsurers they are attractive linked securities peak because they free scarce capital; for risks can be transferred insurers and corporate clients they provide to the capital markets. multiyear collateralised protection; and for This enables re/insurers investors they offer attractive diversification to extend financial possibilities, as they are relatively protection, for example uncorrelated with other asset classes. against natural catastrophes. The viability of insurance-linked securities as effective risk transfer instruments was confirmed in 2011, even though this was the second costliest year ever for the insurance industry. Claims from the Tohoku For more information on this subject, see﻿ tsunami in Japan, the earthquake in New swissre.com/investors/ils/ Zealand, floods in Australia, and tornadoes In the US, tornadoes killed more than 500 people and caused massive damage in 2011. By accessing capital markets, insurance-﻿ linked securities help provide insurance protection against tornadoes and other natural catastrophes. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Extending our risk intelligence We apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. This enables us to tackle ethical, sustainabilityrelated and emerging risks in a consistent way. Swiss Re has comprehensive risk manage­ market and credit) as well as operational ment processes in place to identify, assess and other risks that arise as a result of doing and control the Group’s risk exposures. ﻿ business: liquidity, regulatory, reputational The main categories of our risk landscape and strategic (see 2011 Financial Report, comprise core risks (insurance, financial pages 42–51). Large-scale logging creates economic benefits, but it also also impacts local communities, biodiversity and, indirectly, the climate. With our Sustainability Risk Framework and Sensitive Business Risks process, we have tools in place to identify and assess key sustainability risks associated with logging. 20 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence As part of our integrated approach to risk The Sensitive Business Risks process Our Sustainability Risk management, we have developed formal Each of the framework’s eight policies Framework comprises processes to address specific types of risk contains a number of predefined criteria policies with detailed that continue to grow in significance: and qualitative standards. If any of them environmental, social environmental, social and ethical risks, applies to a transaction, the responsible and ethical criteria for political risks and emerging risks. Our ﻿ underwriter or client manager must initiate eight sensitive sectors risk management expertise is also key to a Sensitive Business Risks (SBR) process. and issues. integrating sustainability considerations This is a due-diligence assessment carried into the Group’s asset management. out by our in-house experts to identify potential environmental, social or ethical Having the means and know-how to risks, and to establish whether the princi­ adequately deal with these risks in our core ples expressed in our Code of Conduct ﻿ re/insurance business and our asset may be in danger of being violated. The management forms a central element of assessment results in a recommendation ﻿ Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate to go ahead with the transaction, to go responsibility. At the same time, it makes ahead in adherence with certain conditions good business sense, because it helps ﻿ or to abstain from it. If there is disagree­ us avoid potential underwriting losses and ment about the recommendation, the case damage to the company’s reputation. can be escalated to the next management level. Our Sustainability Risk Framework Our Sustainability Risk Framework is a In 2011, the number of transactions Group-wide management instrument ﻿ submitted to the SBR process rose to 158. to tackle environmental, social and ethical We issued negative recommendations ﻿ risks in our core business. Currently, it in 22 cases and positive recommendations comprises policies on eight sectors and with conditions in 21 cases; all these issues: defence industry, oil and gas conditions were eventually met. To optimise (including oil sands), mining, dams, animal internal and external transparency, we have testing, forestry and logging, nuclear recently adjusted our reporting system, weapons proliferation and an overarching aligning the transaction statistics with the human rights and environmental protection framework’s eight policies. policy. The framework applies to all of Swiss Re’s business transactions (re/insu­r­ For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ ance as well as investments), to the extent managing_env_risks.html that we can influence its different elements. 158 Total number of business transactions Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2011 Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals 160 140 120 100 submitted to the Sensitive Business Risks 80 process 60 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011  Proceed  Human rights and environmental protection  Proceed with conditions  Defence  Abstain  Mining  Not materialised  Dams  Oil and gas  Forestry and logging  Nuclear non-proliferation  Animal testing Other issue/industry ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Extending our risk intelligence Exclusion criteria other stakeholders. We deepened dialogue The policies of our Sustainability Risk with some of our clients while, with others, Framework define certain criteria that may we initiated discussions by outlining our lead to the exclusion of a company from our approach to sustainability risk management. business. These include the manufacturing Brokers, too, continue to show heightened of antipersonnel mines; verifiable complicity awareness of these topics. Interest has also in systemic, repeated and severe human been expressed by some investors and rights violations; and the infliction of repeated, academic institutions. severe and unmitigated damage to the environment. Furthermore, Swiss Re does We are keen to promote the development The Principles for not participate in re/insurance trans­­ of effective sustainability risk management Sustainable Insurance (PSI) actions or investments that could facilitate and work closely with several industry The PSI are a set of voluntary the proliferation of nuclear weapons. organisations. As a member of the Chief and aspirational global Risk Officer Forum, CRO Forum ﻿ principles – including pos­ We also exclude business with, or related (www.thecroforum.org), we were able to sible actions – developed by to, countries that have a particularly poor make a major contribution to its “Recom­ the Finance Initiative of the human rights situation and which may be mendations for Managing Environmental, UN Environment Programme associated with the regime and its com­ Social and Ethical Challenges in Business (UNEP FI). The four principles mercial affiliates. At the end of 2011, the Transactions”, which were published in address environmental, excluded countries for human rights August 2010. During 2011, this publication social and governance (ESG) reasons were Myanmar, North Korea, served as a sound basis for more detailed issues in the insurance busi­ Somalia and Sudan. discussions on how to tackle specific ness, spanning risk manage­ sustainability topics. ment, underwriting, product To determine the companies and countries and service develop­ment, to be excluded from our business, we have Furthermore, we were strongly involved ﻿ claims management, sales developed processes that use external data in the development of the Principles for and marketing, and invest­ as well as internal expert assessments. Sustainable Insurance (PSI) by the UN ment management. The PSI Environment Programme Finance Initiative, are being launched in 2012. Training UNEP FI (www.unepfi.org). For example, Over the years, we have made considerable we hosted a meeting at our Centre for efforts to ensure that our staff with clientGlobal Dialogue in Rüschlikon, Switzerland, facing and underwriting responsibilities where the results from the global consul­ know how to properly apply the Sustain­ tation meetings were consolidated into the ability Risk Framework. In 2011, a total of PSI’s pre-final version. The Principles are 339 employees completed an eLearning being launched in 2012. course we have designed for this purpose. This training is mandatory for all newly Managing emerging risks joining employees with client-facing or New economic, technological, socio-political, underwriting functions. regulatory and environmental developments mean that the risk landscape is changing In addition, we held workshops in five dif­ more rapidly today than ever before. In ferent locations, which were attended by addition, there are growing interdependen­ around 200 employees. Last but not least, cies between these developments, which six employees from other units joined the can result in an increasing accumulation of team responsible for managing the frame­ risk and create significant cascading work on job rotations, learning more ﻿ effects. Reinsurers also need to be aware ﻿ about its details as well as helping with its of ongoing changes in the business envi­ implementation. ronment: liability and regulatory regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder expec­ Client and industry interaction tations are strengthening and risk percep­ To our knowledge, we were the first large tions are shifting. global reinsurer to introduce such a wideranging framework to address sustainability and ethical issues in the core business. Interest in our approach to sustainability risk management has steadily grown among our business partners as well as For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html 22 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence These trends may give rise to so-called associated with risk”). Firmly embedded in Emerging risks are “emerging risks” – newly developing or the Group’s risk management organisation, newly developing or changing risks that are difficult to quantify SONAR allows us to identify and assess changing risks that and whose potential business impact ﻿ emerging risks and to incorporate the resul­t­ are difficult to quantify is not yet sufficiently taken into account. ing insights into the relevant decisionand whose potential making processes. business impact is not The investigation of such risks in a preyet sufficiently taken emptive way forms an important element ﻿ In 2010, we introduced an interactive, ﻿ into account. of Swiss Re’s integrated approach to risk web 2.0-based platform for SONAR. management. The key objectives are to re­ Thanks to its state-of-the-art technology, duce uncertainty and help diminish the our employees can submit risk notions ﻿ volatility of the Group’s results, while identi­ in a quick and easy manner and stay up-tofying new business opportunities and date on current developments. A total of raising awareness – both within the Group 205 risk notions were fed into the SONAR and across the industry. Meeting these process in this way in 2011, drawing on ﻿ objectives requires a deeper understanding all main areas of the ever-shifting emerging of changing conditions and an assessment risk landscape. We have assessed all of of the risks’ impacts, their interconnected­ them for their potential impact on the Group ness and their implications for Swiss Re’s and have carried out more in-depth investi­ strategy and objectives. gations on selected topics, for example on new environmental exposures related to ﻿ 205 Total of risk notions assessed through Our SONAR framework To address emerging risks in an appropriate manner, we have established a Group-wide risk management framework called SONAR oil and gas exploration, changing regulatory requirements, new natural catastrophe exposures, power blackouts and cyber vulnerability (see below). the SONAR process in 2011 (“systematic observation of notions Cyber attacks – example of an emerging risk Today, most large industrial plants and ﻿ critical infrastructure facilities, such as power generation & distribution or oil/gas production & distribution, are increasingly controlled ﻿ by webs of computers, commonly known ﻿ as Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems. Because their critical information software is increasingly con-﻿ nec­t­ed to global data and communications networks, these SCADA systems could be vulnerable to cyber attacks. The possibility ﻿ of accessing and manipulating a facility’s process control software was illustrated in 2010 when the SCADA system of an Iranian nuclear power plant was attacked through the Stuxnet computer worm. Cyber attacks on SCADA systems may ﻿ lead to failure of the impacted facility, energy blackouts, fire, explosion, injuries or even fatalities and contamination of the environ­ ment. In all these cases, the insurance industry would be directly affected. The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks 2011 report (see page 24) concluded that “the complexity of cyber security is still not well understood and its risks could be under­ estimated”. The very complexity and interconnectedness of systems in cyberspace and their rapid evolvement make this a challenging undertaking, but the objective must be to translate these threats into manageable risks. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Extending our risk intelligence Strategic risk initiatives International Risk Governance Council In cooperation with external partners, we The International Risk Governance Council have actively contributed to four strategic (IRGC) is an independent organisation initiatives related to emerging risks. Our whose purpose is to help the understanding goal is to raise awareness of selected emer­g­ and management of global risks that impact ing risks and to support the business on human health and safety, the environ­ community in prioritising, communicating ment, the economy and society at large.﻿ and managing them. www.irgc.org/ WEF – Risk Response Network iNTeg-Risk The Risk Response Network (RRN) was iNTeg-Risk is a large-scale integrating launched in 2011 to provide private ﻿ project aimed at improving the management and public sector leadership with an of emerging risks related to new materials independent platform to better map, and technologies in the European industry. monitor, manage and mitigate global risks. www.integrisk.eu-vri.eu/ www.weforum.org/community/riskresponse-network As a partner of these strategic risk initiatives, we contributed to three reports on relevant CRO Forum Emerging Risks Initiative risk developments in 2011 (see below). The CRO Forum Emerging Risks Initiative (CRO ERI) was launched in 2005 to raise awareness of major emerging risks relevant to society and the re/insurance industry. www.thecroforum.org/emerging _risks_ initiative.html Publications with partner organisations Global Risks 2011 Sixth Edition An initiative of the Risk Response Network World Economic Forum in collaboration with : Marsh & McLennan Companies Swiss Reinsurance Company Wharton Center for Risk Management, University of Pennsylvania Zurich Financial Services World Economic Forum January 2011 1 Enfocus Software Customer Support Global Risks 2011, Sixth Edition, The CRO Forum’s Position Paper IRGC’s Concept Note on Improving the provides a high-level overview of 37 on Power Blackout Risks highlights Management of Emerging Risks is an effort selected global risks as seen by members the risks and future trends linked to ﻿ to set forth ideas for more proactive of the World Economic Forum’s Global power blackouts. It further explores risk management of emerging risks. It is intended Agenda Councils and supported by a sur­ management options, including for senior management in private sector vey of 580 leaders and decision-makers operational risk management measures, organisations, although the ideas also apply ﻿ around the world. It aims to equip the importance of a high-quality business in the public sector and, particularly, in institutions to understand and respond ﻿ continuity management plan and risk government agencies with responsibility for to global risks and to embrace change ﻿ transfer options. Furthermore, it empha­ establishing and enforcing risk regulation. as a source of innovation. sises the insurance industry’s options ﻿ www.irgc.org/-Publications-.html www.weforum.org/reports/ to expand coverage based on physical global-risks-report-2011 damage and to consider new non-physical damage insurance solutions. www.thecroforum.org/publication/ powerblackoutrisks/ 24 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence Accounting for political risks Responsible investment Political risks can be In today’s increasingly integrated world, Swiss Re prudently manages the financial defined as the conse­ political risks are growing in significance. assets generated through our re/insurance quences of political These risks can be defined as the conse­ activities. Our investment approach focuses developments, actions quences of political developments, actions on asset-liability management conside­ and decisions that and decisions that have an adverse impact rations, which means that the premiums we have an adverse impact on our business. Within the Group’s risk earn need to be invested in assets whose on our business. management organisation, we have returns are aligned with the obligations we established specific know-how to tackle ﻿ have on the re/insurance side of our busi­ a wide range of political risks, including ness. We follow a controlled and structured commerce-related perils, government investment process which also reflects interference and security-related threats ﻿ Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate at global, country and business transaction responsibility. Responsible investment is an levels. integral part of our investment governance. Our overriding objective is to identify and We are committed to acting as a responsible measure these risks so we can try to mitigate investor and integrate environmental, social and control the resulting risk exposures. and governance (ESG) considerations into Careful, ongoing monitoring of the global our investment management. Reflecting this political risk landscape is the precondition commitment, in 2007 we signed the for achieving this, with a particular focus on Principles for Responsible Investment, PRI important markets, key sectors, potential (www.unpri.org) developed by the United hotspots and new developments. Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Swiss Re’s commitment The ability to address political risks also to implement the PRI is defined in the ﻿ plays an important role in our Sustainability Swiss Re Responsible Investment Policy, Risk Framework (see pages 21–22). which all Asset Management employees Several of the sectors and issues covered internally are required to follow. by the framework’s eight policies have a political dimension. A firm grasp of political ESG Advisory Group risks is thus required to enact these policies, We have recently established an ESG both through Sensitive Business Risk Advisory Group which pools internal assess­ments and exclusion policies. This ﻿ knowledge and ensures close coordination is particularly true for the identification ﻿ with respect to responsible investment of potential human rights violations. activities. The group consists of internal specialists and representatives of the different investment units who lead the implementation and the monitoring ﻿ of the responsible investment activities. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence ESG integration We work with our external managers on Our Sustainability Risk Framework (see the integration of ESG considerations into pages 21–22) assists us in integrating ﻿ investment processes and investment ESG considerations into our investment decision-making. We include ESG criteria management decisions. It provides an as part of the selection process of our advanced methodology to identify and external managers and we monitor their assess environmental, social and ethical activities as responsible investors. risks. We only enter into business trans­ actions with countries and companies which Sustainability Portfolio meet the detailed criteria laid down in our The Sustainability Portfolio is a private We integrate environ­ Sustainability Risk Framework. Our invest­ equity theme portfolio, including climatemental, social and ment activities also need to abide by these related investment opportunities (eg in governance (ESG) criteria. alternative energy, energy efficiency, waste consi­d­erations into our management, carbon and emissions, investment decisions. We integrate ESG aspects into our invest­ sustainable agriculture and forestry). At the ment decisions – both for internally and end of 2011, the net asset value of the externally managed assets. In doing so, we Sustainability Portfolio was approximately identify the activities and factors that are USD 300 million. expected to have the greatest impact on our investment portfolio or which represent Our commitment to responsible investing a significant risk from a responsible extends beyond theme portfolios, such as investor’s point of view. the Sustainability Portfolio, where amounts are relatively small compared to the Group’s Focus area: sovereign fixed income total investments. We aim to integrate investments sustainability-related risk factors consistently Our investment portfolio of sovereign fixed across our entire investment portfolio. income is an integral part of our prudent asset-liability management. This portfolio is reviewed against relevant ESG rating considerations by applying customised criteria which have been developed on ﻿ the basis of Swiss Re’s sustainability and political risk assessments at country level. Focus area: engagement of external investment partners In 2009, we introduced an operational model outsourcing the active management of certain asset classes, such as corporate bonds, securitised products and equities, to best-in-class external asset managers. Around 20% of our investment portfolio (USD 150.6 billion) is now managed by external managers. Of this amount, approxi­ mately 75% is managed by external managers who are PRI signatories them­ selves. 26 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence Direct real estate investments construction. Meeting the requirements ﻿ In our home market of Switzerland and in of the MINERGIE-P® standard will be neighbouring Germany, we invest directly ﻿ compulsory, but we also intend to seek in the construction of new buildings, both certification according to MINERGIE-Pfor residential and commercial use. At the ECO® (see above) and the internationally end of 2011, we held a portfolio of such renowned LEED® Platinum standard investments with a total value of CHF 2 bil­ (www.usgbc.org). The standard of energy lion. In addition, we own office buildings ﻿ efficiency we aim for with Swiss Re Next ﻿ for proprietary use. is in line with the objective of a 2 000 watt society. Sustainability criteria play an essential role in these direct real estate investments. ﻿ In 2011, the development of the preliminary For all our real estate projects in Switzerland, project was completed. Key steps scheduled the Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re, for 2012 include approving the private Zurich, lays down strict sustainability design plan and submitting the building guidelines: New buildings always need to consent. In connection with Swiss Re Next, conform to the MINERGIE® standard we also constructed a new water pump (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss quality label station that takes water from Lake Zurich ﻿ MINERGIE-P® and specifying high levels of energy efficiency to heat and cool our office buildings on “Passive house” and superior user comfort. For renovations Mythenquai (see page 28). The MINERGIE-P® and of old buildings, we apply the standard “Passive house” (“Passiv­ whenever this is feasible from an architec­ haus”) standards in tural, technical and financial point of view. Switzerland and Germany, By the end of 2011, we had developed respectively, define rigorous buildings with a total floor space of standards of energy 133 000 m2 in accordance with the efficiency for buildings, both MINERGIE® standard. In addition, new residential and commercial. MINERGIE® buildings with a total ﻿ The use of “passive” heat floor space of 54 000 m2 were under sources such as solar development. radiation and waste heat, instead of traditional heating We make regular use of further standards, and cooling technology, eg MINERGIE-ECO®, which also includes makes it possible to construct requirements on health aspects and buildings with ultra-low building materials. In addition, we started energy consumption. to apply the MINERGIE-P-ECO® standard ﻿ in 2009; this specifies the characteristics of a “passive house” that consumes even ﻿ less energy than a MINERGIE®-certified building. In 2012, we expect to see a project applying MINERGIE-P-ECO® to reach the construction phase for the first time. “Swiss Re Next” is our ambitious project to construct a replacement building at the Group’s Zurich headquarters. Sustainability is a defining feature of this project: we ﻿ want our new headquarters to set a leading example of top-class sustainable ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence Heating and cooling with lake water At our headquarters in Zurich, we have been using lake water to heat and cool our office buildings since 1969. The installation consists of a central water pump station and local heat pumps in our individual office buildings. In connection with the Swiss Re Next project (see page 27), we have recently replaced this water pump station and its piping with a new, more powerful one. The water pump station draws in water from Lake Zurich and transfers it to the indi­ vidual heat pumps. These extract thermal energy from the water to heat the buildings before it is channelled back to the lake. The ingenious feature of this technology is ﻿ that it can also do the reverse operation: cool the buildings by absorbing thermal energy and transferring it to the lake water. Apart from heat and cold, nothing else is released to, or taken from, the lake water. Both the water pumps and the heat pumps run on electricity; since at our Zurich headquarters we only use electricity from certified hydro power sources, the whole heating and cooling process is thus completely carbon neutral. In addition, heat pumps operate at substantially lower energy costs than traditional methods of heating and cooling. The new pump station has been constructed with a capacity that is 50% higher than would be needed to meet Swiss Re’s own requirements. This will enable neighbouring buildings to make joint use of the facility in the future. In Zurich we have built a new water pump station that extracts water from the lake. The water is used to heat and cool our office buildings on Mythenquai in an environmentally friendly way. 28 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to ﻿ advance our understanding of the changing risk landscape and ﻿ to help society develop effective responses to key risks. Reinsurance creates economic and social policymakers, regulators, academia and Our Top Topics define value by offering financial protection ﻿ civil society; depending on the specific issues of strategic against major risks. Developing effective topic at hand, the focus groups will vary. importance which we risk transfer solutions requires a sound Our Top Topics communication is also ﻿ take up in dialogue understanding of the changing risk land­ the channel we use to contribute to public with our stakeholders. scape. Swiss Re makes substantial efforts ﻿ policy formation. to explore developments that may impact the global risk landscape – including market, The GIM process involves risk and product regulatory, technological, socio-economic experts from across the Group, as well as and environmental trends. The insights ﻿ specialists who deal with specific stake­ we gain from regular dialogue with key holder groups. External views are gathered stakeholders play an important role in this. through a broad range of stakeholder dialogues and expert networks. The Centre In turn, we are keen to play an active role ﻿ for Global Dialogue in Rüschlikon near in discussions on important risk topics and Zurich is Swiss Re’s in-house venue for are valued for the high quality of our contri­ expert meetings and stakeholder dialogue. bu­tions. Sharing our risk expertise with stakeholders allows us to help society and In 2011, the Group coordinated and business form adequate responses and managed nine Top Topic areas: develop effective risk transfer instruments. ̤̤ Agricultural risk solutions ̤̤ Climate change Group Issue Management ̤̤ Country risk management With Group Issue Management (GIM), we ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities have a formal approach to communicate ﻿ ̤̤ Liability dynamics on topics we consider important to us, our ̤̤ Longevity risks clients and society at large. These “Top ̤̤ Natural catastrophes Topics” reflect the areas in which we seek to ̤̤ Regulatory reforms provide thought leadership. We share our ̤̤ Solvency II knowledge and the solutions generated by our risk experts through our publications and dialogue with relevant stakeholders. These include clients, investors, For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/rethinking/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Our Top Topics address issues such as climate change and natural catastrophes. We seek to promote effective responses to ﻿ such risks by engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders. In 2011 we focused on the following ﻿ are important for these efforts as they ﻿ Top Topic issues: the role of public-private ease the burden on public budgets and partnerships in strengthening disaster bridge financing gaps. financing in a year that saw record losses from natural and man-made disasters; the Through several publications and global importance of risk management in driving stakeholder dialogues, we shared our investments in renewable energy projects; research and risk management knowledge and the development of regulatory in this area with leaders from government, approaches that underpin financial stability. business, academia and civil society. In Independently or in cooperation with January, a new report entitled “Closing the various partners, we produced several new financial gap” (see page 36) shaped publications that shed light on these and discussions on disaster risk management at other risk topics, and highlight the role that the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting re/insurance plays in creating effective in Davos (www.weforum.org). In June, “The solutions. hidden risks of climate change” (see pages 35 and 36), which highlights the dramatic Public-private partnerships to finance increase in property damage caused ﻿ disaster risks by drought-related soil subsidence, was 2011 saw the highest economic losses ﻿ presented to our clients at the biennial from natural and man-made catastrophes in Swiss Re Open conference. history, the highest insured earthquake losses and the highest insured losses ever At the opening of Climate Week NYC ﻿ for a single flood event. Earthquakes in (www.climateweeknyc.org) in September, Japan, New Zealand and Turkey, as well as Swiss Re hosted a high-level panel on floods in Australia and Thailand, brought climate adaptation in the developing world, widespread human suffering and massive which explored the role of risk transfer in destruction. addressing the impact of natural disasters and extreme weather. We also participated In response to these events, we focused ﻿ in the UN’s climate change talks in Durban on the contributions the insurance industry as a member of the official Swiss delegation. can make to help countries adapt to the consequences of climate change and enable more rapid recovery after disasters. Inno­ vative insurance solutions, particularly those involving public as well as private partners, 30 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Managing the risk in renewable energy Financial stability and regulatory reform Renewable energy plays a vital role in We continued to closely monitor regulatory efforts to mitigate climate change and to and economic developments, in the process reduce carbon emissions. For this reason, ﻿ working together with regulators, super­ it is gaining in both economic and political visors and industry bodies. A key topic was, importance. In 2010, investment in renew­ and still remains, the debate around finan­ able energy projects for the first time cial stability in the financial sector and the outpaced investment in new fossil fuel regulations devised to enforce it. power generation capacity. But financiers and operators of power plants using renew­ In May, Swiss Re and Reactions ﻿ able sources face a broad range of risks ﻿ (www.reactionsnet.com), a prestigious and significant difficulties in managing them. trade magazine for the global insurance industry, staged a roundtable discussion ﻿ To better understand these challenges and on systemic risk. The event was attended ﻿ the demand for insurance in the renewable by leading insurance industry representa­ energy sector, Swiss Re engaged the tives and followed up with a special Economist Intelligence Unit (www.eiu.com) Reactions edition in June (see page 36). ﻿ to conduct a survey of close to 300 senior In August, the Institute of International executives in Europe, the US and Australia. Finance, IIF (www.iif.com) released a report The resulting study “Managing the risk in entitled “The Implications of Financial renewable energy” (see page 36), which Regulatory Reform for the Insurance Industry” was launched in November 2011, high-­﻿ (see page 36). Swiss Re was a key contri­ lights the risks in owning, constructing and butor to the report, which was launched by operating renewable energy projects, as our Chairman Walter B. Kielholz, who is also well as the associated risk management an IIF board member and chairman of the challenges that the industry must confront. authoring IIF Insurance Working Group. The report calls for greater cross-sectoral co­ The report shows that while 70% of respon­d­ ordination between banking and insurance ﻿ ents declared they are successful at in regulatory reform, emphasises the identifying such risks, only 61% said they important role that insurers play in the real are good at reducing the risks and 50% economy and warned of the risks ﻿ stated that they transfer risks to others. A of uncoordinated regulatory reforms. clear majority confirmed that they expect ﻿ to use a broader range of risk transfer Throughout the year, Swiss Re continued ﻿ products in the future, but are looking for to work with European regulators on ﻿ cost-effective solutions. practi­c al details of the EU’s framework ﻿ Renewable energy sources such as wind­ power bring their own risks. Under­s tanding these risks and developing effective risk management strategies for them was a focus ﻿ of our dialogue activities in 2011. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape directive “Solvency II”, by sharing our risk Following is a selection of four events we Solvency II management expertise and providing hosted at the Centre for Global Dialogue in Solvency II is the proposed insights into industry-specific issues. At the 2011. new regulatory framework same time, we supported our clients in for the EU re/insurance preparing for the new regulatory regime Designing out the risks – new levels of industry. It takes a riskand through up-to-date fact sheets, publications quality and safety in product design economic-based approach and targeted client events. The subject of In nature, organic structures break down at to supervision, representing regulatory reform was high on the agenda the end of their lives and return to their a significant step forward in at the 7th annual Chief Risk Officer (CRO) constituent parts. The leaves of a tree, for the way European re/insurers Assembly, which we hosted at our Centre example, fall to the ground where they are regulated. for Global Dialogue (see pages 34 and 36). become nutrients for other organisms. Nature simply has no concept of waste. In view of The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue the rising pressures on the world’s natural The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue just resources, it would be ideal if manufactured outside of Zurich is our in-house conference goods could follow the same principle ﻿ centre and functions as a platform for and utilise closed operating systems. This is dialogue between Swiss Re and external the approach embodied by the Cradle to parties. In addition, it is a catalyst for Cradle® (C2C) concept. strategic research in collaboration with ﻿ third parties. In cooperation with EPEA Switzerland (www.epeaswitzerland.com), Swiss Re held Events at the Centre are broken down ﻿ a Risk Talk and an Expert Forum on the C2C into three categories. Expertise events aim ﻿ concept. Under the heading “Designing out to develop knowledge on important risk the risks – new levels of quality and safety topics. They function along the knowledge in product design”, the two events focused chain, from small select and specialised on best practice in C2C design and meetings to large public stakeholder confe­r­ explored the opportunities and benefits for ences on major issues of the day. The the manufacturing industry, consumers ﻿ second category, marketing events, are and re/insurers in adopting this innovative targeted at Swiss Re clients, emphasising design approach. the key objective of translating expertise into tangible business solutions. The third category is termed networking events. These are held with senior Swiss Re represen­ As Swiss Re’s in-house tatives and external stakeholders, such as conference facility, industry bodies, the research community, the Centre for Global policymakers, non-governmental organi­ Dialogue near Zurich sations and international institutions. plays a pivotal role in our stakeholder A key network is the Advisory Panel, which engagement. meets twice a year. The Panel is comprised of distinguished members from the realms of science, economics, politics, security, ﻿ law and journalism, and serves as a forum to discuss long-term trends and strategies with Swiss Re’s executive management. For more information on this subject, see﻿ cgd.swissre.com/ 32 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape People living under different circumstances around the world are directly affected by ﻿ the consequences of climate change. A photo­ graphic exhibition at our Centre for Global Dialogue sought to show the “human face of climate change” through 60 personal portraits. With Cradle to Cradle design, a product no affected in one way or another by climate longer becomes the purchaser’s possession; change. Most of them have never heard of rather, the purchaser becomes a long-﻿ the concept of “climate change”, yet they term lessee of the product. At the end of a are representative of the people whose lives product’s life, the supplier (=lessor) takes are directly affected by its consequences. charge of it again to dissemble it and recycle The exhibition sought to express the dignity or dispose of its components. While such a and pride with which they try to cope with novel approach to designing and using their often challenging situations. goods inevitably harbours new risks, these are countervailed by the incentive to “design Speaking at the opening ceremony of the out” risks from the beginning, for example exhibition, Jean-Jacques Henchoz, a by avoiding toxic substances, and to build Member of Swiss Re’s Group Executive quality into the product. Committee, voiced his conviction that ﻿ the challenge of climate change can only ﻿ Affected: the human face of climate be addressed successfully if different change disciplines and walks of life work construc­ In 2011, Swiss Re launched a new series of tively together. events at the Centre for Global Dialogue ﻿ that seeks to look at the various dimensions of global risk topics, including artistic expressions. The first of these new events was a photo exhibition depicting the “human face of climate change”. Travelling through 16 countries on all five continents, the two Swiss photographers Mathias Braschler and Monika Fischer ﻿ took 60 portraits of people that have been ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape The future of human longevity: breaking The 2011 edition of the assembly focused the code on three main topics: emerging risks, People are living much longer today than emerging markets and regulation. Through­ they used to. The reasons for this are out the proceedings, however, the debt complex and involve biology, medical trends, crisis in the eurozone was constantly in the public health and lifestyle choices among background, if not actually the main subject. others. How we make sense of a rapidly Indeed, in an e-vote an overwhelming ageing society also influences how we cope majority of participants judged unstable with it. In order to bring these different national economies to be a major risk for ﻿ perspectives together in a fruitful dialogue, the insurance sector. Longevity Swiss Re organised the multidisciplinary The term “longevity” refers conference “The future of human longevity”. Among issues gradually emerging, the to the fact that life expectancy longevity challenge figured prominently, as has increased markedly in Addressing longevity is a truly multidiscipli­ did the risk of a potential breakdown in ﻿ recent decades, more so than nary undertaking. It requires understanding the social contract as a result of the financial predicted. This is obviously the biology of ageing; the effects of diseases crisis. The key insights gained at the good news but, in combination upon ageing; the impact of environmental assembly were summarised in a 56-page with declining birth rates, factors, lifestyle and medical interventions; conference report (see page 36). it also causes funding difficul­ and what demographic predictions we can ties for employer pension make. These insights then provide the basis Research partnerships funds, insurers and govern­ for informed discussions on how to cope Adequately addressing key risks in our ments. Finding long-term with an ageing population – at a societal underwriting and risk management frame­ solutions to this longevity level, from a public health perspective and work requires a thorough understanding ﻿ risk requires the public with regard to funding old age. of them. To advance our knowledge of and private sectors to take specific risks, we often find it beneficial to decisive action together. From a re/insurer’s perspective, this kind ﻿ complement our own expertise with of open-minded, constructive exchange is external research. For this purpose, we of great importance. Swiss Re and other engage in research projects with selected companies offer products such as life insu­r­ academic institutions and other partners. ance and annuities that help manage the risks of longevity and mortality. A multidis­ We have maintained a number of research ciplinary approach involving economics, partnerships focusing on climate-related demographics, biology and medical trends risks in recent years. Involving partners from is essential to gain a thorough understanding Switzerland as well as other countries, of the risks involved in such products. these projects aim to quantify impacts on extreme weather events. Our partner­-﻿ The findings of the event were summarised in ships with the Swiss Federal Institute of a 50-page conference report (see page 36). Technology Zurich (ETH Zurich) and ProClim are two ongoing examples. 7th CRO Assembly: The Path to Future Growth In cooperation with the Geneva Association (www.genevaassociation.org) and the CRO Forum (www.thecroforum.org), Swiss Re organised the 7th Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Assembly at the Centre for Global Dialogue. Held annually since 2005, the CRO Assembly provides a platform for senior risk managers from the re/insurance industry ﻿ to discuss issues of strategic importance with leading academic experts and other partners. 34 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Study on soil subsidence losses in As a special service for Swiss Re, ProClim Europe, with ETH Zurich monitors the latest climate change-﻿ Property damage from drought-induced ﻿ related research worldwide and reports the soil subsidence has risen dramatically across findings to us in quarterly meetings. Europe. With further increases in the frequency and severity of soil movements “Integrative Risk Management” chair expected as a result of climate change, at ETH Zurich affected communities will need to manage As part of our collaboration with academic the associated risks through a combination institutions, we support the strategic of loss prevention and risk transfer. Loss initiative “Integrative Risk Management” at models play a key role in this effort: by ETH Zurich by donating funds for a dedicated quantifying the risks involved, they provide professorship. The initiative aims to establish the basis for informed decision-making. a world-class research and education programme in integrative risk management, To better quantify and more adequately price as well as innovative collaboration among soil subsidence risks in various European governments, universities and publiclocations, researchers from Swiss Re and private partnerships. ﻿ the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology www.irme.ethz.ch Zurich (ETH Zurich) teamed up to develop a new loss model; this marries our expertise ﻿ in natural catastrophe modelling with the detailed drought data generated by the Soil subsidence climate models of ETH Zurich’s Institute ﻿ Incidents of soil subsidence for Atmospheric and Climate Science are caused by fluctuations (www.iac.ethz.ch). in the soil’s water content. For example, clay in the soil Soil subsidence risks and the insights gained swells under wet conditions from this new loss model are described in and shrinks during dry our publication “The hidden risks of climate weather, causing the ground change: An increase in property damage surface to rise and sink with from soil subsidence in Europe” (see page it. When these vertical shifts 36). intensify as a result of extreme seasonal weather, ProClim they can cause damage to ProClim – the Forum for Climate and Global property. Change – seeks to facilitate integrated research activities on the climate and the necessary interrelations among scientists, policymakers, business and the public. Swiss Re is a member of ProClim’s steering committee. The partnership provides a valuable interface with an extensive network of scientists and the opportunity to exchange findings of the latest climate-related research. The IMILAST (“Inter­comparison of midlatitude storm diagnostics”) project, for example, brought together many inter­ national storm researchers to generate insights of practical use for decision-makers in business and other sectors of society. www.proclim.ch/imilast/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Selected publications of 2011 The publications we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an essential role in Swiss Re’s efforts to help society form effective ﻿ and workable responses to important risks. Below are listed four Swiss Re publications and four which we sponsored or contributed content ﻿ to. Information on the topics covered by these publications is provided in this chapter. More of our publications are presented on pages 68–69. Swiss Re publications: The hidden risks of climate change: A window into the future: An increase in property damage from Understanding and predicting longevity Closing the financial gap soil subsidence in Europe New partnerships between the public and private sectors to finance disaster risks The future of human longevity: breaking the code Swiss Re Conference report Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue Centre for Global Dialogue Gheistrasse 37 8803 Rüschlikon Switzerland Swiss Re Dots Imagery Telephone +41 43 285 8100 Title: Dotstitle Fax +41 43 285 8101 Category: Categorytitle ots Imagery global_dialogue@swissre.com le www.swissre.com/cgd ategorytitle Scriptographer Plugin 10 her Plugin 50 10 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re 50 Bild: Getty Images 99047250 A window into the future: Closing the financial gap: New The future of human longevity: The hidden risks of climate 2010 Swiss Re Understanding and ﻿ partnerships between the breaking the code change: An increase in predicting longevity public and private sectors to property damage from soil finance disaster risks subsidence in Europe Publications with partner organisations: 7th Chief Risk Officer Assembly roUNDtaBle www.reactionsnet.com June 2011 The path to future growth Focusing on new risk horizons Conference Report 16–17 November 2011 Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue THE IMPLICATIONS OF FINANCIAL REGULATORY REFORM Rüschlikon, Switzerland FOR THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY AUGUST 2011 Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle special report systemic risk Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 roundtable SponSored by Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Held at swiss re’s centre for Global Dialogue With the Geneva Association By Reactions: By the Economist By the Institute of and the CRO Forum: Special report: Systemic ﻿ Intelligence Unit: International Finance: 7th Chief Risk Officer risk roundtable﻿ Managing the risk in The Implications of Financial Assembly: The path to future (sponsored by Swiss Re) renewable energy﻿ Regulatory Reform ﻿ growth – Focusing on new ﻿ (sponsored by Swiss Re) for the Insurance Industry risk horizons 36 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Reducing our environmental footprint We strive to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Cutting CO2 emissions and reducing energy intensity are key targets across the Group. Swiss Re has a global presence and clients The Greenhouse Neutral Programme Launched in 2003, our around the world. Running our core business One of the four elements in Swiss Re’s Greenhouse Neutral thus involves operations that cause certain overarching climate change strategy (see Programme combines environmental impacts. Though they are page 65) is the target of reducing our own two commitments: much smaller than those caused by industrial CO2 emissions. The Greenhouse Neutral to reduce our CO2 operations, we consider minimising our Programme, which we launched in 2003, emissions per employee direct environmental footprint a core element has been our principal initiative to achieve and to offset the of being a responsible company. At Group this goal. Originally, the programme remainder. level, our main targets are reducing CO2 combined two commitments: firstly, to emissions and energy intensity. This commit­ reduce our CO2 emissions by 15% per ment also forms part of our climate change employee within ten years (ie until 2013) strategy. and, secondly, to fully offset the remaining emissions by purchasing high-quality Environmental objectives are fully integrated emissions reduction credits. To our know­ into the global management system of ﻿ ledge, we were the first large financial the Group’s Logistics division. We define services provider to make such a pledge. relevant quality standards at our head­ quarters in Zurich and deploy them to all our Since launching the programme, we have locations worldwide. Through a Group-wide made continuous and significant progress. reporting process, we continuously monitor We achieved the original 15% reduction our environmental performance and plan goal in 2007 – ie, five years early. Subse­ appropriate improvement measures. Our quently, we raised the reduction goal to environmental reporting operates on a 30% per employee and, in 2009, to 45%. ﻿ state-of-the-art, web-based platform, which At the end of 2011, the total reduction of optimises the accessibility and reliability of Swiss Re’s CO2 emissions per employee key data. achieved since 2003 amounted to 54.4%. Local responsibility for implementing environmental management lies with the Logistics departments of the respective locations; some of these have been certified according to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard (www.iso.org). ﻿ At the end of 2011, 42% of our employees were working at locations with an ISO 14001-certified Logistics department. For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ greenhouse_neutral.html For more information on climate change, see﻿ Corporate responsibility in context: climate change on pages 64–65 38 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint 2003 2010 2011 Power Heating Business travel CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Change since ﻿ 2003 2010 2011 base year 2003 in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE Power 3 703 2 1 296 909 –75.5 Heating 706 3 515 395 –44.1 Business travel 1 2 190 1, 3 1 487 1 708 –22.0 Total 6 599 3 298 3 012 –54.4 54.4% Total reduction in CO2 emissions per 1 2 The business travel figures for all years have been slightly adjusted due to a minor model modification. The 2010 figure for power has been slightly adjusted due to data corrections at some locations. 3 The 2010 figures for heating and business travel have been adjusted to correct reporting errors at two locations. employee achieved since 2003 Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group ﻿ 2003﻿ 2003 ﻿ 2010 ﻿ 20102011 Change since ﻿ base year 2003 in %2011 Power kWh/FTE 8 801 2 6 106 5 432 –38.3 Heating Businesstravel kWh/FTE 3 381 3 2 524 2 080 –38.5 Energy intensity kWh/FTE﻿ 12 182﻿ 3 8 630 7 512 –38.3﻿ (power & heating) Air travel km/FTE 13 057 3 8 290 9 728 –25.5 2 The 2010 figure for power has been slightly adjusted due to data corrections at some locations. 3 The 2010 figures for heating and business travel have been adjusted to correct reporting errors at two locations. This 54.4% cut in emissions has been Swiss Re’s goal is to use 100% renewable achieved through three principal measures: power at all locations where this is switching to renewable power at many of technically feasible by 2013 at the latest. our locations, continuous improvements in energy efficiency and cutting business In selecting power from renewable ﻿ travel – even though the latter is strongly sources, we apply a minimum standard that influenced by swings in the business cycle. clearly defines a number of requirements. At our Zurich headquarters, for example, we ﻿ Using renewable energy only buy “naturmade star” electricity ﻿ Our drive to use electricity from renewable (www.naturmade.ch), which meets tough sources started in 2005 at four of our ecological quality criteria. In Munich, we European locations. By the end of 2011, a purchase our electricity from NaturEnergie total of 21 locations in Asia, Europe, North (www.naturenergie.de), one of Germany’s America and Oceania had switched to premier suppliers of renewable energy. using renewable power, fully or partially. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Reducing our environmental footprint 38.3% Reduction in energy intensity per Reducing energy consumption In addition to our policy of using electricity from renewable sources, we also have a Group target for reducing energy intensity – to improve energy efficiency and by concentrating back-office tasks in fewer locations, we have already exceeded this goal: At the end of 2011, energy intensity employee achieved since 2003 in other words, for reducing the actual across the Group was 38.3% lower than in amount of energy consumed per employee 2003 – and down by 13.1% from 2010. at our facilities. Measured in kWh per employee (FTE), we have made a pledge to In Zurich, for example, we have recently reduce energy intensity by 20% against the constructed a new water pump station 2003 baseline. By taking ongoing measures which enables us to heat and cool our office Reducing energy intensity: two examples from the US At the Armonk location, which is one of our largest in the US, we achieved a reduction in energy intensity of around 15% between 2010 and 2011. This significant improvement was the result of concrete measures, although the favourable weather conditions probably also played a part. Most of the IT equipment was transferred to the Group’s two IT centres in Zurich (one of them newly established), which also led to substantial efficiency gains for the Group as a whole. Furthermore, we took on board the insights from a full-scale energy audit carried out the previous year. The focus of these measures was on further optimising facility management and the operational settings of VHC (ventilation, heating and cooling) systems. Fort Wayne in Indiana is home to another of our offices in the US. In 2011, we moved into a new building, which we had purpose-built for us based on a long-term lease. We requested that the building be constructed in line with the Silver level of Leader­ ship in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), the US certification standard for sustainable buildings (www.usgbc.org). Amongst other things, we placed emphasis on high energy efficiency throughout and on air conditioning equipment of the latest In Fort Wayne in the US, we had a new office environmental standard. As a result, per-capita energy consumption at our new office building purpose-built for us. By requiring ﻿ building is around 70% lower than at the previous one. We also introduced measures the building to meet high environmental to enhance daylight harvesting and to reduce water consumption. standards, we were able to achieve a substantial reduction in energy consumption. 40 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint We offset all CO2 emissions we cannot avoid. The emission reduction certificates come from carefully selected projects such as this hydroelectric plant on the Pimenta Bueno river in Brazil. buildings on Mythenquai with water from Offsetting our remaining CO2 emissions Lake Zurich (see page 28). This technology The second commitment of our Greenhouse brings environmental as well as economic Neutral Programme is to compensate all benefits. CO2 emissions remaining after our reduction measures. From 2003 to 2010 we bought Minimising business travel and retired high-quality voluntary emission Business travel increased markedly in 2011 reduction certificates (VERs) for a total of compared with the previous year. On ﻿ 378 000 tonnes of CO2e. To offset the emis­ the one hand, this was due to the general sions we caused in 2011, we retired VERs ﻿ improvement in the business environment; for a further 48 000 tonnes of CO2e. This on the other, it was a by-product of the work amount includes additional voluntary associated with Swiss Re’s realignment ﻿ commitments to offset CO2 emissions, such into a holding company with three distinct as Swiss Re’s General Annual Meeting and Business Units. Such business factors the Centre for Global Dialogue. cannot be influenced, but we will continue our initiative to curb unnecessary business We are keen to ensure that the voluntary travel, particularly for internal meetings. emission reduction certificates we buy are Travel budgets are continuously monitored, of a high environmental quality. To achieve while travel data are centrally collected ﻿ this, we have developed a set of criteria to and fed into our environmental reporting select the projects that generate the platform. certificates. For instance, we do not take into consideration projects that support As a modern, technology-based alternative carbon sinks and we give priority to projects to business travel, we are gradually replacing which have strong social side-effects and our extensive video-conferencing network benefit the poorest regions. (with more than 100 facilities worldwide) with state-of-the-art Telepresence techno­ In 2011, for example, some of the VERs ﻿ logy. Telepresence is the latest video collabo­ we bought and retired came from the ration technology, which creates a realPrimavera project, a hydroelectric plant on time, life-size virtual meeting experience in the Pimenta Bueno River in Rondônia State, specially designed rooms. We made a Brazil. The plant has an installed capacity ﻿ substantial investment in 2011, raising the of 18.2 MW and supplies its electricity to total number of our Telepresence facilities globally to 17; the replacement programme is continuing in 2012. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Reducing our environmental footprint the local grid, substituting fossil fuel based duction of our new Group structure may power generation with a renewable energy have played a role. The longer-term trend source. By creating employment for the has been a clear reduction in paper use, local population in construction and techni­ though. Two important reasons are more cal maintenance, Primavera has also met frequent scanning of documents (at least our social criteria. partly as a result of our Document Induction Process) and more double-sided printing. External verification of our CO2 reporting The increase in the proportion of recycled We have been communicating the progress paper and FSC-labelled paper used is a of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme on ﻿ direct outcome of our Group purchasing a yearly basis since its launch by publishing guidelines and, specifically, the require­ our CO2 emissions, their principal sources ments set down in our “Minimum standard and relative performance over time in our for copy paper” (see page 43). Corporate Responsibility Report. The calculation of our emissions is based on the In view of the moderate data quality for ﻿ guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, both water and waste, we do not regard the the most widely-used emissions accounting slight improvements observed between standard (www.ghgprotocol.org). Before 2010 and 2011 as statistically significant. we publish our emission figures, our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, perform an Group purchasing guidelines and assurance engagement to verify our calcula­ minimum standards tions. Their assurance report for 2011 is Even though Swiss Re is not an industrial included on pages 70 –71. company, we require a range of goods ﻿ and services to run our operations. For the Paper, water and waste procurement of these inputs, we apply In addition to energy consumption and CO2 overarching as well as individual criteria. emissions, we track other environmentally relevant data, chiefly paper use, water use We use group guidelines that are applicable and waste generation. to all our locations. They contain criteria ﻿ to select suppliers that offer best value for In terms of paper use per employee, we money, meet high quality standards, have ﻿ recorded a slight increase of 7.7% across a low environmental impact and observe the Group in 2011. There is no obvious social standards in their supply chain. explanation for this, although the intro­ Paper use per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 2010 2011 Change in % since 2010 Paper kg/FTE 93 35 37 6 Recycled paper % 14 73 73 0 FSC label % n/a 94 95 1 Water consumption and waste generation per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 2003 2010 2011 Change in % since 2010 Water m3/FTE 25 1 19 18 –5 Waste kg/FTE 286 229 211 –8 1 Minor restatement due to the inclusion of additional data from two locations. 42 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint We give preference to suppliers that have The programme is open to all employees an environmental policy or a certified who have been with Swiss Re for a minimum environmental management system, such period of time (currently one year). Grants as ISO 14001 or EMAS, and comply with cover 50% of the investment sum up to a international social standards such as the maximum of CHF 5 000 or an equivalent UN Global Compact, which prohibits any amount, adjusted to the local cost of living. sort or discrimination and the use of child ﻿ Some of the specified measures are eligible or forced labour, and requires that the in all our locations; others vary depending freedom of association be upheld. on the prevailing climatic and social conditions in order to maximise the Environmental criteria must be included in programme’s effectiveness. purchasing decisions with regard to materials and ingredients, production methods, The first, five-year phase of the programme recycling and waste. For some sourcing came to an end in 2011. In total, almost categories, we have developed minimum 4 000 subsidies were paid to employees standards that further specify our require­ across the world. In view of this resounding ments: alongside electricity (see page 39, success, we decided to continue the “Using renewable energy”), they cover ﻿ programme and to launch a new two-year copy paper, office supplies, cleaning services cycle starting in January 2012. The basic and cleaning agents, furniture and building features of the programme remain the materials. Each standard lists objectives, same, but the locally available investment ecological aspects, ecological minimum options have been reviewed to make the standards, exceptions, controlling and labels. programme even more effective. The range Through the COYou2 of options has been widened but, at the Re­duce and Gain The COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme same time, the requirements for some of Programme, we grant Tackling climate change is a priority of them have been made more stringent. ﻿ our employees subSwiss Re’s efforts as a responsible company. For example, subsidies for hybrid cars are sidies for specified The commitment to cut our own CO2 now restricted to models whose emissions investments that emissions forms one of four elements of our do not surpass 110g CO2 /km. reduce their personal climate change strategy (see page 65). ﻿ carbon footprint. In 2007 we launched the pioneering COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme, which enables our employees to get directly involved in the Group’s climate change efforts. It encourages them to reduce their personal carbon footprint by offering subsidies for a range of emissions-cutting investments. To our knowledge, it was ﻿ the first global corporate initiative of its kind when we launched it. For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ coyou2_programme.html ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Reducing our environmental footprint 3953 COYou2 payouts 2007–2011, by type COYou2 payouts 2007–2011, by region Total number of subsidies granted to our employees for personal emissions-reducing investments between 2007 and 2011 16.4% Alternative individual transport 63.6% Europe (including 31.1% Public transport Middle East and Africa) 25.5% Heating 25.2% Americas 24.6% Electricity 11.2% Asia-Pacific Other 2.4% Other Electricity Heating Public transport Alternative individual transport Partner initiative: projects will help avoid over 70 000 tonnes The Climate Foundation Switzerland of CO2 emissions over their full life cycles. In cooperation with a number of partner About 75% of the total funding went to companies, we set up the Swiss Climate projects that aim to raise the energy Foundation in 2008 in response to the ﻿ efficiency of operations; the remainder was intro­duction of the Swiss CO2 law, which used to support the development and provides the basis for the CO2 levy on marketing of innovative solutions for heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy is not ﻿ mitigating climate change. The potential of a proper tax but an environmental market such solutions to reduce emissions is mechanism: It imposes a charge on the use significantly higher than that of efficiency of heating fuels and then reimburses the projects, but it is not as easy to verify. money raised – to private companies pro­ portionate to their total salary expenses. ﻿ In addition to paying in our net levy reim­ For financial services providers, who use bursement, Swiss Re has been sponsoring relatively small amounts of heating fuels ﻿ the foundation’s managing director ﻿ but employ large numbers of people, this position since it was established in 2008. has resulted in a substantial “net reimbursement”. The partner companies of the foundation agreed to collect these funds and use them to support various climate-friendly projectsSwiss Re Dots Imagery undertaken by small and medium-sized Title: Plant Category: Agriculture & Nature companies in Switzerland. In 2011, around 75 projects were selected for financial support totalling CHF 2.5 million. These Scriptographer Plugin 10 For more information on this subject, see﻿ 70 swiss-climate-foundation.ch 44 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Reducing our environmental footprint ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Being a good corporate citizen We support selected humanitarian and development ﻿ projects across the world, while promoting volunteering ﻿ and charitable work at our business locations. Being a responsible company goes beyond Strengthening disaster response in Our global humani­tarian the way we manage our core business. ﻿ El Salvador and development In our understanding, it includes playing an In many parts of the world, natural disasters program­mes focus on active role in wider society as a good pose a serious threat to people’s livelihoods. three topics: corporate citizen. We have a clear strategy Being part of the Central American land ̤̤ Natural catastrophes for putting this commitment into practice. bridge, El Salvador is heavily exposed to a ̤̤ Climate change We share our knowledge and time to help range of such threats. Hurricanes, earth­ ̤̤ Water communities build capacity, focusing ﻿ quakes, floods and landslides are all recurring on three main categories: global humanita­ events. To make matters worse, climate rian and development programmes, local change is likely to lead to an increase in the charities and volunteering activities, and – frequency and intensity of catastrophic mainly at the company headquarters in weather events. Zurich – sponsoring cultural institutions. Against this background, helping local This report covers the first two categories; communities to better cope with natural information on sponsoring culture can be disasters is a pressing need. A project we found on our website at www.swissre.com/ have supported in partnership with the corporate_responsibility/spons_culture.html. Swiss Red Cross, SRC (www.redcross.ch) aims to achieve this in the Bajo Lempa ﻿ Global humanitarian and development river delta, one of El Salvador’s poorest and programmes most vulnerable regions. The goal is to Effective insurance helps create economic establish a comprehensive disaster response and social stability. Risk transfer is not enough system by combining the following to deal with major risks though. Poorer measures: setting up local emergency communities, in particular, benefit strongly committees, mapping disaster risks, if they can build their capacity to better developing early-warning systems, manage risks. If a community is struck by a providing shelters and strengthening disaster, insurance supports recovery and primary healthcare. The project is aligned rebuilding, but swift, hands-on assistance is with the wider climate change adaptation essential. These two challenges form key goals supported by the Swiss Agency for objectives of our corporate citizenship strat­ Development and Cooperation. egy: we support development program­mes that aim to reduce risks and improve risk preparedness, and we provide humanitarian aid when required. Using the know-how from our core business, we focus on risks related to natural catastrophes, climate change and water. For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ humanitarian_development.html 46 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen A fresh water tap installed with the help ﻿ of Water.org and Swiss Re is put to good ﻿ use in a village near Bangalore. Providing safe water and sanitation in programme is the Water Credit model: India Working with local partner organisations, Access to safe drinking water and the this approach enables local households to existence of proper sanitation are essential gain access to microloans to pay for the preconditions for people to stay healthy and construction of safe water connections and/ to prosper. However, for nearly 1 billion or toilets within their homes. people these basic services are not available. In India, for example, some 147 million The Water Credit model combines three people currently lack access to safe drinking significant advantages: firstly, it empowers water, while more than 800 million do not people to address their water and sanitation benefit from hygienic sanitation facilities. needs themselves; secondly, it enables them to gain access to financial services, As part of our emphasis on advancing helping them to become credit customers sound water management, we supported a rather than mere beneficiaries; and thirdly, pioneering project launched by Water.org in Bangalore and Hyderabad. The programme has already provided clean water, improved sanitation and hygiene education to more than 11 000 people. A key element in the ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Being a good corporate citizen in combination with high average loan Maintaining or restoring water supplies ﻿ repayment rates of about 98%, the model and sanitation in conflict zones has been a allows loans to be redeployed to other priority of the International Committee of residents over time, as initial Water Credit the Red Cross, ICRC (www.icrc.org) since loans are being repaid. In this way, the the 1980s when it set up a Water and effectiveness of the initial funding can be Habitat Unit. The dire conditions in Central multiplied. Mindanao motivated us to directly support the work of this unit. In 2011, access to, and Restoring water supplies in the quality of, drinking water improved for some Philippines 47 000 people in Central Mindanao and the Each year, armed conflicts disrupt millions Visayas, while some 20 000 flood victims of lives around the world. Not only do displaced in evacuation centres in Northern conflicts cause the death of innocent civilians, Mindanao received emergency drinking they also threaten livelihoods in the longer water. In Zamboanga, migrants and minors term by destroying infrastructure and basic benefited from ICRC work to improve services, of which water supply and hygiene and sanitary conditions. Over 9 000 sanitation facilities form a vital component. detainees benefited from improved ﻿ Central Mindanao in the Philippines is a living conditions, in particular with regard ﻿ region which suffered this fate between to water and sanitation. 2008 and 2009. When a ceasefire was reached in July 2009 between the International ReSource Award Philippine government and the armed In 2011, we presented our International opposition forces, much of the region’s ReSource Award for the Sustainable water infrastructure was in tatters. Management of Watersheds for the ninth Children in the Central Mindanao region of ﻿ the Philippines are about to test new ﻿ water stand pipes that were provided by the International Committee of the Red Cross ﻿ as part of a project supported by Swiss Re. 48 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen time. By recognising innovative approaches in the aftermath of a disaster. Our intention and workable solutions, the award seeks to is to enable cooperation and know-how highlight the social, ecological and economic transfer between a Japanese rescue dog benefits of protecting vulnerable watersheds organisation and the Swiss Disaster Dog in emerging countries. Association, REDOG (www.redog.ch), which has been one of our partners for The ninth edition of the award went to a several years. project designed to protect the Chon-Aksu river watershed in Kyrgyzstan. Unsustainable In addition, fund-raising campaigns were grazing practices in the watershed’s launched at many of our offices around the upstream areas have been causing soil world, through which our employees erosion, resulting in water shortages, river contributed a total of CHF 168 000. Swiss Re sedimentation and deteriorating water matched these donations to further support quality. The winning project addresses this rebuilding efforts. problem by combining two schemes: through the “payment for ecosystem services” … and for Somalia scheme, downstream crop farmers will The drought in large parts of East Africa was compensate upstream cattle farmers for another natural disaster that caused terrible sustainable, but costlier grazing methods. human suffering. The situation reached “Reduce emissions from deforestation and emergency, or even catastrophe, levels in degradation” is the second scheme and ﻿ Central and Southern Somalia, where the will help ensure the long-term sustainability drought was compounded by the effects of of the compensation mechanism. 20 years of civil war. With only a small number of humanitarian organisations on Disaster assistance for Japan … the ground, hundreds of thousands of The earthquake that occurred in March 2011 people faced life-threatening food and some 70 kilometres off the north-eastern water shortages from July 2011 onwards. coast of the main island Honshu was the strongest ever recorded in Japan’s history. The ICRC is one of the few organisations Within half an hour, the ensuing tsunami that has been active in all provinces of devastated much of this stretch of the coast, Central and Southern Somalia, and has thus in parts travelling inland as far as ten been able to carry out large-scale distri­ kilometres. The tsunami killed at least butions. As a founding member of the ICRC 15 000 people and displaced another Corporate Support Group, we made a 450 000, many of whom were children. special donation of CHF 100 000 to assist relief efforts in Somalia. There, the ICRC In response to this tragedy, Swiss Re swiftly focused on expanding its therapeutic donated CHF 250 000 to support instant feeding programmes and its food distri­ relief efforts in Japan. The donations were butions in order to help people get through split between the Swiss Red Cross ﻿ the drought until the harvest in December (www.redcross.ch) and Save the Children 2011. (www.savethechildren.net), both of which are highly reputable charities that were working closely with Japanese organisations. We pledged a further CHF 250 000 to support Japanese rescue organisations in their efforts to build up dog rescue teams that are capable of rapidly rescuing people For more information on this subject, see﻿ www.resourceaward.org/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Being a good corporate citizen Local volunteering and charity eggs, while at Christmas each Swiss Re Swiss Re offers three programmes team raised money to purchase an Group-wide volunteering Swiss Re is a global company with business individual gift for one of the children. and charity programmes: locations around the world. Besides our ̤̤ Community Days humanitarian and development programmes, As a special highlight, our staff decided to ̤̤ Charity of the Year we want to make a difference to life in these produce a Swiss Re cookbook dedicated ﻿ ̤̤ Dollars-4-Doers communities. We achieve this by supporting to the youth of Stepping Stone House and local charities and by providing opportuni­ contributed a total of 57 recipes. All the ties for our employees to take part in volun­ proceeds from the 100 copies sold went teering activities. Swiss Re recently intro­ towards funding two terms of swimming duced two Group-wide volunteering and classes for the children. charity programmes: Community Days ﻿ and Charity of the Year (COTY). Both of … United Kingdom … them are now firmly established. Our employees in the United Kingdom voted for the NSPCC (www.nspcc.org.uk) Community Days give all our employees ﻿ as their Charity of the Year 2011 – 2012. the option to spend one working day per Originally founded in 1884, the NSPCC is year participating in organised volunteering the only charity focused on ending child activities that reflect Swiss Re’s cruelty across the UK. The specific goal of commitment to environmental and social our employees’ initiative was to raise funds sustainability. for the NSPCC’s helpline for adults who are worried about a child, and for ChildLine – Through the Charity of the Year programme, the UK’s only free, 24-hour service offering our employees can propose charities they help, advice and support to children and would like to support and then vote on the young people. resulting shortlist. The selected charity receives financial support from Swiss Re In 2011, GBP 240 000 was raised by ﻿ and, in most cases, invites our employees ﻿ Swiss Re and its employees. This money will to engage in volunteering and fundraising be used to recruit and train 75 volunteer activities. ChildLine counsellors who, between them, can respond to over 15 600 children in The Dollars-4-Doers Programme enables need in just one year. In addition to this, the our employees to seek financial support for funds will enable the development of a ﻿ charitable work they do in their own time. text service for the NSPCC helpline that will Swiss Re contributes up to CHF 3 000 or an allow adults to contact the NSPCC equivalent amount to submitted projects, anonymously via text message. provided they meet a set of criteria. … Kuala Lumpur … In total, our employees volunteered 14 647 In Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, our employees hours of their working time to charitable chose Maison Chance Vietnam ﻿ causes during 2011. Below is a selection of (www.maison-chance.org) as their 2011 the projects we supported in 2011 through Charity of the Year. This organisation is Community Days, Charity of the Year and based in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, where Dollars-4-Doers. it provides shelter and free vocational training for street children and disabled Charity of the Year: Sydney… people who have been abandoned. In 2011, Inspired by the enriching experiences Maison Chance opened Village Chance, a shared in the previous year, our Sydney school building and 18 home units specially office once again chose Stepping Stone designed for those who are wheelchairHouse (www.steppingstonehouse.com.au) bound. Our employees and their families as their Charity of the Year for 2011, an spent a full day at the village cleaning its organisation that cares for homeless teen­ homes. The Kuala Lumpur office also agers. Our employees organised a number donated some stationary as well as a cash of fundraising initiatives to support the ﻿ contribution. 23 children living at the house. At Easter they held a raffle and donated chocolate For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ volunteering.html 50 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen 14647 … and Zurich In Ishinomaki town, where more than 4 000 At our Zurich headquarters, employees people had lost their lives, our employees chose Kovive (www.kovive.ch) as their spent the day with the children of a primary Charity of the Year. Kovive is a children’s aid school, many of them from affected or Total hours volunteered by our organisation that has been working on displaced families. With the support of the employees in 2011 behalf of socially disadvantaged children Japan Blind Soccer Association – Swiss Re and their families since 1954. In particular, ﻿ Japan’s Charity of the Year – the children it offers recreational activities and holidays were encouraged to play ball games while in the event of social hardship and acute blindfolded, a challenge they enthusiasti­ need. In summer 2011, Kovive hosted its cally embraced. third youth camp in Engelberg, Central Switzerland, which involved one week of Swiss Re volunteers also took care of pets ﻿ shared outdoor activities that also help the in an animal shelter, walking dogs, feeding youngsters to build social skills and selfcats and cleaning cages. At the time, the confidence. A number of our employees shelter provided a home to some 70 dogs volunteered one working day to participate and cats that had lost their families or ﻿ in the camp’s activities. were waiting to be picked up again by their families who were still living in evacuation Community Day in Tokyo … centres. The third activity planned was Our Tokyo office held its first Community cleaning and sorting debris. Unfortunately, Day in 2011. In view of the devastation this had to be abandoned because of wrought by the earthquake and tsunami in Typhoon Talas. March 2011, it was a natural choice to ﻿ A young participant of the Kovive youth hold the day in the affected Tohoku region … Mexico City … camp in Central Switzerland and one ﻿ in the North-East of Honshu. In accordance Our Mexico City office also held its first of our employees from Zurich enjoy a rest with the most urgent needs, three different Community Day last year. Its programme from the day’s outdoor activities. activities were organised: was organised in collaboration with Fondo ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Being a good corporate citizen Staff from our New York City office show their spirit as they volunteer to carry out hands-on maintenance work at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. Unido Mexico (www.fondounido.org.mx) trails and had caused the drains to clog and and focused on the “Jesus Urquiaga” the trails to flood during rainfall. This activity school. 115 employees – representing a was just as tough but equally fulfilling … participation rate of 80% – helped to improve the school garden by rehabilitating Dollars-4-Doers land, planting and pruning trees, as well ﻿ One of our employees who received a as seeding grass. A highlight of the day was Dollars-4-Doers contribution works for the the thank-you note presented by the Jugendkulturfestival (Youth Culture ﻿ Kindergarten pupils, which said “Gracias Festival) Basel (www.jkf.ch), the largest Susi Re”… non-commercial platform in Switzerland for young artists. A member of the festival’s … New York City … board and in charge of infrastructure and Our office in New York City devoted its sustainability, she used Swiss Re’s grant for Community Day to two projects, both of the “Trash Heroes” project – a pioneering them in Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. concept to reduce littering and to promote More than 50 of our employees gathered to recycling with the help of young festival carry out some much-needed maintenance volunteers. work, benefiting both the local community and environment. In collaboration ﻿ Another Dollars-4-Doers grant went to an with the NY Partnership for Parks ﻿ employee who volunteers for a robotics (www.partnershipsforparks.org), our programme at Jefferson Middle School in volunteers restored badly eroded trails and Calabasas, California. The grant helped ﻿ improved erosion control by erecting fund equipment and enabled three student protective fences and planting long-rooted teams to take part in a competition held ﻿ plants. Their great spirit was reflected in the by the First® Lego® League, FLL ﻿ fact that additional supplies were needed ﻿ (www.firstlegoleague.org), an international so they could go on working in the afternoon. organisation that promotes science and engineering among children aged 9 to 14. The second project took place about one Two of the teams finished in the top 12 out mile away in an area of Van Cortlandt Park of 256 teams that entered the Los Angeles that has some of the largest and most ﻿ regional finals. well-known cross-country trails in the whole region. This group of employees cleared away the stones and gravel that had accumu­ lated in the gutters running alongside the 52 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Being an employer of choice Our goal is to attract talented people from a broad range ﻿ of disciplines and backgrounds. We offer them a culture ﻿ of diversity and inclusion, excellent development opportunities ﻿ and attractive benefits. Swiss Re wants to be the preferred partner In our quest to act as a responsible employer for clients and brokers – delivering a service of choice, we pursue the following strategic unmatched elsewhere in the market, earning priorities: we foster diversity and inclusion; their long-term trust and confidence. we provide excellent development and training opportunities; we work to maintain To achieve this, we rely on the skills, experi­ favourable employee relations and we offer ence and talent of our employees, for ﻿ competitive compensation and benefits. whom we want to be the place to succeed. Currently, we employ close to 11000 We are pleased that we were able to create people from more than 80 nations in a additional job opportunities due to the posi­ working environ­ment that aims to tive development of our business in 2011, in encourage everyone to achieve success. spite of the economic turbulences and large claims from several natural disasters. Employees by region Employee data 2009 2010 2011 As of 31 December 2011 Total headcount regular employees 10 552 10 362 10 788 Full-time 9 534 9 354 9 752 Part-time 1 018 1 008 1 036 Temporary employees 190 176 308 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 18.8% 13.6% 11.2% Voluntary 5.5% 6.7% 6.3% Involuntary* (incl. retirement) 13.3% 6.9% 4.9% * includes sale of PRO/Conning 65% Europe (including 66.1% Europe Middle East and Africa) 28.4% Americas 26% Americas 05.5% Asia 9% Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific 66.1% Europe Americas 28.4% Americas Europe 05.5% Asia 54 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice Diversity and inclusion We have also been working to develop ﻿ We have set up a com­ An inclusive corporate culture is a prere­ the skills of our leaders, managers and prehensive initiative to quisite for diversity of thought and a diverse employees in this area. D&I is embedded in further promote workforce. It is good for bottom-line results, our Talent and HR policies, eg obligatory diversity and inclusion motivating for employees and enables com­ diverse recruitment practices, as well as in across the whole Group. panies to attract fresh talent. There is strong our leadership and training programmes, evidence that diverse teams outperform while diversity metrics are closely non-diverse teams, produce a broader range monitored. of ideas and are more innovative and agile in the way they anticipate and respond ﻿ In support of Swiss Re’s policy of fostering to external change. Furthermore, stronger diversity, we also have strong provisions in representation of local talent is a prerequisite place to penalise any infringing behaviour. for developing new markets. Our Group Code of Conduct clearly states that discrimination in the workplace against Over the last year, Swiss Re has established any employee or job applicant based on ﻿ a Group-wide Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) the person’s age, (dis)ability, origin, gender, strategy. With the support of the CEO and religion or sexual orientation (or any other the Group Executive Committee, this characteristic protected by local law) is not strategy is being driven by a strong network tolerated under any circumstances. We of 35 D&I Champions from the business ﻿ encourage our employees to report violations and is supported by regional D&I Councils ﻿ of the Group Code of Conduct, laws, rules or to ensure a “Glocal” approach, meaning ﻿ regulations, explicitly stating that reporting that local differences with regard to D&I are in good faith is treated with discretion. acknowledged and addressed under a global umbrella. Our employees and clients meeting at the Centre for Global Dialogue. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Being an employer of choice At Group level, we have started to roll out a tion non-traditional working models that series of global initiatives to help build a respect both team and individual needs. solid foundation for a truly inclusive culture and diverse workforce: And, as the name suggests, “Women Leading Swiss Re” is a programme that aims “Being an Inclusive Leader/Manager” builds to increase leadership position opportuni­ on the skills of our leaders and managers ﻿ ties for women throughout the company. As to naturally foster diversity in all its forms by part of this initiative, Swiss Re held its third being role models for inclusion. “Women in Leadership in Insurance” Forum in New York, bringing together insurance The “Unconscious Bias” initiative is designed CEOs to commit to actions for change. to reveal how we all harbour hidden biases (not just against someone who is “unlike” During 2011, we saw an increase in ﻿ us, but towards someone who is “like” us) the number of women at every level of and to demonstrate that we can only management (see table below). eliminate these biases by recognising them. “Own the Way You Work” aims to initiate meaningful discussions about the best ways to “get the job done”, taking into considera­ Share of women on management levels 2009 2010 2011 Total workforce 47.7 47.5 47.7 Group Executive Committee/Group Management Board Member 5.6 0.0 3.7 Managing Director 12.7 13.7 15.6 For more information on this subject, see﻿ Director/Senior Vice President 20.8 20.9 22.0 swissre.com/careers/diversity/ All management levels 19.5 19.6 21.0 Making a point at the Swiss Re Academy. 56 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice Development and training opportunities The top management roles at Swiss Re The Swiss Re Academy Developing our people, at every level and ﻿ require proven leadership and managerial provides industryin all functions, remains a strong focus. skills as well as strong technical knowledge. leading training to our Personal and professional development at We provide highly focused programmes to employees as well Swiss Re combines technical, professional develop candidates for positions at Director as to clients and and leadership skills training. All our training and Managing Director levels. Every year external partners. is designed and delivered internally through we select a number of employees around our long-established Swiss Re Academy, ﻿ the globe to take part in these programmes in collaboration with world-class external and prepare them with structured and partners. In recent years, we have seen a accelerated development offerings for more consistent increase in the number of partici­ senior roles within Swiss Re. pants, culminating in more than 9 300 employees who benefited from learning The selected employees undergo formal and development opportunities in 2011. training, are stretched by challenging simulations, assignments and job rotations In 2011, the Swiss Re Academy also and are given opportunities to engage ﻿ continued its strong legacy of providing in active dialogue with Swiss Re’s senior industry-leading technical training and management. learning opportunities to clients and external partners. Our client training offerings were Those who assume new roles as Managing revised to address the different market Directors participate in a dedicated needs more effectively as well as to align onboarding programme that eases them them to the way Swiss Re delivers services into the start of their senior role. The for each of the client segments established programme consists of executive coaching, under the new Group structure. Our clients mentoring support and team development expressed their overall satisfaction with ﻿ workshops. the training provided by us by rating it with 4.6 out of a possible 5 points – above the To create more transparency regarding ca­ industry benchmark of 4.3. reer development opportunities at Swiss Re, a new initiative called “Job Family Fairs” The majority of courses are structured as was launched in 2011, with events held at “learning paths” that consist of different our main locations in Switzerland, the UK learning modules and approaches to ensure and the US. The main goal of this initiative ﻿ continuous development over time and to is to broaden the understanding of crossenable the effective transfer of new know­ functional career development opportuni­ ledge and skills into daily work. The partici­ ties, as Swiss Re offers not only vertical pation figures confirm the demand for this career paths, but also the possibility of way of learning in a globalised environment: lateral and cross-functional job moves. In total, we recorded 170 000 learning hours, which equals 14.3 hours of learning The initial fairs were well attended and per employee. involved more than 20 “Job Family Representatives” at senior level who In 2011, the use of digitised formats for engaged in discussions about their course delivery continued to gain in respective roles and responsibilities with importance. More than 80% of all course employees. The initiative will continue ﻿ participants received their training via at more of our locations during 2012. eLearning, thereby reducing the need to travel and days away from the office. Currently, we offer more than 900 different training courses in various areas. Employees and line managers have the opportunity – and sometimes the obligation – to attend training in areas such as: underwriting, finance, sales and negotiations, leadership, diversity & inclusion, interpersonal skills, project management, office tools, language skills and compliance training. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Being an employer of choice Learning about career possibilities at a Job Family Fair. Our “Early Joiners” programmes man, information & documentation The graduates@swissre programme each specialist, computer specialist, building year provides entry positions for around 50 maintenance specialist, chef, qualified university graduates with little or no work waitress/waiter, hotel housekeeper and experience. Approximately 190 employees media specialist. currently working at Swiss Re across different functions and regions have benefit­ Many of these young adults stay with ﻿ ed from this programme over the past four Swiss Re after completing their training, years. helping to ensure that the company has the necessary skills in the future. 30% of all ﻿ The programme offers an excellent our former apprentices and trainees are still opportunity for young talents to discover working at Swiss Re. the world from Swiss Re’s perspective and the prospect of working in an organisation Employee relations where diversity is actively cultivated. Over a Swiss Re sets high standards regarding the period of 18 months the graduates receive well-being of our employees. This is why ﻿ on-the-job training in their respective we created an Employee Relations team. It functions. They also attend a significant supports employees and their line managers number of classroom-based training days in difficult personal matters and situations, which are specially designed for the by offering monitoring, coaching and advice. programme and focusing on Swiss Re’s In addition, the team constantly reviews ﻿ core business areas. and continues to develop Swiss Re’s preven­ tion and support services with the aim of In Zurich and Munich Swiss Re also offers a helping employees combine health, perfor­ Junior Power programme, which was first mance, well-being, family and work. introduced in 1981. Nearly 100 apprentices and trainees aged between 15 and 25 participate in the programme each year and are trained in a broad range of occupations. In turn, they contribute new perspectives to the company and challenge existing practices. We offer training programmes in various areas such as businesswoman/For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/careers/recent_graduates/ For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/careers/ Welcome_to_Junior_Power_en.html 58 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice Our overriding goal is to ensure that such equality of men and women. While doing support does not become necessary ﻿ so, it places a special focus on the require­ by strengthening prevention. Work-life ments of employees with family obligations, harmony is an important focus area for this: without, however, discriminating against By offering relevant assistance, benefits, single staff. policies and programmes, we seek to help our employees achieve a better balance In the United Kingdom, Swiss Re has an between the demands of their jobs and Employee Liaison Group (ELG), consisting ﻿ their private lives. Teleworking, for example, of elected representatives from across ﻿ is available on a Group-wide basis. all functions. The ELG provides a forum for employee representatives and managers ﻿ In the past year, Swiss Re launched to discuss company policy and practices prevention trainings in London and Munich which affect all employees. These include: that help our managers properly respond to ̤̤ Employment policies & procedures employees’ health issues. In addition, a ̤̤ General terms and conditions of burnout prevention campaign was launched employment in Zurich and other locations. New initiatives ̤̤ Benefits are scheduled to be launched in 2012. ̤̤ Working conditions ̤̤ Training and development Employee engagement survey ̤̤ Any statutory matters (eg redundancies) We aspire to be a company that communi­ ̤̤ Company performance cates openly and transparently: An integral part of this is having a constructive debate The ELG is legally recognised as the collective on how we want to develop our corporate consultation body for redundancy purposes. culture and to live our strategy. One of the When a business unit is likely to be affected ways in which we do this is through our by proposed collective redundancies, the employee engagement surveys. The results respective employee representatives are of the 2010 survey generated numerous consulted. ideas and activities in our company across diverse areas, including career perspec­ At our Munich office there is a works tives, recognition, open communication, council, which has co-determination rights simplification and empowerment. in the following matters: ̤̤ New entrances We repeated the survey in the autumn of ̤̤ Transfer of employees 2011, which allowed us to make a direct ̤̤ Termination of employment contracts ﻿ comparison with the previous year: Overall, by the employer we were very pleased with the results, ̤̤ Working conditions which indicated progress made during 2011. ̤̤ Benefits We will continue to build on these insights ̤̤ Employment policies during 2012 to further encourage and support our employees’ engagement with The works council has the legal obligation the company. to support topics like diversity, training and development, career opportunities and Employee groups work-life balance. The 11 members of the The Zurich Personnel Committee (PECO) works council are elected for four years ﻿ represents the interests of all Swiss Re by employees who hold a position in Corpo­ employees in Zurich. One of its central goals rate Bands D to F. is to create and preserve a positive working environment, with employees forming ﻿ the focal point of its thoughts and actions. PECO supports efforts to help staff put ﻿ their knowledge, skills, expertise and networks to the best possible use. This includes providing them with appropriate further education and training. The committee also seeks to ensure the de-facto ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Being an employer of choice Networks The annual performance incentive is linked Performance, compen­ Our former employees remain important to both individual and company success. ﻿ sation and benefits stakeholders for Swiss Re. They are the To provide a link between employee and form an essential part people who have helped make the company shareholder interests, we also encourage of Swiss Re’s culture. what it is today and form a very important ownership of Swiss Re shares through the Practically all our part of our extended employee community. Employee Participation Plan (where employ­ees carry out As many of our alumni work for our clients, possible) and the Incentive Share Plan. A a performance review they also help deepen our client significant portion of senior management’s at least once a year. relationships. compensation is also tied to the Group’s long-term incentive plan. Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network we offer our alumni the opportunity to continue Goal setting and performance reviews are a sharing their knowledge and experience as vital part of our company’s culture. Within well as to keep in contact with former the next year, this process will incorporate colleagues. The network has continued to our new company values and behaviours, grow and currently has over 2 400 alumni. while strengthening the importance of not just what our employees achieve, but also The network also includes our retirees. how they achieve it. Many of them continue to take great interest in the company and vice versa. Through Performance reviews serve both to deter­ extended access rights, we enable them to mine an employee’s variable part of read news items that are only available to compensation and to identify development employees. In addition, we started a “Senior possibilities. In 2011, all eligible employees – Consultants” pilot, through which we invite close to 100% across the Group – carried retirees to work on projects on a part-time out a year-end performance review with basis. This creates a beneficial situation for their line manager. Additional mid-year all involved, as Swiss Re gains access ﻿ reviews and ongoing feedback are strongly to people who know the company and the encouraged across the company. As part of business well, while the retirees can our development and training portfolio, we continue to do some work in a flexible way. offer all employees a broad range of training and online courses (see “Development and Compensation and benefits training opportunities”, page 57). Swiss Re’s compensation, benefits and broader reward offerings are designed to Health benefits form an important part of attract, motivate and retain the qualified our overall compensation packages. We talent the Group needs to succeed globally, supplement state-provided healthcare with while maintaining a tangible link to medical insurance, where required. performance. Furthermore, we strive to enable employees to accumulate retirement benefits and/or We take a holistic view of rewards. A long-term savings to supplement any state balanced compensation package (including provisions. base salary and annual performance incentive) is complemented by additional In addition, we provide financial products benefits (including health coverage and which are of great benefit to our employees. retirement plans), financial products and a After an initial five-year cycle, our COYou2 first-class work environment. Reduce and Gain Programme will be conti­ nued and expanded, offering our employees Our philosophy on compensation is to be the opportunity to claim subsidies from the competitive in the local labour markets in company for a range of emissions-cutting which we operate and to support the Group’s investments they would like to make in their core values. Our approach is designed to private lives (see pages 43–44). promote delivery of outstanding results without taking inappropriate risks. For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ 60 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Ensuring good governance We consider good corporate governance the basis to ensure sustainability throughout all the Group’s activities. Swiss Re considers good corporate Dual Board structure governance indispensable to maintaining Swiss Re has a dual Board structure: the long-lasting, valuable relationships with ﻿ Board of Directors is responsible for its stakeholders. We recognise that trans­ oversight, while the Group Executive parent disclosure of our governance Committee is responsible for managing structure fosters assessment of the quality operations. This structure maintains of our organisation and business conduct. effective mutual checks and balances Swiss Re’s corporate governance adheres between the top corporate bodies. to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s Directive on Information Relating to Corporate Gover­ Independence of the Board of Directors nance, including its annex, as issued in Swiss Re’s Group Bylaws stipulate that the 2002 and amended in 2009. It is also in Board of Directors consists of at least a line with the principles of the Swiss Code ﻿ majority of independent members. To be of Best Practice for Corporate Governance considered independent, a director may ﻿ (Swiss Code) issued in 2002 by economie­ not be employed as an executive officer of suisse, the Swiss business federation. An the Group, or have been employed in such ﻿ additional appendix was issued in 2007 and a function for the previous three years. deals with compensation policy. Swiss Re, Moreover, he or she must not have a moreover, conforms to the Swiss Financial material relationship with any part of the Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) Group, directly or as a partner, director ﻿ provisions on corporate governance, risk or shareholder of an organisation that has a management and internal control systems, material relationship with the Group. All which came into effect on 1 January ﻿ directors meet our independence criteria. 2009. Finally, Swiss Re’s corporate gover­ nance complies with applicable local ﻿ The members of the Board of Directors ﻿ rules and regulations in all jurisdictions are also subject to procedures to avoid any where it conducts business. conflict of interest. In our Corporate Responsibility Report, we The organisation of the Board of Directors is highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s corpo­ set forth in the Group Bylaws, which define rate governance concerning the structure the responsibilities of the Board of Directors, and independence of the Board of Directors, its committees and the Group Executive shareholder rights and the Group Code of Committee, as well as the respective Conduct. Comprehensive information reporting procedures. following the structure of the SIX Directive is available in the 2011 Financial Report, pages 53–87. For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/about_us/corporate_governance/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Ensuring good governance The Board has delegated certain responsi­ Voting right restrictions, statutory group bilities, including the preparation and clauses and exception rules execution of its resolutions, to five commit­ There are no voting right restrictions and ﻿ tees: the Chairman’s and Governance no statutory group clauses. Therefore, there Committee, the Audit Committee, the are no procedures or conditions for cancelling Compensation Committee, the Finance and restrictions and no rules on making Risk Committee and the Investment exceptions to them. No such exceptions Committee. were made in 2011. Audit Committee Statutory rules on participating in the All members of the Audit Committee are General Meeting of shareholders nonexecutive and independent. In addition Any share whose owner, usufructuary or to the independence criteria applicable ﻿ nominee is entered in the share register as to Board members for other committee having voting rights on a specific qualifying memberships, members of the Audit day (Record Date) designated by the Board Committee may not accept any consulting, of Directors entitles its holder to one ﻿ advisory or other compensation fee from vote at the General Meeting of shareholders. the Swiss Re Group, and will be required to possess such additional attributes as the Swiss Re’s legal provisions allow any share­ Board may, from time to time, specify. Each holder with voting rights to have his shares member of the Audit Committee has to be represented at any General Meeting by financially literate. another person authorised in writing, or by corporate bodies, independent proxies or The central task of the Audit Committee is proxies for deposited shares. Such to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its representatives need not be shareholders. oversight responsibilities as they relate to the integrity of Swiss Re’s and the Group’s Business firms, partnerships and corporate financial statements, the Swiss Re Group’s bodies may be represented by legal or compliance with legal and regulatory authorised representatives or other proxies, requirements, the external auditor’s qualifi­ married persons by their spouses, minors cations and independence, and the and wards by their guardians, even though performance of the Swiss Re Group’s such representatives are not shareholders. internal audit function (GIA) and the Group’s external auditor. Defence measures Swiss Re has not put in place any specific Shareholders’ participation rights measures to defend against potential Shares unfriendly takeover attempts. The Board of All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are fully Directors believes that the company’s best paid-in registered shares, each with a protection is a fair valuation of its shares, nominal value of CHF 0.10. Each share carries and that the efficiency of a free market is one vote. There are no categories of shares preferable to artificial ploys, which can ﻿ with a higher or limited voting power, have a negative impact on the share price ﻿ privileged dividend entitlement or any other in the long term. preferential rights, nor are there any other securities representing a part of the company’s share capital. The company cannot exercise the voting rights of treasury shares. 62 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Ensuring good governance Group Code of Conduct Employee training on the Code of The Group Code of Conduct (Code) is one ﻿ Conduct in a series of documents governing the All new employees joining Swiss Re must organisation and management of the com­ undergo training on the Code of Conduct. pany. It sets the framework and defines ﻿ Completion of the training is tracked, and the basic legal and ethical compliance instances of non-completion are escalated principles and policies we apply globally. until resolution. To date, 92% of all new hires in 2011 have completed their Code of The Code also offers practical guidance and Conduct training. The company is following examples for deciding the appropriate up on the 8% who have not yet done so. course of action and solving ethical dilemmas. It further sets out how all employees should Additionally, in the first quarter of 2011, ﻿ react when they observe a possible breach a Code of Conduct Acknowledgment, of the principles in the Code. All employees containing a reminder of responsibilities are obligated to uphold both the letter and under the Code, was distributed to all spirit of the Code and the Group’s corporate current and new employees in 2011. governance principles in their daily business Completion of this acknowledgment is over activities, and to respect and obey appli­ 99% and outstanding acknowledgments cable laws and regulations in all jurisdictions are being escalated. where we do business. Furthermore, training on data protection The Code is regularly reviewed and is and international trade controls was currently being updated to reflect Swiss Re’s delivered Group-wide in addition to regular corporate values as well as compliance and local and/or regional compliance training. ethics principles. Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability Swiss Re’s commitment Our commitment to sustainability is fully to sustainability is integrated in the Code’s section on business integrated in the Busi­ ethics. It provides a guiding principle for ness Ethics section Swiss Re’s efforts to act as a responsible of our Group Code of company. Conduct. Bribery and corruption The Code’s section on moral behaviour contains, among other things, Swiss Re’s position on bribery and corruption. This clearly states that “Swiss Re prohibits all forms of bribery and corruption” and that “bribing governmental agents, regulators ﻿ or other officials is a crime”. A new Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy was introduced in the UK in 2011 to ensure that requirements under the UK Bribery ﻿ Act were adequately addressed. The rollout of the new policy was followed by management awareness training. An up­ dated global policy has now been rolled ﻿ out and Group-wide training will be delivered in 2012. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Corporate responsibility in context: climate change Climate change: facts and figures cannot be explained by natural variations changes in climate extremes for the 21st There is a simple but crucial difference alone. According to the scientific consensus century. These include: between weather and climate. Weather it is “very likely”, ie with a probability of ﻿ describes individual combinations of 90% or more, that this rise has been caused phenomena such as temperature, precipita­ by human activity, primarily the burning ﻿ tion, wind etc. as they arise and shift daily, of fossil fuels and agriculture. As the graph ̤̤ Very likely increase in the length, even hourly. Climate, on the other hand, is below shows, scientific models that take frequency and/or intensity of the average weather over long periods of into account these additional emissions warm spells or heat waves over time – usually longer than 10 to 15 years. mirror the actual rise quite accurately. most land areas; This difference between the transitory, ̤̤ Likely increase in the frequency of short-term character of weather and the heavy precipitation events or an long-term, average character of climate ﻿ Climate change – key data increase in proportion of total is key to understanding what is meant by ̤̤ Rise in global average temperature rainfall from heavy falls over many climate change. since 1900: 0.8°C areas of the globe; ̤̤ Average temperatures in the last ̤̤ Medium confidence in a projected After the last ice age, ie for about 11 000 decade: among the highest ever increase in duration and intensity years, the earth’s climate remained relatively recorded of droughts in some regions of the stable, with global temperatures averaging ̤̤ Increase in atmospheric concentration world; 14°C. But over the last century, the climate of CO2 since 1850: 38% ̤̤ Very likely earlier spring peak flows has started to change at an unusual rate. in snowmeltand glacier-fed rivers; Firstly, the world’s average temperature has ̤̤ Very likely that mean sea level rise risen by 0.8°C since 1900 (see graph) and Why does climate change matter? will contribute to upward trends in average temperatures in the first decade of Put simply, a steady rise in global average extreme coastal high water levels; this century have consistently been among temperatures changes the energy balance ̤̤ High confidence that changes in the highest ever measured. Secondly, of the climate and leads to higher atmos­ heat waves, glacial retreat, and/or precipitation patterns have changed signifi­ pheric humidity. As they disrupt a complex, permafrost degradation will affect cantly in different regions. And thirdly, well balanced system, these changes are high mountain phenomena ﻿ extreme weather events have become more creating tangible risks. Based on the such as slope instabilities, mass numerous and severe. evidence of observed changes since 1950, movements and glacial lake the recent Special Report “Managing the outburst floods; Through extensive research and numerous Risks of Extreme Events and Disasters to ̤̤ High confidence that changes studies, science has reached a far-reaching Advance Climate Change Adaptation” ﻿ in heavy precipitation will affect consensus on the causes underlying these by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate landslides in some regions. changes. There is strong evidence that the Change (IPCC) lists significant projected observed rise in average temperatures has been caused by increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. These are gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2), The black curve shows the ﻿ Global temperature change methane and others that trap warmth ﻿ actual development of average global 1.0 Temperature anomaly (°C) in the earth’s atmosphere – a good thing in temperatures in the last century. moderation but not in excess. The grey-shaded area shows the range ﻿ 0.5 of temperatures expected by climate ﻿ models when only natural emissions are The atmospheric concentration of CO2, the 0.0 taken into account. most important greenhouse gas, has risen The orange-shaded area shows the range ﻿ by 38% since 1850, from 280 to over 380 of temperatures expected by climate ﻿ parts per million (ppm). This strong increase models when both natural and man-made 1900 1950 2000 emissions are taken into account. Year Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) ﻿ Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 64 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ At what point climate change on a global Specifically, we pursue the following What have we done so far? scale reaches “dangerous” levels is ultimately objectives: Putting our climate change strategy into a societal value judgement. Currently, the practice, we have launched some major consensus is that the rise in global average initiatives and promoted the development ﻿ temperatures should be limited to no more of relevant products. These are our key than 2°C by 2050. This, it is hoped, will Advancing our knowledge and achievements so far: cause consequences societies can still cope understanding of climate change ̤̤ Greenhouse Neutral Programme with. A temperature rise that goes well risks, quantifying and integrating Reduction of our CO2 emissions per beyond 2°C, in contrast, is expected to them into our risk management and employee by 54.4% since 2003; cause effects on a scale that will engender underwriting frameworks where ̤̤ COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme massive economic and social costs. relevant; Cash subsidies to a total of 3 953 employees for personal emissionsAccording to the International Energy Developing products and services to reducing investments between 2007 Agency (IEA), though, energy-related CO2 mitigate – or adapt to – climate risk; and 2011; emissions are at a historic high. Under ̤̤ Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) current policies, energy use and CO2 emis­ Raising awareness about climate framework sions are expected to increase by a third by change risks through dialogue with A practical methodology to identify cost2020, and to almost double by 2050. This clients, employees and the public, effective adaptation measures locally; could lead to an increase in average global and advocacy of a worldwide policy ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) temperatures of at least 6°C by the end of framework for climate change; Capital market instruments facilitating the century compared with pre-industrial the insurance of peak catastrophe risks; levels. Such an outcome would leave future Tackling our own carbon footprint ̤̤ Weather index-based insurance solutions generations with significant economic, and ensuring transparent, annual Risk transfer instruments that use environmental and energy challenges. emissions reporting. indexes to offer rapid, low-cost protection against weather risks. What is Swiss Re’s position? Given our role as an ultimate risk taker, ﻿ Sources we are strongly exposed to the impacts of Mitigation and adaptation In compiling this overview, we have made climate change. We identified climate Carbon dioxide remains in the atmosphere direct use of the following reliable sources: change as an emerging risk more than 20 for one hundred years or more, thus creating – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate years ago, and the concern has since a cumulative effect. Even if all emissions Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report: evolved into an important component of the could be stopped immediately, the climate Climate Change 2007: Synthesis Report company’s long-term risk management will therefore continue to change in the – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate strategy. Our actions are based on the coming decades. This means that two kinds Change (IPCC) Special Report on premise that it is in the interest of our of measures need to be combined: reducing Managing the Risks of Extreme Events shareholders, clients and employees, the emissions as quickly as possible (“mitigation”) and Disasters to Advance Climate Change wider stakeholder community and society and dealing with the inevitable impact of Adaptation: Summary for Policymakers in general to tackle this issue. Furthermore, climate change (“adaptation”). Though (2012) we believe that companies can make an adaptation will be indispensable, it cannot – w ww.metoffice.gov.uk/climate-change effective contribution by developing the be a substitute for mitigation. – International Energy Agency, press numerous business opportunities which release on “Tracking Clean Energy climate change has created, or will create ﻿ Progress” report, 25 April 2012 in the future. Mitigation = reducing greenhouse gas emissions Adaptation = dealing with the impact of climate change Both are necessary! For more information on this subject, see﻿ swissre.com/rethinking/climate/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Corporate responsibility in context: microinsurance The challenge Is microinsurance affordable? products offer large potential benefits, but According to World Bank data, around 4 bil­ A key question is whether the four billion are more complex to design than credit ﻿ lion people live on less than USD 4 per day. people worldwide who live on low incomes life, for example, because they require more At present, most of them have no or very can afford insurance at all. In our sigma data for their pricing. limited access to insurance. The lack of both publication on microinsurance (see source Products addressing health, agricultural financial resources and insurance protection on page 67) we argue that the international and natural disaster risks are on the makes people on low incomes highly poverty line of USD 1.25 income per day rise, but are more complex to design vulnerable to a range of risks that can pose represents a critical level. than credit life products. a direct threat to their livelihoods: For the 1.4 billion people who live on less Innovation and partnership Key risks faced by people on low than USD 1.25 per day, even microinsu­r­ance Microinsurance products must remain incomes: must be considered unaffordable. Support affordable, easy-to-understand and capable ̤̤ Health risks: illness, accidents, disability from governments and develop­ment agen­ of reaching large numbers of people, even ̤̤ Lifecycle risks: death of the breadwinner, cies is indispensable to offer them any when they are more complex to design. old age insurance protection. For the 2.6 billion Innovation, unorthodox approaches and ̤̤ Financial and agricultural risks: crop people who earn between USD 1.25 ﻿ partnerships all have an important role to loss, death of livestock, falling prices and USD 4 per day, however, there exists ﻿ play in achieving this: ̤̤ Disaster risks: windstorms, floods, a realistic possibility to develop micro­ earthquakes insurance products that are both affordable ̤̤ Parametric and index-based products and commercially self-sustaining – provi­d­ These are insurance products that do not When such an event occurs, often the ﻿ ed they are well designed and effective. require policyholders to make claims in only option is to sell off vital assets such ﻿ For 2.6 billion people earning between the event of losses. Instead, the products as tools or to take emergency loans, ﻿ USD 1.25/day and USD 4/day, utilise specific data correlated with a which aggravates the situation further. developing affordable microinsurance particular risk to determine losses (eg the People living on low incomes are products is a realistic option. measured amount of rainfall for drought ﻿ particularly exposed to a number of or flood risks). When such a parameter risks. Types of microinsurance or index reaches a certain, pre-defined Microinsurance first developed in the wake level, the insurance product automatically The response: microinsurance of microfinance, ie the provision of small pays out. ﻿ Given the high vulnerability of low-income loans to people not served by the formal Parametric and index-based people and their families, finding ways to financial markets. As a result, “credit life products offer quick payouts and offer them access to insurance protection is microinsurance”, which combines credit help lower transaction costs. of crucial importance. The response that products with life insurance, is currently ﻿ has emerged in recent years is called micro­ still the most widespread type. Recently, ̤̤ Alternative distribution channels insurance. This is an umbrella term for however, there has been an increase in Offering potential clients access to micro­ insurance products that are specially products that address some of the key risks insurance products and creating the designed for people on low incomes. identified above, especially health, financial/ necessary infrastructure for premium Though there is no agreed definition of agricultural and natural disaster risks. These collection and payment handling at ﻿ microinsurance, such products involve ﻿ small premiums and covers – hence the word “micro” – and combine further Insurance principles characteristics such as affordability, accessibility and simplicity. Simplicity Core elements Accessibility Microinsurance: Insurance products that are specially designed for people of microinsurance living on low incomes. Flexibility Affordability Source: Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting 66 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ low cost is another key challenge. It can Some innovative microinsurance schemes ̤̤ Health insurance programme in Tamil be addressed through the flexible use of try to reinforce these benefits further by Nadu State, India: government-sponsored various alternative distribution channels. designing products that combine several scheme that offers health insurance to These include microfinance institutions elements. For example, a savings function 10 million low-income families (see 2010 (MFIs), NGOs, community organisations, can actually be built into the product. ﻿ CR Report, page 17); retail stores, trade unions, utility com­ Other elements include access to loans or ̤̤ Kilimo Salama Plus programme in Kenya: panies, religious groups, post offices and technical know-how and advice. offers protection to smallholder farmers others. Some products also use modern against crop failure due to insufficient or communications technologies such as Challenges excessive rain (see 2010 CR Report, mobile phones. ﻿ Based on recent developments and ex­ page 18); Alternative distribution channels help periences, the prospects for micro­insurance ̤̤ MiCRO programme in Haiti: initial solution reach people and keep costs down. look promising. Nevertheless, some offers protection against windstorm, important challenges remain. They include: earthquake and rainfall risks to 60 000 ̤̤ Multi-stakeholder partnerships ̤̤ Tailoring microinsurance products to the female microentrepreneurs (see page 16); Effective microinsurance schemes have actual needs of low-income clients; ̤̤ R4 Rural Resilience Initiative: offers a developed a number of different business ̤̤ Constantly reviewing and minimising comprehensive insurance and risk models involving various partners, not costs along the entire value chain; manage­ment package against drought just for distribution. For example, NGOs ̤̤ Keeping products simple and to smallholder farmers, initially in and cooperative organisations frequently transparent; Ethiopia and Senegal (see pages 15–16); act as risk carriers; supporting organisa­ ̤̤ Finding ways to cope with incomplete or ̤̤ Our partnership with the Global Index tions such as international development insufficient data when pricing products; Insurance Facility (GIIF): a pilot in Mali organisations, donors and public-private ̤̤ Creating awareness among low-income offers index-based insurance protection partnerships (PPPs) often play an clients for the benefits of insurance. against drought to smallholder farmers important role in funding the launch and Important challenges remain in (see pages 17–18). early expansion phase of microinsurance developing microinsurance, which must schemes; and PPPs with government be recognised and met. participation are an effective way to create comprehensive disaster risk transfer Swiss Re’s contribution solutions at country or even regional level Being a reinsurer, Swiss Re’s potential role that benefit poor segments of the in the microfinance value chain is different ﻿ population.﻿ from that of insurers and other risk carriers. Different microinsurance solutions The contributions we can make focus ﻿ require different stakeholders flexibly on product design and pricing, technical working together in partnership. advice and providing reinsurance capacity for peak risks. Over the last few years, ﻿ Empowering people to raise their living Swiss Re has been involved in a number of standards innovative microinsurance schemes with ﻿ The benefits of effective microinsurance a range of partners. Following is a selection Source schemes are substantial. By offering the of them: sigma 6/2010, “Microinsurance – risk most vulnerable segments of the population ̤̤ Index-based weather insurance for small­ protection for 4 billion people” financial protection against significant risks, holder farmers in Kenya: offers protection they can set in motion a virtuous circle of against livestock mortality due to drought devel­op­ment. If people can avoid desperate (see 2009 CR Report, page 16); measures such as selling off assets or taking ̤̤ Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance on emergency loans in the event of losses, they can start to make small savings and plan ahead. This empowers them to invest Facility (CCRIF): a regional-level PPP solution that offers protection against hurricane and earthquake risks directly to sigma No 6/2010 in education, improved healthcare or more 16 Caribbean governments (see 2010 Microinsurance – risk protection for 4 billion people productive assets, which gradually creates CR Report, page 14–15); the preconditions to raise living standards. Access to insurance can help people build the foundation to raise their living 1 Executive summary standards. 2 Introduction: How is microinsurance different from conventional insurance? 4 Microinsurance benefits the society and the insurance sector 9 Market overview – Sizing the potential – Business models and market trends – Regional developments – Product developments – Key issues and challenges 25 The roles of government and Public Private Partnerships (PPP) 30 Outlook – microinsurance in the next decade 32 Conclusion ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a wide range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on ﻿ page 36. Pollution risk assessments Operational hazards Staying on top of flood risk in Brazil: Fair risk assessment in emerging markets in the oil & gas industry Prevention, adaptation and insurance in life & health insurance Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle Category: Categorytitle Swiss Re Dots Imagery e Dots Imagery Title: Dotstitle moking factory chimney Category: Categorytitle ry: Risk & Catastrophe Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Continent_South America Category: Agriculture and Nature Scriptographer Plugin grapher Plugin Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 10 Scriptographer Plugin 50 10 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re ht © 2008 Swiss Re 50 Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Pollution risk assessments Operational hazards in the Staying on top of flood risk in Fair risk assessment in life in emerging markets oil & gas industry Brazil: Prevention, adaptation & health insurance Governments expect In the oil & gas industry, and insurance Private insurance relies upon companies to manage their exposures from operational The population in Brazil the use of objective, relevant environmental risks properly hazards generally do not exposed to flood risk is likely to and reliable data for insurance and pay for any damage receive the same attention as surge from 33 million today to pricing purposes. This enables caused through negligent those associated with the 43 million in 2030. The annual insurers to consider differen­ces management of these risks. process hazards and location expected losses are estimated between risks in a way that is Insurers consequently ﻿ characteristics of a plant. This to rise from USD 1.4 billion to fair to consumers and insurers. need to assess companies’ ﻿ report suggests that the way ﻿ USD 4 billion. Prevention, risk management of environ­ a plant is operated has to ﻿ adaptation and risk transfer mental hazards, especially ﻿ be seen as a main determinant measures could allow Brazil to in emerging markets. of its risk exposure. avoid pitfalls in its socioeconomic development. 68 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Other Swiss Re publications Swiss Re’s publications can be downloaded ﻿ or ordered at www.swissre.com/publications Rehabilitation assistance strategies: Best practices for returning older workers The fundamentals Country risk management: Green Construction: to employment after disability of insurance-linked securities Making societies more resilient Considerations in US Casualty Underwriting Transforming insurance risk into transparent and tradable capital market products Rehabilitation assistance The fundamentals of Country risk management: Green construction: strategies: Best practices for insurance-linked securities Making societies more Considerations in US returning older workers to Since its inception in 1996, resilient casualty underwriting employment after disability the market for insuranceSocieties are becoming more Green buildings present many People are living longer and linked securities (ILS) has vulnerable as the risks they opportunities and possibilities; working later into life. witnessed robust growth face become more inter­ however, insurers must under­ Disability in North America worldwide. Re/insurers, connected. Integrated risk stand the increased liability should develop “return to governments and corporations management can help and include a whole host of work” strategies that reflect continue to access capital countries identify and prepare factors in costing. This report today’s mature worker. market solutions to finance for risks. A country risk officer specifically addresses these growth, manage capital ﻿ could act as a focal point in issues and exposures from a and transfer risk related to this process and help US perspective. extreme events. coordinate government and private sector action. Striking the right balance: Insurance and systemic risk regulation Weathering climate change: Insurance solutions for more resilient communities A short guide to longer lives: Longevity funding issues and potential solutions sigma No 1/2012 Understanding profitability in life insurance Swiss Re Dots Imagery 1 Executive summary Title: Battered nature Category: Risk & Catastrophe 2 Introduction: life insurance today 4 Historic trends in life profitability 12 Measuring profitability 21 Zooming in on product preformance 31 Conclusion Scriptographer Plugin Copyright © 2008 Swiss Re Striking the right balance: Weathering climate change: A short guide to longer sigma: the series Insurance and systemic risk Insurance solutions for lives: Longevity funding For more than three decades, regulation more resilient communities issues and potential the sigma series has been ﻿ As a result of the recent More than 3.4 billion people solutions a trusted source of market financial crisis, systemic risk worldwide are already The insurance industry, information for managers and supervision is increasing threatened by natural hazards, governments and other key specialists in direct insurance globally. However, the business most of them in the developing stakeholders have a vital ﻿ companies worldwide. To model of insurance, which world. Climate change could role to play in addressing the ensure a truly global reader­ weathered the crisis relatively make matters even worse. financial impact of people ship, sigma appears in six well, differs fundamentally Innovative insurance solutions living longer than predicted. languages: English, German, from that of the banking can help these large Through decisive action and ﻿ French, Spanish, Japanese sector. Insurers and reinsurers, populations cope with the a forward-thinking approach, and Chinese. therefore, should not be sub­ growing risks in a changing increased life expectancy ject to systemic risk supervision. climate. should remain an entirely positive trend for society. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Feature Storys Independent assurance report ﻿ on the Swiss Re Group consolidated ﻿ CO2 emissions ­ To the Internal Environmental Management Criteria (IEM) of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”). ̤̤ “Internal Environmental Performance Indicators for the Financial Industry” We have performed assurance procedures published by the Verein für Umwelt­ to provide limited assurance on consolida­t­ management in Banken, Sparkassen ﻿ ed CO2 emissions of Swiss Re. und Versicherungen e.V. (VfU); ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Subject matter Corporate Accounting and Reporting Data and information disclosed with the Standard (Revised Edition)” published ﻿ CO2 emission reporting of Swiss Re and its by the World Resources Institute and the consolidated subsidiaries for the period ﻿ World Business Council for Sustainable of October 1, 2010 till September 30, 2011 Development. including consideration of the following: ̤̤ The management and reporting processes Responsibility and methodology with respect to the consolidated ﻿ The accuracy and completeness of CO2 emissions as well as the control sustainability indicators are subject to environment in relation to the data inherent limitations given their nature and aggregation of these key figures; methods for determining, calculating and ̤̤ The consolidated CO2 emissions 2011 estimating such data. Our assurance report of the table entitled “CO2 emissions per should therefore be read in connection with employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re’s internal guidelines, definitions Swiss Re Group” on page 39 in the 2011 and procedures on the reporting of its CO2 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report emissions. comprising power, heating and business travel; and The Internal Environmental Management ̤̤ The retirement of 48 000 tonnes of CO2e (IEM) of Swiss Re is responsible for ﻿ (CO2 equivalents) described on page 41 both the subject matter and the criteria. Our in the 2011 CR Report. responsibility is to provide a conclusion on the subject matter based on our assurance procedures in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. For the subject matter for which we provide limited assurance, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. 70 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Independent assurance report on the Swiss Re Group consolidated CO2 emissions Main assurance procedures Conclusions Our assurance procedures included the Based on our work described in this report following work: and the assessment of criteria, nothing ﻿ ̤̤ Evaluation of the CO2 emissions has come to our attention that causes us to reporting believe that the information mentioned ﻿ Reviewing the CO2 emissions reporting in the subject matter and disclosed in the using a sample of seven locations ﻿ CR Report does not give a fair picture ﻿ in China, Italy, Mexico, UK and US; of Swiss Re’s CO2 emissions performance. ̤̤ Interviews Interviewing the responsible staff for ﻿ CO2 emission data collection and reporting at the head office; Zurich, 25 May 2012 ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures Performing tests on a sample basis of PricewaterhouseCoopers AG evidence supporting selected CO2 emission data (energy consumption, air travel) concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; Christiana Suhr Brunner Stefan Rüegg ̤̤ Review of the documentation and analysis of relevant policies and basic principles Reviewing the relevant documentation on a sample basis, including group IEM policies, management and reporting structures, documentation and systems used to collect, analyse and aggregate reported CO2 emission data; ̤̤ Assessment of the processes and data consolidation Reviewing the appropriateness of the management and reporting processes for CO2 emissions reporting; and assessing the consolidation process of data at the group level; ̤̤ Retirement of CO2e Reviewing the retirement of 48 000 tonnes CO2e verified emission reductions (VER) according to the Voluntary Carbon Standard or Gold Standard. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Feature Storys Memberships, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. Memberships Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz (“Swiss Climate Established in 2005 by President Bill Foundation”) Carbon Disclosure Project Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) The Swiss Climate Foundation is a nonThe Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is ﻿ convenes global leaders to devise and profit foundation that directly champions an independent not-for-profit organisation implement innovative solutions to some ﻿ the cause of climate protection in holding the largest database of primary of the world’s most pressing challenges. Switzerland, helping to fund small and corporate climate change information﻿ www.clintonglobalinitiative.org medium enterprises that are proactive in in the world. It acts on behalf of ﻿ their approach to reducing CO2 emissions. 551 institutional investors, holding ﻿ Davos Climate Alliance Swiss Re is one of the foundation’s USD 71 trillion in assets under management The Davos Climate Alliance is an initiative members and is sponsoring its managing and some 60 purchasing organisations. of the World Economic Forum to promote director. www.cdproject.net sound measures and best practice aimed ﻿ www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch at mitigating carbon-related risks. Catalyst www.davosclimatealliance.org Öbu (“Ecologically conscious Founded in 1962, Catalyst is the leading enterprises” network) non-profit membership organisation ICRC Corporate Support Group Öbu is a Swiss think tank for sustainability expanding opportunities for women and The ICRC Corporate Support Group is an and management topics. It carries ﻿ business. innovative and long-term partnership set out projects focusing on corporate and www.catalyst.org up by the International Committee of the economic policy, and promotes Red Cross (ICRC) and a group of selected experience-sharing among its members. Chief Risk Officer Forum Swiss companies. The members of the www.oebu.ch The Chief Risk Officer Forum is a Corporate Support Group have committed professional risk management group that themselves to supporting the ICRC’s Principles for Responsible Investment focuses on developing and promoting humanitarian work in the years ahead. The United Nations-backed Principles for industry best practices in risk management. www.icrc.org Responsible Investment Initiative (PRI) The forum was formed in 2004 to work ﻿ provide a voluntary framework by which all on key relevant risk management issues International Risk Governance Council investors can incorporate ESG issues into within the insurance industry. IRGC is an independent organisation whose their decision-making and ownership www.croforum.org purpose is to help the understanding and practices and so better align their management of global risks that impact on objectives with those of society at large. ClimateWise human health and safety, the environment, www.unpri.org/ ClimateWise is the collaborative insurance the economy and society at large. initiative through which members aim ﻿ www.irgc.org The Climate Group to work together to respond to the myriad The Climate Group is an independent, ﻿ risks and opportunities of climate change. not-for-profit organisation working www.climatewise.org.uk internationally with government and business leaders to advance smart policies and technologies to cut global emissions and accelerate a clean industrial revolution. www.theclimategroup.org 72 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Feature Storys awards Memberships, | Our newand index structure listings holding The Geneva Association Recent awards Selected index ﻿ The Geneva Association is a leading inter­ national insurance think tank for strategically Global 100 Most Sustainable listings and ratings important insurance and risk management Companies 2011 issues. It identifies fundamental trends ﻿ Swiss Re was once again included in this Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and strategic issues where insurance plays data-driven corporate sustainability insurance sector leader a substantial role or which influence the assessment by Corporate Knights Inc. insurance sector. www.genevaassociation.org MiCRO named “Company Launch of the Year” by the Review magazine The Sustainability Forum Zürich The Microinsurance Catastrophe Risk ECPI Developed Ethical+Equity The Sustainability Forum Zürich (TSF) ﻿ Organisation (MiCRO), of whom we are a is an independent, non-profit, non-partisan founding partner, was called “the most association that was founded in Zurich ﻿ significant new venture in an area of need”. by leading representatives from the fields ﻿ of business, science and the public Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Ethibel Sustainability Index authorities. It focuses on sustainability Companies in 2011 Excellence Global topics relevant to the financial market. For the third consecutive year, Swiss Re has www.sustainability-zurich.org been recognised as one of the world’s most ethical companies by Ethisphere, a leading UNEP Finance Initiative international think tank. UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over ﻿ Intelligent Insurer Magazine award 190 institutions, including banks, insurers ﻿ for “Global Best ILS Advisor” FTSE4Good Index Series and fund managers, work with UNEP to Based on the views of 13 000 readers, ﻿ understand the impacts of environmental we won this award for our performance ﻿ and social considerations on financial as the top service provider in the ILS performance. market, alongside three awards in the main www.unepfi.org reinsurance category. oekom research, Prime investment World Economic Forum Risk Response Environmental Finance Magazine award status Network for “Catastrophe Risk Management The World Economic Forum’s Risk Deal of the Year” 2010 Response Network (RRN) aims to address We won this award for a USD 120 million the new world of risk we live in. Uniquely cat bond that was the first to utilise ﻿ placed to catalyse a response to this new a newly developed index for European landscape, the World Economic Forum’s windstorm losses. RRN provides a platform to better under­ stand, manage and respond to complex, Trading Risk award for interdependent risk. “Transaction of the Year” 2010 www.weforum.org This award was bestowed upon us for the first cat bond that enables a state’s residual market pool to manage its hurricane risks using the capital markets. ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Feature Storys GRI content index with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references This content index refers to the Global We have self-declared our reporting to Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for be Application Level B. Sustainability Reporting. The guidelines form a voluntary framework setting out References to the UN Global Compact principles and indicators that companies principles addressed as part of our can use to measure and report their Communication on Progress (COP) are economic, environmental and social incorporated into the GRI content index, ﻿ performance. in line with UN recommendations. UN Global Compact principle Page Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  14, 21, 64–65 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation  4 2.2 Brands, products and services  4–6 2.3 Operational structure  7, FR 184–187 2.4 Headquarter location  4 2.5 Countries of operation  4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership  4, FR 56–61 2.7 Markets served  4–5, FR 177–183 2.8 Scale of the organisation  6, 54, FR 12–30 2.9 Significant organisational changes  4–6, BR 2, 12–13, 16–17 2.10 Awards received  73 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period  11 3.2 Most recent previous report  11 3.3 Reporting cycle  11 3.4 Contact point  77 3.5 Content definition  10 3.6 Boundary of the report  10 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope  10 3.8 Reporting on other entities  10 3.9 Data measurement techniques  42, 70 3.12 GRI content index  74–76 3.13 External assurance 70–71 BR = 2010 Business Report; FR = 2010 Financial Report 74 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Feature GRI content Storysindex | Our new holding structure UN Global Compact principle Page Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure  61–62, FR 62–75 4.2 Independence of chairman  FR 62–63 4.3 Independence of board members 61, FR 62–70 4.4 Shareholder and employee representation 56–57, FR 82–83 4.5 Executive compensation  FR 89–109 4.6 Conflicts of interests  61–62, FR 62–70 4.8 Mission statements and Code of Conduct  9, 63 4.9 Governance procedures on CR 10 4.11 Precautionary approach principle 7 8–10, 20-28, 64–65 4.12 Externally developed charters and principles  2, 26 4.13 Memberships  72–73 4.14 List of stakeholder groups  9 4.15 Stakeholder identification  29 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  29 Management approach and performance indicators Product and service impact Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to product and service impact in the two chapters ﻿ “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Extending our risk intelligence”, and in the two “Corporate responsibility in context” sections.﻿ FS1 Environmental and social policies in business lines 1, 2, 7–9 9, 14, 20 FS2 Screening of environmental and social risks 1, 2 and 8 21–22, 25 FS4 Environmental and social training for staff 1, 2 and 8 22 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 1 and 2 14, 22 FS7 Products with specific social benefit  14–19 FS8 Products with specific environmental benefit 7 and 8 14–19 FS11 Environmental and social screening in asset management  26 Economic dimension Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic dimension is primarily disclosed in the 2011 Business Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Creating solutions for sustainability” chapter and the two “Corporate responsibility in context” sections.﻿ EC1 Direct economic value generated  6, FR 113–118, 160 EC2 Implications of climate change 7 14–19, 64–65 EC3 Benefit plan obligations  FR 164–171 EC9 Indirect economic impacts  5, 14–19, 64–67 Environmental dimension Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to the environmental dimension in the chapter ﻿ “Reducing our environmental footprint”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 42 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 and 9 42 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 39–40 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency 8 and 9 40 EN6 Initiatives to use renewable energy 8 and 9 39 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8 and 9 40 EN8 Total water withdrawal 8 42 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 39 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 39 FR = 2010 Financial Report ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 Feature Storys GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 and 9 38–42 EN22 Total weight of waste 8 42 EN29 Environmental impact of transport 8 39, 41 Labour practices and decent work Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to labour practices and decent work is disclosed in the chapter “Being an employer of choice”.﻿ LA1 Breakdown of workforce  54–56 LA2 Employee turnover 6 54 LA8 Training on serious diseases 1 58–59 LA12 Performance review  60 LA13 Workforce diversity 1 and 6 54–60 Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework and our procurement guidelines. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence” and “Reducing our environmental footprint”, respectively.﻿ HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 1–6 42–43 HR6 Child labour 1, 2 and 5 43 HR7 Forced or compulsory labour 1, 2 and 4 43 Society Disclosure on management approach: We address society aspects relevant to our business through our business solutions, Group Code of Conduct and ﻿ risk dialogue. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Creating solutions for sustainability”, “Ensuring good governance” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape”, respectively.﻿ FS14 Access to financial services for disadvantaged people  14–18, 66–67 SO3 Anti-corruption training 10 63 SO5 Public policy positions  29 Product responsibility We consider the definition of product responsibility in the GRI guidelines to be of little relevance for a company providing ﻿ business-to-business services in the financial industry and hence provide no information in this area. 76 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Contact details Contact address Sustainability & Political Risk Management David Bresch Telephone +41 43 285 6361 Fax +41 43 282 6361 David_Bresch@swissre.com ﻿ Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 © 2012 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Production: Sustainability & Political Risk Management﻿ Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Logistics Media Production, Zurich Writing and editing:﻿ Stefan Moser/Swiss Re Picture editor:﻿ Karin Giger (Giger Creative Services) Printing:﻿ Photographs: J. E. Wolfensberger AG, Birmensdorf B. Anthony Stewart/National Geographic Stock (Cover, back cover) Geri Krischker (p 3) Swiss Re (p 6) Othmar Attiger (p 15) Jörg Böthling (p 17) Jim Reed/Keystone (p 19) Donang Wahyu/laif (p 20) Purestock/Getty Images (p 23)﻿ Andy Müller (p 28) Swiss Re/Keystone (pgs 30, 31) This report is printed on sustainably produced paper. Mathias Braschler & Monika Fischer (p 33) The wood used comes from forests certified to ﻿ Doran Wilson/Design Collaborative (p 40) 100% by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). EcoSecurities (p 41)﻿ Angela Marti/Swiss Re (pgs 47, 51) Visit www.swissre.com to ﻿ ICRC/TOLENTINO, Rudy (p 48) download or to order additional ﻿ Jeannette Seifert-Wittmer/Swiss Re (p 52) copies of Swiss Re publications. David Ausserhofer/Swiss Re (p 55) Antoine Kissenpfennig/Swiss Re (p 56) Order no: 1490937_12_en Deniz Kenber/Swiss Re (p 58) 06/12, 5000 en 78 Swiss Re 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Swiss Re Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
