Communication on Progress Year: 2012 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact We confirm that Kaluworks Limited supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact relating to Respect to Human Rights, Labour rights, the Environment and Anti-corruption. Our posting of this communication is our strongest expression to continue supporting the same within our areas of influence. Our corporate core values have been aligned to ensure overall behavior is in line with the values and principles of the global compact. Integrity and Transparency are fundamental core values of the company’s strategy. Kaluworks Limited is also committed to the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship, continuous improvement for sustainable change and growth and being part of the solution to the global challenges. We also reaffirm our solid commitment to making the Global Compact, its principles and values as core areas of our corporate strategy, business culture and ethics. This information will not only be communicated but commitment from our key partners relating to our employees, shareholders, clients, nearby community and the general public sought. We understand that the annual submission of Communication on Progress (COP) forms a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact. Hence, our communication of progress for year 2012 hereby expresses our effort to implement the ten principles. We shall continuously endeavour to seek and gain support for public accountability, transparency and elimination of all sorts of corruption in our business dealings. With this, we hereby commit to report annually on the progresses made as required by the Global Compact (COP) policy. Sincerely, ………………………….......... Venu Nair Director 23rd September, 2012 Page 1/6 Company Name : KALUWORKS LIMITED Sector : INDUSTRIAL METALS AND MINING Number of employees : 845 UN Global Compact signatory since : 2008 Contact person : Director Operations, Mr. Venu Nair Address : Mombasa-Nairobi Highway, Mariakani P O Box 89128-80100 Mombasa Email : venunair@kaluworks.com Phone : +254 722 205 024 Brief description of nature of business We are an aluminium manufacturing company established since 1929. We specialize in manufacture and fabrication of aluminium sheets, coils, circles, cookware products and non rust roofing sheets. Scope of this COP This COP report relates to the period running September, 2011 to September, 2012. It covers all the mandatory ten principles of the Global Compact. The report covers our top management, operation staff, suppliers and customers. The contents of the report and the ten principles are intended to be adequately communicated to our shareholders and the general public within and around our areas of operations. Page 2/6 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Covered UN Principles Kaluworks Limited Commitment & Values The company is committed to the established Global Compact principles and recognizes that adherence to fundamental human rights is core to Principle 1: its operations and businesses. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Business should support and Our H.R Manual is based on the prevailing respect the protection of Employment Laws of Kenya which borrows heavily internationally proclaimed from the I.L.O’s Industrial Relations Charter. The human rights manual therefore supports the ILO Conventions on Human Rights at the work place. Company’s Activities During Period Under Review  Enhanced medical covers for self, spouse A Principle 2: and children at all levels of staff  Employee health educations conducted by HUMAN Business should ensure that Aga Khan hospitals RIGHTS they are not complicit in  Free medical camp for staff and general human rights abuses public within Mariakani area  Active HIV & Peer education programs within and outside the factory  Safety trainings and audits conducted annually.  Safety visual management at all areas of the factory  Provision of free personal protective equipment to all staffs  Provision of safety information booklets to all contractors, visitors to the company  Freshly prepared food served under hygienic conditions free of charge to all staff members  Mandatory monthly departmental safety meetings held Principle 3: Kaluworks Limited is committed to the protection B of labour rights. Business should The company is a member of both the Federation LABOUR uphold the freedom of Kenya Employers & the Kenya Association of RIGHTS of association and the Manufacturers. Union involvement undertaken effective recognition through Engineering & Allied Employers of the right to collective Association while employees are members of the bargaining Kenya Engineering Workers Union A brief description of our Processes or Systems Company operates within the set Kenya Industrial Laws and upholds guidelines of its membership to the FKE & KAM principles. The company recognizes the Kenya Engineering Page 3/6 Principle 4: Workers Union to whom it has a signed Collective Business should support the Bargaining Agreement. elimination of all forms of Company’s Activities During Period Of Review forced and compulsory labour  Compliance to the labor laws in regard to all terms and conditions of employment including non engagement of child labor.  Full implementation of signed CBA  Full implementation of new wages guidelines  Vacancy announcements and advertisements promotes fairness and non discrimination Principle 5:  Voluntary recruitments deters forced and Business should support the compulsory labor effective abolition of child  Formation of a Women’s Council promotes labour openness and freedom of association  Voluntary Union membership and participation encourages freedom of association  Training of Union officials supports company’s recognition of the Union  Continued subscription to KAM & FKE ensures regular updates of new developments in labor relations  Employment of women to Engineering & management positions upholds non Principle 6: discrimination and equal opportunity for equal Business should support the qualification elimination of discrimination  All Unionized staff given equal treatment as per in respect of employment and the signed Collective Bargaining Agreement occupation  Non screening on HIV & non disclosure of status  Monthly departmental meetings held for staff to air views/grievances/communicate policies C Kaluworks is committed to having a precautionary Principle 7 approach to environmental issues and ensuring Business should support a compliance to International standards, prevailing precautionary approach to laws and the NEMA guidelines. The environmental challenges A brief description of our Processes or Systems Environment Well defined Environmental & Safety policies Principle 8 adequately communicated to all affected by our Business should undertake operations. initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Safety at work to all our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and the general public is of Principle 9 paramount importance. Our Annual Safety Target Business should encourage the maintained at ZERO, with everyone communicated development and diffusion of to ensure this is achieved. environmentally friendly Kaizen principles are applied to improve on technologies machine and production efficiencies that promote safety, effective waste management, safe disposal & clean environment. Page 4/6 Activities implemented During Period Under Review  Recertification to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems  EMS internal and external audits conducted and implemented  Improved efficiency of Effluent Treatment Plant  Construction & commissioning of Sewage Treatment plants  Construction of an incinerator  Commissioning of a chimney and duct for air emission  Participation in Environment Day Activities  ETP, STP, Chimney & bag house, Waste transport vehicles licensing by NEMA  Factory extension approvals by NEMA & Public Health departments  Applications for incinerator approvals by NEMA  Tree planting activities at Mwambacare primary school  Reclamation of waste land to farm agricultural land  Use of both the STP & ETP water in the farms  Replacement of high energy to power saving lamps  Use of translucent sheets to eliminate electricity usage during the day  Annual noise level audits conducted, implemented  Participation in Community Cleanup activities  Formation of an Energy Management Committee  Accidents and near miss reporting and investigations  Safety Policy and issues discussed in departmental meetings  Company awards given to Best Safety Team annually  Central Safety Council meetings every quarter to review safety performance Kaluworks Limited does not tolerate corruption in any form or any other related vices. Integrity and D Principle 10 Transparency will always form key components of our corporate core values. AntiBusiness should work against The company declares its unwavering support to Corruption corruption in all its forms, the global compact principles and corporate Ethics & including extortion and governance policies that outlaws corruption, compliance bribery including extortion and bribery in the business. Page 5/6 A brief description of our Processes or Systems Kaluworks vision as outlined its Mission statement and particularly the core values strongly affirms our business stand on corruption. The company does not encourage or take any shortcuts in its business operations/dealings. The core values are conspicuously communicated to all staff, potential employees, suppliers, customers, contractors and visitors to the company. The H.R manual on the other hand guides staff operations and behaviour, describing action to be taken for non conformity. Activities implemented During The Period Under Review  Adherence to and follow up guidelines prescribed by government agencies e.g. Kenya Bureau of Standards regulations on quality standards.  Strict adherence to the FKE & KAM business models  Employee induction on the HR Manuals  Respect and adherence to the AntiCorruption Act of Kenya.  Vendor accreditation through the ERP/Netsuite systems ensures ethical behaviour How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?  Share information electronically on company website, intranet  Posting of the ten principles on staff information boards  Holding open forums  Management review reports and meetings  Global Compact Network Forums Awards During The Past Year Donations During The Year Sponsored students till University National roofing Council Association Secondary School Fees payments to needy 1st Runner Up, Peer Education Programs students World Environment Day Participation Food rations to Mwambacare children school Institute of Quantity Surveyors Fresh Drinking Water To Mwambacare Blood Donation Certificate Salaries to Volunteers at Mwambacare Coast Hospice Wheelchairs to physically to APDK Strips and tools repair to APDK Monthly cash to Little sisters of the Poor Cash donations for national celebrations Monthly Rental for needy citizen Blood Donations Page 6/6 Trees Planted In Mwambacare Subscription To Coast Hospice
