GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com GRI Index http://responsibility.timberland.com/reporting/gri-index/ This report was developed based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Guidelines and Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement (AFSS). While we attempted to create a comprehensive report, there are some G3 and AFSS indicators not included in this report. There are several reasons for these omissions. Our impact may have been immaterial, or we might have lacked enough internal data to provide a report. In the future, our goal is to narrow that gap as we continue to report on social and environmental impacts that are both relevant and strategically important. The 2011 data presented here and indexed according to the GRI Guidelines meets GRI’s Application Level of B (self-declared). For any questions about content contained in this website, please direct correspondence to: csrinfo@timberland.com. GRI Index GRI Indicator Description Section Explanation Indicator 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior Executive Commitment decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Transparency & Accountability and opportunities. CSR SCORECARD 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Homepage 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or 10-k services. 2.3 Operational structure of the 10-k organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s Timberland Website headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where the Timberland Website organization operates, and names of countries with either Factories Map of Impact major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal 10-k form. 2.7 Markets served (including 10-k geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting 10-k organization. Company Overview page 1 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com Governance 2.9 Significant changes during the 10-k reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Factories Map of Impact 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Timberland Website We have not disclosed all awards period. in this report, but some of the awards received during the reporting period can be found in the Benefits section of our website. 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., Goals & Progress Data contained in the Goals and fiscal/calendar year) for Progress section contains information provided. Timberland’s annual performance from 2006 through 2010 year end. In this same location on our website, we also report quarterly performance from 2008 through current quarterly disclosure period. 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report Archive report (if any). Quarterly Newsletter 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, Transparency & Accountability etc.) Report Archive 3.4 Contact point for questions GRI Index regarding the report or its contents. Report scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report Transparency & Accountability Timberland works regularly with a content stakeholder group Stakeholder Approach facilitated by Ceres to review our annual CSR performance data, targets, and CSR communication approach. 3.6 Boundary of the report Goals & Progress Data contained in the Goals and Progress section contains Factories Map of Impact Timberland’s annual performance from 2006 through 2011 year end. In this same location on our website, we also report quarterly performance from 2008 through current quarterly disclosure period. Our intent is to provide global information. We specifically notate instances in which the scope is altered. 3.7 State any specific limitations on Factories Map of Impact the scope or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint Factories Map of Impact ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques Goals & Progress (see individual We did our best to explain data and the bases of calculations, data sets) measurement techniques and including assumptions and bases of calculations for the techniques underlying indicators found throughout the estimations applied to the report. Please also see our compilation of the Indicators and quarterly reporting (within Goals page 2 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com other information in the report. & Progress for Key Performance Indicators) for detailed explanations of data collection, calculation, and validation methodologies. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any 10-k Timberland discloses any re-statements of information re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and CSR SCORECARD provided in earlier reports when the reasons for such re-statement new data sets are released. (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, Select metrics in the Goals & Financial re-statements are change of base years/periods, Progress section available in our previous 10-k nature of business, measurement disclosures. methods). CSR data contained in the Goals and Progress section contains Timberland’s annual performance from 2006 through 2010 year end. In this same location, we also report quarterly performance from 2008 through current quarterly disclosure period. Otherwise, any historical re-statements of social and environmental performance data can be found in our Report Archive. See also our 2011 Climate Strategy Update. 3.11 Significant changes from Not material previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of GRI Index the Standard Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with GRI Index Every data point in this website regard to seeking external was verified internally, as was the assurance for the report. way it was characterized. We continue to explore the viability of an external verification program. We have committed to having our GHG inventory verified by the end of 2012. 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the Governance organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the VF Corporation – Corporate highest governance body is also Governance section an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a VF Corporation – Corporate unitary board structure, state the Governance section number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders 10-k and employees to provide recommendations or direction to page 3 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation 10-k for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the VF Corporation – Corporate highest governance body to Governance section ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the Governance qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements Mission Statement of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant Commerce & Justice to economic, environmental, and social performance and the Governance status of their implementation. Code of Conduct VF Code of Business Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the highest Governance Also see: 10-k governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the 10-k highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with Governance respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how Throughout the CSR Site Our approach to risk the precautionary approach or management as it relates to principle is addressed by the economic, social and organization. environmental issues are woven throughout this report. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Timberland Website Our website includes information environmental, and social about the external charters, principles, or other charters/principles we endorse. initiatives to which the More at www.timberland.com. organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations Public Policy The section on Public Policy (such as industry associations) includes a list of partnerships as and/or national/international related to specific public policy advocacy organizations in which engagement. the organization To see a list of additional partnerships, please visit the Partner pages for our Climate , Product, Factories, and Service page 4 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com programs. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Approach See also our Voices of Challenge engaged by the organization. embedded throughout the website (on every page, and separately found at: Voices of Challenge) 4.15 Basis for identification and Stakeholder Approach selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Stakeholder Approach engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Transparency & Accountability stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that Stakeholder Approach See also our Voices of Challenge have been raised through embedded throughout the stakeholder engagement, and Transparency & Accountability website (on every page, and how the organization has separately found here) responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Economic Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated 10-k and distributed EC2 Financial implications and other Climate Section Information is provided risks and opportunities for the throughout the entire pillar organization’s activities due to Product Section section. See also Cost Savings climate change story, Public Policy Section, and CSR SCORECARD for specific targets to reduce our climate footprint. More details can be found here EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Timberland Website defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance Not Material received from the government Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Not reported level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of Not reported We have implemented SAP for spending on locally-based our accounting services. This will suppliers at significant locations help us gather this information for of operation future reports. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Not reported proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of Not reported infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro-bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing Not available We have not tracked our indirect significant indirect economic economic impacts in a impacts, including the extent of comprehensive manner. We are impacts Not available — We have working to gain a better not tracked our indirect economic understanding of these types of impacts in a comprehensive impacts. manner. We are working to gain a better understanding of these types of impacts. page 5 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com 6. Environmental Performance Indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or Use of Eco-conscious Materials volume. in Footwear Percent of Recycled, Organic, or Renewable Material in Apparel EN2 Percentage of materials used that Use of Eco-conscious Materials Timberland’s complementary are recycled input materials. in Footwear white paper on our Product pillar, titled Grading our Products: Percent of Recycled, Organic, or Timberland’s Green Index Renewable Material in Apparel Program is available here Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by Greenhouse Gas Inventory primary energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Greenhouse Gas Inventory primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to Climate – Our Footprint conservation and efficiency improvements. Climate – Featured Stories – Better for the Earth. And Our Business. Climate – Featured Stories – How Low Can We Go: Emissions Reductions EN6 Initiatives to provide Climate – Our Footprint energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and Percent Renewable Energy Use services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Climate Section Information is provided energy consumption and throughout the entire pillar reductions achieved. section. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Reported EN9 Water sources significantly Not Reported affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of Not Reported water recycled and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, Not applicable leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts Not applicable of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Not applicable future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Not applicable species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect Greenhouse Gas Inventory greenhouse gas emissions by page 6 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect Greenhouse Gas Inventory greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Climate Section Information is provided gas emissions and reductions throughout the entire pillar achieved. section. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not available We are not tracking this substances by weight. information at the aggregate level. We are working on a reporting infrastructure that will help us gather this type of information. No date is yet set to report publicly on this. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant Not Reported air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality Not Reported and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Not Reported disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of Not Reported spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Not Reported exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, Not Material and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats ejected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Product Section Information is provided environmental impacts of throughout the entire pillar products and services, and extent section. More information about of impact mitigation. how the Green Index is being used to design environmental harms out of our products is available in Timberland’s complementary white paper on our Product pillar, titled “Grading our Products: Timberland’s Green Index Program” and available here. EN27 Percentage of products sold and Not available We are not tracking this their packaging materials that are information at the current time. reclaimed by category. We are working on a reporting infrastructure that will help us gather this type of information. No date is yet set to report publicly on this. Compliance EN28 “Monetary value of signi?cant Not reported ones and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.” Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts Transportation Emissions of transporting products and other goods and materials used page 7 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection Not reported We have not disclosed resources expenditures and investments by allocated for environmental type. protection and investment. 7. Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment Employee Distribution This section provides much of the type, employment contract, and required information region. LA2 Total number and rate of Average Tenure This section provides much of the employee turnover by age group, required information gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Timberland Website employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees Not material No Timberland employees are covered by collective bargaining covered by collective bargaining agreements. agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Not material No Timberland employees are regarding significant operational covered by collective bargaining changes, including whether it is agreements. specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce Not material Our Health and Safety section represented in formal joint discusses our work in this area. management-worker health and Our safety committees are very safety committees that help small but their work affects the monitor and advise on broad employee population. occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Health and Safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Not available While we do work to include prevention, and risk-control disease awareness into our programs in place to assist worker training, we do not track workforce members, their them formally. families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered Not material Timberland does not have in formal agreements with trade independent trade unions. unions. Percent Unionization in our However, in this report we are Factories – By Region disclosing the percent of our third-party contract factories that are unionized by region. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per Not reported year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management Worker Engagement & More information is available in and lifelong learning that support Empowerment Timberland’s complementary the continued employability of white paper on our Factories employees and assist them in pillar, titled “Beyond Factory managing career endings. Walls: Engaging Workers & Strengthening Communities” and available here. LA12 Percentage of employees Not reported receiving regular performance and career development reviews. page 8 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance Global Composition of Additional information can be bodies and breakdown of Leadership found at: 10-k employees per category according to gender, age group, Diversity minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to Not reported women by employee category. 8. Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of Factories Section Information is provided significant investment throughout the entire pillar agreements that include human section. The Factories section of rights clauses or that have the report discusses how many undergone human rights factories have received a human screening. rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant Factories Section Information is provided suppliers and contractors that throughout the entire pillar have undergone screening on section. See also human rights and actions taken. Timberland’s Code of Conduct and VF Global Compliance. HR3 Total hours of employee training Not available While we train our employees on on policies and procedures human rights, we do not track this concerning aspects of human indicator in the aggregate. rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Immediate Actions in our Supply discrimination and actions taken. Chain Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the Immediate Actions in our Supply right to exercise freedom of Chain association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having Immediate Actions in our Supply significant risk for incidents of Chain child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having Immediate Actions in our Supply significant risk for incidents of Chain forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel Not material trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of Not reported violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 9. Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness Factories Section More information is available in of any programs and practices Timberland’s complementary page 9 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com that assess and manage the white paper on our Factories impacts of operations on pillar, available here. communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Not material business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained Not material More information can be found in in organization’s anti-corruption the VF Code of Business policies and procedures. Conduct. SO4 Actions taken in response to Not material More information can be found in incidents of corruption. the VF Code of Business Conduct. Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and Public Policy participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and Public Policy in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for Not applicable anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant Not Reported fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 10. Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Design Innovation More information about and safety impacts of products Timberland’s approach to and services are assessed for Green Index® Rating Lifecycle Analysis is available in improvement, and percentage of Timberland’s complementary significant products and services white paper on our Product pillar, categories subject to such titled Grading our Products: procedures. Timberland’s Green Index Program and available here. PR2 Total number of incidents of Not reported non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service Product Section Information is provided information required by throughout the entire pillar procedures, and percentage of section. More information about significant products and services Timberland’s approach to subject to such information Lifecycle Analysis is available in requirements. Timberland’s complementary white paper on our Product pillar, titled Grading our Products: Timberland’s Green Index Program and available here. PR4 Total number of incidents of Not reported non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. page 10 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com PR5 Practices related to customer Not reported We have not reported on our satisfaction, including results of customer satisfaction research in surveys measuring customer past CSR reports. We are not satisfaction. sure if we will include this data in future CSR reports. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Not reported standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of Not reported non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Not reported complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant Not reported fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement (AFSS) AF Indicator Description Section Explanation Indicator Commentary on 1.2 Where applicable, this should Factories Pillar We describe our key impacts, include an assessment of supply risks and opportunities chain performance. throughout the Factories pillar section. AF1 Code of conduct content and Code of Conduct For more information, our Code coverage. of Conduct can be found here. Percent Factories Covered – Global & Regional results AF2 Parties and personnel engaged in Assessment & Remediation We also disclose our Factory List code of conduct compliance on a quarterly basis in our Report function. Archive section. AF3 Compliance audit process. Assessment & Remediation Our Factories Dig Deeper Paper describes our Assessment Process in detail and is available here. AF4 Policy and procedures for Timberland Website Information about policy and receiving, investigating, and procedures relating to grievances responding to grievances and and complaints can be found complaints. in VF Code of Business Conduct AF5 Strategy and scope of efforts to Assessment & Remediation Our Factories Dig Deeper Paper strengthen capacity of describes our Assessment management, workers and other Worker Engagement & Process in detail and is staff to improve in social and Empowerment available here. environmental performance. AF6 Policies for supplier selection, Factories Dig Deeper Paper Our Workplace Dig Deeper Paper management, and termination. is available here. For more information, our Code of Conduct can be found here. AF7 Number and location of Factories Map of Impact We also disclose our Factory List workplaces covered by code of on a quarterly basis in our Report page 11 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com conduct. Number of Factories Archive section. Percent Factories Covered – Global & Regional results AF8 Number of audits conducted and Factories Map of Impact We also disclose our Factory List percentage of workplaces on a quarterly basis in our Report audited. Number of Factories Archive section. Percent Factories Covered – Global & Regional results AF9 Incidents of non-compliance with Not material We will report on this information legal requirements or collective as part of our disclosure under bargaining agreements on indicator AF14. wages. AF10 Incidents of non-compliance with Not material We will report on this information overtime standards. as part of our disclosure under indicator AF14. AF11 Incidents of non-compliance with Not material We will report on this information standards on pregnancy and as part of our disclosure under maternity rights indicator AF14. AF12 Incidents of the use of child labor. Not material We will report on this information as part of our disclosure under indicator AF14. AF13 Incidents of noncompliance with Not material We will report on this information standards on gender as part of our disclosure under discrimination. indicator AF14. AF14 Incidents of non-compliance with Immediate Actions in Our Supply code of conduct. Chain Assessment & Remediation AF15 Analysis of data from code Factory Conditions See also quarterly data, which is compliance audits. analyzed and updated four times per year to track progress against publicly stated goals. AF16 Remediation practices to address Assessment & Remediation non-compliance findings. AF17 Actions to identify and mitigate Factories Dig Deeper Paper Our Factories Dig Deeper Paper business practices that affect is available here. More code compliance. information can be found in our Make it Better Brief on Working Hours available here. AF18 Programs to replace Volatile Organic Compounds organic-based adhesives and (VOCs) primers with water-based adhesives and primers. Product Featured Story: Reducing the Impact of VOCs AF19 Practices to source safer Eco-Conscious Materials alternative substances to those on the restricted substances list, Design Innovation including description of associated management Use of Eco-Conscious Materials systems. (Footwear) Commentary on EN1 Include use of pumice, stones Not available We do not yet have the systems and sand under Compilation 2.1 in place to track this data. We are on “Associated process working within our supply chain to materials”. Report on pumice, gain a better understanding of stones, and sand by weight under these discharges. Compilation 2.3 AF20 List of environmentally preferable Use of Eco-conscious Materials See also: Earthkeepers website. materials used in apparel and in Footwear footwear products. Percent of Recycled, Organic, or Renewable Material in Apparel AF21 Amount of energy consumed and Greenhouse Gas Inventory percentage of the energy that is from renewable sources. Percent Renewable Energy Used page 12 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com Commentary on EN21 “For Footwear: Report on total Not available We do not yet have the systems chromium discharges under in place to track this data. We are Compilation 2.3. For Apparel: working within our supply chain to Report on the discharge of gain a better understanding of antimony, arsenic, cadmium, these discharges. chromium, cobalt, copper, cyanide, lead, mercury, nickel, and zinc under Compilation 2.3.” Commentary on EN22 Report on pumice, stones and Not available We do not yet have the systems sand under Compilation 2.1. in place to track this data. We are working within our supply chain to gain a better understanding of these resources. Commentary on EN26 In addition to Compilation 2.2, Product Section Information is provided report on specific programs to throughout the entire pillar reduce environmental impact of Green Index® Rating section. products, including but not limited to manufacturing, product use, and packaging use at the design and conceptualization stages. AF22 Policy and practices regarding Not reported This issue is covered in the use of employees with Timberland’s Workplace Quality nonpermanent and non-fulltime Standards Guide. To request a status. copy of this document, please email: csrinfo@timberland.com. AF23 Policy regarding the use of home Not reported This issue is covered in working. Timberland’s Workplace Quality Standards Guide. To request a copy of this document, please email: csrinfo@timberland.com. AF24 Policy on the use and selection of Not reported This issue is covered in labor brokers, including Timberland’s Workplace Quality adherence to relevant ILO Standards Guide. To request a Conventions. copy of this document, please email: csrinfo@timberland.com. AF25 Policy and practices on wage Timberland’s Code of Conduct For more information, our Code deductions that are not mandated of Conduct can be found here. by law. Assessment & Remediation Immediate Actions in our Supply Chain AF26 Policy on working hours, Timberland’s Code of Conduct For more information, our Code including definition of overtime, of Conduct can be found here. and actions to prevent excessive Assessment & Remediation and forced overtime. Immediate Actions in our Supply Chain AF27 Policy and actions to protect the Timberland’s Code of Conduct For more information, our Code pregnancy and maternity rights of of Conduct can be found here. women workers. Assessment & Remediation Immediate Actions in our Supply Chain AF28 Percentage of foreign migrant Not available We do not currently track this workers as a portion of total indicator. We are working to gain workforce, broken down by deeper transparency into our region. supply chain. We hope to report on this indicator in future reports. AF29 Percentage of workplaces where Percent Unionization in our Timberland does not have there is one or more independent Factories – Global & Regional independent trade unions. trade union(s). However, in this report we are disclosing the percent of our third-party contract factories that are unionized by region. AF30 Percentage of workplaces where, Not available We do not currently track this in the absence of a trade union, indicator. We are working to gain there are worker-management deeper transparency into our page 13 / 14 GRI Index Timberland Timberland Responsibility http://responsibility.timberland.com committees, broken down by supply chain. We hope to report country. on this indicator in future reports. Commentary on LA7 Include health issues associated Not available We do not currently track this with reduced lung function due to indicator. We are working to gain dust in “Occupational disease deeper transparency into our rate” under Compilation 2.4. supply chain. We hope to report Include risk assessments and on this indicator in future reports. preventative measures for accidents and injuries under Compilation 2.7. AF31 Initiatives and programs to Not available We do many trainings for our respond to, reduce, and prevent employees and factory workers. the occurrence of At this point we do not have musculoskeletal disorders. trainings specifically on musculoskeletal disorders. AF32 Actions to address gender Timberland’s Code of Conduct More information can be found in discrimination and to provide the Global Human Rights section opportunities for the Assessment & Remediation of our 2005 CSR Report in advancement of women workers. the Report Archive. Immediate Actions in our Supply Chain AF33 Priorities in community Worker Engagement & Note that Charitable investment strategy. Empowerment Contributions are made as cash product, or in kind donations by Sustainable Living Environments The Timberland Company globally. Service Section Charitable Contributions AF34 Amount of investment in worker Not available We do not have data for communities broken down by community investment for all location. locations in our supply chain. Several case studies are discussed in our Factories Dig Deeper Paper, available here. Commentary on SO5 Report public policy position on Public Policy Our Factories Dig Deeper Paper the inclusion of labor and is available here. environmental protections in trade agreements and the degree to which lobbying positions integrate considerations about the potential effects on workers, communities, andorganizations in the supply chain under Compilation 2.3 _______________________________________________ page 14 / 14 Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
