RAPPORT D’ACTIVITES 2012 BLACK AND WHITE CAMEROON (B&W CAM) IDENTIFICATION: Black and White Cameroon Association is a non-profit, it is a branch of the African Network of Black and White Initiative based in Germany. Objective: To fight against social injustices such as corruption, abuse of human rights, violence. Initiate projects of peace and cooperation between the peoples of North and South. Creation: It was created in 2008 in Yaounde, Cameroon ACTIVITIES Year 2012, B & W CAM has played an observer role. The focus is on a few ailments that plague Cameroon in recent years and especially in 2012, the government and international organizations have taken many initiatives to reduce corruption. This first report for the UN Global Compact sets out the reasons why people fighting against corruption, those campaigning for human rights and those for peacekeeping should cooperate and describes the main features of the practices commonly used in different areas. It then sets out the links between specific acts of corruption and specific violations which include the need to create an Independent Commission National the fight against corruption in Cameroon by the Civil Societies that have the power to bring corruption cases into Justice with monitoring the strict sense. Using a conceptual framework for evaluating when corruption violates human rights, this report shows how organizations can promote human rights while working to end corruption in generating peace in the cities. Although the report initially launched in February 2011 has been welcomed by organizations of civil society, human rights defenders, activists, anti-corruption activities of non-violence and peace, private companies, there has been a great advance in June 2012. People living in poverty Corruption has a very negative impact on the lives of the poor in Cameroon. Corruption not only affects economic growth and discourages foreign investment, which indirectly affects the poor, but reduced net income of people living in poverty, wrong policies, programs and strategies to meet their basic needs, and diverts public resources for investment in infrastructure that are crucial elements of strategies to overcome poverty. Where corruption is widespread, for example, poor people are also exposed to other petty corruption scale of public officials (including health, law enforcement and justice), but the effect on their wallet will be heavier. Large-scale corruption, in turn, affects the quality of public services on which the poor depend, inter alia, to meet basic needs. Again, they are disproportionately affected. Indigenous peoples and minorities As indigenous pygmies and mbororos particularly suffer from corruption. They are often among the poorest and most disadvantaged in Cameroon. Their girls are more at risk of premature marriage etc. illiteracy early.... Pygmies communities that are closely tied to the land they live together are particularly vulnerable to corruption infrastructure programs move, an alternative to replace help create new business after they have been drawn from their localities. Many people have the problem of education and therefore less aware of their legal rights. Communication mechanisms and the fight against corruption are often out of reach accordingly. Lack of access to justice compounds the risk of damage they face. Police stations, gendarmerie and sub-divisions authorities installed in communities constantly abuse their right, and encouraged local leaders to traditional acts of corruption, eg in Mandjou Bertoua in the East Region of Cameroon at the request agents of the sub-prefecture of goats and cows Mbororos before receiving alarming case. These offer must increase as is the case continue to high hierarchy. Since indigenous voices are rarely heard in political debates, these people often have little influence on the design and implementation of anti-corruption policies and programs that would improve their status. Human rights Corruption is not only a violation of human rights, but also violence against human beings. Corruption can be economic violence, it may be sexual or psychological violence too, but it all depends on the circumstances occurred. Promote human rights and corruption can prevent most conflicts or violences. The right to freedom of expression, assembly and association exist in Cameroon. Unfortunately, these rights do not allow all stakeholders to fight against corruption vital entering the court. Journalists recently deplored their situation as journalists and editors can be bribed. The urge governments should ensure the conditions for independent media diversity and protect the political independence of public service media. In the absence of a tradition of respect for freedom of expression, media weak are unable to expose corruption without exposing themselves to prosecution for libel or risks to their personal safety and the case is presented today, the journalist died in prison and there was an investigation. Corruption is moral decadence, perversion of the Latin word corruption. The corrupt heads of state, ministers and officials involve large amounts of wealth, many former ministers and CEOs are in prisons. Unfortunately, some opinions qualified these arrests are political for the reasons that a certain personalities are untouchable in the government regime. Today's military are involved in private transportation companies. They are owners of trucks, buses and cars that run with full irregularities. Some private owners worked in the guise of men senior military officers to avoid being influenced by the (road) motorized gendarmes officers for road safety that are actively most corrupt services in the country. They are well organized by collecting a fixed amount from cars and irregular driver day and night on the main roads. In April 2010, the President of the Republic had enacted a new law on the protection and advancement of persons with disabilities. This law fills gaps, including the lack of suitable facilities for people with disabilities and the lack of public assistance, among others. It requires new public and private buildings or existing ones are already designed or adapted so as to facilitate access for people with disabilities, and public secondary education is free for people with disabilities and children of disabled parents. It also provides a cover of the first vocational training and medical benefits, preferential treatment in access to employment (to the extent possible) and public assistance if necessary. During the year, the government put in execution those provisions of this Act that are applicable to teaching. On 2 February 2010, the Minister of Social Affairs, in partnership with UNICEF, has launched a national campaign to raise awareness of child abuse, including sexual abuse, labor and trafficking of children. Already in 2009, the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) conducted a study estimating that 432,000 the number of women and girls raped during the last 20 years. According to the report, twenty per cent of perpetrators were family members and the average age of victims was 15 years. Although the minimum age for marriage is 15 years for girls, many families facilitated the marriage of their children at the age of 12 years. Early marriage is common in the northern parts of Adamawa, North and especially the Far North, where many girls as young as nine years old are exposed to serious health risks associated with pregnancy . We could not obtain statistics on the prevalence of child marriage, but the court ruled a case of forced marriage in 2010. And we observe a lack of political will on the part of the Government to support this program. Children under 18 in prostitution, widespread problem, it seems, despite the lack of statistics. Approximately 2000 children living in the streets of major cities. The project against the phenomenon of street children, a project initiated by the government and implemented in partnership with some NGOs, brought together information on street children and provide them with health care, education and counseling. But unfortunately the opposite is observed, these children are regularly rounded up by police who were beaten to ban then walk back into the streets. The Delegate General for National Security (DGSN) stated a policy of zero tolerance for harassment perpetrated by police, but police and gendarmes frequently harassed and detained ilegal immigrants (mainly from Nigeria and Chad). During the raids, elements of the security forces extorted money from immigrants who did not have a residence permit or who had not received authentic justifying the origin of certain goods in their possession. Some members of the large community of Nigerian immigrants complained of discrimination and abuse on the part of some officials. The law gives citizens the right to change their government peacefully, however, Politics President Biya and the CPDM control key aspects of the political process, including the judiciary. The recent elections: October 9, 2011, the National President of the CPDM, Paul Biya, who has won more than 77 percent of the vote, was elected president, a position he has held since 1982. Although peaceful, the election was flawed: late opening of polling stations, multiple registrations of voters, lack of time for the distribution of voter cards, poor training of polling stations and lack anchor indelible. These shortcomings were effectively deprived an unknown number of voters of their right to vote, and paved the way for multiple voting and ballot stuffing. The national and international observers have concluded that the irregularities have not had a significant impact on the outcome of the election. Citizens residing abroad were able to register and vote. Voting is an act which is important for every citizen is deprived of its true value. The population is less interested in the elections. Membership of the political party in power has significant advantages, including the allocation of key positions in public companies and the civil services. The President appoints all ministers, including the Prime Minister, appoints the governors also directly 10 regions, which are responsible for the CPDM. It also has the power to appoint lower level administrative officials in 58 departments. It was from May 25, 2012 the Committee against urban disorder put on feet to support the Government Delegate to the Yaounde City Council began operations policing to clean the Mokolo market have been conducted. These operations were intended to make the release of the public road allowances, wrongly occupied by hawkers and peddlers. This misunderstanding has often led to numerous confrontations between merchants and agents policing as the town hall and the Community and Urban elements of the police. So Saturday, June 16, 2012, clashes took place between police and traders causing not only the death of Lady Viviane Yakam Gatcha but also many injuries and the arrest of nearly 70 people. The prefectural No. 00000684/AP/J06/SP of June 18, 2012 signed by the Prefect of Mfoundi announced the closing of Mokolo market for the period from 20 June 2012 to 27 June 2012. This closure after the Prefect was a way for the market and those of the Yaounde City Council to meet to find definitive solutions to the problem of urban disorder in that market. Aggravate this situation, the National Association of Informal Sector Operators for the Fight against Poverty in Cameroon (ANOSILP) then launched a series of activities in order to hear the case of traders. Among these activities, it was expected: A panel discussion June 21, 2012 at 14h, which has been held without any official reason for the police prevented them from accessing the venue for the said activity; public events including a march to the National Assembly on 28 June 2012 and another to the Presidency of the Republic July 5, 2012. Steps programmed for claims reported by the prefect of Mfoundi of illegal and therefore prohibited. Through our observations we welcome the government's commitment to finding a lasting solution to the situation at the Mokolo market could materialize through concerted multi actors, the construction of new hangars to house advantage of traders, fairly democratic election Heads Sectors, etc.. We are also concerned about the various violations of human rights that take place at this market include: abusive confiscation of goods of some traders, destruction counters some traders, arbitrary arrests, illegal detention and torture against traders scam practiced by some elements of the police and some officers recruited by the mayor and the Urban Community, closed for a week without consultation of traders. Which closure has resulted in huge losses especially among merchants and sellers of perishable goods. We hope that is the clarification of the role of different people involved in market management including the Chief Sector Supervisor and Supervisor General; The capacity of these people in terms of human rights and the fight against Corruption. The implementation of an awareness campaign traders on human rights and the fight against corruption; The development of new sites for resettlement traders who occupy the public way default site. The formal identification of traders (eg badge); Compensation for traders whose goods were destroyed or taken by the authorities; Cessation of harassment and violation of human rights defenders human Mokolo market; The easing of conditions for acquiring shops establishing affordable and fighting against subletting and any bid; The arrest and surrender into the hands of justice anyone involved in the death of lady Yakam Gatcha Vivianne. OUTLOOK In 2013, B & W CAM, will the state observation step into action. In order to facilitate the work of volunteers working within the organization, within the capacity of the members. Various projects to fight against corruption being investigated last year will be running next year. Guides or educational materials designed and developed by United Nations bodies on corruption and human rights and peace will be used to facilitate the training of committees. The guides will be drawn in several copies and distributed free of charge for an effective fight against corruption in Cameroon.
