IDEAS INITIATIVES IMPACTS Sustainability Report 2012 CITY DEVELOPMENTS LIMITED OUR ACTIONS At CDL, we are committed to being IN CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP a part of positive change. Because to truly grow as a business, we need to develop the right balance between financial performance, environmental GO BEYOND stewardship and social engagement. Supporting a flourishing economy, a healthy environment and a connected community will in turn help nurture AN OBLIGATION the sustainability of our business. Here is our approach and the contributions we create to make a TO GIVE BACK lasting impression. TO SOCIETY. 2 Managing Director’s INITIATIVES IMPACTS 46 About Our Message Report and Scope Actions That Define Us Changes That Inspire Us 13 Our Stakeholders 27 Summary of Financial, IDEAS Social and Environmental INDEX 14 Risk Management Performance Principles That Guide Us 47 GRI Application 16 Our Marketplace 30 Sustainability Rankings, Level Check Statement 5 CDL at a Glance 18 Our Environment Benchmarks and 48 Independent 6 Vision and Strategy Commitments Assurance Statement 20 Our Workplace 6 CSR Approach 31 Key CSR Awards and 24 Our Community Achievements in 2011/2012 7 Key Principles and Policies 34 Our Marketplace 35 Our Environment 42 Our Workplace 43 Our Community Managing Director's Message 2 33 For years, CDL has been proactively engaging the business community in MANAGING CSR, and we are heartened to see increased interest and acceptance DIRECTOR’S from our business peers, cognisant of the need to address more than MESSAGE just their financial performance. Dear Stakeholders, landscape of stakeholder engagement of the need to address more than just Construction Authority (BCA) Green grasp of long-term commitments for addressed improvements in areas 2011 was a year of global in Singapore. their financial performance. Mark certified developments to date, sustained success. Initiatives that highlighted in 2010. We have also economic uncertainty with comprising 62 certified developments we embark on create processes that continued to externally assure our significant financial turmoil Multiple drivers for Corporate Social With a corporate strategy already of which 21 are of the highest Platinum result in actions that define who we sustainability report in accordance Responsibility (CSR) also continue entrenched in the triple bottom which has spilled over to to strengthen globally. Total assets line approach, CDL continued to tier. It is estimated that our 37 Green are. Impacts succinctly measures with the AA1000AS 2008, which this year and continues to Mark certified buildings between 2008 our achievements, or lack thereof. evaluates the reliability of our managed under Carbon Disclosure leverage on our core business to and 2011 account for some S$19.7 Based on the results of our actions, reported sustainability performance. dampen efforts to restore Project have grown dramatically set new benchmarks in sustainable million cost savings in electricity alone we are inspired to improve ourselves Once again, our extensive subscription confidence. This may also from US$4.5 trillion in 2003 to development by doubling our efforts to annually. We also remain committed to to close the gap in our weak areas to internationally accepted US$78 trillion in March 2012 with meet stakeholders’ expectations and prove to be distracting for 235 companies responding in 2003 the global standards in sustainability a 22% reduction in carbon emissions by and accomplish even better results sustainability guidelines and models any government whose compared to 3,715 in 2011. The through innovation, rigorous 2020 from baseline year 2007, and to where our strengths lie. The 3 I s reflect our commitment to benchmark achieve a 25% reduction by 2030. approach is simple, straightforward performance towards greater focus remains on the growing climate change-related assessment and communication of and thoughtful, yet often overlooked transparency and disclosure. financial recovery of the regulations make CSR not simply a the outcomes. 2011 was another The theme for this year’s report — as we get caught up in the hustle “good to have” item but a licence exceptional year for CDL as our pre-tax “Ideas, Initiatives and Impacts” — is In an era where business growth economy, taking time to operate. It is becoming more profits surpassed the S$1 billion line timely. CDL started on our journey in and bustle of the daily running requires much more than just largeand effort away from apparent that companies who have for the second consecutive year and sustainability more than a decade ago, of the Company. scale expansion and short-term sustainability issues. yet to embrace the significance of our steadfast commitment to embrace in waters that were largely untried and With this report, CDL is the first profitability, CDL with 49 years of sustainability issues have placed CSR has accorded us local and global untested. In the ensuing years, much Singapore property developer to proven track record, will further This is however not the case in themselves in an increasingly recognition as a corporate beacon in has been achieved as noted in our successfully publish a Level A+ Report strengthen the trust with stakeholders Singapore where the Government has vulnerable position, putting their sustainability. CDL is the only Singapore four dedicated Sustainability Reports. using the Global Reporting Initiative as we seek new sustainable business continued to introduce and revise operations at risk, if they have corporation to be listed on all three However, as a responsible corporation, (GRI) G3.1 guidelines as well as the opportunities through product various policies and guidelines across limited expertise and contingency of the world's top sustainability we must also constantly reassess first to use the Construction and excellence and service innovation. sectors, addressing the growing plans to manage the fast emerging benchmarks; the Dow Jones ourselves to ensure our 3 I s remain and Real Estate Sector Supplement importance of issues pertaining to We continue the journey towards a social, political and economic Sustainability Indexes, FTSE4Good strategic, sound and relevant. This year, (CRESS). The CRESS was only just corporate governance, productivity, sustainable future, where our business scenarios. In the face of a changing Index Series and The Global 100 Most the 3 I s take us back to the drawing released by GRI in September 2011 the environment, resource risks and (生意), people (人) and nature (自然) business environment and mind-set, Sustainable Corporations in the World. board as we take a fresh step by step and the performance indicators labour matters amongst others. It is grow together in harmony (和谐). it is a matter of time before the turn Notably, CDL’s ranking on the Global approach to the basic tenets that drive included are better tailored to our also of interest to observe that the of tide occurs. 100 improved from 100th to 62nd us towards sustainability. industry for enhanced relevance General and Presidential Elections position in 2012. and transparency. 2011 were noteworthy events as social For years, CDL has been proactively Ideas represent the principles that media became a significant medium of engaging the business community in As Singapore’s leader of the built guide us as we continue to align our CDL has continued to work on aligning Kwek Leng Joo communication. Perhaps, this may be CSR, and we are heartened to see environment, championing green activities based on our CSR vision and the ISO 26000:2010, Guidance on the beginning of an emerging trend of increased interest and acceptance developments, CDL remains the private mission, focusing on issues that are social responsibility, with our business Managing Director active citizenry which may impact the from our business peers, cognisant developer with the most Building and material to our business with a firm operations and have also actively June 2012 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IDEAS Principles That Guide Us 8 35 CDL AT A GLANCE Singapore Group revenue Listed on both property pioneer in 2011 FTSE4Good 49 years S$3.28 & Dow Jones of track billion Sustainability record Indexes Listed on Ranked 62 Global100 top amongst BCA Green Most Sustainable Corporations listed Mark in the World developers accorded developments for three in the Asian consecutive Sustainability years Rating ABOUT CDL OUR FOUNDATION The history of City Developments over 300 subsidiaries and associated Sharing our success with the community Limited (CDL) mirrors the rapid companies. Headquartered in is in line with the philosophy of the late PRINCIPLES THAT GUIDE US growth and development of Singapore, we are one of the largest Mr Kwek Hong Png, founder of Singapore. Since our establishment in landlords in Singapore and own over Hong Leong Group Singapore, CDL’s CSR is embedded in all facets of CDL and enshrined within our 1963, CDL has played a leading role in seven million square feet of floor/ parent company. From this, CDL’s corporate vision and mission. With the commitment and direction creating living spaces, in developing lettable office, industrial, retail, commitment to CSR has evolved from a of the top management, this CSR ethos is guided by the values that lives and in building communities. residential, and hotel spaces locally traditional emphasis on philanthropy we uphold and is further entrenched by our incorporation of the ISO Today, CDL is a listed international and globally. We also maintain a and trust-driven stakeholder 26000 principles and concepts. property and hotel conglomerate, land bank of over 3.6 million square relationships, to a new strategic focus involved actively in real estate feet that has the potential to be on key stakeholders and innovation. CDL’s CSR strategy and approach strive to encapsulate and engage development and investment, hotel developed into over nine million our stakeholders with dynamic processes that are responsive and CDL is committed to making a positive ownership management, facilities square feet of gross floor area. CDL provide innovative solutions which address the triple bottom line. contribution to Singapore’s built management, and provision of has more than 360 employees at environment. The Company aspires to hospitality solutions around the world. our headquarters. As a business and community leader, CDL is driven to consistently inspire others in creating a better and achieve new benchmarks of CSR excellence for our stakeholders and Operating in cities across Asia, As of 31 December 2011, CDL more sustainable living environment. pursue groundbreaking ideas that will perpetuate a legacy to behold Europe, Middle East, North America reported a revenue of S$3.28 billion. We will play our part in placing and forge a trailblazing path ahead. and New Zealand/Australia, CDL has Singapore firmly on the global map of sustainable development. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IDEAS Principles That Guide Us 6 37 VISION & STRATEGY CSR APPROACH KEY PRINCIPLES Since the mid-1990s, CSR has been CSR COMMITTEE AND POLICIES aligned with our corporate vision CDL has in place a comprehensive Board Matters Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and mission. CDL continues to refine our management approach to adapt to the changing system comprising principles, policies CSR landscape and align ourselves with international best practices. A companyPrinciple 1 The Board and Senior Management and guidelines to ensure that CDL wide CSR Committee was established in 2008 and it was later aligned with The Board's Conduct of Affairs are committed to conducting business CORPORATE VISION addresses key issues pertinent to our ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility to address the seven core with integrity and consistent with high business and performs credibly to Principle 2 subjects of ISO 26000 as well as other aspects important to the Company. standards of business ethics, and in “ To maintain industry stakeholder expectations. Board Composition and Guidance compliance with all applicable laws and leadership in innovation, The Committee initiates, drives and monitors various aspects of the Company’s Principle 3 regulatory requirements. The Company product quality, service CSR practices that are integrated with our business operations. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman and has adopted an internal code of business standards, profitability and Chief Executive Officer conduct and ethics which sets out the Corporate Social Responsibility.” Advisor Company's ethical values and business CDL is committed to maintaining good Principle 4 (Managing Director) corporate governance and business principles and provides a communicable CORPORATE MISSION Board Membership and understandable framework for staff integrity in all our business activities. Principle 5 to observe these values and principles Customers To demonstrate our commitment Board Performance such as honesty, integrity, responsibility Advisory Panel To provide quality and innovative to uphold the highest standards of and accountability at all levels of the (Senior Management) Principle 6 products, unsurpassed service and corporate governance, CDL had joined organisation. The code is available on value for money the Securities Investors Association Access to Information the Company's intranet and is easily Singapore ( SIAS ) and its partners accessible by all employees. Investors Chairman Remuneration Matters since 2010 in making the following To maintain profitability and (Senior Management) public Statement of Support, which Principle 7 The code provides guidance on issues achieve optimum returns for was reiterated at the 2nd Singapore Procedures for Developing such as: their investment Corporate Governance Week 2011 Remuneration Policies • conflicts of interest and the Contractors & Suppliers (organised by the SIAS) in October 2011: appropriate disclosures to be made; Principle 8 To select based on quality work Level and Mix of Remuneration Labour Fair Community • the Company's stance against The Consumer and their ability to complement Environment Practices and Operating Issues Involvement & As an Organisation Principle 9 corruption and bribery; our commitment to environment, Human Rights Practices Development health and safety we are committed Disclosure of Remuneration • compliance with applicable laws Employees to upholding high Accountability and Audit and regulations including those ISO 26000: GUIDANCE ON relating to the protection of the To maximise their potential and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY standards of corporate Principle 10 environment and the conservation care for their personal well-being and career development governance to enhance Accountability of energy and natural resources; Community In view of aligning our practices with ISO 26000, CDL undertook in 2010 a selfshareholder value. Principle 11 • compliance with Company's policies assessment of our CSR performance, based on the principles and core subjects Audit Committee To serve the community we of ISO 26000. The ISO 26000 principles are Accountability, Transparency, Ethical We believe practising and procedures, including those on internal controls and accounting; operate in so as to create a better Behaviour, Respect for Stakeholder Interests, Respect for the Rule of Law, Respect good corporate Principle 12 place for all, especially caring for Internal Controls • safeguarding and proper use of the less fortunate, enhancing youth for the International Norms of Behaviour and Respect for Human Rights. The governance is central Company's assets, confidential core subjects are Organisational Governance, Human Rights, Labour Practices, Principle 13 development, promoting the arts The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues and Community to the health and Internal Audit information and intellectual and conserving the environment Involvement & Development. This exercise was in line with the Company’s stability of our Communication with Shareholders property rights, including the respect of the intellectual property on-going efforts to embrace a holistic approach to CSR and to take beyondCSR VISION compliance initiatives. financial markets Principle 14 rights of third parties; and As the first Singapore corporation to address this voluntary guideline in our and economy. Communication with Shareholders • competition and fair dealing in the “ To be a leader in business and a CSR governing structure and sustainability report, CDL’s priority was to identify Principle 15 conduct of the Company's business, champion of CSR.” elements material to our core business, that responds to national needs and that CDL has adopted a set of internal Greater Shareholder Participation in our relationships with customers, complements the Company’s existing practices. guidelines on corporate governance suppliers, competitors and towards CSR MISSION For more detailed information on the our employees. ( Internal CG Guidelines ) based on the In recognition of the importance of results and performance improvements in Company’s 15 Principles listed above, provisions of the Code of Corporate “ To be a responsible corporate our CSR journey, CDL has reviewed the priority issues as identified by external please refer to the Company’s Annual Governance 2005 (the CG Code ). citizen who believes in creating parties and has incorporated a Human Rights Corporate Statement, enhanced Report 2011 (pages 27 to 39). value for stakeholders, our Employee Engagement, Whistle-blowing Policy, Corporate Governance and The following describes the Company's conducting sustainable business involvement in community development projects. corporate governance policies and practices, caring for the practices in our application of the CDL’s efforts and improvements made on Community Involvement & Development, community and protecting the corporate governance principles as set Labour Practices, Stakeholder Engagement and Corporate Governance are further environment.” out in the CG Code. disclosed in this Chapter and in Chapter 2: Initiatives. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IDEAS Principles That Guide Us 8 39 Whistle-blowing Policy prohibit dealing in the Company's securities on short-term considerations and Climate Change Commitment Universal Design Policy while in possession of unpublished material price-sensitive information in relation CDL has in place a whistle-blowing CDL is supportive of Singapore’s The Universal Design Policy, which is endorsed by CDL’s top management, to such securities and during the closed period , which is defined as two weeks procedure where staff of the Company national carbon target to reduce its provides the Company with a framework to achieve our objective of creating an before the date of announcement of results for each of the first three quarters can raise in confidence, whether greenhouse gas emission by some 16% inclusive built environment that caters to the needs of all age groups and people of the Company's financial year and one month before the date of announcement anonymously or otherwise, concerns below Business-As-Usual (BAU) levels by with different abilities, allowing them to live independently and enjoy access of the full-year financial results, and ending on the date of the announcement of on possible improprieties relating 2020, contingent on a legally binding to facilities. the relevant results. The Directors and employees of the Company are notified in to accounting, financial reporting, agreement, in which all countries advance of the commencement of each closed period relating to dealing in the internal controls and auditing matters implement their commitments in good Company's securities. The internal code on securities trading is available on the as well as any breach of the Code of faith and has set a target to reduce the Company's intranet and is easily accessible by all employees. Business Conduct and Ethics, without Company carbon intensity emissions fear of reprisals in any form. The AC by 22% from baseline year 2007 and to has the responsibility of overseeing OUR ENVIRONMENT achieve a 25% reduction by 2030. this policy which is administered with CDL has also set a minimum target the assistance of the Head of IA. Under EHS Policy that all new developments are to these procedures, arrangements are in The Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy was established in 2003. This sets be certified Singapore’s BCA Green place for independent investigation of the strategic direction for all departments and employees towards creating a Mark GoldPlus rating by incorporating such matters raised and for appropriate Safe & Green corporate culture, conserving resources and preventing pollution. innovative green features to support follow up action to be taken. the Singapore Government’s pledge The Company is committed to towards sustainable development and maintaining procedures for the carbon target. confidential and anonymous submission Green Procurement Policy of reports and the anonymity of the staff concerned will be maintained In 2008, CDL formalised our Green where so requested by the staff who Procurement Guidelines to influence our lodged the report. Investigations of such vendors and suppliers at our Corporate reports will be handled on a confidential Office to adopt green procurement basis to the extent permissible practices. The guidelines include: or deemed appropriate under the circumstances, and involve persons who • Sharing the corporate EHS Policy need to be involved in order to properly with new vendors and suppliers carry out the investigation and will, on • Indicating preference for use of a best effort basis, be carried out in a eco-friendly/recycled materials timely manner. and products In order to facilitate and encourage the • Indicating preference for ISO 14001 reporting of such matters, the policy certified vendors was amended in 2011 to provide for dedicated communication channels • Declaring the use of eco-friendly/ which include a whistle-blowing email recycled paper in printed materials account at cdl.ethics.hotline@cdl.com. sg and specific contact numbers which are secure which can be found in detail on page 34. The Whistle-blowing Policy is available on the Company's intranet and is easily All new developments are to accessible by all employees as well as on the Company's website at be certified Singapore’s BCA www.cdl.com.sg. Green Mark GoldPlus rating by Internal Code on Dealings incorporating innovative green in Securities features to support the Singapore The Company has adopted an internal code on securities trading which sets Government’s pledge towards out the implications of insider trading sustainable development and and provides guidance and internal regulation with regard to dealings carbon target. in the Company's securities by our Directors and officers. These guidelines City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IDEAS Principles That Guide Us 10 311 PLEDGE FOR ZERO — A CEO COMMITMENT CHARTER (2008) CORPORATE STATEMENT ON HUMAN RIGHTS CDL’s commitment to corporate social responsibility includes the advocacy of human rights and the CDL is a founding signatory of the “Pledge for Zero — A CEO Commitment Charter” which was launched at the inaugural Construction CEO Summit organised by the Employees are CDL’s Company is conscious of the specific areas in which it can make a positive contribution. It recognises the need to look at the broader Singapore context and keeps in mind the priorities and challenges of the Workplace Safety and Health Council in November 2008. CDL adopted the pledge key stakeholders industry. As such, CDL understands that it can only act within the scope of its core business activities. and committed to establish a zero injury workplace. In 2010, CDL invited our builders and consultants to sign the pledge as well and collectively commit to and invaluable However, it ensures that the direction and outcome of its actions are constantly monitored and improved. raising the EHS standards at our worksites in Singapore. assets. Through In doing so, CDL: OUR WORKPLACE active involvement, Embraces diversity and inclusivity at the workplace and appreciates contributions made by all employees empowerment Provides just and favourable work conditions in an undiscriminating manner Employees are CDL’s key stakeholders and invaluable assets. Through active and engagement, Supports the right to work and recognises that job creation and protection are fundamental business responsibilities involvement, empowerment and engagement, CDL aspires to be the place where our people can contribute to the sustained growth of the Company. CDL takes a CDL aspires to be Strives to work with builders in protecting the rights of foreign workers they hire to work on its sites three-pronged approach — developing, engaging and caring for employees. The the place where Company has in place comprehensive strategies on employee retention, training and development, work-life and work-health policies and initiatives. CDL continues our people can In Singapore, foreign labour is a key manpower resource in the construction industry. Although CDL does not to innovate to implement creative initiatives to increase employee engagement contribute to the directly employ foreign workers, they occupy an important position in the Company’s value chain, and have and participation. sustained growth been identified as a stakeholder group. The Company is cognisant of the human rights of these workers. Employers' Pledge for Fair Employment of the Company. CDL’s appointed builders are not only required to comply with labour rights of workers employed by them at the worksites, they also have the responsibility to take all necessary measures to provide safe, clean and CDL practices fair employment and has signed the Employers’ Pledge for Fair Employment with The Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) in CDL takes a threedignified living and working conditions, without risks to health for the workers. 2008. TAFEP was formed in May 2006 to promote non-discriminatory employment pronged approach For instance, there must be vector and pest control programmes, and site offices and toilets must be practices and to shift mind-sets among employers, employees and the general equipped with basic amenities such as electricity, water, adequate lighting and proper ventilation. The public about fair employment practices for all workers. The alliance is co-chaired — developing, Company also discourages builders to build quarters for workers at the worksites as they do not offer by representing employer unions and National Trades Union Congress. engaging and caring conducive living conditions. We have put in place systems to regularly and diligently track and audit the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) performance of our builders at the worksites. CDL continues Human Rights for employees. to collaborate with builders that have good EHS track records and have proven their ability to maintain The Singapore Government takes a pragmatic rather than an ideological approach favourable conditions for workers. to human rights. It has ratified 20 International Labour Organization Conventions to date covering four main aspects of employment standards such as child labour, Looking ahead, CDL hopes to do more within our sphere of influence. forced labour, collective bargaining and equal remuneration(1). Singapore is CDL's long-term approach to foreign workers is two-fold. Firstly, CDL remains committed to working with our ranked 8th in the world for gender empowerment in the UN’s Human Development builders to improve the living and working conditions of their foreign workers. Secondly, the Company will Report 2011(2). The country’s high literacy rate and low unemployment rate speak ensure that our business is aligned with the broader national policy pertaining to foreign workers. for themselves. Fair employment practices are implemented together with regulation guidelines MOVING FORWARD set by the Ministry of Manpower through the Employment Act. All employees regardless of nationality (including foreign workers(3)) are covered under the CDL remains committed to seeking better understanding and application of international benchmarks Employment Act. A section of the Employment Act covers regulations pertaining to the local context and environment where relevant. We continue to address and assess sustainability to maximum working hours, overtime payments, authorised salary deductions and issues that are material to the business and bring about ideas leading to affirmative action for improved frequency of salary payments. Foreign workers are informed of their rights under CSR performance. the Act even before arrival in Singapore. (1) Source: Ministry of Manpower, Employment Practices. (2) Source: United Nations Development Programme, Human Development Report 2011. (3) Semi-skilled or unskilled foreign workers. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 313 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Building trust, credibility and respect amongst stakeholders is CDL’s utmost priority. In identifying stakeholders, the Company is guided not only by our Corporate Mission and our CSR objectives, but also by global standards for sustainable management. We also take into consideration the relevance of stakeholder groups to our core business. The Company has adopted various initiatives and communication platforms to structure a coherent and timely response to material concerns and expectations of stakeholders. To clearly illustrate the importance CDL places on stakeholder identification and engagement, we have included some examples of stakeholder initiatives here. More instances of stakeholder engagement can be found in this chapter and in Chapter 3: Impacts. Stakeholder Initiatives + Action Customers • Green Living Kit which contains a Green Living Guide • Innovative green features in buildings to help reduce water and energy consumption • Safeguarding customer information • Regular surveys amongst homebuyers and tenants for improvement of the service levels Employees • Employee Assistance Programme (Counselling Service) and a grievance platform • Fair and competitive remuneration packages • Flexible working hour arrangement • Strong emphasis on training and development • Workplace Safety Guidelines for employees to cultivate good safety habits and create a strong safety culture in the workplace Builders & • Green Procurement Guidelines for project managers, consultants and builders including green Suppliers design considerations, features, products and practices to be incorporated in CDL’s developments • Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) standards ensured through quarterly CDL 5-Star EHS Assessment System • Provision of conducive working environment for workers at worksites Government & • Senior management representation on boards of various industry bodies and sustainabilityRegulators related public discussions • Regulatory readiness to the Singapore Government’s commitment to manage carbon emissions • Shared the sustainability reporting journey at the Launch of Sustainability Reporting Guide for Listed Companies organised by the Singapore Exchange (SGX) Investors • Timely release of quarterly financial results & Media • Commitment to maintaining good corporate governance and business integrity in all business activities • Amongst 17 founding signatories of the Anti-Corruption & Compliance Declaration • Semi-annual briefings for analysts and media • Investing more resources in the engagement of the larger investor community which includes sustainability analysts, rating agencies and the socially responsible investment community in forms of dialogues, participation in interviews, surveys, reports and one-on-one meetings NGOs & • Active participation in sharing CDL’s CSR journey to a wide range of stakeholders ACTIONS THAT DEFINE US Communities Organiser Key Platforms in 2011 CDL believes in walking the talk. Towards this, we have put in place SPRING Singapore Launch of ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on social responsibility a solid CSR infrastructure with well-integrated and comprehensive Singapore Institute of Directors Seminar on CSR and Sustainability Reporting systems and policies. Singapore Business Federation Asia Pacific Sustainability Leadership Forum CPA Australia Annual CPA Congress Our initiatives encompass a broad and far-reaching spectrum to achieve CDL’s financial, social and environmental objectives. Various Symposium on Accounting, Reporting and Assurance for a Nanyang Technological University (NTU) frameworks and programmes have been instituted to enable the Sustainable Future Company to ensure that we have checks and balances in place International Conference of Society of Global Business and Singapore Management University (SMU) that not only complies with regulatory requirements but to exceed Economic Development stakeholder expectations. These initiatives that cover our risk 10th Anniversary Conference on Sustainable Environmental management, our product stewardship, EHS aspects and customer National University of Singapore (NUS) Management in Urban Asia service form the cornerstone of our CSR efforts and are constantly Annual Flagship Conference “Investing in Businesses with reviewed, improved upon and sustained. Social Enterprise Association a Difference” Institute of Public Relations of Singapore Seminar on Sustainability City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 14 315 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management continues to play The RM Committee had, since of internal controls, and operating, strategy and investment objective. of cash and cash equivalents, and are taken to enhance the processes an important part in the Company’s 2002, established a formal risk reporting and monitoring processes Potential business synergies including credit facilities deemed adequate by for recruitment, compensation, business activities and is an essential management framework. Within this and procedures (including processes collaboration risks assessments are management to finance the Group’s training and development of component of our planning process. framework, significant business risks involving due diligence and collation identified early to ensure business operations and to mitigate the effects employees. Identification of core The Board has overall responsibility are identified, assessed, evaluated, of market intelligence and feedback), partnership objectives and visions are of fluctuations in cash flows. competencies is critical in the to ensure that the Company has the monitored, managed, and reported on supported by information technology well-aligned and collaboration partners employee selection and development Interest Rate Risk — The Group’s capability and necessary framework a regular basis. The risk governance systems and constant development are like-minded and compatible. processes, and the implementation exposure to market risk changes in to manage risks in new and existing structure of the Company is regularly of human resource skills through of performance assessment and interest rates relates primarily to our businesses and that business plans and reviewed against international recruitment and training, are TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISKS management programmes, coupled interest-bearing financial assets and strategies accord with the risk appetite standards and best practices in important elements of the risk with career development and debt obligations. The Group adopts that the Company undertakes to risk management. The Company management framework, to mitigate training programmes, are part of the The Group is exposed to financial a policy of managing our interest achieve our corporate objectives. recognises that the risk management risks relating to product and service Company’s human resource strategy risks arising from our operations and rate exposure by maintaining a To assist the Board in risk process is an ongoing process and aims quality assurance management, to improve work performance, the use of financial instruments. debt portfolio with both fixed and management, the Audit Committee under our risk governance structure to costs control management, maximise competencies, increase The key financial risks include credit floating rates of interest. Where has been authorised by the Board continue to look for ways to improve design and product innovation, staff commitment and retention, risks, liquidity risks and market risks, appropriate, the Group uses interest to provide oversight and review in the following areas: market intelligence, marketing/ and develop further an effective including interest rate risks and foreign rate derivatives to hedge our interest on matters relating to the risk sales and leasing management, succession planning programmes • increase monitoring and currency risks. rate exposure for specific underlying management policies and systems of financial control management within the organisation. control capabilities in our debt obligations. the Company. and regulatory compliances in the The Group has a system of controls in review of significant strategic The management also supports Company’s operations. place to create an acceptable balance Foreign Currency Risk — The Group The Audit Committee’s risk business risks; work-life harmony programmes and between the cost of risks occurring is exposed to foreign currency risks management function is assisted The maintenance of adequate family-friendly policies as part of our • review the effectiveness of the and the cost of managing the risks. on sales, purchases and borrowings by a Risk Management Committee insurance coverage for the Company’s efforts to help employees achieve systems of internal controls to The management continually monitors that are denominated in a currency (“RM Committee”), whose members assets, and the protection of and a balanced life between work and limit, mitigate, manage and the Group’s risk management process other than the respective functional comprise senior management. The continued investment in the security family and at the same time create a monitor identified risks; to ensure that an appropriate balance currency of the Group’s entities. RM Committee is responsible for and integrity of our information quality workplace. ensuring the effectiveness of the • ensure that the operating technology systems and database between risk and control is achieved. The Group manages our foreign risk management framework of the systems deliver adequate and which are highly integrated with Risk management policies and systems exchange exposure by a policy of CRISIS RISKS Company, the objective of which is to timely information required for our business processes, are also are reviewed regularly to reflect matching receipts and payments, provide an enterprise-wide view of the effective risk management; and part of the Company’s control changes in market conditions and the and asset purchases and borrowings risks involved in property investment, processes for the protection of our Group’s activities. in each individual currency. Forward Operating in an environment with development and management • build on and integrate into assets. The Company also maintains potential threats of terrorism, It is, and has been throughout the foreign exchange contracts are used activities and a systematic process our existing governance close working relationships with epidemic outbreaks and information current and previous financial year, purely as a hedging tool, where for identification, assessment, and management systems our business partners and relevant systems failure, the management the Group’s policy that no derivatives an active market for the relevant management and reporting of such the appropriate tools for authorities to keep abreast of has put in place a company-wide shall be undertaken for speculative currencies exists, to minimise the risks on a consistent and reliable effective management of political developments and changes Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) to purposes except for the use as hedging Group’s exposure to movements in basis. The RM Committee is mandated strategic business risks which in the regulatory framework and mitigate the risks of interruption and instruments where appropriate and exchange rates on firm commitments to focus on key strategic risks whilst are reflective of changes in business environment. catastrophic loss to our operations cost efficient. and specific transactions. also ensuring that the business units markets, products and emerging and information database arising from are responsible for the day-to-day best practices. Credit Risk — The Group has a credit Wherever necessary, the Group such potential threats. INVESTMENT AND PORTFOLIO RISKS finances our property, plant and tracking, monitoring and control of The Company’s risk management policy in place and the exposure to equipment purchases by using the The RM Committee is responsible for risks within their operations. framework has categorised our risks credit risk is monitored on an ongoing relevant local currency cash resources overseeing the maintenance of the into the following main risk types: Risk evaluation forms an integral basis. Credit evaluations are performed The designated Risk Coordinator and arranging for bank facilities BCP. Procedures and processes of the aspect of the Company’s investment on all customers requiring credit over assists by providing the RM Committee denominated in the same currency. BCP include identification of alternate strategy. Balancing risk and return a certain amount. The Group does not with the quarterly status of the key OPERATING RISKS This enables the Group to limit recovery centers, operational across asset types and geographic require collateral in respect of these strategic risk exposures and the Senior translation exposure to our balance procedures to enable communication, regions are primary considerations financial assets. Management with a timely assessment sheet arising from consolidation of the continuity of critical business The risk management framework to achieve continued corporate of key risk exposures and any new Transactions involving financial Group’s overseas net assets. functions and recovery of database in is integrated into the management profitability and portfolio growth. emerging risks that may require instruments are entered into only with the event of a crisis incident. Periodic processes at operational levels, This risk assessment includes assessment. The RM Committee reports counterparties that are of acceptable incident management drills are with the respective management at macro and project specific risks HUMAN RESOURCE RISKS quarterly to the Audit Committee on credit quality. Cash and fixed deposits conducted to familiarise employees divisional and departmental levels analysis encompassing rigorous due the overall strategic and operational are placed with banks and financial with the emergency response and being responsible for identifying, diligence, feasibility studies and risks positions, including mitigating institutions which are regulated. The Company recognises human crisis management plans of the assessing, mitigating and managing sensitivity analysis on key investment measures, treatment plans and the resource as an important contributing Company. The plans to carry out the operating risks within each assumptions and variables. Each Liquidity Risk — The Group monitors occurrence or potential occurrence of factor towards the stable growth of periodic tests on BCP, results of the of their functional areas. The investment proposal is objectively our liquidity risk and maintains a level significant risk events. the Company, and accordingly efforts tests, as well as recommendations implementation and use of a system evaluated to fit the corporate City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 16 317 and corrective actions are reviewed The Company’s EHS targets and operational objectives of the hotel These standards are administered by This self-regulatory code of conduct projects under construction and by the RM Committee annually and performance are measured and staff. The M&C group monitors the BCA — Singapore’s governing body for for advertisers has been endorsed correspondences. There is also a reported to the Audit Committee. regularly tracked by internal carbon footprint for all of its owned the built environment. by organisations representing structured approach to resolving Further enhancement during the year and external auditors. Gaps and managed properties, and the advertisers, advertising agencies complaints which are monitored included the alignment of corporate and possible risks are identified board of M&C has set a target for the PRODUCT AND CUSTOMER SAFETY and media. closely and reviewed regularly at BCP to various operating departments’ for prompt rectification and group’s energy consumption.(1) inter-departmental meetings. In addition, all advertisements placed environmental emergency procedures. continual improvement. Every CDL building is under the charge with the local dailies published by The customer satisfaction EHS RISKS MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE OUR of a Complex Manager who oversees the Singapore Press Holdings (SPH) are determination process is continually HOTELS PLC (“M&C”) MARKETPLACE daily operations of the building with a team of full time service providers subject to copy vetting by the media owner prior to publication, with the reviewed at CDL through formalised regular surveys and tracking of As a developer with extensive including a Grade A (Singapore context) objective of ensuring compliance with customers. For homebuyers, the At CDL, we believe that good business the rules and regulations stipulated Company administers an online operations, strategic and concerted The risk management activity of M&C, security firm with 24 hour coverage. performance is based on responsible by the various Singapore government survey six months after handover efforts have been put in to mitigate the Group’s hotel arm, is directed by behaviour integrated throughout the For crisis management, CDL has put bodies, Singapore Code of Advertising while tenants are surveyed annually. the impact of our operations on the its Executive Management Committee Company’s supply chains, regulatory in place the ISO 14000: Emergency Practice and SPH’s company policies. The data collected is analysed and environment. The Company’s EHS led by its Chief Executive Officer, who adherence, customer relations, Management System comprising reviewed for continual improvement Policy (established in 2003) sets the undertake regular reviews of (i) the To date, there has not been any marketing and development of different emergency response plans for of the Company's service levels. strategic direction for all departments, risk registers, compiled and updated reported incidents of nonproducts and services. CSR is thus known building related emergencies employees and stakeholders to take to map the nature of the risks relative compliance with the Singapore CDL protects the privacy and intrinsic to our business excellence such as flu epidemic outbreak, fire or practical effort to ensure effective EHS to their likelihood of occurrence and Code of Advertising Practice. confidentiality of our customers' and long-term success. even a major electricity outage. management in our operations. severity and associated trends, and information very seriously. In addition (ii) the progress of the risk treatment We have implemented various Since 2003, CDL’s management has been In addition, on 18 April 2012, the To manage our EHS risks, since to internal policies and procedures plans devised to eliminate, minimise initiatives that enable us to manage championing a Safe and Green culture Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) 2003, the Company has integrated designed to safeguard customer or transfer risks. Overall responsibility our risks and also seize new along with an Environmental, Health implemented changes to the Housing an EHS Management System within information, CDL does not divulge for the risk management process of opportunities in the business arena. and Safety (EHS) policy, to monitor and Developers Rules (HDR)(3) to enhance our operations, certified against the or sell any personal information the M&C group lies with the board control our EHS impact. The policy sets transparency in the real estate international ISO 14001 Environmental provided by our customers to third of M&C, and the audit committee of the tone for many initiatives cutting industry to enable homebuyers to Management System and OHSAS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY parties for their own marketing or M&C reviews, on behalf of the board, across the property development value make better informed decisions when 18001 Occupational Health and promotional purposes. the effectiveness of the group’s risk chain; involving employees, service buying a home, which took effect on Safety Management System on an Backed by 49 years of experience, 18 May 2012. CDL welcomes this move All employees are guided by CDL's management processes and other providers and customers. annual basis. CDL has been a cutting-edge pioneer by URA to raise the industry standards Code of Business Conduct and internal controls. Information on M&C’s principal risks can be found in known for developing iconic quality More information on the steps taken and continues to work closely with our Ethics, and any breach of customer Through this system, the Company its annual report for 2011. properties which feature new lifestyle to ensure the safety of product and consultants to ensure our marketing confidentiality will be met with strict evaluates our key EHS risks, determining concepts and innovative technology. services is disclosed in the Our practices comply with the changes disciplinary action. the risk level based on a risk assessment On the EHS front, in 2011, M&C’s Aligned with the triple bottom line Environment section. to HDR. technique consisting of the likelihood There were no substantiated European region received formal model, CDL develops properties of the occurrence and severity of the complaints regarding breach of accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 that are sustainable, functional impact. Control measures are promptly ETHICAL MARKETING PRACTICES RESPECT FOR CUSTOMERS standard for its health and safety and financially marketable. CDL customer privacy and loss of customer applied to mitigate all significant EHS data in 2011. system and achieved formal continues to focus on the provision risks. This is done through setting CDL is committed to upholding the accreditation to the ISO 14001 of uncompromised product quality CDL's Customer Service Department objectives and targets, establishing principles of ethical marketing and fair standard for its environmental and service excellence to all our has set up processes and MANAGING SOCIETAL programmes and/or putting in place competition. We have a set of internal management system. M&C customers, above and beyond what is infrastructure to fulfil the needs of IMPACTS OF OUR PRODUCTS work procedures and work instructions. procedures in place to ensure factual intends to implement these expected of the industry. existing and potential customers. The guiding principle of the mitigating accuracy of all marketing collaterals. systems progressively in its other Customers are given the ease of measures is to follow the hierarchy of The Company’s marketing and leasing CDL caters to different market operating regions. accessibility to the Company through control, starting with elimination, and PRODUCT QUALITY procedures are also guided by an segments in Singapore, developing various channels of communication then moving to substitution, isolation, Whilst M&C continually assesses its operations manual, which is reviewed properties for the mass market and contact points, mainly the use of engineering control, use of environment impact and actively on an annual basis. including executive condominiums, Real estate development in Singapore hotline, site offices, website and administrative control and last of all, seeks ways to reduce it through mid-market and luxury market. is highly regulated by the relevant All marketing collaterals produced correspondences whereby the use of personal protective equipment. improvements in its hotel’s operating authorities on quality assurance. by the Company are compliant with Company's performances are guided In particular, accessibility in the built infrastructure and by modifying work The Company addresses climate change However, when developing new advertising and promotion standards by the service standards. environment has become increasingly practices, the hotel management also in our business operations and has set properties, CDL goes beyond in Singapore, namely the Singapore relevant to Singapore with the need works with its suppliers to minimise Information is shared across different a target to reduce our carbon intensity compliance and sets targets surpassing Code of Advertising Practice that to address the trend of an aging the environment impact of their channels to render a consistent emissions by 22% by 2020 from baseline authorities’ legislation on building is administered by the Advertising population and increase in mobility activities. Environmental performance approach in CDL's service. CDL year 2007 and 25% by 2030. standards e.g. BCA CONQUAS(2), Standards Authority of Singapore which difficulties in the years ahead. A key is also being integrated into the communicates regularly with our Buildability, Quality Mark Scores. is an Advisory Council to the Consumers enabler for enhancing the level of customers through various platforms, Association of Singapore. accessibility in the built environment namely newsletters as well as online is Universal Design — which broadly information on progress status of refers to “design for all people”. (1) Please refer to M&C's Annual Report 2011, which is available online at www.millenniumhotels.com, pages 39 to 41 for details of their CSR performance. (2) BCA CONQUAS: Construction Quality Assessment System by BCA. (3) Please refer to www.ura.gov.sg for details on the changes to HDR. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 18 319 For close to a decade, CDL has been INFLUENCING CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR The programme has become a our business operations. It provides a our implemented EHS management that energy use, water use, waste incorporating community-friendly standard BAU practice at 13 CDLsystematic process to manage CDL’s systems. In 2011, CDL received a generation and carbon emissions are features and best practices in Universal managed buildings and puts the operational impact on the environment fine for mosquito breeding at an the most significant environmental (1) Our Homebuyers Design within our residential and indoor temperature at an average of and to continously improve our open landscaped area near one of aspects. CDL also includes other commercial developments, over and CDL’s environmental outreach 24°C. Since 2009, CDL has achieved environmental performance. our buildings. Since then, CDL has aspects such as paper use, waste above the mandatory requirements programme, “Let’s Live Green!” was 100% tenant participation rate. been working together with relevant paper recycling, noise, biodiversity specified in the Code of Barrier-Free launched in March 2004 to showcase TRAINING, AWARENESS parties to maintain vigilance during and safety management. Accessibility by BCA. green features in new residential developments to homebuyers. OUR AND COMMUNICATION the daily inspection. CDL regularly implements and Taking a holistic life-cycle approach, CDL applies Universal Design The initiative aims to encourage ENVIRONMENT EHS training and awareness programmes CDL proactively influences and engages our stakeholders, including evaluates measures to mitigate all significant environmental aspects. homebuyers to make lifestyle principles from ground zero during the are planned for all CDL employees to our architects, builders, designers, This is done through setting objectives choices like purchasing energyFor over a decade, CDL has architectural planning and carry them raise their EHS awareness and cultivate engineers and surveyors to embrace and targets, establishing programmes saving appliances and practising been advocating environmental through the construction, building a Green & Safe corporate culture. safe and environmentally-friendly and/or putting in place work eco-friendly habits to reduce their sustainability in Singapore’s built operations and maintenance phases. Employees are also encouraged to designs and best practices at the procedures and work instructions. The carbon footprint. environment. As buildings contribute attend relevant external conferences planning stage. CDL continues guiding principles behind mitigating A special TOP Welcome Party for about 16% of Singapore’s national to ensure compliance during the measures is to follow the hierarchy of MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL and workshops to strengthen their EHS CDL homebuyers is often held carbon emissions, CDL makes construction and operational control, starting with elimination, and IMPACTS OF OUR PRODUCTS management skills and knowledge. shortly after the project has every effort to minimise negative phase. This is done through the CDL then moving to substitution, isolation, As for our builders, CDL has been obtained TOP(1). The event provides externalities and maximise the 5-Star EHS Assessment System and use of engineering control, use of facilitating the quarterly CDL 5-Star EHS CDL’s commitment to product an opportunity for homebuyers positive impact our business has regular inspections. administrative control and last of all, Review Seminar since 2001 to raise our stewardship is embodied by our threeto experience and view their new on society. use of personal protective equipment. builders’ EHS standards. Best practices pronged approach to develop quality home, in addition to partaking We have been cognisant of the are shared during the review sessions to EHS AUDITS CDL has set specific environmental and environmentally sustainable in an educational programme changing environmental landscape encourage peer learning. objectives and targets at our properties, manage properties in a comprising talks and exhibitions on especially with greater emphasis worksites, investment buildings and cost-efficient and energy-efficient environmental conservation. CDL provides various channels The Company is subjected to annual placed on climate change issues the Corporate Office. Management way and influence stakeholders of communication to engage external EHS audits which are To encourage homebuyers to embrace globally. Our pioneering efforts review is conducted annually to assess through our outreach initiatives. our stakeholders and share our conducted by an accredited third the green lifestyle, they are also in championing sustainable the environmental performance for Thus, beyond the development and commitments, best practices and party auditor during renewal and given a specially-customised Green developments in Singapore have continual improvement. For more management of our properties with EHS performance, as well as to solicit surveillance visits. Living Kit which contains a Green allowed us to be well prepared for information on the environmental environmental sustainability in mind, stakeholder feedback and suggestions Living Guide — a book featuring green regulatory environmental risks and CDL has put in place internal audits objectives and targets, please see CDL undertakes engagement initiatives for continual improvement. All CDL lifestyle tips and an illustrative floor opportunities as we have already to ensure the Company’s EHS page 41. with stakeholders involved in the lifeemployees are encouraged to be plan of all the eco-friendly features instituted environmental management management systems conform to cycle of our properties with the aim of forthcoming and to report all incidences provided for in their new home and systems and frameworks early on in the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and encouraging a shared responsibility to of EHS-related accidents, complaints, CDL 5-STAR EHS ASSESSMENT instructions for use and maintenance. our CSR journey. ISO 9001 international standards. reduce the environmental impact of incidences of non-compliances and SYSTEM & EHS EXCELLENCE AWARDS Green features found in the common Typically, each project development each development. non-conformities. area are also indicated in the plan. EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS is to be audited at least once in its Throughout the entire cycle, all Between 2004 and 2011, Let's Live At CDL worksites, the Company also project cycle and each audit shall The CDL 5-Star EHS Excellence stakeholders including customers, inGreen! reached 5,927 households. provides a hotline number where the cover all three stages, i.e. planning, Award was introduced in 2005 and house experts and professional external In 2003, CDL set a new industry public can make a report and CDL is procurement and construction. is an integral part of the CDL 5-Star consultants are involved at various 2) Our Tenants benchmark as the first private committed to work with our builders, EHS Assessment System initiated stages (from design, construction, property developer to receive the ISO to prevent potential non-conformances in 2001 to provide CDL with an CDL also assists in monitoring the 14001 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS procurement, maintenance to user individual electricity bills of our through actions, if necessary. independent audit tool for assessment engagement) of developing and System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational of our builders’ EHS management tenants. If electricity usage fluctuates Health and Safety Management managing a sustainable building. As part of the ISO 14001 and performance. more than 10%, the building manager System in Property Development and COMPLIANCE framework, CDL identifies CDL invests between 2% and 5% of the will duly investigate the increase Project Management. In 2008, CDL The Award recognises builders who significant environmental aspects construction cost of a new development together with the tenant to follow-up was awarded ISO 14001 in Corporate have excelled in the CDL 5-Star CDL is committed to full compliance on for our business operations that can on green building design and features. on the cause. Management and Operations for all EHS Assessment over a one year all applicable EHS legal requirements potentially have critical negative We have also set the target to achieve a Since 2007, CDL’s “1°C Up functions at our headquarters. In enforced by the local governing environmental impacts. The risk period. Each quarter, audits are minimum BCA Green Mark GoldPlus rating Programme” has been implemented 2011, CDL attained the OHSAS 18001 authorities such as BCA, National level of the environmental aspect is conducted by an independent EHS for all new developments. in CDL commercial properties to in Property Management certification Environment Agency (NEA), Public determined using a risk assessment audit firm accredited by the Ministry raise eco-consciousness amongst the for 15 buildings as well as re-certified Utilities Board (PUB), Workplace technique consisting of the likelihood of Manpower (MOM), after which CDL’s strategy on the environmental tenants. It encourages tenants to for ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 Quality & Safety Health Council (WSHC), of the occurrence, severity of the the results are presented to the impact of our products and ways to make an active contribution towards Management System which were first Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) impact and control measures. top management of the builders manage responsibility throughout our energy conservation by raising the awarded in 2007. and other relevant enforcers where during the quarterly CDL 5-Star value chain is further disclosed in the CDL actively evaluates the key air-conditioning temperature in their appropriate. CDL actively ensures that EHS Seminars. These seminars are following Our Environment section. The EHS Management System, which significant environmental aspects at office by 1°C. all our activities and operations comply a valuable platform to promote is based on a Plan-Do-Check-Act our worksites, investment buildings sharing of best practices to encourage with existing legal and regulatory methodology, is integrated into and the Corporate Office. From our better EHS performance amongst requirements through constant (1) In Singapore, the Commisioner of Building Control will issue the Temporary Occupation Permit (TOP) to a building project when it is continuous assessment, we know the builders. monitoring, evaluation and auditing of completed. A building can only be occupied when a Certificate of Statutory Completion of TOP is granted. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 20 321 In 2011, in line with the national shorter work-weeks, temporary layEQUAL OPPORTUNITIES In view of developing and attracting productivity drive, CDL introduced the offs, flexible work schedules or other young talents through scholarships, CDL Age Group Managerial Total:140 inaugural CDL Productivity Excellence flexible work arrangements, and has offered seven local undergraduate CDL stands by our position on nonAward at the annual award ceremony managing wage costs through the use scholarships to date and 18 internships discrimination and fairness, and which recognises our builders for their of the flexible wage system. to young talents in 2011. 6.82% 3.85% ensures that the recruitment process 30 yrs and 7.69% 30 yrs and excellent performance in EHS. This 32.95% There has been no major readhere to strict guidelines. There is 2011 also witnessed 23.2% of employee below 62 yrs and below inaugural award went to Dragages 31-40 organisation in the past five years. no preference of gender, ethnicity promotions going to GEN Y employees above 28.85% Singapore Pte Ltd for The Arte and yrs old 31-40 In the event of termination or an and age mentioned in the recruitment and 5.7% of our managers are 30 22.73% Tiong Seng Contractors (Pte) Ltd for yrs old employee resignation, there is a advertisements. CDL hires based on years and below, representing a 51-61 Parc Emily, recognising their concerted minimum one to three month-notice competencies and the appropriate fit good percentage of GEN Y amidst yrs old efforts to drive productivity on site, period that needs to be fulfilled, within the Company. our managerial employees, injecting through the adoption of technology, Female Male depending on the employee job grade. perspectives and creativity of innovative methods of construction and Training, promotion, opportunities Due to operational requirements, mid the younger generation to ensure (88) (52) efficient designs. The prestigious CDL for advancement, compensation, and senior management are required continual renewal of people assets for 5-Star EHS Excellence Award went to recognition of achievements, discipline to provide two and three months of the Company. SsangYong Engineering & Construction and other conditions of employment notice period respectively. 17.31% Co. Ltd for W Singapore Sentosa Cove are provided on the basis of merit, and CDL began to monitor and track 41-50 yrs and Tiong Seng Contractors (Pte) Ltd for without regard to a person’s race, sex, incidences of discrimination in Shelford Suites. RESPECT FOR FREEDOM marital status, age or religion. 2008 and there have not been any 37.50% 42.30% old OF ASSOCIATION 41-50 yrs old 51-61 yrs old reported incidents. Understanding that some employees OUR CDL respects all employees’ need time to attend to special family WORKPLACE fundamental rights to freedom needs, a number of employees have over the years converted to a part-time Gender Profile of Heads of Department Total:28 Age Group Non-Managerial Total:222 of association and the right to be work schedule (and back to full-time) Employees are CDL’s key stakeholders members of trade unions. Although on a need-be basis. In 2011, there were 2.44 % 5.17% and invaluable assets. Through active CDL is not a unionised company, it two female managerial employees 7.93% 62 yrs and 62 yrs and 12.07% involvement, empowerment and is guided by the Industrial Relations working on a part-time arrangement. 51-61 above above 30 yrs and 28.05% 20.69% engagement, CDL aspires to be the Act that allows representation The employment contract offered to yrs old 30 yrs and below 51-61 place where our people can contribute of employees by trade unions for part-time employees are on a case-bybelow yrs old to the sustained growth of the Company. collective bargaining thus providing 50% 18.29% case basis and benefits such as annual CDL takes a three-pronged approach — them with an avenue to seek redress female 41-50 leave may differ from that of the fullyrs old developing, engaging and caring for for their disputes. As part of our time employees. employees. The Company has in place efforts to recognise employees’ Female Male comprehensive strategies on employee participation in professional bodies, Beyond recruiting and retaining (164) (58) retention, employee attraction, training CDL supports employees’ subscription female employees, CDL also provides and development, work-life and workto these professional bodies. a conducive working environment and health policies and initiatives. CDL fair career development opportunities, 24.14% continues to innovate to implement which is reflected in the gender profile 50% 41-50 male 43.29% yrs old 37.93% creative initiatives to increase employee of Heads of Department. 31-40 yrs old 31-40 yrs old engagement and participation. 73.48% of our employees hold tertiary qualifications and above (this includes JOB SECURITY holders of diploma, degree and Education Profile Total:362 Age Group Profile Total:362 Masters qualifications). CDL adheres to the Tripartite Guidelines 62% of our workforce falls between the 1.59% 6.36% on Managing Excess Manpower issued CDL respects ages of 31 and 50, representing the 45.86% 13.10% 62 yrs and above 30.91% 51-61 62 yrs and 8.18% above 30 yrs and by MOM together with its tripartite 51-61 partners, Singapore National Employers all employees’ majority of our workforce. 1.10% GCE 'N' Level Degree yrs old 20.63% 30 yrs and yrs old below Federation (SNEF) and the National fundamental rights A better understanding of the younger employees from the next generation, 1.66% PSLE & Below below Trades Union Congress (NTUC). to freedom of GEN Y, is critical to CDL’s business 1.93% GCE 'A' Level CDL supports and shares a similar growth and development so as to philosophy with the Tripartite Guidelines association and the ensure business sustainability. GEN 3.59% Sec school/ 25.00 % Female Male 41-50 (252) (110) right to be members NTC-3 which strongly encourage companies Y is the fastest growing segment of yrs old 6.91% to manage their excess manpower and the Company’s workforce and is also Others to consider reorganisation only as a of trade unions. emerging as a potential customer (Certificate) last resort. The guidelines also suggest group. 47% of new recruits in Year 7.18% 33.64% company retraining programme for 2011 are born in 1978 or later. In other Master 20.44% 20.91% 31-40 yrs old 11.33% Diploma/ 41-50 workers, redeployment of workers to words, GEN Y is injecting into CDL, the GCE 'O' Advance 39.68% yrs old alternative areas of work, implementing GEN Y thinking and philosophy of life. 31-40 yrs old Level Diploma City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 22 323 INITIATIVES FOR ENHANCED Environment, Health and Safety year. In 2011, average training hours Through Townhall sessions, dialogue counselling and networking The overall scope and benefits of the WORKPLACE DIVERSITY Committee that helps monitor and per employee in 2011 was 34.3 hours. sessions with senior management, and opportunities to enhance mentee's CPF encompass the following: advise on the Company’s Occupational 3,287 hours have been dedicated to internal platforms such as “eVoiceBox” career development and success. Retirement Health and Safety Programme. 6.9% CSR and environment-related training (an electronic suggestion portal for The Singapore Government has Plan to ensure sufficient savings to of CDL’s employees at HQ are in in 2011. employees to provide feedback), CDL HUMAN RIGHTS implemented the re-employment see CPF members through retirement. the committee. ensures that employees’ views are legislation in 2012 to enable more REWARD AND FAIR REMUNERATION always heard. Through the dissemination Healthcare people to continue working beyond the Total Wellness: To promote total Local regulations enable companies of City News, City Dynamix and Staff Plan to ensure sufficient savings to current statutory retirement age of wellness, employees are given free to implement Human Rights practices Circular, employees are informed of the meet members’ medical needs in 62, up to 65 in the first instance and annual basic health screenings during CDL constantly seeks to offer fair implicitly. In addition to CDL’s latest updates about the Company. old age. later, up to 67. Re-employment is not working hours while their family and competitive remuneration existing practices and the Corporate the same as raising the retirement age members can participate in the packages based on the potential Employee Assistance Programme Statement on Human Rights, CDL Home Ownership as it requires employers to offer jobs health screening programme at a and capabilities of our employees. provides short-term, non-judgmental fully complies with the following Plan to ensure a property that is fully to employees reaching the retirement discounted price. Remuneration package for an and confidential assistance to all CDL legislations focusing on welfare and paid-up when members retire. age, but does not need to be for the employee is given based on merit and employees in the form of telephonic, rights of our employees. same job position or on the same salary Physical Health: Apart from Family Protection job worth. Employees are eligible for face-to-face or electronically delivered and terms. monthly fruit days where employees (1) Employment Act Several schemes and insurance plans overtime compensation in accordance consultations by accredited professional receive a fruit each month, CDL such as Dependents’ Protection with the Employment Act. counsellors in the areas of work, The Employment Act provides the The legislation requires employers to organises various sports and wellness Scheme, Home Protection Scheme, interpersonal relations, marriage and statutory requirements that must be offer re-employment to employees programmes to encourage employees The Company has adopted the catastrophic medical insurance family, etc. adhered to when hiring employees with satisfactory performance and who to have an active and healthy internal parity and market alignment scheme and even severe disability are medically fit, to continue working lifestyle. Other incentives include The Company’s intranet portal which in Singapore. CDL not only adheres insurance scheme to protect CPF approach at the same time without beyond the age of 62, till age 65. If partnership with a fitness centre houses information such as employment strictly to the Employment Act, but members and their families. comprising the right people in the employers are unable to find suitable to enable employees and their terms, benefits and practices, Code of provides our employees with benefits right jobs. Salary benchmarking Asset Enhancement jobs for eligible employees, they should family members to enjoy attractive Business and Ethical Conduct is also exceeding the requirements and also exercises are conducted on a regular CPF members have the choice to offer the departing employees a one-off corporate membership rates. available to all employees. extend those benefits to managerial basis to ensure that compensation decide for themselves how to invest Employment Assistance Payment to help and executive employees, who are not Mental Health: Since 2008, CDL is competitive. their CPF savings, and what risks to them for a period of time while they covered under the Act. One example has made the Employee Assistance CAREER MANAGEMENT accept, to ensure their financial welllook for another job. CDL’s annual Excellent Staff Award is provision of annual leave benefits Programme available to assist rewards outstanding employees under that are better than that stated in the being after retirement. CDL has a current re-employment employees on work-related issues, the following categories. Financial CDL has a well-structured performance Act. Other benefits include provision practice of extending employment to interpersonal relations, family, etc. (3) Pro-Baby Legislation and non-financial rewards are given to appraisal system where open of comprehensive insurance coverage employees who have reached retirement It provides confidential help, with the recipients. performance appraisal exercises take for employees. In support of the Government’s age, but are still able to contribute to the initial consultation fees borne by place on an annual basis. The Company initiatives towards encouraging CDL, at full pay since 2005. In fact, CDL the Company. • Excellent Community Work (2) CPF Scheme and Retirement a higher birth rate in Singapore, has introduced the Balanced Scorecard formalised our re-employment policy as a tool to establish performance CDL has adopted measures in line CDL’s influence has inspired our • Excellent Sports Performance The Central Provident Fund (CPF) with effect 1 July 2011, six months indicators, set the expectations for all with the Government’s pro-baby builders and consultants to establish is a comprehensive social security ahead of government legislation. • Excellent Corporate Activities employees, and to measure performance legislations, which were passed and their own EHS management systems savings plan which aims to provide At the age of 62, employees who meet and more than 50% of them have • Excellent Service against agreed upon objectives. working Singaporeans/Permanent made effective from 31 October 2008. CDL’s re-employment criteria (i.e. obtained the ISO 14001 and OHSAS (Internal/External) Residents with a sense of security The revisions were made to enhance Apart from work-related objectives, pro-baby benefits such as extended satisfactory performance and medically 18001 standards. All main builders of and confidence in their old age. CDL • Excellent Commitment Managers are expected to perform maternity leave, childcare and infant fit, with availability of a suitable role) CDL projects are required to attain assists employees to make monthly the role of a “People Manager” to care leave. and are re-employed into the same job, both certificates. • Excellent Innovation & Creativity contributions which are deductible all their reporting employees. Heads which would be converted to a yearly from their monthly gross salaries into As per the legislation, paid maternity of Department, in particular, are contract term with no change in existing their CPF accounts as required by law. leave stands at 16 weeks for mothers TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION required to include HR-related items benefits and salary, are also eligible for such as retention rate, employee with Singapore Citizen births. CDL, as the employer, also makes all bonus payouts. engagement score and employee Employees with Singapore Citizen monthly CPF contribution for all CDL conducts annual training needs CDL has policies and procedures training hours into their own balanced employees (Singapore Citizens and children will be entitled to six days analysis at the individual and in place to manage employee WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY scorecards, which directly impact their Singapore Permanent Residents) at of paid childcare leave per year if corporate levels to determine the grievances, if any, to ensure the performance evaluations. the rates set out at the CPF Act. they have at least one child under the types of training interventions that matter is heard in a fair and impartial age of seven years. Employees with All departments are to adhere to the could be conducted to address the manner. Disciplinary action is guided Moving forward, CDL will be instituting CPF contribution is a percentage Singapore Citizen children may apply principles of the EHS Policy. Workplace Company’s learning gaps. Taking into by a set of Code of Conduct and, a mid-year review to ensure that of the monthly salary and varies for up to six days of unpaid infant Safety and Health risk assessment and account CDL’s strategic directives, a there is a Whistle-blowing Policy that supervisors provide constant feedback according to the employee’s age. care leave per year to care for their awareness briefings are conducted for company-wide learning plan is then deals with the receipt, retention and coaching to our employees. The These savings earn a minimum riskchild of two years or below of age. employees regularly. The Risk Register implemented. This is to ensure that and treatment of complaints Company also plans to embark on a free interest of 2.5% guaranteed by is reviewed annually to monitor the all employees are equipped with regarding the Company’s accounting, mentoring programme for identified the Government while a portion of CDL’s lactation room was created Company’s performance. skillsets that are aligned with the financial reporting, internal controls employees where senior management the savings will earn a guaranteed in late 2006 to facilitate our Company’s objectives. and auditing matters, as well as will be appointed as their mentors. minimum of 4% interest. female employees’ transition In addition to comprehensive insurance protection of the confidential or Mentors will understand mentee’s from their maternity leave back coverage and flexible working hour Each employee is required to set aside anonymous reporting by employees career aspirations and offer coaching, to the workforce. The room was arrangements, CDL established an at least four days for training per regarding legitimate concerns. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 INITIATIVES Actions That Define Us 24 325 OUR COMMUNITY subsequently renovated to create In 2011, CDL continued to support In 2011, CDL continued to support YOUTH DEVELOPMENT the monthly food distribution and Children’s Aid Society, Asian Women’s additional space to meet the increased and initiate numerous cross-sector environmental conservation by befriending programme since 1999. Welfare Association, Henderson Senior demand from two employees in 2006 to projects with developmental working with many partners on Citizens’ Home, Man Fut Tong Nursing CDL believes in the importance of As a long-standing partner of Assisi eight in 2010. objectives, direct engagement various programmes and events. Home and Viriya Community Services. youth development and nurturing Hospice since 1999, CDL and our with beneficiaries, and dialogues In 2011, 15 eligible female CDL (3) Project:Eco-Office the new generation of business and subsidiary company, CBM Pte Ltd, In addition, the sale of 60 copies of with stakeholders for a sustained employees extended their maternity community leaders. once again co-organised the annual the latest edition of “Heart Voyage” impact. CDL’s four key areas of the Initiated by CDL and our NGO partner benefits and 12 are still employed by Charity Fun Day held on 19 June 2011, photo art book series raised some environment, youth development, Singapore Environment Council (SEC) In March 2011, CDL launched the CDL as at May 2012. Paternity leave for families to revel in a day of fun S$300,000 for President’s Challenge in the less fortunate and the arts in 2002, Project: Eco-Office has been inaugural CDL-Singapore Compact Young is not legislated in Singapore but CDL and to engage in the spirit of giving. 2011. Collectively, this initiative has remained central in all our targeting office workers in Singapore CSR Leaders Award. A total of 27 teams, extends one day of paternity leave to While CBM Pte Ltd provided services raised over S$550,000 for President’s community investments. to adopt eco-friendly practices in the made up of 143 students, submitted eligible male employees. in the areas of cleaning management Challenge through the sale of the office. Through the wide distribution their CSR proposals on Singaporeas well as carpark and traffic control, three volumes of the “Heart Voyage” (4) Child and Forced Labour THE ENVIRONMENT of the Eco-Office Kit, launch of an based Small, Medium-sized Enterprises CDL together with our sister hotels art book. online Eco-Office Audit, Green Office (SMEs) representing a diverse range of To date, Singapore has ratified 20 took up eight stalls to sell delicacies Label Certification and numerous industries. 10 short-listed teams were International Labour Organization In partnership with Non-Governmental manned by over 200 CDL volunteers. THE ARTS awareness campaigns, some 110 assigned to their respective SMEs for the (ILOs) Conventions, including five Organisations (NGOs) and Government short work attachments and mentored offices have received the Eco-Office With a plethora of stalls ranging Core Conventions. They cover the four agencies in 2011, CDL continued to by CSR consultants who helped refine Certificates to date, a commendable from delectable cuisines, handicraft, CDL has long been a strong supporter key areas of employment standards: sustain our commitment to raise and improve their proposals. The number from just four awardees games, apparel to jumble sales, of the arts scene in Singapore. CDL child labour; forced labour; collective environmental awareness and winners were presented their awards (including CDL), when it was first the Assisi Charity Fun Day raised has initiated two signature arts bargaining and equal remuneration. conservation. Activities included: during the opening ceremony at the launched in 2005. over S$800,000 for the expansion projects, namely, the CDL Singapore Singapore has legislations in place (1) CASP Singapore Compact CSR Summit which and improvement of the Hospice’s Sculpture Award in 2002 and the (4) Earth Hour was attended by some 300 delegates such as the Singapore Employment three core services, in-patient care, Singapore Youth Photographer Award Act, Retirement Act, Workplace Safety A committed partner of the National CDL has been supporting World representing the government, home care and day care centres (SYPA) in 2006 to nurture artistic & Health Act, Factories Act, etc that Environment Agency (NEA)’s Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)’s Earth business, NGO, media and academic relieving the Hospice of a huge talents in Singapore. In 2011, SYPA imposes legal restrictions to mitigate Corporate & School Partnership Hour campaign by engaging various institution sectors. bulk of expenses especially with a 2012 was launched, offering new risks and incidents of child labour (CASP) since 2005, CDL adopted five stakeholders since its launch in rising number of adult and pediatric CDL also extended our support to a categories and exciting themes. and forced labour. For example, the schools and helped them to nurture Singapore in 2008. In addition to the patients requiring hospice care. growing number of youth-led community This biennial award has evolved to Singapore Employment Act imposes environmental interest and action 98% tenant participation rate at 13 developmental projects in Singapore In November 2011, volunteers cast a larger net to capture more restriction on the employment of through environmental projects CDL buildings during the Earth Hour and abroad in 2011. More details can be from CDL participated in a unique young and budding photographic children below 13 years of age and that each school embarks on each 2011, the Company initiated “Halffound in Chapter 3: Impacts. sleepover programme at Jurong Bird talents. Its aim remains to nurture stipulates a clear set of laws for year for the annual Clean and Green Hour Off” to encourage tenants to Park with a group of 30 children from young photographers as well as employment of children who are Singapore Schools’ Carnival, which turn off their air-conditioners for Dreams @ Kolam Ayer, organised by elevate the standard of photography between 13 to 15 years of age, attracted over 10,000 visitors in half an hour on Friday, 25 March in CHARITY CSC as part of the Club’s on-going in Singapore. their working hours and the type of 2011. CDL also sponsored the Climate the same 13 buildings. On average, Change Photography Competition at character development activities To commemorate the milestone work that they can be engaged in. 75% of the tenants in these buildings CDL has sustained our corporate the Carnival. for these less-privileged children. railway land swap between Singapore The Commissioner for Labour must participated in this initiative, with volunteering culture through City The programme involved sumptuous and Malaysia and preserve the be notified if they are engaged in (2) CDL E-Generation Challenge 100% from three buildings. Sunshine Club (CSC). Since 1999, CSC meals for everyone and a Night Walk historical significance of the railway industrial undertakings or have obtained has provided a pro-giving platform for Back for the second year in 2011, Other organisations CDL has of Confidence where the children in Singapore, CDL’s Managing Director permission to work on their rest days. CDL's employees and their families to CDL E-Generation Challenge drew engaged and supported include learnt to overcome their fear as they Kwek Leng Joo teamed up with In addition to the current Singapore China Exploration & Research contribute to the community through were guided in pitch darkness by 280 youths from over 10 tertiary established watercolourist, Ong Kim legislations, CDL ensures that all Society (CERS), Eco-business.com, various forms of support for the sick, CSC volunteers. CSC also organised institutions to CDL’s annual green rally Seng and presented a joint photoemployees are issued employment ECOplosion, Environmental Challenge elderly, the disadvantaged children and activities for different groups of which aims to provide youths a fun cum-water painting exhibition titled contracts stipulating clear employment Organisation (Singapore), Nature youth-at-risk on a sustained basis. children and youths, on their outings platform to foster eco-consciousness. “Tracking Memories” at the National terms and conditions. Participating students faced various Society (Singapore) and Singapore In recognition of CDL’s long-term to City Square Mall such as a Museum of Singapore. green challenges in the form of tasks, Institute of International Affairs (SIIA). commitment in community engagement Sesame Street colouring and green handicraft workshop. The winning work of the 4th CDL quizzes and activities which focused and contributions, we were conferred Singapore Sculpture Award, An on six sustainability topics, namely the Merit Award by the Lions Befrienders Beyond the activities of CSC, CDL Enclosure for a Swing by Kevin Lim Energy, Water, Shelter (Buildings), Service Association (Singapore). The also supported numerous worthy was commissioned and completed Biodiversity, Waste and Food. This Befriending Programme reaches out fundraising events, campaigns and before the official opening of the annual event was also supported to about 2,500 lonely seniors through long-term projects in collaboration Bishan-Ang Mo Kio Park in March 2012. by NEA. weekly visitations by 1,200 volunteers with partners including the Arc To date, CDL has commissioned five nation-wide. CDL has participated in Children’s Centre, Boys’ Brigade, sculptures sited in public spaces. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 26 327 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE CDL has long been committed to achieving business excellence while maintaining good social and environmental performance. The Company strives to “do well” financially and make a positive contribution towards the society and environment for the future generations at the same time. FINANCIAL IMPACT (1) 5-Year Financial Highlights Year 2007 2008 2009 2010(3) 2011 Revenue (S$million) 3,106 2,945 3,273 3,103 3,280 Profit before tax (S$million) 955 834 832 1,067 1,136 Profit for the year attributable to 725 581 593 784 799 owners of the Company (S$million) Net gearing ratio 0.48 0.48 0.40 0.29 0.21 Return on equity (%) 13.9 10.7 9.9 12.5 11.7 Net asset value per share (S$) 5.72 5.97 6.57 6.89 7.51 Basic earnings per share (cents) 78.3 62.5 63.8 84.8 86.4 Dividends (a) Ordinary Dividend (Gross) Per Share • Final (cents) 7.5(1) 7.5(1) 8.0(1) 8.0(1) 8.0(2) • Special Interim (cents) 10.0 5.0(1) • Special Final (cents) 12.5 (1) 10.0 (1) 5.0(2) (b) Preference Dividend (Net) 3.9(1) 3.9(1) 3.9(1) 3.9(1) 3.9(1) Per Share (cents) Notes: (1) Dividends declared were tax-exempt (one-tier). (2) Final and special final tax-exempt (one-tier) ordinary dividends proposed for financial year ended 31 December 2011 had been approved by the ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2012. (3) Certain accounting policies or accounting standards had changed in the financial year 2011. Only the financial information presented above for the year preceding 2011 had been restated to reflect the relevant changes in accounting policies or accounting standards. (2) Capital Management (3) Net Gearing As at As at 31/12/11 31/12/10 Net Gearing (%) Cash and cash equivalents 2,603 1,874 60 (S$million) CHANGES THAT INSPIRE US Net borrowings (S$million) 1,816 2,346 CDL aspires to make a positive impact on our stakeholders. To do this, Net gearing ratio (a) 0.21 0.29 40 we embrace sustainable and mutually beneficial partnerships that may be measured tangibly and intangibly. Net gearing ratio if fair value gains on investment 0.15 0.21(b) 20 We measure our performance to assess where our strengths lie and to properties are taken in seek improvements in areas where there are gaps. Our achievements Interest cover ratio (times) 21.8 21.3(b) are made possible by the patronage, support, trust and loyalty shown by CDL stakeholders that remain the pillars of CDL’s success this past Notes: (a) Excludes fair value gains on investment properties as the 0 Group’s accounting policy is to state its investment 49 years. properties at cost less accumulated depreciation and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 impairment losses. Our CSR efforts are an ongoing journey. Ultimately, the best payback If fair value gains on investment properties are taken in. (b) Restated to take into account the retrospective for CDL is being of service — to provide value to our investors, adjustments arising from the adoption of INT FRS 115 — business associates and customers, to nurture employees and the Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate. community and to protect the environment. CDL’s financial information is described in more detail in our Annual Report 2011. Current and previous reports are available online at www.cdl.com.sg. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 28 329 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SOCIAL IMPACT 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Used Employee Turnover Rate (%) 16.8 17.1 10.7 13.7 14.4 CDL Worksites (kWh/m2) 55 43 46 27 49 Employee Satisfaction (%) NA ≥ 90 ≥ 90 ≥ 90 NA+ CDL Worksites (k kWh) 10,420 9,860 8,248 4,613 5,150 Employee Effective Index (%) NA NA NA NA 69 CDL Commercial Buildings (kWh/month/m2) 18.86 18.84 17.70 16.73 16.39 Medical Leave Taken Per Employee ≤4 ≤4 ≤4 ≤4 4.5 CDL Industrial Buildings (kWh/month/m2) 10.44 9.36 9.75 9.01 8.16 (number of days) CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (k kWh) 57,894 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 Gender Diversification: 55 57 57 55 50 Females as Heads of Department (%) CDL Corporate Office (kWh/m2) 104 93 91 86 84 Average Service Per Employee (number of years) 8.3 8.1 8.4 8.8 8.9 CDL Corporate Office (k kWh) 634 570 558 528 513 Total CSR and Environment-related CDL Total Energy Used (k kWh) 68,948 65,422 61,496 71,708 66,230 1,193 1,075 >3,000 3,694 3,287 Training (hours) Water Used Product Quality and Sustainability CDL Worksites (m3/m2) 0.70 0.68 0.80 1.10 1.20 New Developments to be Well-ranked Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes CDL Worksites (m3) 130,263 154,273 150,176 182,859 127,426 on CONQUAS CDL Commercial Buildings (m3/month/m2) 0.14 0.16 0.19 0.14 0.14 New Developments to be Certified BCA Green Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes* Mark Gold and Above CDL Industrial Buildings (m /month/m ) 3 2 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 Employee Volunteerism CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (m3) 463,970 478,363 453,382 581,784 552,356 Participation Rate (%) 50 66 85 60 71 CDL Corporate Office (m ) 3 NA NA NA NA 2,737 (1) Participation Rate (hours) 2,242 2,644 5,524 2,894 2,838 CDL Total Water Used (m ) 3 594,233 632,636 603,558 764,643 682,519 (2) Health and Safety (a) At the Corporate Office: NEWater Used at CDL Commercial Buildings (m3) NA 84,016 101,412 123,344 136,269 • Injury rate and occupational 0 0 0 0 0 Construction Waste disease (number) Generated at CDL Worksites (kg/m2) 65.90 59.87 61.70 46.50 24.50 (b) At CDL Worksites: Generated at CDL Worksites (tonnes) 12,553 13,587 11,160 8,071 2,552 • Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 0.4 0.52 0.38 0.23 0.11 (number of workplace accidents per Paper Recycling million manhours worked) CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (kg) 417,074 384,047 320,233 374,050 361,397 • Injury Rate (number of fatal and nonTenants Participation Rate at CDL Commercial fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 118 273 100 63 30 81 88 >90 >90 >90 and Industrial Buildings (%) persons employed) Paper Use + From 2011, an Employee Effective Index has been incorporated in place. * All new developments to be certified BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS and above from 2011. CDL Corporate Office (Number of A4 reams) 5,410 4,796 4,395 3,774 3,488 Carbon Emissions CDL Worksites (tonnes CO2) 5,450 5,159 4,137 2,196 2,452 CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings 30,283 28,778 26,429 31,693 28,836 (tonnes CO2) CDL Corporate Office (tonnes CO2) 332 298 280 251 244 CDL Business Travel (tonnes CO2) 79 132 78 81 57 Total Carbon Emissions (tonnes CO2) 36,144 34,367 30,924 34,221 31,589 Compliants on Construction Noise CDL Worksites (number) 1 2 3 4 2 (1) Water used at CDL Corporate Office was tracked from 2011. (2) Total Water Used from 2007 to 2010 excludes Corporate Office. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 30 331 SUSTAINABILITY RANKINGS, KEY CSR AWARDS & BENCHMARKS AND COMMITMENTS ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2011/2012^ 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Business Environmental Social Sustainability Rankings and Benchmarks 2012 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World 2010 (81st), 2011 (100th) & 2012 (62nd) Asian Sustainability Rating TM (%) 66 74 84 81 NA # CDL was once again included in this prestigious global ranking by Corporate Carbon Disclosure Project Participated since 2007 and disclosure to the public from 2009 Knights Research Group, announced annually at the World Economic Forum, Davos. As the only Singapore company to have been listed for three consecutive years Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since 2010, CDL's ranking on this stringent global listing also improved from 100th Listed since 2011 (DJSI World and DJSI Asia Pacific) to 62nd position. FTSE4Good Index Series Listed since 2002 Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Awards 2012 For CDL’s commitment to sustainability, quality, productivity, design and Global 100 Most Sustainable construction excellence, we were accorded 13 Green Mark Awards, three NA NA #81 #100 #62 Corporations in the World (ranking) Construction Excellence Awards, five Construction Productivity Awards (including Singapore Quality Class Certified since 2009* four Platinum), two Design and Engineering Safety Excellence Awards and two Universal Design Awards. In total, CDL received 25 Awards at the BCA Awards 2012, Sustainability Commitments and Certifications the most by a private developer. Anti-Corruption & Channel NewsAsia Green Luminary Award 2012 Signatory since 2009 Compliance Declaration With environmental sustainability becoming a key to business success, this award identifies the Asian company that leads in employing green practices in its main Caring for Climate Statement Signatory since 2008 business practice. CDL received this award as recognition of our conscientious efforts Securities Investors Association to be environmentally friendly through our business operations and community (Singapore) SIAS Corporate Signatory since 2010 programmes. The Channel NewsAsia Luminary Awards are accorded annually to the Governance Statement of Support best companies and business minds in Asia. UN Global Compact Signatory since 2005 Trusted Brands 2012: Property Developer Category Launched in 1999, the Reader’s Digest Trusted Brands Survey in Asia is now in its ISO 9001 (15 CDL Buildings) Since 2007 14th year and recognises brands which reflect trustworthiness and credibility, deliver quality, value, understanding of customer needs, innovation and corporate social ISO 14001 (Property Development responsibility. A total of 8,000 respondents in Asia, including 1,000 from Singapore, Since 2003 and Project Management) were polled in the Reader’s Digest Annual Consumer Brand Preference Survey 2012 and CDL was voted as a Trusted Brand Gold Winner under the Property Developer ISO 14001 (Corporate Management Since 2008 Category in Singapore. The Reader’s Digest Trusted Brands are voted solely by and Operations) consumers and the achievement of this award is testimony of the strong trust and OHSAS 18001 (Property Development confidence that consumers have in CDL. Since 2003 and Project Management) BCI Asia Top 10 Developers Award (since 2011) OHSAS 18001 (Property Management) Since 2011 CDL was once again accorded Singapore’s BCI Asia Top 10 Developers Award 2012, further reaffirming CDL’s efforts in shaping and influencing the built environment. Sustainability Reporting The BCI Asia Awards, which is now in its 7th year, is a regional event honouring the best in the building and property development in Hong Kong SAR, Indonesia, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. (Application Level Check for C B+ B+ B+ A+ CDL's Sustainability Reports) FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Awards — Winner of the Sustainable Development Category (2011 and 2012) Performance CDL’s concerted efforts and investment in green building infrastructure and AA1000 Assurance Standard information technology was recognised once again at the prestigious FIABCI Prix d’Excellence (AA1000AS 2008 applied to NA only with Type 2 Type 2 Type 2 Awards 2012 with 11 Tampines Concourse winning the Sustainable Development CDL's Sustainability Reports) reference to Category. This is the second consecutive year CDL has bagged the Sustainable AA1000AS Development Category with 7 & 9 Tampines Grande accorded this honour in 2011 ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on — a testament to CDL’s excellence and leadership in the drive towards quality Strategic alignment since 2009 sustainable developments. Awarded by an international panel comprising top real social responsibility estate professionals and experts, the FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Award is conferred to # Not available at time of print. outstanding projects that embody excellence in all real estate disciplines involved * Recertified in 2012. in its creation. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 32 333 2011 Business Environmental Social 2011 Business Environmental Social FTSE4Good Index Series (since 2002) Leading HR Practices in Corporate Social Responsibility Award Amongst an elite group of companies worldwide that meets globally recognised Leading HR Practices in Quality Work-Life, Physical & Mental Well-Being Award corporate responsibility standards, CDL is recognised by FTSE4Good for working In our inaugural participation in the Singapore Human Resources Institute Awards, towards environmental sustainability, developing positive relationships with CDL successfully garnered the two Human Resource (HR) accolades amidst 186 stakeholders and upholding and supporting universal human rights. competing entries from government bodies, private organisations and individuals across 23 HR Awards categories. Organised by Singapore Human Resources Institute Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) (since 2011) (SHRI), a not-for-profit professional organisation, the Singapore HR Awards CDL was selected as an index component in the DJSI World and DJSI Asia Pacific celebrates leading organisations and HR practitioners in their drive for impactful based on the Company's ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) performance. human capital strategies and adopts sound, effective and appropriate human DJSI is one of the most creditable reference points in sustainability investing for resource practices. The Awards promote and recognise excellence within the HR investors and companies globally. This achievement made CDL the only Singapore profession in Singapore by highlighting leading organisational HR practices and developer to be listed on both the DJSI and FTSE4Good Index Series. HR individuals. Most Admired ASEAN Enterprises in CSR ASEAN Energy Awards 2011 — ASEAN Best Practices for Energy Efficient Buildings Inaugurated in 2007, the ASEAN Business Awards (ABA) aim to profile outstanding Organised by the ASEAN Centre of Energy (ACE), the annual ASEAN Energy Awards ASEAN enterprises which have contributed significantly to the ASEAN economy as recognise the efforts of progressive ASEAN companies to integrate energy efficient well as promising ASEAN SMEs which have the potential to become global players. practices in their buildings and projects. CDL's City Square Mall, Singapore’s first CDL added another feather to our cap when we were conferred the ASEAN Business eco-mall, emerged as the first runner-up (in the New and Existing category) for Award 2011 for CSR under the Large Company category. Energy Efficiency and Conservation Best Practices Competition for Energy Efficient Buildings. It was the only retail mall in Singapore to clinch a place in this category’s Asian Sustainability RatingTM Report list of winners. CDL's leadership in CSR and reporting was again reaffirmed in a ranking by CSR Asia and Responsible Research. The 2011 Rating comprises 750 companies and includes Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Awards 2011 the largest listed corporate entities (based on free float market capitalisation) — BCA Green Mark Platinum Champion Award across various countries. Each company's disclosure on CSR performance is In recognition of CDL’s sustained efforts and outstanding achievement in evaluated based on a set of 100 sustainability indicators. CDL was ranked 17th environmental sustainability, CDL was conferred the highest honour of the inaugural amongst 750 companies, leading the trend in Singapore as the highest ranked BCA Green Mark Platinum Champion Award, in addition to 18 BCA Green Mark company in the country. We were also ranked first amongst all companies in the real Awards. CDL is the first and only recipient of this prestigious honour, making the estate sector. CDL scored well in the General, Environment and Social sections. property pioneer, an undisputed leader in developing green buildings in Singapore. Patron of the Arts Award The Company’s ongoing efforts to ensure quality, productivity, safety and The annual Patron of the Arts Award by the National Arts Council recognises sustainable and responsible practices also saw us taking home seven Construction corporations and individuals for contributions (either monetary or in kind) towards Excellence Awards, seven inaugural Construction Productivity Awards (including four the advancement of the arts scene in Singapore. The Distinguished Patron of the Platinum) and one Universal Design Award. In total, CDL received 33 Awards at the Arts Award is presented to CDL for our sustained, outstanding contributions to the BCA Awards 2011, the most for any company to date. promotion and development of the arts. CDL was conferred the Patron of the Arts Award in 2007 and has been a recipient of the Friend of the Arts Award since 1997. Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA): Gold Medal Award (since 2006) Energy Efficiency National Partnership (EENP) Award CDL is the only private property developer in Singapore to be conferred the RoSPA (Best Practices Category) Gold Medal Award for excellence in Occupational Health and Safety management CDL was conferred the inaugural EENP Awards (Best Practices Category) in in the workplace. The Gold Medal Award is presented to organisations which have recognition for our efforts in improving energy performance at New Tech Park achieved six consecutive Gold Awards. CDL has been a recipient of the RoSPA Gold through the retrofitting of chiller plant system. Organised by the National Award since 2006. Environment Agency (NEA), Energy Market Authority (EMA) and the Economic Development Board (EDB), this award recognises the efforts and achievements of Workplace Safety and Health Awards 2011: Developer & SHARP Awards corporations/corporate teams in implementing energy efficiency improvement Celebrating best practices in workplace safety and health, the Annual Workplace programmes to reduce energy wastage. Safety and Health (WSH) Awards was introduced in 2002 by the Ministry of Manpower. In particular, the Developer Award category recognises developers which SIAS Investors' Choice Awards 2011: Among Singapore's Most Transparent have made significant contributions towards promoting Occupational Safety Health Companies (Property) (Since 2000) (OSH) practices at worksites. Accorded by Securities Investors Association (Singapore)(SIAS) and endorsed by CDL is proud to receive the distinguished Developer Award for the 5th time ­— a the Singapore Exchange, in recognition of CDL's corporate transparency based testament to our commitment towards workplace safety and health. It is also the on criteria including timeliness of news release, substantiality of news release, second consecutive year where CDL is the sole winner in this category. clarity of news release, degree of media access, frequency of corporate results, availability of segmental information and communication channels. Through CDL’s sustained efforts in engaging stakeholders to embrace an EHS conscious culture at all times, five project sites were also accorded the SHARP Singapore Top 1000 Ranking 2011 (Since 2000) (Safety and Health Award Recognition for Projects) Award. Based on turnover, net profit after tax, total assets, shareholders' funds, return on shareholders' funds and return on capital employed, CDL was amongst Singapore's ^ This list is not exhaustive. For more listings and details of CDL's CSR milestones, awards and accolades from 1997 to 2010, top 1000 companies accorded by DP Information Network. please refer to www.cdl.com.sg/app/cdl/credentials/overview.xml. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 34 335 OUR OUR ENVIRONMENT MARKETPLACE Building a green development is more than just ENERGY incorporating eco-friendly features within a property. CDL LOCAL JOB CREATION* takes concerted and sustained efforts that affect the entire Singapore faces many energy resources constraints and supply and development chain. A holistic life-cycle approach has limited potential to adopt renewable energies, hence — from design, construction, procurement, maintenance the national focus on energy efficiency. Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and user engagement, ensures business alignment with the Company’s environmental bottom line and creates positive Buildings account for about one-third of national Employee (number) >300 345 359 350 362 impacts throughout the value chain. electricity consumption. CDL remains committed to As of Year 2011, out of 362 employees, 99% of the employees and 100% of senior management employees improving our energy performance across all our business (comprising Assistant General Manager level and above) are all Singaporeans or Permanent Residents, hired CARBON EMISSIONS operations so that we can reduce electricity consumption from our local community. and carbon emissions. Climate change continues to be an urgent global issue that CDL has been harnessing renewable energy for our ETHICAL MANAGEMENT requires international attention and action. developments through the implementation of solar and Building Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) panels. In 2011, Low-lying and densely populated, Singapore is at risk from CDL buildings generated a total of 198,935 kWh of CDL had no incidents of corruption, legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour and monopoly practices the adverse impacts of climate change(1). Effects possibly renewable energy. within the Company in 2011. In addition, there were no incidents of non-compliance with laws and include coastal land loss, flooding, water resource impacts, regulations for which significant fines or non-monetary sanctions were issued to the Company. heat stress, public health implications from the resurgence CDL promotes the use of electricity directly from of diseases and impact on island and marine biodiversity. the power grid supply through a sub-station at the construction stage whenever possible. This significantly Communication Channels to CDL Ethics Officer As an alternative-energy disadvantaged country which reduces the use of diesel generators sets. The use of Email: cdl.ethics.hotline@cdl.com.sg accounts for less than 0.2% of global greenhouse gases, electricity grid power supply generates lower emissions Mobile: +65-9772-3876 Singapore’s key strategy to tackle carbon emissions is of greenhouse gases, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and Fax: +65-6226-1706 to improve energy efficiency in all sectors — transport, particulates to the environment as compared to using Postal address: CDL Ethics Officer households, industry and buildings. Buildings contribute a generator. 36 Robinson Road about 16% of Singapore’s national greenhouse gases emissions and CDL is committed to addressing climate By 2011, significant energy reduction of 22% has been #19-01 City House, Singapore 068877 achieved at CDL’s Corporate Office since 2006, mainly change in our business operations and further reducing our carbon footprint. contributed by retrofitting with energy efficient lightings and equipments such as Nanoflex Reflectors, timers, In 2011, we have reduced CDL’s total carbon intensity motion sensors, LED lights, VAV Smart Cooling diffusers CUSTOMER SATISFACTION emissions as measured in tonnes CO2/m2 by 7% from baseline and central air-con system. All new purchases of office year 2007. In other words, we produced less carbon per equipment are certified with the Energy Star Label. There were no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data. leased square metre of area. Since 2009, CDL voluntarily CDL maintained a sound level of customer satisfaction in 2011. reduced our annual carbon emissions to “net zero”(2) for 11 CDL has introduced various energy conservation and Tampines Concourse, the first CarbonNeutral® development efficiency improvements projects in our buildings. For Homebuyers' Satisfaction % in Singapore and Asia Pacific, and our Corporate Office instance, King’s Centre will reap an estimated energy operations including our data centre. savings of 483,017 kWh per year by the chiller plant, Homebuyers’ Overall Level of Satisfaction 88.7 replacement of less efficient lightings and adopting the use of solar panels in 2011. For some investment Homebuyers’ Level of Satisfaction — Recommend to Friends 82.4 properties, sensors are installed to monitor carbon CDL's Total Carbon Emissions dioxide levels in offices, and carbon monoxide levels in Tenants’ Satisfaction: the basement car park. Since 2007, the Company’s “1°C Office 90 tonnesCO2 Up Programme” has become a standard BAU practice at CDL buildings, keeping indoor temperatures at 24°C Industrial 79 36,144 34,367 30,924 34,221 31,589 on average. Retail 84 79 81 332 132 57 298 251 78 2,196 244 5,450 5,159 280 2,452 PRODUCTIVITY 4,137 In line with the Government’s push for higher construction productivity, the Productivity Excellence Award (1) National Climate Change Secretariat — Singapore vulnerabilities to was inaugurated in 2011 to recognise the efforts of builders to create higher productivity at worksites 30,283 28,778 26,429 31,693 28,836 climate change (March 2008). through the adoption of technology, efficient designs and innovative methods of construction so as to (2) ‘‘Net zero’’ or carbon neutralise refers to achieving net zero carbon emissions by balancing a measured amount of carbon released with raise the overall standard of environment, health and safety (EHS), productivity and quality of CDL’s an equivalent amount offset. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 developments. Since its inception, CDL has presented this award to two deserving builders Tiong Seng (3) CDL's property segment refers to five industrial buildings and 11 * CDL Headquarters Contractors (Pte) Ltd for Parc Emily and Dragages for The Arte. Property Projects Corp Office Business Travel commercial buildings as of 2011. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 36 337 WATER Total Energy Used(2) at all Commercial CDL's Total Energy Used(1) and Industrial Buildings In response to water scarcity, Singapore has developed a k kWh k kWh CDL Buildings NEWater used (m3) diversified and sustainable water supply using a strategy called the Four National Taps. The water comes from four 2011 2010 68,948 65,422 61,496 71,708 66,230 different sources; local catchment areas, imported water, 528 reclaimed water known as NEWater(1) and desalinated Republic Plaza 59,582 54,202 634 4,613 513 water. Recognising the natural water limitation, CDL’s 570 10,420 558 5,150 Fuji Xerox Towers 22,955 19,371 9,859 new developments are conceptualised with a strong 8,248 focus on water sustainability right from the design Manulife Centre 13,443 14,950 stage and construction process to the building’s water efficient features. Palais Renaissance 8,705 8,536 57,894 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 57,894 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 CDL’s water management strategies are based on the principles of reducing, reusing and preventing water pollution 7 & 9 Tampines Grande 31,584 26,285 from entering Singapore’s waterways by incorporating water efficient or Active, Beautiful & Clean (ABC) Water Design Total 136,269 123,344 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 features which are used during the construction phase as Property Projects Corp Office well as incorporated within new developments. For example, the Silt Water Treatment cum Water Recycling System was Total Water Used(2) at all CDL Commercial and introduced for general cleaning across all worksites since Industrial Buildings Energy Used at CDL Industrial Buildings Total Energy Used at Worksites 2004, water efficient sanitary fixtures and fittings have “very good” or “excellent” Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme m3 kWh/month/m2 k kWh kWh/m 2 (WELS) ratings and rainwater harvesting for plants irrigation. A variety of Silt and Earth Control Measures are implemented 14,000 on all worksites. The water discharged into the waterways has 55 60 12,000 readings ranging from 10 to 15 mg/litre for Total Suspended 49 50 43 46 Solids (TSS), significantly below the legal limit of 50 mg/litre. 10,000 40 All waste water is discharged into the public sewerage system 8,000 in all our investment buildings. 27 30 6,000 In 2011, CDL conserved approximately 99,237 m3 of potable 463,970 478,363 453,382 581,784 555,093 4,000 20 water at all our worksites and used some 136,269 m3 of 10.443 9.364 9.745 9.012 8.155 10,420 9,860 8,248 4,613 5,150 NEWater for operations that do not require potable water in 2,000 10 our investment buildings such as cooling towers and sprinkler 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 water tanks where infrastructure is available. Since 2007, CDL 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 has conserved 470,491 m3 of potable water from five buildings by replacing it with NEWater. Energy Used at CDL Commercial Buildings Energy Used at the Corporate Office Total Water Used by CDL Water Used at CDL Commercial Buildings kWh/month/m2 k kWh k kWh/m2 m3 m3/month/m2 594,233 632,636 603,558 764,643 682,519 140 120 2,737(2) 104 650 93 91 182,859 86 100 127,426 84 130,263 154,273 150,176 600 80 60 18.856 18.839 17.704 16.727 16.388 463,970 478,363 453,382 581,784 552,356 0.142 0.161 0.188 0.140 0.144 550 40 500 634 570 558 528 513 20 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Property Projects Corp Office (1) Energy conversion ratio: 1 kWh = 0.0036 gigajoules (GJ). (1) NEWater is treated used water that has undergone stringent purification and treatment process using advanced dual-membrane (microfiltration (2) From November 2009, we have included the electricity and water data of three new buildings and reverse osmosis) and ultraviolet technologies. (City Square Mall, 11 Tampines Concourse and 7 & 9 Tampines Grande) in the reporting. (2) Total water used by CDL. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 38 339 GREEN PROCUREMENT NOISE Water Used at CDL Industrial Buildings Total Water Used at Worksites At CDL’s Corporate Office, the Company has achieved 7.6% In Singapore, NEA regulates the noise limits for m3/month/m2 m3 m3/m2 paper reduction usage, exceeding the 5% target in 2011. construction sites, which vary depending on the time of Every department and employee has taken conscious the day and by the types of premises nearby. Construction 210,000 1.4 effort to use less paper by utilising e-mail, e-filing, doublenoise limits protect nearby residents from noise impacts. 1.2 sided photocopying/printing and reusing paper. Posters CDL is committed to complying with the noise limits at 180,000 1.2 1.1 and stickers are displayed around the office serving as an all our worksites and ensures that our builders take all 150,000 1.0 effective communication tool for our employees to conserve necessary action to address and resolve complaints due to 0.8 paper at all times. CDL’s marcom publications use ecoconstruction noise. 120,000 0.8 0.7 0.68 friendly paper, preference being for paper certified by the 90,000 0.6 In 2011, two worksites received complaints due to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). For example, the CDL construction noise from the neighbourhood. One complaint 0.088 0.089 0.088 0.082 0.077 60,000 130,263 154,273 150,176 182,859 127,426 0.4 Annual Report and Sustainability Report are printed on FSC was on noisy construction work being carried out at night certified paper. 30,00 0.2 to which the issue was immediately addressed. The other When it is feasible, CDL has also used recycled materials as complaint was on disturbances generated from the worksite. 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 an environmentally-friendly alternative in the construction In both cases, additional measures by the builders were put of our developments. For example, a wide range of in place to mitigate further possible noise impacts. WASTE RECYCLING sustainable recyclable building materials such as green concrete was used for the entire structure of 11 Tampines Number of Complaints on Construction Noise Concourse. Composite wood, which has over 30% recycled Singapore has limited space for landfills and all incinerated For many years, tenants at all CDL buildings have used Received at Worksites timber content, is commonly used for external decking in waste that is not recovered, reused, or recycled is disposed a paper recycling programme. All new tenants are CDL developments. at the four waste-to-energy incineration plants. The waste presented with a Project: Eco-Office Kit to promote the heat energy recovered from the incineration process is used 3Rs, namely, reuse, reduce and recycle. Recycling corners to generate electricity which fulfills about 2% of Singapore’s are strategically located and accessible to tenants to Total Volume of Paper Used total energy demand. promote and cultivate the recycling practice. The tenant at the Corporate Office participation rate in this programme has increased from CDL implements sustainable construction and environmentally No. of A4 reams 68% in 2005 to over 90% in 2011. -friendly site practices at our worksites. Efficient construction methods, such as the use of prefabrication and precast construction innovations are used at worksites to improve 1 2 3 4 2 Total Volume of Paper Recycled on-site management as well as to promote environmental conservation and reduce material waste. Most of the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 kg 5,410 4,796 4,395 3,774 3,488 construction building components are precasted or fabricated and tested off-site, then transported to the worksite(s) to be assembled systematically. For instance, the use of pre2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 fabricated bathroom units designed to reduce construction waste have become a standard green feature in all CDL BIODIVERSITY new developments wherever possible. 417,074 384,047 320,233 374,050 361,397 CDL is committed to complying In 2011, construction waste(1) generated at all of CDL’s As Singapore is a highly urbanised and densely populated with the noise limits at all our worksites amounted to 2,552 tonnes or 24.5 kg/m2 of GFA. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 country with a limited land space of just 710 square kilometres, the Singapore Government pays particular worksites and ensures that our Construction Waste Generated at Worksites attention to land use planning to ensure that all land is builders take all necessary action used efficiently. As a result of prudent planning, Singapore is able to dedicate 10% of land area to parks and nature to address and resolve complaints tonnes kg/m2 reserves and achieve green coverage of almost 50% of the due to construction noise. 18,000 65.9 80.0 CDL uses prefabrication and total land area. 16,000 14,000 59.87 61.7 70.0 precast construction innovations The forests in Singapore are not commercially exploited for timber or other timber products. All of CDL’s projects are not 12,000 60.0 at worksites to improve onlocated within any protected areas. CDL has incorporated a 50.0 10,000 8,000 46.5 site management as well as standard practice to assess all our sites during the planning stage to determine if any existing mature trees can be 40.0 6,000 to promote environmental conserved on-site or transplanted at a later stage to or from 24.5 30.0 4,000 20.0 conservation and reduce another CDL site. 2,000 In 2011, CDL conserved four existing mature trees on-site. 12,553 13,587 11,160 8,071 2,552 10.0 material waste. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (1) Comprising non-hazardous waste. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 40 341 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTS BCA Green Mark Awards (since 2005) 2011 Environmental Performance and 2012 Targets Green Mark Platinum CDL Corporate Management and Operations CDL has been a leader of Singapore's built environment and championing 368 Thomson South Beach Commercial EHS Policy Performance 2011 Objectives 2011 Targets 2012 Objectives 2012 Targets the development of more sustainable City Square Mall (in new and South Beach Residential Key Pointers in 2011 buildings even before the introduction existing building categories)++++ 7 & 9 Tampines Grande of BCA's Green Mark in 2005. CDL Cliveden at Grange (in new and existing building Green To use ecoTo achieve 80% Achieved To use ecoTo achieve 90% use invests between 2% and 5% of Cube 8 categories)++++ Corporate friendly paper use of eco100% use of friendly paper of eco-friendly or the construction cost of a new Fuji Xerox Towers+++ The Glyndebourne Culture in marcom friendly paper eco-friendly in Communication recycled paper or development on green building design The Oceanfront @ Sentosa Cove publications for marcom paper publications FSC certified paper H2O Residences and features and we have raised the The Residences at W Singapore publications by end of 2012 HAUS@SERANGOON GARDEN target of achieving a minimum BCA Sentosa Cove Green Mark GoldPlus rating for all Hundred Trees The Solitaire new developments in 2011 from a Quayside Isle To promote green To purchase/ Achieved Objective excluded Tree House procurement use eco-friendly for 2012 BCA Green Mark Gold. Redevelopment of Lucky Tower Volari practices office furniture, at 57 Grange Road CDL's key BCA Awards W Singapore Sentosa Cove fittings and Republic Plaza++++ accolades include: equipment Green Mark Gold Plus 11 Tampines Concourse Livia To promote To organise four Achieved To promote ecoTo organise four eco62 GREEN MARK (in new and existing building Manulife Centre+++ eco-consciousness eco-related consciousness related awareness DEVELOPMENTS INCLUDING categories)++++ NV Residences and a “green” awareness and reinforce a events/ campaigns 21 GREEN MARK PLATINUM Blossom Residences Pasir Ris Grove (Parcel 3) culture amongst events/ “green” culture for staff DEVELOPMENTS Buckley 18 * Shelford Suites staff campaigns amongst staff To sustain awareness (the highest number amongst Buckley Classique for staff private developers to date) St. Regis Hotel & Residences, via frequent CDL Office ­— City House, Singapore communication ­— six Levels 2 & 5 email blasts a year BCA GREEN MARK The Arte (Green Mark for Office Interior)++++ CHAMPION AWARD 2008 The Palette CDL Office — City Square Mall Management Office The Rainforest Resource To reduce the use To achieve 5% Achieved To reduce the use To achieve average BCA BUILT ENVIRONMENT (Green Mark for Office Interior) UP@Robertson Quay Conservation of paper reduction in 7.6% of paper use of 11.5 reams LEADERSHIP PLATINUM City Square Residences Wilkie Studio & Pollution paper usage reduction of A4 paper per AWARD 2009 King’s Centre Prevention for in-house in paper headcount per year photocopying consumption Leonie Hill Condominium BCA GREEN MARK PLATINUM and printing CHAMPION AWARD 2011 Green Mark Gold Botannia Millennium Residences @ CDL Office — City House, Levels 3, Sukhumvit, Bangkok To reduce the use (a) To achieve Achieved To reduce the use (a) To achieve 4 and 22 (Green Mark for Monterey Park Condominium of electricity 5% reduction 7.8% of electricity average Office Interior) New Tech Park in electricity reduction in electricity Nouvel 18 usage, electricity consumption of CDL Office ­— Republic Plaza, (excluding consumption 4.4 kWh/m2 Level 36 (Green Mark for One Shenton computer (excluding (excluding Office Interior) Palais Renaissance++ room) computer computer room) Central Mall (Office Tower)++ Parc Emily room) City House++ Residences @ Evelyn (b) To monitor (b) To monitor City Square Shophouses at Savannah CondoPark power power utilisation Jalan Besar utilisation of computer The Sail @ Marina Bay of computer room to Exchange Tower, Bangkok++++ Tribeca room maintain optimal Green Mark Certified efficiency Butterworth 33 The Pier at Robertson Pantech 21+ To reduce the use To monitor water Achieved To reduce the use To monitor average of water usage by floor of water water consumption * Project managed by CDL (m3/m2) by floor to + Recertified in 2009 maintain optimal ++ Recertified in 2010 efficiency +++ Recertified in 2011 ++++ Recertified in 2012 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 42 343 OUR OUR WORKPLACE COMMUNITY CDL constantly seeks to create EMPLOYEE RETENTION AND SATISFACTION Community engagement at CDL goes beyond charity a diverse, skilled and healthy Accident Frequency Rate(1) at Worksites workforce that creates new values and philanthropy. We embrace a synergistic strategy of and contributes to the organisational collaborative ideas and resources, creating sustained and No. of workplace accidents per million manhours worked CDL’s employee turnover continued to remain significantly success. The Company’s efforts direct impact on the community so that the Company and lower than the national average. More than 50% of our have resulted in sound safety the community can grow together. employees have been with CDL for more than five years. The performance, low turnover rate average length of service of each employee was 8.9 years in Beyond our direct engagement and contribution and a satisfied workforce. 2011 (2010: 8.8 years). through the employee volunteering platform since 1999, CDL has supported numerous awareness-raising events CDL places high emphasis on engaging our employees and HEALTH AND SAFETY and community projects. The Company has encouraged, ensuring that they remain satisfied, committed and motivated in particular, projects with clear developmental to play important roles in the success of the Company. CDL 3.00 2.90 2.70 2.20 1.60 objectives, direct engagement with beneficiaries, At CDL’s Corporate Office, in 2011, has been organising Employee Engagement Surveys to acquire dialogue with stakeholders and measurable as well as the percentage of employees with insights into areas of potential employee-related concerns 0.40 0.52 0.38 0.23 0.11 sustained outcomes. high Body Mass Index (BMI) (>23) was in order to proactively address them. In 2011, the Employee 16%, which is lower than the national 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Engagement Survey was conducted by a third party consultant average and the average medical CDL Construction Industry Average (Source: MOM) for greater impartialilty. Employee Volunteer Participation Rate leave per employee was 4.5 days. CDL achieved a score of 69% which is higher than the Year % There was also zero occupational Workplace Injury Rate(2) at Worksites Singapore country norm for level of Employee Effectiveness diseases and no loss days due to work2007 50 Index in 2011. At CDL, Heads of Department are required to related fatalities. play a positive role in engaging the employees and developing No. of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons employed 2008 66 CDL remains committed to achieving concrete post-employee survey action plans to address the vision of a safe and healthy existing gaps. 2009 85 workplace for everyone and upholding 2010 60 a good safety record. Over the years, CDL’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) Employee Turnover (CDL vs National Average) 2011 71 and Workplace Injury Rate remained below the construction industry’s % average value as a result of the various safety promotions and engagement Total Number of Volunteer Hours with the builders and their workers at the worksites. 118 831 273 796 100 741 63 30 Employee volunteer manhours 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20.4 23.7 21.3 25.2 32.4 CDL Construction Industry Average (Source: MOM) 16.8 17.1 10.7 13.7 14.4 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CDL National Average 2,242 2,644 5,524 2,894 2,838 HUMAN RIGHTS CDL constantly seeks to create 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 a diverse, skilled and healthy The Singapore Employment Act imposes restriction on the workforce that creates new employment of children who are below 13 years of age and stipulates a clear set of laws for employment of children values and contributes to the between 13 and 15 years of age, including their working hours and the type of work that they can be engaged in. The CDL embraces a synergistic organisational success. Commissioner for Labour must be notified if they are engaged strategy of collaborative ideas and in industrial undertakings or have obtained permission to work on their rest days. resources, creating sustained and In addition to the current Singapore legislations, CDL direct impact on the community ensures that all employees are issued employment contracts stipulating clear employment terms and conditions. so that the Company and the AFR refers to the number of workplace accidents per million manhours worked. Figures used are incident based. For details, community can grow together. (1) please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. (2) Workplace Injury rate refers to the number of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons employed. Figures used In 2011, no incidents and grievances of discrimination, child are victim-based. Construction Industry Average figures since 2010 have not been published by MOM. For details, please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. labour and forced labour were reported at CDL. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 IMPACTS Changes That Inspire Us 44 345 KEY PROJECTS information like links to stories on Other supporting organisations SYPA 2012 is supported by the following organisations: 2902 Gallery, AVS Printing Pte Ltd, Ministry of Education, National Museum environmental issues. included BCA, Environmental Challenge of Singapore, and Pico Art International Pte Ltd. Organisation (Singapore), Singapore Project: Eco-Office SEC, which administers the EcoCDL also continued our support for youth-led developmental projects in Singapore and abroad in 2011. Some of these Motor Sports Association as well as Office certification, has also set an projects include: PIONEERING PROGRAMME CDL’s own City Square Mall, Singapore’s ambitious target to add another 100 LAUNCHED IN 2002 first-eco mall. certified offices this year alone in OVER 100 CERTIFIED OFFICES the hope that it will contribute to Singapore Young Photographer Key Projects Impact SINCE 2005 Singapore’s commitment to reduce Award (SYPA) its carbon emissions in support of the Serve Cambodia Housing & Education TARGET OF ANOTHER NEW CATEGORIES IN 2012 TO CAST 14 undergraduate students helped the local villagers on Widow’s Colony (Koh Kor Island), Sustainable Singapore Blueprint. 100 OFFICES IN 2012 LARGER NET Cambodia, and improved their quality of life through the construction of three houses and CDL E-Generation Challenge conducted children’s programmes comprising of art sessions, English classes, planting sessions Project: Eco-Office was first launched INAUGURAL AWARD REACHED OUT RECORD 38 TEAMS FROM TO 185 ORGANISATIONS and games. on 5 June 2002 by CDL and the Singapore Environment Council (SEC), 22 IN 2010 RECEIVED OVER 1,000 ENTRIES Project An Housing & Literacy targeting the business community by 380 PARTICIPANTS IN 2012 IN 2010 21 students helped children living below the poverty line in Ben Tre Province, Viet Nam, and providing a ‘‘starter kit’’ to cultivate environmental-consciousness in the CHALLENGING CARBON The Singapore Young Photographer served approximately 185 young pupils at the Loang Hoa Primary school, situated in the Loang workplace. The aim was to bring the FOOTPRINT THEME Award was initiated by CDL in 2006, in Hoa Commune by building a day-care centre and a cookhouse and conducting English lessons environmental message to offices by partnership with five major photoclubs, over a two-week period. In 2010, CDL initiated the inaugural making available posters and stickers the Singapore Art Museum and National CDL E-Generation Challenge, an ecowith environmental messages to be Youth Achievement Award Council, Project Pangarap Education themed “Amazing Race” style national displayed in the office. to nurture young local photography CDL’s support contributed to equipment of village computers with educational tools for competition targeted at youths, in talents. Besides managing this nationalslum communities in the Philippines, identified by an established local NGO, Gawad Kalinga Expanding on Project: Eco-Office celebration of Earth Day 2010. By level initiative to promote photography Community Development Inc. further, an online self-rating system utilising an eco-tainment platform amongst youths, CDL also introduced was launched in late 2003 for offices in the form of a fun green rally, this a sub-category award, CDL Young Project Fei Yue Health & Safety to determine how green they were. In competition aimed to help raise the Architectural Photographer Award Partnering with Mercy Relief, the Singapore National Youth Council (NYC) and the China 2005, offices that were rated well were level of eco-consciousness amongst that aims to identify and groom young Foundation of Poverty Alleviation (CFPA), 21 students constructed safety fences and conducted encouraged to participate in a formal the youths in Singapore. talents specialising in architectural hygiene education classes for about 500 students at the Heng Miao Xiang Jiu Yi school in audit conducted by an independent Supported by NEA and Clean and photography, which complements CDL’s Sichuan, China. An 80-metre long and 2-metre high fence was erected to prevent students from auditor. Offices that met the standard Green Singapore, the inaugural core business as a developer. falling into a deep ditch caused by the 2008 Sichuan earthquake. were awarded the Eco-Office Label competition saw some 260 youths certification. More than 100 offices The inaugural competition reached in 22 teams taking on a series of ranging from the property, banking, out to 185 secondary schools, junior Project Young IT Literacy for the Elderly eco-challenges in the form of brain construction, pharmaceutical and colleges, tertiary institutions, @ Heart Partnering with People’s Association and the Singapore Action Group for Elders (SAGE), eight teasers, physical tasks, quizzes electronic sectors, amongst many art schools, youth organisations, undergraduate students conducted IT lessons for 42 senior citizens and published a guide and activities, that were not only others, have received the Eco-Office major photo clubs, libraries and booklet pertaining to E-services in Singapore such as the Central Provident Fund (CPF) portal, fun but also showcased a range of certification since the programme community centres. entertainment and transportation information. environmental-related issues including was launched. CDL was one of four resource conservation, climate change In 2010, the 3rd instalment of the pioneering organisations that received Sit Exercise! Active Ageing and action. biennial Award attracted some 1,000 the inaugural certification in 2005 Partnering with Lions Befrienders, Filos, SAGE and Thye Hua Kwan Moral Society, a group of submissions from schools, youth and we have been re-certified three The Challenge has grown youths created an exercise routine that is suitable for senior citizens in Singapore. A nationorganisations, photography clubs and times since. tremendously since then and in wide event attended by some 450 senior citizens was followed by production of exercise freelance photographers. 2012 saw the participation of some instruction DVDs to ensure the sustainability of the exercise programme. 2012 marks the 10th Anniversary since 380 youths in 38 teams pounding As a reflection of CDL’s continued the launch of the Initiative and both the streets, driven by the “Carbon commitment to sustaining and CDL and SEC unveiled the launch of Project Sprout Access to Clean Water Footprint” theme. Participants were expanding the Award, the 4th SYPA was a new logo as well as new collaterals Endorsed by NYC and Mercy Relief, 18 youths installed a communal water filtration system in challenged to learn about their launched with a new Award title, CDL which include thought provoking Da Nang, Viet Nam, to provide clean and accessible drinking water for the villagers. carbon shoe size, and how they Singapore Young Photographer Award. messages to provide office employees may reduce their carbon footprints SYPA 2012 offered new categories and a constant reminder about the — and contribute meaningfully exciting themes to cast a larger net importance of saving our world’s natural towards mitigating the effects of to capture more young and budding resources while reflecting on simple climate change — by leading a more photographic talents. They include: CDL everyday routines. sustainable lifestyle. They faced Singapore Young Photographer Award, A new Project: Eco-Office Facebook green challenges revolving around Young Architectural Photographer page, www.facebook.com/ six key topics: Energy, Water, Shelter Award, Young Nature Photographer projectecooffice was also launched. (Buildings), Biodiversity, Waste and Award and Themed Body of Work A daily green tip is posted on the Food, which form the building blocks Award, with a total of S$27,000 worth Facebook page amongst other of a sustainable lifestyle. of cash prizes to be won. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 46 347 ABOUT OUR REPORT AND SCOPE The CDL Sustainability Report 2012 on the AA1000 Assurance Standard. our stakeholders are addressed. CDL is an annual publication dedicated The audit report including the findings adopts several processes to determine to providing economic, social and is summarised in the Independent materiality issues across our operations. environmental information and data Assurance Statement which can be Besides the CSR Committee, operationally, on CSR activities and performance found on pages 48 to 50. the Company also has various other pertinent to CDL’s business in 2011. existing management systems such as CDL is voluntarily disclosing the ACCESSIBILITY ISO 14001 Environmental Management information as the Company believes System, Singapore Quality Class and in upholding the principles of the Audit Committee that determines corporate transparency, disclosure and CDL continues to print only limited material issues of the Company. Through communication with our stakeholders. copies of this report as part of our these working groups, relevant targets environmental conservation efforts. and key performance indicators are The report solely covers CDL’s Singapore Current and previous copies of the established, tracked and disclosed within operations and focuses on our principal reports are available online at this Sustainability Report. CDL’s report business as a property developer www.cdl.com.sg. continues to integrate ISO 26000:2010 and comprising operational functions such the Company is pleased to state that it as project development, property STANDARDS OF MEASUREMENT / has included significant information in the and facilities management of both APPLICATION OF EXTERNAL GUIDELINES areas of — the environment, human rights, residential as well as commercial labour practices, product responsibility developments in Singapore. It also and society — as clearly reflected in the encompasses the Company’s activities The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) additional GRI Performance Indicators that have a material impact on the Reporting Framework including this year. community and the environment in the GRI Sustainability Reporting which we operate. Where possible Guidelines Version 3.1 and the For this report, there were no and material, CDL has included Construction & Real Estate Sector significant changes to the measuring performance data from 1 January 2007 Supplement have been used to methods applied. Increasing the scope to 31 December 2011. prepare CDL’s Sustainability Report of data collection and compiling 2012. Based on the GRI Application more comprehensive data on CDL’s Please refer to previous CDL Level Criteria for reporting, the CDL environmental and social performance Sustainability Reports for published data Sustainability Report 2012 is a Level of our business operations in Singapore from 1 January 2005 to 31 December A+ report which has been verified by remains a priority to improve the 2006 available at www.cdl.com.sg. GRI. CDL has also taken the initiative management of our data and to CDL’s subsidiary, M&C, reports on to integrate the ISO 26000:2010, achieve more consistent reporting for their CSR activities in their Annual Guidance on social responsibility into accountability. The GRI Application Level Report which is available online at our CSR strategies which has been Check Statement can be found on www.millenniumhotels.com. It included in this report. page 47 of this report. comprises CSR issues pertinent to CDL continues to support the UN their business including Responsible FEEDBACK CHANNEL Global Compact and its 10 principles, Hospitality, Responsibility to Employees, and we have addressed the areas of a Healthy Workplace, Responsibility to human rights, labour, environment CDL actively seeks and values the the Environment and Responsibility to and anti-corruption and our progress feedback extended by our stakeholders the Wider Community. in these areas in 2011. as an important way of improving our ASSURANCE CSR practices. If you have any views, More information about our sustainability reporting including comments or feedback, please send For the 4th year, the CDL Sustainability the GRI Content Index and UN them to: Report has been externally assured to Global Compact Index is available validate the accuracy and reliability of online at www.cdl.com.sg/ Ms Esther An its content. The assurance engagement sustainabilityreport2012. Head of CSR was conducted by Ere-S, a CSR In each reporting cycle, the CDL CSR City Developments Limited consulting company, and it covered all Committee reviews the content of 9 Raffles Place figures and statements found in the the report to determine its relevance #36-00 Republic Plaza report that are related to sustainability to our business as well as to ensure Singapore 048619 performance. Ere-S reviewed all that current and emerging material Republic of Singapore underlying systems and processes that issues of significance pertaining to support the sustainability report based sustainability and the interests of csrenquiries@cdl.com.sg City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 48 349 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Management and Stakeholders of City Developments Limited (CDL) statements and figures and the adherence of stakeholder engagement processes to AA1000 and GRI principles. Data collection and calculation methods were also evaluated and, where necessary, we requested the data source and other evidence to confirm the accuracy of the disclosed information. In addition to the internal SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES documents provided as proof by the data owners, we looked at external sources such as press releases and web sites. CDL engaged Ere‐S Pte Ltd to provide independent assurance on its Sustainability Report 2012. The assurance engagement was executed in accordance with a Type 2 assurance of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS FINDINGS AND OBSERVATIONS 2008), which consists of: A. Evaluating the sustainability systems and processes using the inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness On the basis of our review and a moderate level of assurance, we are confident that the sustainability criteria of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS 2008). framework of CDL represents a reasonable application of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. In our B. Evaluating the reliability of the disclosed performance information and the relevant data collection opinion, the reported performance information also provides, within satisfactory limits, a reliable and fair processes. For this, we used the GRI G3.1 reporting principles. representation of CDL’s sustainability profile and is supported by comprehensive and verifiable data and underlying management processes. The assurance scope covers the operations of CDL in Singapore, including project development, property and facilities management for residential and commercial developments during the whole year of 2011. EVALUATION OF THE ADHERENCE TO We assessed figures and statements on corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, strategy, policies, AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES procedures, key performance indicators, management systems and associated processes. Inclusivity ­ LEVEL OF ASSURANCE AND LIMITATIONS How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation in identifying issues and We provided a moderate level of assurance with desktop review, management‐level data verification finding solutions. and evidence gathering from internal sources. We did not execute multi‐level research to determine Since the previous reporting period, progress in CDL’s stakeholder engagement processes can be seen materiality issues and stakeholders relevant to the Company. The verification did not include financial data, particularly in the transformation of its HR management system initiated in 2011, which entailed an enhanced technical descriptions of buildings, equipment and production processes or other information not related and independent employee engagement survey, improved employee development and appraisal processes and to sustainability and already supported by existing documents, such as CDL’s annual report and third‐ a new balanced scorecard approach. party certifications. Similarly, we have also found stronger collaboration with community partners and local NGOs. Projects Processes related to stakeholder engagement were assessed through the review of internal information with these groups benefit from established channels of interaction with a focus on specific topics, including provided by CDL’s data owners and external information publicly available. environment and youth education. For these community programmes, stringent selection criteria are applied to ensure that the allocation of human and financial resources is optimised for a maximum impact on the RESPONSIBILITY AND INDEPENDENCE targeted population groups. For the other stakeholder groups, engagement processes have remained steady during 2011, with diverse The management of CDL was responsible for the preparation of the sustainability report and all statements interaction opportunities, communication platforms, such as the 5‐Star EHS seminars and EHS training and figures contained within it. This statement represents Ere‐S’ independent opinion and our responsibility sessions, as well as solid feedback and grievance channels. was to execute the assurance engagement, prepare the assurance report and this assurance statement for the Materiality management of CDL alone and for no other purpose. How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. Ere‐S was not involved in the development of the report and the disclosed management processes, neither have we been engaged by CDL for other projects. Ere‐S’ activities are independent of CDL and contain no Following CDL’s integration of ISO 26000 guidelines, which was initiated in 2010, we have seen the definition financial interest in their business operation. Composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and of processes and policies reflecting the Group’s key material issues. The most significant evidence of the sustainability reporting, our assurance team executed this engagement in accordance with Ere‐S’ assurance formalisation of such processes is the new corporate statement on human rights that CDL has incorporated code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. during the reporting period and recently made available to all its stakeholders through the company website and other formal documents. Similarly, the coverage of the whistle‐blowing policy has been extended to the METHODOLOGY whole group, including its business partners, supply chain, clients and the public. Material issues have also been taken into considerations at the highest levels, with new development We reviewed the drafts of the sustainability report to identify the elements to be audited. Statements and processes for senior management, such as regular training sessions on corporate governance and sustainability‐ data sets were classified according to the relevant data owners and the type of evidence required for the related topics. Environment and stakeholder engagement are still key elements of CDL’s strategic risks register verification process. and we have seen evidence of the new CSR criteria integrated into the operational risks inventory for the Projects division. We interviewed over 20 managers and data owners from the departments of Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental Health & Safety, Projects, properties & Facilities Management, Human Resource, Responsiveness Corporate Communications, Corporate Secretarial Services, Internal Audit, Marketing, Leasing, Customer How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback through decisions, actions, performance Service, Administration and Branding & Strategic Marketing. Questions were asked regarding the identified and communication. City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 50 351 We found CDL to be responsive to all key stakeholder groups, particularly investors, employees and customers. The action plan which has emerged from the employee engagement survey demonstrates a Group‐wide and comprehensive response to stakeholders’ concerns. All groups of stakeholders are also benefiting from improved communication channels, such as an enhanced website, providing more information on CDL’s management decisions and performance as well as multiple feedback alternatives. EVALUATION OF THE DISCLOSED PERFORMANCE INFORMATION From the work undertaken, we have found the CDL sustainability report to be in compliance with the GRI G3.1 reporting principles and we believe the disclosures reflect CDL’s economic, environmental, and social performance in the reporting period. Obtaining an A+ on the GRI application level (to be confirmed) for the first time, the sustainability report has reached a superior level of disclosure and completeness. We have noted major changes in the report structure, however, the report remains clear and performance data remains comparable with previous versions. We are also confident that CDL’s sustainability report achieves a satisfactory level of accuracy, supported by evidence found for all identified elements. A small number of minor inconsistencies were detected during our verification work and we expressed recommendations for improvement. The reporting team followed the majority of our recommendations and the final version of the sustainability report was checked by us to confirm that all necessary corrective actions had been taken. MOVING FORWARD Looking ahead, we recommend further formalisation of defined material issues. For example, sustainability‐ related policies and measurement processes can be further expanded through the different levels of the supply chain. In that regard, CDL’s policies on environmental, health and safety have been comprehensively implemented but progress can be made with processes beyond regulatory compliance in place to mitigate social and labour impacts in the supply chain. We commend the visible sustainability disclosure progress from Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, CDL’s subsidiary, which is also reflected in the arm’s annual report. Moving forward, we recommend sustained effort in sharing CDL’s management approaches related to sustainability reporting with the Group’s wholly‐owned This report may contain forward-looking statements that involve assumptions, subsidiaries. CDL sustainability report could benefit from similar performance disclosure from its other risks and uncertainties. Actual future performance, outcomes and results may key subsidiaries. differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements as a result The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the management of of a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Representative examples of CDL in a more detailed assurance report. these factors include (without limitation) general industry and economic conditions, interest rate trends, cost of capital and capital availability, availability of real estate properties, competition from other developments or companies, shifts in customer demands, customers and partners, expected levels of occupancy rate, property rental income, charge out collections, changes in operating expenses (including employee wages, benefits and training costs), governmental and public policy changes and the continued availability of financing in the amounts and the terms necessary to support future business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on the current view of management on future events. Published by City Developments Limited. No reproduction, in part or in whole, of Singapore, 1 June 2012 Ere‐S Pte Ltd is a consulting company the report may be made without prior permission of the editor. Dalla Palma, Director & Certified specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains of Company registration number: 196300316Z Sustainability Assurance Practitioner sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, stakeholder engagement www.cdl.com.sg and CSR training. MICA (P) 105/06/2012 City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2012 52 In line with CDL's continuing efforts to promote environmental sustainability, this report is printed on Enviro Wove which is a 100% recycled paper. Designed by Green House Design + Communications
