METSÄ GROUP sustainability REPORT 2011 Metsä group sustainability report 2011 Metsä Group is a responsible forest industry group whose products make people’s everyday life easier and promote sustainable well-being. Metsä Group’s core businesses are tissue and cooking papers, board, pulp, wood products as well as wood supply. Metsä Group’s sales totalled EUR 5.3 billion in 2011, and it employs approximately 12,500 people. The Group operates in some 30 countries, mainly in Europe. Metsä Group produces high-quality products mostly from renewable Nordic wood and wood fibre. We have long traditions and strong know-how in all our core business areas. Metsä Group works actively in research and development in order to develop new products and to diversify the use of our current products. Furthermore, the Group tries to find ways to use its wood raw material more efficiently. Our approach to sustainability We have divided our sustainability approach into four themes covering the whole value. We offer sustainable choices Wood is an endlessly renewable resource. We turn wood into safe and recyclable products that improve your quality of life. Our products are a sustainable alternative for many non-renewable products and raw materials. The smaller the environmental impact, the better All human activity leaves a mark on the planet. So does our production. What matters is using energy, raw materials and other resources efficiently and maintaining low levels of emissions and waste. We at Metsä Group have reached great results but we can always do more. We bring forest to you Our products come from sustainably managed forests. Together with partners we ensure that when a tree is harvested, new ones get planted. We secure 2 opening words sustainable supply of raw materials for our 4 Governance and targets units and a supply of renewable products for 6 Sustainability agenda our customers. and stakeholders 8 Sustainable offering 10 Supply chain management We create 12 Forests and wood supply well-being 16 Energy and climate 18 Water We generate well-being at work, in 19 Residuals local communities, and in society 20 Environmental risk management at large and commit to global 22 Well-being in the society sustainability principles. By behaving 24 Well-being at work responsibly towards our employees and 28 Sustainability data by unit society, we can improve the quality of life of 32 GRI indicators our stakeholders. 35 Assurance statement 2 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — OPENING WORDS 2011 – Building a sustainability foundation for the future Metsä Group’s President and CEO states in the Annual Report’s CEO everyday work. Moreover, as we did not want to limit our approach in letter that in 2011, we put a lot of emphasis on developing our sustainsustainability management to our own operations, the Group adopted a ability management and launching the new sustainability agenda with new Code of Conduct for our suppliers. To confirm that the complithe Group-wide sustainability targets. We wanted to focus on open ance with the same high standards of business ethics is respected in our communication and highlight that sustainability is as important for us suppliers’ operations, The Group now carries out regular supplier and our partners as it is for our customers. As a result you are now audits. reading our new Sustainability Report. It offers a detailed description of Our main raw material is renewable and sustainably grown wood. our management practices and our views on the most important susAll the Group’s products are recyclable and excellent alternatives for tainability themes. Our aim is to emphasise that we are one unified many carbon-intensive products. Metsä Group operates in areas rich in Metsä Group. forest and water resources. We know the origin of the wood We were among the very first companies in Finland to commit to we use and we are efficient in the use of materials and energy, the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative. This can also be seen in the fact that sustainability is central to our mission, vision and values as well as our strategy. In 2011, we took OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY IS major steps to adopt sustainability into our management practices and STRONG. IN 2011 we put a lot of defined the most essential sustainability issues for the Group. In addiemphasis on developing our tion to internal business workshops and management interviews, we sustainability management and reviewed the global macro trends climate change; the scarcity of global launching the new agenda with the water sources; deforestation; waste management and recycling to name Group-wide targets. a few; and also asked our external stakeholders to participate in the process. Ensuring the origin of wood, promoting forest certification and the being a significant user of biofuels and a major producer of bioenergy. sustainability of the whole supply chain were among the key themes Our production operations are continuously assessed to ensure that that emerged during the analysis. Additionally, material efficiency and they are efficient and environmentally friendly. Additionally, Metsä work safety were also considered important among our stakeholders. As Group is a key employer also in many remote areas and an active a result, we defined four main themes in which we will focus our susmember of the local communities in which it operates. tainability efforts: sustainable offering; sustainable supply chain and raw materials; environmental efficiency in production operations and We have a good story to tell and we want to continue the direct and internal and external stakeholder relations. transparent dialogue with you. Based on this business-driven sustainability agenda, we also prepared comprehensive sustainability targets to ensure the systematic Sustainably yours, management of sustainability throughout the Group. These targets cover all aspects of our operations; certified wood raw material and sustainability of the supply chain; energy efficient processes and Riikka Joukio reduced air emissions; ethical business practices as well as work safety SVP, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs and well-being. The Group’s performance against the newly set sustainability targets proceeded well during the last year. To maintain a robust and unified working culture, The Group’s policies were revised at the beginning of 2011 including our Sustainability Principles and employee Code of Conduct the bases of our OPENING WORDS — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 3 Sustainability guides all our operations Metsä Group’s sustainability draws on our mission, vision and values and is an integral part of our strategy. Our daily sustainability work is guided by the Group’s Sustainability Principles as well as the employee and supplier Codes of Conduct. We are committed to promoting sustainable Sustainability at the heart processes as well as crisis management pracdevelopment in all our business activities and of the strategy tices. operations; to continuously improving our We will reach our objectives by focusing on Additionally, Metsä Group continuously operations; and to conducting business in a our strengths and selected core businesses of monitors its sustainability performance responsible way. We have demonstrated our tissue and cooking papers, board, pulp, wood through various tools and activities such as aim by committing to the ten principles of the products as well as wood trade and forestry internal audits. UN Global Compact initiative, which highservices. We continuously develop our operalights the respect for human and labour rights, tions to meet the market demand for sustainenvironmental responsibility and anti-corrupable products, and operate in a cost-efficient Policies and principles tion. The Group’s Sustainability Principles are way to achieve profitable growth. Metsä Group’s sustainability management is also based on these universally accepted pringuided by the Group’s Sustainability Princiciples. ples and the employees’ Code of Conduct, Governance and responsibilities which include all three aspects of sustainabilMetsäliitto Cooperative’s Board of Directors ity: environmental, social and economic Mission, vision and values has overall responsibility for governance and responsibility. The Group also has a set of Metsä Group’s mission is to competitively its sustainability at Metsä Group. It approves policies and related instructions in place for procure, market and upgrade Nordics wood at the guiding policies and sets the Group’s all relevant topics, including Environmental, its own production units. Our vision is to be a ambition level. The Executive Management Human Resources, Equal Opportunities and focused and profitable Finnish forest industry Team prepares the guiding policies, defines Purchasing policies in addition to a Supplier company that operates in the international the sustainability targets and monitors the Code of Conduct to guide supply chain opermarket, and one that integrates sustainable performance against them. ations. development, customer-orientation and The Corporate Affairs Management Team innovations in it products and services in steers sustainability and corporate affairs a unique way. issues. It supports the Business Areas by gathGroup-wide sustainability targets ering their views and needs on sustainability, In 2011, Metsä Group determined a set of sets focus areas at the Group level and defines Group-wide sustainability targets to ensure an We continuously the Group’s positions so that the Business efficient sustainability management. Read develop our operations Areas can enhance their competitiveness in more about the performance against these to meet the market sustainability. targets on the following pages of the report. demand for sustainable The Sustainability and Corporate Affairs products. function provides information to the management, identifies development needs and coorManagement systems dinates the Group’s daily sustainability work. Management systems allow us to assess our Metsä Group’s values are responsible It also supervises and promotes the Group’s performance and to continuously improve our profitability, reliability, cooperation and interests in legislation and trade policy issues. operations. They help us to achieve the renewal. These values guide the Group in Group’s strategic objectives; improve our key achieving its targets and are seen in our daily performance indicators; support our sustainactivities. We strive to improve the profitabilLink to other Group functions ability performance; and manage operational ity of our company, while at the same time As sustainability is a fundamental part of our risks. bearing responsibility for the environment business and all operations, it is integrated and listening to our stakeholder groups. Reliinto everything we do; for example, it is part ability, cooperation and renewal are the corof the risk identification and management nerstones of responsible profitability. 4 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — SUSTAINABILITY GUIDES ALL OUR OPERATIONS Scope of the report (version G3.1). We have selected those indicaMetsä Group comprises Metsä Tissue, Metsä tors most relevant to our operations, products Board, Metsä Wood, Metsä Fibre and Metsä and stakeholders. Forest. This report covers the whole Group The sustainability performance data in including the production, warehousing and this report has been externally assured by an sales units of the Business Areas. Sustainability independent third party, Pricewaterhousereporting follows the same principles of conCoopers Oy. Read more about the assurance solidation as our Financial Statements. process in the assurance report on page 35. Metsä Group reports its sustainability performance at the Group, Business Area and The Group’s Corporate Governance Statement and a detailed description for example on the risk product levels. The Sustainability Report management process and internal audit 2011 has been prepared according to the operation is available in the Annual Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines on p. 118–124. Metsä Group’s sustainability targets Theme Target Progress Read more Wood We support sustainable forest management. Our wood is 100% traceable and 81% in 2011 p. 12–13 it always comes from sustainable sources. Our target is to sustain the amount of certified wood in our operations above 80%. Supply chain We are committed to sustainability throughout the whole supply chain. Our Code of Conduct included in all new and p. 10–11 target is to have a Supplier Code of Conduct included in all new supplier renewed contracts since June 2011 contracts. Energy and climate We focus on mitigating climate change. Our target is to reduce fossil CO2 -16% (2009–2011) p. 16–17 emissions in production by 30% per product ton by 2020 from 2009 level. We ensure efficient energy consumption. Our target is to improve energy -5% (2009–2011) p. 16–17 efficiency by 10% by 2020 from 2009 level. Ethical business practices Ethical business practices are the core of all our operations. Our target is to Trainings started in September 2011 and p. 24–25 have the whole personnel covered by Code of Conduct training by the end of continue in 2012 2012. Well-being Work safety is our top priority. We strive for continuous development and our Lost time accident frequency rate was 18.3 in p. 24–25 aim is to improve our lost-time accident rate by 10% each year. Our long-term 2011. target for lost-time accident rate is zero. We work hard to ensure a healthy work environment. Our target is to keep Sickness absenteeism was 4.4% in 2011. p. 24–25 sickness absenteeism rate at the best European level and below 3% at all times. Commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact Theme Principles Read more Human rights #1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. p. 10, 24–25 #2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 10, 24–25 Labour rights #3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. p. 10, 24–25 #4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. p. 10, 24–25 #5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. p. 10, 24–25 #6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 10, 24–25 Environment #7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. p. 20 #8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. p. 20 #9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. p. 20–21 Anti-corruption #10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p. 10, 24–25 SUSTAINABILITY GUIDES ALL OUR OPERATIONS — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 5 Transparent dialogue with stakeholders Metsä Group and all its operations affect numerous stakeholders around the world. Even though the Group’s main operations are in Europe, there are various impacts that are more farreaching, for example through the supply chain. We want to build trusted and open relations with our main stakeholder groups. We have defined our customers and personnel as our most important stakeholder groups together with members of the Cooperative, other forest owners, suppliers, investors and financiers, representatives of non-governmental organisamost essential sustainability issues for the certification – important in the Group’s opertions (NGOs), the media and society at large. Group and its businesses and on building a ations as well as those issues related to water Different stakeholder groups have differstrategic sustainability agenda. In addition to and energy use, and materials efficiency. Exterent expectations from the Group. For this ten internal workshops for different Business nal stakeholders also emphasised the imporreason, we aim to engage in a transparent and Areas, 15 management interviews and an tance of respecting human rights, product open dialogue with our stakeholders to gain a extensive stakeholder survey was conducted in safety, the well-being of employees and conbetter understanding of their expectations. different geographical regions globally. The ducting ethical business practices. Supply Transparent and constructive stakeholder survey covered all the Business Areas and their chain management is clearly becoming more dialogue is an essential part of developing the stakeholder groups such as customers, anaand more important in the eyes of our stakeGroup’s activities and management, especially lysts, NGOs, the media and employees. We holders. Metsä Group is also focusing on the management of sustainability issues. offered the possibility for over 800 persons to developing the operations related to a sustainparticipate in building our sustainability able supply chain. agenda, of whom some 200 responded. Sustainability agenda for the Group Both internal and external stakeholders In 2011, Metsä Group’s main focus on sustainfound sustainable forest management ability management was on determining the – including the origin of wood and forest Metsä Group’s sustainability agenda The smaller We offer We bring forest We create the environmental sustainable choices to you well-being impact the better Issues related to Issues related to Issues related to Issues related to sustainable offering sustainable supply chain and environmental efficiency and internal and external raw materials production operations stakeholder relations Sustainable products, services and innovations Sustainable forest management and Energy and climate Human rights nature values Product safety Sustainable supply chain Water Ethical business practices Partnership with suppliers and forest owners Material efficiency Responsible employer Environmental risk management Well-being for local communities 6 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — TRANSPARENT DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Systematic process for engagement operation and actively take part in steering Metsä Group surveys the customer experience them. These include: and other stakeholder feedback on a Business • The World Business Council for SustainArea level on a regular basis. To further able Development (WBCSD) and its develop its sustainability operations, Metsä sector-specific network Forest Solutions Group acknowledges that in the coming years • The Confederation of European Paper it will focus on building a more systematic Industries (CEPI) stakeholder engagement process to strengthen • The European Confederation of Woodthe relations and build a solid base for transworking Industries (CEI-Bois) parent and open dialogue with its most • The Committee of Professional agriculimportant and active stakeholders. tural Organisations and the General Confederation of Agricultural Cooperatives (COPA-COGECA) • The Finnish Forest Industry Federation We aim to engage in (Metsäteollisuus ry) a transparent and open • The Swedish Forest Industries Federation dialogue with our stakeholders (Skogsindustrierna) to gain a better understanding • The Confederation of Finnish Industries of their expectations. (Elinkeinoelämän Keskusliitto) • The UN Global Compact Nordic Network and the UN’s CEO Water Mandate • The forest certification associations: the Active participation in lobbying Programme for the Endorsement of Forest We follow and take interest in the developCertification (PEFC) and the Forest ment of regulatory frameworks affecting our Stewardship Council (FSC). Additionally, operations and markets. Our advocacy on the Group or its subsidiaries are taking these issues is mainly channelled through part in several national forest industry industry and trade associations at the national, associations in the main operating counEuropean and international levels. tries. There are also several sector-specific organisations in which the Business Areas participate such as the European Tissue Memberships and associations Symposium and the Confederation of Metsä Group, its Business Area and subsidiarEuropean Fine Paper Industries. ies participate in a number of national industry and trade associations in their countries of Main channels in stakeholder engagement Stakeholder group Main expectations Main engagement activities Employees Safe working environment; stable employer; good management practices; Personnel development assessments; employee satisfaction surveys; competitive benefits; good reputation and image of the company; open training programmes; internal communications (intranet and magazines); communication with the management. national statutory employee bodies; European Works Council. Customers and end-users Performance and quality of the product; price; clear business structures Good quality products and services; personal contacts; customer and responsibilities; product safety; sustainability and ethics throughout satisfaction surveys; training, cooperation projects; trade fairs and the supply chain; environmental footprints of the product; financial, seminars; internet, magazines and annual reports; product information and environmental and social performance of the Group. life cycle calculations. Members of cooperative Good and solid return on investment; continuous wood demand; open Good quality products and services; own contact person; satisfaction communication with the management. survey on services; events; internet and extranet; magazine for the members. Raw material and service Active dialogue with the purchasing organisation and the supplier; longMeetings and negotiations; supplier assessment and audits; partnership suppliers term contracts; profitability of the Group; acceptable commercial terms. projects; internet and external magazines. Equity and debt investors, Stable return on investment; open and transparent dialogue with the Annual General Meeting; face-to-face meetings and roadshows; Capital analysts management. Markets Day; annual and interim reports; stock exchange and press releases; internet and external magazines; questionnaires. Society, local communities and Stable employer; good neighbour; open and transparent communication Meetings; authority reporting; annual and interim reports; stock exchange NGOs with the representatives of the Group; compliance with laws and and press releases; internet; stakeholder feedback; image surveys; regulations; financial, environmental and social performance of the Group. co-operation projects; sponsoring; presentations; site visits. Trade unions and Membership; active participation in decision-making. Regular face-to-face contacts; participation in activities; lobbying organisations programmes; information sharing. Media Transparent management approach; active and open communication. Meetings and interviews; press events and site visits; annual and interim reports; publications; internet; stock exchange and press releases; image surveys; stakeholder feedback questionnaires. TRANSPARENT DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS — SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 7 We offer sustainable choices Wood is an endlessly renewable resource. We turn wood into safe and recyclable products that improve the quality of our customers’ and consumers’ lives. The Group produces a wide range high-qualR&D projects are also carried out in ity products all made of renewable wood. The collaboration with partners such as universioffering includes wood products for constructies, research institutes and mechanical engition and decoration, pulp, board and office neering companies. Metsä Tissue’s consumer papers, tissue and cooking papers, as well as and end-user driven product development forestry services. Our main raw material is process is supported by the company’s techrenewable wood and all our products are nology centre in Germany. recyclable. In 2011, Metsä Group invested EUR 19 Additionally, first-class raw materials, million in R&D (EUR 21 million in 2010), excellent fibre technology know-how and the which accounts for 0.4% of sales (0.4% in efficient use of raw materials ensure a continu2010). ous flow of sustainable innovations. As our products are made of recyclable, renewable wood raw material, they are excelCommunicating products’ environmental lent alternatives in replacing many non-renewperformance able, non-biodegradable carbon-intensive We know the environmental impacts of our products. products and want to increase understanding of them among our stakeholders. Further development of products The Group’s role is to decide in which busiLCA covers the whole production chain nesses it operates with each Business Area Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a technique responsible for its own product range and to assess environmental impacts associated offering. The R&D function of each Business with all stages of a product's life cycle. Metsä Area focuses on the further development of Group uses the LCA to evaluate the environexisting products. The Business Areas also mental impacts of the whole production chain collaborate in running development projects from the early stages of raw material procurein order to gain a better understanding of the ment and production to the delivery of the entire production chain from wood processing product to our customers’ premises. and pulp production to board and tissue paper Data collected for the assessment is then manufacturing. used in product declarations, when applying 8 SUSTAINABLE OFFERING — WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES Examples of product safety in different products Tissue and Wood cooking Board Pulp products papers Migration of harmful Migration of harmful Strict production conditions Strength properties of a chemicals into food chemicals into food to ensure safety of the construction end-product Strict hygiene rules due to Emission of harmful use in human contact chemicals from interior products to indoor air Read examples of our sustainable offering in the Annual Report 2011 on p. 24–31. Mill specific information on emissions and verified management systems is available on p. 28–31. Our main raw material is renewable wood and all our products are recyclable. for environmental labels and for carbon and environmental performance of the product. It higher the emissions. Currently, as different water footprint calculations. was jointly developed by paper manufacturers, corporations use different methods for carbon distributors and industry associations across footprint calculations, they are not comparaEurope. The goal of these product-specific ble from company to company. Metsä Group’s Eco-labels are to help consumers declarations is to provide objective, transparcarbon footprint calculation is wide-ranging Eco-labels make it easier for a consumer to ent and comparable information on key envistarting from wood raw material procurement understand the environmental impacts of a ronmental parameters such as emissions, and covers the entire supply chain. Thus it product. These labels are based on a life cycle electricity, waste and product composition. gives a comprehensive view on climate impacts assessment and their use always requires verifiWe use several product declarations of our products and their supply chain. cation by an independent third party. We intended for pulp and paper products, such as actively contribute to the development of Paper Profile, and are working towards adopteco-label criteria and work continuously to ing a unified LCA-approach in all main prodProduct safety is our top priority improve our mills’ environmental perforuct categories. For example, Metsä Board has One of our most fundamental duties is to mance to fulfil the criteria. issued Paper Profiles for all of its paper and ensure that all our products and operations are The high energy efficiency and low emisboard products already since 2001. safe and sustainable. We guarantee that our sion levels of our pulp mills enable paper and products are safe for people and the environboard producers to use the EU Ecolabel and Metsä Board’s Paper Profiles are available ment when they are used as intended. at www.metsaboard.com/paperprofiles Nordic Swan for products made from Metsä We have a strict policy that we know the Fibre’s pulps. The majority of Metsä Tissue’s origin of the materials that we use and that all tissue papers as well as baking and cooking the raw materials meet or exceed the current products have been granted the Nordic Swan, Carbon footprint illustrates the climate legislative requirements. Ensuring product the EU Ecolabel or the Blue Angel. The same effect safety is especially important in products that applies to Metsä Board’s office papers. To date, Carbon footprint is one of the tools used to are used in applications with strict hygiene no such commonly agreed eco-label criteria illustrate a product’s climate effects. It demonstandards such as food or human contact exist for packaging products. strates the carbon dioxide emissions of a proapplications. This mostly applies to packaging cess behind the product. Metsä Group uses boards, napkins as well as baking and cooking the carbon footprint to measure the fossil products. Paper Profile – an industry-wide carbon of its products. As a minimum requirement, all our mills declaration The result of the carbon footprint calculathat manufacture food contact materials or Paper Profile is a standardised tool for paper tion depends on the scope of the calculation: chemical pulp used in manufacturing these and board products to communicate the the wider and more extensive the scope the products are certified according to ISO 22000 or BRC food safety management systems. WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES — SUSTAINABLE OFFERING 9 Ensuring a sustainable supply chain We aim to secure our own as well as our business partners’ long-term success by ensuring responsible purchasing and a sustainable supply chain. As we are committed to sustainability throughout the whole supply chain, our target is to have a supplier Code of Conduct included in all new supplier contracts. Metsä Group’s purchases are organised into 17 utes to the further development of our The Group's external purchases by main categories including pulp, chemicals and supplier portfolio. country 1) other materials, machines and equipment as well as services. Metsä Forest is responsible for the Group’s wood procurement. The Group’s New Supplier Code of Conduct spend in external purchases excluding wood In 2011, Metsä Group launched a Supplier procurement in 2011 was about EUR 2 bilCode of Conduct in order to ensure that we lion, which was slightly lower compared to only cooperate with suppliers who act responFinland Sweden 58% 13% previous year. sibly. We expect our suppliers to comply with Germany 12% Other Our main supply region is Europe, from a high standard of business ethics and integEU countries 14% Outside Europe 3% where 98% of our purchases are sourced. We rity, to be committed to sustainability and to also strive to use local suppliers when feasible. follow good working practices. 1) Wood procurement excluded Some 87% of purchases are from countries The Code of Conduct emphasises actions where we have our own manufacturing operaagainst corruption and bribery, and stresses tions. the respect for human rights and a safe working environment. The Code also unconditionComposition of the Group's Purchases: % of material and service purchases ally prohibits the use of forced or child labour. We work closely Furthermore, the supplier must ensure that all Wood 25% with our partners to of its subcontractors know and honour these Pulp and ensure a sustainable requirements. recovered fibre Indirect materials 21% supply chain. The Supplier Code of Conduct is an and services Energy 16% 11% integral part of any agreement documentation Logistics Chemicals, 11% and has been included in all new and renewed pigments and fillers 9% Metsä Group focuses on ethical, reliable, contracts since June 2011. Other (including innovative and environmentally sound supplipackaging materials)7% ers, whose quality and pricing will facilitate long-term cooperation and responsible profitAudits confirm responsible operations ability. Our aim is to develop trusting coopDuring 2011, Metsä Group developed a comeration with selected key suppliers. Our transmon monitoring process for the Group’s parent supplier evaluation criterion contribpurchases and made audit plans for each of the purchasing categories. A risk assessment 10 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN — ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN Metsä Group material balance 2011 Emissions to air (t) • Fossil carbon dioxide (as CO2)1,200,090 • Sulphur (as SO2)2,359 • Nitrogen oxides (as NO2)7,358 • Particles1,435 Wood-based raw materials • Wood (1,000 m3)20,886 • Pulp (1,000 t)516 Production • Recovered paper (1,000 t)418 • Paper (1,000 t)1,255 • Chemical pulp Other raw materials (1,000 t) and CTMP (1,000 t)3,407 • Pigments519 • Board (1,000 t)1,029 • Adhesives107 • Tissue and cooking Energy (GWh) papers (1,000 t)599 • Purchased fuels 6,249 • Sawn timber (1,000 m3)1,576 • Bio-fuels1,449 • Plywood (1,000 m3)242 • Fossil fuels 4,805 • Kerto® (1,000 m3)199 • Puchased electricity 2,674 • Other upgrading products (1,000 m3)790 • Purchased heat 116 Water USE (1,000 m3) 370,000 Discharges to water (t) • Waste water (1,000 m3)164,188 • Chemical oxygen demand (COD)45,920 • Biological oxygen demand (BOD)3,176 • Phosphorus (P)79 • Nitrogen (N)693 • Total suspended solids 3,303 Waste (t) • Landfill waste 72,496 • Hazardous waste 1,970 • Recycled waste 718,482 was made and those suppliers who needed to Focus on efficient logistics port operations, we favour rail and waterways be audited were identified. During 2011, Efficient supply chain management and onwhenever a feasible solution is available. Metsä Group performed 83 supplier audits. time deliveries are the key elements in our Transport and warehousing operations are The intention is to ensure that the Supbusiness operations. We ensure reliable, safe mainly outsourced to partners. Valid environplier Code of Conduct is fully implemented and efficient logistics. Efficiency is attained by mental certifications and policies play a sigand that there are no incidents of child, forced maximising delivery sizes, optimising modal nificant role in selecting the partners as well as or compulsory labour in the suppliers’ operaselection including return load utilisation, as the criteria set in the newly implemented tions. In 2011, no risk for such incidents was well as minimising ‘empty’ kilometres. As our Supplier Code of Conduct. identified during the audits. mills are located close to our main raw materials, we are always able to optimise our transport routes. Additionally, as energy efficiency is an important factor in developing our transENSURING A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 11 Our wood is 100% traceable We want to support sustainable forest management and safeguard rich biodiversity in forest operations. To this aim, our target is to sustain the high amount of certified wood in our operations at over 80 per cent. Metsä Group’s mission is to competitively PROMOTING sustainable FORESTRY procure, market and upgrade Nordic wood at Metsä Group ensures the sustainability of its its own production units. We also offer our supply chain by tracing the origin of wood members wide-scale forest management serand promoting sustainable forestry. Certificavices, assistance and guidance in timber sales tion is a tool to ensure both the sustainability in addition to investment opportunities such of the supply chain and forestry operations. To as various additional shares. pursue this line, Metsä Group holds Chain-ofOur operations are based on sustainable Custody (CoC) certificates covering all the wood raw material. Forests are a renewable wood supplied by the company. In addition, resource and continue to grow as long as they the main forest areas owned or leased by the are utilised in a sustainable way. Wood supGroup’s companies hold certificates of sustainplied by us originates from sustainably-manable forest management. In 2011 for example, aged forests, and the origin of wood material Metsä Group was the first company in Russia can be traced in order to verify this. to obtain double certification (PEFC and FSC) for its leased forests in Podporozhye, in Leningrad region. Forest growth exceeds the harvesting The target of Metsä Group is to support Perhaps the most important criteria for the sustainable forest management and to sustain sustainability of forest management are that the amount of certified wood in our operaforests grow more than they are being utilised tions above 80%. As much as 95% of Finland’s and when they are being utilised, they are commercial forests are PEFC certified and 2% also being renewed. In Finland, where roughly according to FSC. Metsä Group is actively 70% of the wood supplied by Metsä Group promoting forest certification initiatives in the originates, the annual increment of the forests’ whole wood supply region. In 2011, 81% of growing stock (2,200 million m3) exceeds the the wood supplied by Metsä Group was either drain by over 30%. The growing stock in PEFC or FSC certified or both. Finland’s forests has increased by more than As certification aims at continuous 40% over the past 40 years. The past 35 years improvement, the standards need to be has also seen the area of protected forests updated on a regular basis. At the beginning being tripled and the introduction of nature of 2011, Metsä Group started implementing management in commercial forests. the renewed PEFC forest certification stand12 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN — OUR WOOD IS 100% TRACEABLE In addition to the areas presented in the table, Metsä Group owns small forest estates in Finland and in Estonia (altogether 214 ha). Further, Metsä Group owns shares (<50%) in the Finnish forest-owning entities Finsilva Oy and Suomen Metsäsijoitus, and in the Russian forestry holding Vologodskie Lesopromyshlenniki. We operate in Northern Europe in areas with rich wood and water resources and where forests grow more than they are harvested. ard in Finland. Additionally, the recertificaand legal origin of the wood to social issues recognition in a number of reports published tion audit for Metsä Forest and Metsä Wood such as safety at work. in 2010 and 2011. One reference is the fourth on ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and PEFC CoC Wood suppliers and contractors have also assessment of threatened species in Finland, multi-site certification was carried out. committed themselves to certain sustainability published in late 2010. The study showed that principles which are included in the contracts. certain species that live on decaying wood The commitments extend to the very beginhave benefited from leaving retention trees, a We know the origin of our wood ning of the supply chain, including possible requirement of the widely-used (some 95% of Regardless whether the wood originates from sub-suppliers and subcontractors. In 2011, Finnish commercial forests) PEFC criteria certified or non-certified forests, the origin is Metsä Group established and systematically since 1999. always known. Metsä Group’s internal auditbrought into practice a Supplier Code of ConIn 2011, there were some drawbacks in ing procedures and wood origin tracing sysduct. the national Nature Management Assessment tem cover the actions of the wood supplier or results in Finland, partly due to an unusually harvesting contractor as well as the origin and thick cover of snow prevailing in the country nature management audit. Internal auditing Safeguarding nature values at the time. This meant that during logging it thus covers a wide range of sustainability Nature management efforts, such as leaving was more difficult for the harvester drivers to issues from the preservation of nature values retention trees, hardwood species and deaddetect some of the habitats. This aside, the wood in logging operations have received results have remained at a high level. Main forest areas owned or leased by Metsä Group Of which protected areas, Country Forest owner/leaseholder Total area, hectares 1) hectares Certification Finland Metsä-Botnia, Metsät Oy 35,255 566 2) PEFC Kirkniemen Kartano Oy 961 217 2) PEFC Russia OOO Metsäliitto Podporozhye 215,082 53,050 3) PEFC and FSC ZAO Petrovles Podporozhye and ZAO Petrovles Pasha 112,679 62,255 3) PEFC and FSC 1) Including forestry land and other land within the forest estate / area. 2) Including Nature Conservation Areas, Natura 2000 areas and Conservation Programme areas. Small-scale valuable forest habitats and the buffer zones of watercourses are not included in the figures. 3) Including forests with a protective function (e.g. forests along watercourses); those with special limitations of the utilisation regime; and biologically valuable forests that have been excluded from commercial use by the company. Strictly protected areas are excluded from the lease areas in Russia. Small-scale valuable forest habitats are not included in the figures. OUR WOOD IS 100% TRACEABLE — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 13 Outside Finland Metsä Group ensures that the nature management of harvesting Testing the new Finnish FSC standard operations comply with legislation and forest Metsä Group started testing certification criteria by regular and extensive Finland's new Forest Stewardfield audits. In 2011, the audit results have ship Council (FSC) certificaremained at a good level and no serious maltion standard in part of its own practices were found. For example, minor forests. The Group's forests observations were made in Russia concerning have already been certified soil damage or the tidiness of storage places. according to the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) standard. We develop our operations continuously In future, the FSC standard will The results of the national Nature Managebe applied in these forests as ment Assessment and Metsä Group’s own well. The project covers the inspections are analysed and any needed forests owned by Metsä Fibre corrective actions are brought into the Enviand Metsä Forest, both part of ronmental Programme of Wood Supply. the Metsä Group. The total Implementation of the Environmental Prosurface area of the forests is gramme is followed by an external auditor approximately 35,000 hecwithin Metsä Group’s ISO 14001 certificatares. Metsä Group expects to get the FSC certificate by the end of 2012, and will then offer its tion. Both the inspection results and the members who have a forest management service agreement the option to join Metsä Group’s Environmental Programme are reviewed by FSC group certificate. We already offer similar PEFC group certification to those members who the top management. have a forest management service agreement. We support both the current certification sysThe corrective actions of the Environmentems and promote forest certification in all our areas of operation. tal Programme include training at different levels of the organisation, communications and development in different contexts. As an example of development work in the field of nature management in 2011, Metsä Forest in Finland introduced the implementation of a Forest certification is a pre-logging clearing method which avoids the voluntary system which excess removal of undergrowth important supports the well-being of from the point of view of many forest dwellforests and confirms the ing species. Metsä Group considers the comlegal origin of the wood. pletion of the Nature Management Card or similar training for harvester drivers as one of the most efficient ways to improve environmental performance in forestry operations. This is why such training has been an integral In Finland, the Forest Biodiversity Prothe nature management of the ecotones of part of the Environmental Programme already gramme METSO, initiated in 2008, has conforest areas towards enhancing game (and for several years. tinued to gain the forest owners’ support and consequently other forest dwelling) species’ bring valuable forest habitats under METSO habitat requirements. Another stakeholder protection. In 2011, we launched a service for project with Metsä Group’s participation, led Enhancing sustainability together forest owners, enabling them to offer their by the Development Centre of Forestry Tapio, Besides nature management in harvesting valuable forest habitats to the METSO prostarted at the end of 2011. Its aim is to operations, safeguarding the biodiversity of gramme via their own local Metsä Group’s develop landscape management practices, forests is complemented by additional meascontact. establish a network of example plots and ures. We have successfully gathered practical One implementation method of the produce up-to-date training material. experience in mapping biologically valuable METSO programme is cooperation networks. Metsä Forest in Finland continues to forests in our leased forest areas in PodThese aim to help forest owners maintain develop its services for forest owners. Sustainporozhye, Russia, and have gained much forest landscapes, develop recreational activiability-related services added to the service recognition and interest from our stakeholdties related to forest biodiversity and manage package in 2011 include the possibility of ers. We have also continued to share our expevaluable habitats. One of these cooperation PEFC group certification and the METSO riences at numerous events with the forest networks in which Metsä Group participates service described earlier. Metsä Group’s PEFC authorities, NGOs and other companies. was launched in late 2011 and aims to develop group certification is a service provided for its 14 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN — OUR WOOD IS 100% TRACEABLE The Group's wood supplies by country The Group's wood supplies by country 1,000 m3 (solid over bark) in 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 30,000 25,000 20,000 Finland 70% 15,000 Baltic countries 9% Sweden 8% 10,000 Russia 7% Germany and 5,000 Austria4% Other 1% 0 Finland Baltic Sweden Russia Germany Other countries and Austria Evaluation of nature management Supplier and logging site classification in stands harvested by Metsä Group in Russia in 2011 in Finland Supplier audits Excellent Logging site audits Good Fair Poor 100% 100% 90% 80% 80% 70% 60% 60% 50% 40% 40% 30% 20% 20% 10% 0% 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 A B C D CLASS forestry services customers. This free-ofpanionship something that brings benefits to charge service has been welcomed by forest all the parties. We have also strengthened our owners due to its easy accessibility. Currently, cooperation with contractors by introducing a the group certification area is about 300,000 service package model, which encourages ha, including the forests of Finsilva which are entrepreneurs to develop their company. In partly owned by Metsä Group. Additionally, addition to this, the expansion of energy we haves continued to offer the possibility for wood harvesting and forest owners to order a forestry plan with the utilisation of this emphasis on nature management. local, renewable We work closely with our energy bring addipartners to ensure a tional work opportusustainable supply chain. Long-term cooperation with partners nities to the rural Metsä Group plays a significant regional role areas. The Group has in offering work opportunities in rural areas been one of the early pioneers in Finland who by using the services of harvesting and transhave made several advances in this field so that port entrepreneurs. Our Entrepreneur Guidetoday, energy wood is one assortment among lines aims at long-term cooperation and comits others. OUR WOOD IS 100% TRACEABLE — SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 15 New targets for CO2 and energy efficiency Last year, we focused on how we could further reduce our fossil-based CO2 emissions and improve our energy efficiency. To demonstrate our commitment, we started several major investments in bioenergy production. We also implemented Group-wide energy targets. At the end of 2011, Metsä Group introduced more, Metsä Board and Metsä Fibre decided gasification plant, which will produce biogas new Group-wide targets for fossil carbon to participate in the planning of a new potenthat replaces natural gas at the lime kiln. As a dioxide emissions and energy efficiency. We tial nuclear power plant at Olkiluoto, Finland. result, Joutseno mill will have fossil-free operafocus on mitigating climate change. To this The decisions on the participation in the tions under normal production conditions end, our target is to reduce fossil-based CO2 project are expected in 2014. from 2012. At Lohja mill in Finland, Metsä emissions in production by 30% per product Wood and its partners have an on-going ton by 2020 from 2009 level. At the same investment project worth EUR 17 million on time, we ensure efficient energy consumption. Further investments in biofuels a new wood-fired boiler that will start supplyTo this aim, we have a target to improve our To increase the already high share of bioening steam to the mill and district heat to the energy efficiency by 10% by 2020 from 2009 ergy, Metsä Group has invested in four large local community by the end of 2012. level. bioenergy projects that will partially or fully replace fossil fuel-based energy with renewable biomass. Together, these projects will reduce Developments in energy efficiency High share of bioenergy the Group’s fossil CO2 emissions by some In 2011, Metsä Group continued to improve During 2011, Metsä Group took major steps 200,000 tonnes annually. The continuous the energy efficiency of its production proto increase its already high share of bioenergy evaluation of additional investments in bioencesses in line with the Energy Efficiency Sysin its energy consumption. In 2011, woodergy continues. tems that have been in place since 2006 and based bioenergy accounted for 63% (62% in Metsä Board completed a turbine investnow cover all the mills. Numerous energy 2010) of the Group’s total energy use of 31.1 ment worth EUR 20 million at Husum mill in analyses were conducted across the Group. TWh (31.9 TWh), mostly from by-products Sweden. The project will increase the mill’s Also, suppliers, for example in logistics, are from our own production such as black liquor, bio-based energy generation and electricity bark and sawdust. The rest are mainly forest self-sufficiency from residues that are co-sourced together with approximately 30% to over round wood. 50%. At Kyro mill in FinA majority (77%) of the total grid electricland, Metsä Board and its Growing forests absorb ity sourcing was CO2 neutral energy. Grid partners continued with a carbon dioxide from the electricity consumption totalled 2.68 TWh EUR 50 million investment atmosphere. The carbon is (2.71 TWh). To increase this share in 2011, in a biomass boiler. further stored in our Metsä Tissue started to source 70% of the At Joutseno mill in products. electricity needed at the Zilina mill in SlovaFinland, Metsä Fibre kia from a local hydro power plant. Furtherstarted to build a new wood 16 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — NEW TARGETS FOR CO2 AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY The Group's fuel consumption in 2011 The Group's electricity consumption in 2011 Internally co-generated electricity51% Purchased fossil-based electricity11% Purchased Wood-based fuels 80% hydro power 9% Already 80% of the Natural gas 10% Purchased Oil 4% nuclear power 28% fuels used by Metsä Coal Peat 4% 1% Purchased wood-based Group are bio-based. Other fossil fuels 1% electricity0.5% This figure is still increasing and is higher than in our peer companies. The Group’s energy consumption: gwh 2011 20101) 2009 2008 Wood-based fuels 19,449 19,868 17,000 19,867 Fossil fuels 4,800 4,980 5,096 6,075 Purchased electricity 2,674 2 ,709 2,546 3,067 Purchased heat 117 259 163 427 Total energy consumption 31,072 31,925 28,653 34,112 1) Some minor corrections made to the environmental figures of 2010 compared to the previous annual report. Energy consumption by Business Area: gwh Wood-based Fossil Purchased Purchased Total energy fuels fuels electricity heat consumption 1) 2011 20104) 2011 20104) 2011 20104) 2011 20104) 2011 20104) Metsä Wood 3) 607 421 14 13 203 203 217 342 1,384 1,344 Metsä Fibre 2) 12,782 12,585 1,064 1,074 -509 -676 -957 -1,107 11,448 10,667 Metsä Board 5,999 6,799 2,634 3,128 2,185 2,386 497 418 14,680 16,384 Metsä Tissue 61 63 1,088 765 795 796 360 606 3,560 3,531 1) Total energy is shown in terms of fuel, i.e. the quantities of purchased heat and electricity have been converted to the corresponding amount of fuel that would be required to produce them. 2) A large part of the energy that Metsä Fibre produces in excess of its own needs is sold. Metsä Fibre is a net seller of heat and electricity, and also sells part of its bark. 3) Nearly all of the heat purchased by Metsä Wood is produced from the wood material by-products of its production plants. 4) Some minor corrections made to the figures of 2010 compared to the previous annual report. required to monitor and improve their own mills in central Europe had poorer efficiencies directives and regulations in the forthcoming energy efficiency. due to low production rates last year. years. Efficiency improvements are an integral Metsä Tissue was granted a subsidy by the In 2011, Metsä Group’s mills submitted part of all major investments in production EU under the program of the Sustainable their applications for free emissions allowcapacity. In 2011, altogether 135 smaller Industry Low Carbon Scheme with its project ances for the EU’s CO2 Emissions Trading projects were completed that reduced electric‘Sustainable Low Carbon Tissue Manufacturduring 2013–2020. The final allocations will ity consumption by some 54 GWh and heat ing’. The project is linked to Metsä Tissue’s be settled in 2012. Metsä Group is evaluating by 260 GWh annually, thus eliminating fossil project to improve energy efficiency by 20% the appropriate measures to comply with the CO2 emissions by approximately 47,500 by 2012 from the 2007 level. Industrial Emission Directive that comes to tonnes. Since 2009 we have managed to force in 2016. Due to much more stringent decrease our fossil-based CO2 emissions by emission limits, minor investments will be 16%. New EU regulations required for boilers at several Group mills. We have managed to improve our energy New policy measures are planned or impleefficiency by 5% since 2009 regardless of mented at the EU level. The Commission has uneven production rates during the ramp-up prepared several ‘roadmaps’ to achieve a lowphases after capacity increase investments at carbon and resource-efficient Europe by 2050. Emission data at the Group, Business Area and mill several mills in 2011. Also, Metsä Board’s These roadmaps are expected to lead to new levels are available on p. 28–31. NEW TARGETS FOR CO2 AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 17 We use water sparingly As water is essential in our processes, our mills are located in areas with abundant water sources. The water we use is not needed elsewhere. Metsä Group needs water in all its production flow of a river or a lake meaning that our water tal authorities, which aim to develop waterprocesses it keeps the logs fresh at the mills, intake does not limit other water uses in the course management. These are mainly linked helps separate wood fibres for making paper same region. With groundwater, the intake to the implementation of the EU Water and transports them to different locations at volume is determined and carefully controlled Framework Directive. We also take part in the mills. It is also needed for cleaning, coolby the mill’s environmental permit. several international forums related to water ing and, to a minor extent, making steam for In 2011, our fresh water intake totalled management. Metsä Group is a member in the thermal energy. 370 million cubic meters (400 million in UN Global Compact and Metsä Board is an Our mills are mainly located in the Nor2010), almost all (98%) is surface water from endorsing company of the CEO Water Mandic countries which have plenty of good qualrivers and lakes. date. ity fresh water. However, we continuously seek new ways to minimise the use of fresh For more detailed information on our mills water use and wastewater discharges are reported water in our processes e.g. by re-cycling it Guarded wastewater treatment on p. 28-31. effectively. This minimises the wastewater Process waters are carefully cleaned before emissions and saves energy, thus decreasing they are released back into a river, lake or the the impact on the climate. The percentage of sea with most mills operrecycled and reused water varies mill by mill, ating their own wastewamainly depending on product quality requireter purification plants. ments and local water conditions. Furthermore, each mill Optimal use of fresh water Mills have set their own targets and conhas its own specific enviminimises the wastewater emissions tinuous improvement plans for water use in ronmental permit which and saves energy, thus decreases their environmental management systems. sets limits for pollutants. the impact on the climate. Additionally, Metsä Board has started a proThe main wastewater ject to calculate the water footprint of a prodimpacts are eutrophicauct based on a life-cycle assessment. The first tion and oxygen demand caused by phosphoresults from the study will be available in rus and nitrogen nutrients and organic matter. 2012. Cooperation to better water Purely surface water management We mainly use surface water. Our mills’ water At the local level, we are participating in intake is typically some 0.1–1% of the total several initiatives, together with environmen18 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — WE USE WATER SPARINGLY Re-use is always in our interest Material efficiency means the efficient use of natural resources and the efficient re-use of waste and by-products. For example, the waste from our processes can be used as valuable raw material elsewhere. Metsä Group's production units generate Several end-uses for waste snowmaking thus resulting in reduced elecsome 800,000 tonnes of different types of Deinking sludge is a fine example of a residual tricity and water consumption. waste and residuals annually. These include that has several alternatives for re-use. When Ash has similar re-use possibilities. Most fibre sludge, sludge from deinking recycled paper and board is recycled, the collected of Metsä Group’s units produce ash that can paper, ashes from energy production as well as material is pulped, the ink removed and the be reused, for example, as a forest fertiliser green liquor sludge and lime ash from chemifibres and fillers are recovered. The recycled nutrients once taken from the forest are cal pulp production. Most of these residuals fibres are further used in tissue production; returned in the form of ash, minimising the can be further used for bioenergy production, recycled fillers can be reused in paper producneed for artificial fertilizers. as fertiliser, in landfill capping and in earth tion; and the rest construction. of the mixture, In 2011, we reused 90% of the waste, fibre clay, can be Waste and residuals altogether 700,000 tonnes. Our total amount used as a soil congenerated from our of waste to landfill was 70,000 tonnes, which ditioner. Fibre clay operations are utilized was 60% less compared to the previous year. is also a by-prodefficiently. During the year, our production units uct of paper progenerated 1,970 tonnes of hazardous waste. duction from Typically, these are oils and chemicals, paints, primary fibres, produced when loose fibres are laboratory waste, fluorescent lamps and batremoved from wastewater. teries. The collection of hazardous waste is Fibre clay is considered as waste according outsourced to our partner, who also has a to the current EU legislation. Metsä Group licence to dispose of them. produces some 130,000 tonnes of fibre clay Metsä Group works actively to prevent per year at its Finnish production facilities waste generation and to find new ways to and is currently able to reuse almost all of it. reuse residuals and by-products. We continuFibre clay can be used in soil improvement ously reduce the amount of waste by enhancas it has very good erosion prevention propering recovery processes, increasing the solid ties. It is also suitable, for example, for landfill content of waste to landfill and by increasing construction or landscaping skiing resorts the energy use of organic waste. where fibre clay structures reduce the need for RE-USE IS ALWAYS IN OUR INTEREST — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 19 Focus on ject. The system offers on-line data from the mills’ energy use, enabling them to efficiently Metsä Wood Lappeenranta sawmill built a new petrol proactive risk control and optimise their energy use. filling station with up-to-date safety systems for the vehicles used on the site. Kyro sawmill prevention Metsä Board carried out remediation work with contaminated soil found during the construction of a New infra dryers were installed at Kyro mill, new storage facility. Suolahti plywood mill which are expected to cut the consumption of finalised the construction of a closed water We work actively to natural gas to almost one half at the board circuit for the log soaking basins. An OHSAS minimise and manage all mill. Simpele mill made several investments to 18001 occupational health and safety manageenvironmental impacts reduce energy and water consumption, and to ment system was certified at Eskola sawmill. related to our operations. improve wastewater management and waste handling. Kyro, Simpele, Husum and Kaskinen mills updated their environmental noise Environmental liabilities We take a proactive approach to environmensurveys and made the necessary improveMetsä Group companies have several liabilital risk management that includes assessing, ments. An environmental risk survey was ties from previous operations at closed-down, monitoring and mitigating all the environupdated at Tako mill. sold or leased industrial properties and mental risks related to our own as well as our The environmental management systems decommissioned landfills. Metsä Group has partners’ operations. We manage environmenin Metsä Board’s Paperboard Business were been able to reduce its known old environtal risks by complying with the limits set in developed and integrated into one certified mental liabilities over the past few years with the mills’ environmental permits such as management system covering all the mills. the remediation of contaminated sites and discharges to water, emissions to air, noise, landfills. Most recently, a clean-up of the diminishing accidental releases and conductclosed-down Wifsta mill site in Sweden was ing regular environmental risk analyses at Metsä Fibre completed in 2011 by Metsä Board. Environproduction units. Joutseno mill installed a new stripper in the mental liabilities are recorded in accordance evaporation plant, which has significantly with the current environmental protection reduced the organic loading to the wastewater laws and regulations when it is possible that Mill improvements 2011 treatment plant. The mill will be able to the obligation’s amount can be estimated. During 2011 Metsä Group made several reduce the use of fresh water and reuse its investments in projects mainly relating to by-products with process development. A new replacing fossil fuels with or increasing protrial for the utilisation of residuals such as lime Environmental incidents duction capacities. Metsä Groups capital and rejects in soil improvement was initiated. All environmental incidents that resulted in expenditure totalled EUR 227 million (EUR A new recausticising plant was taken into use major permit violations, claims, compensa138 million in 2010). In 2011, Metsä Group at Kemi mill. It is expected to significantly tions or significant media coverage are received from the Government EUR 33,000 improve the operation of the recovery line detailed in the following table. Additionally, (EUR 1.15 million) as a support for investresulting in lower emissions to air. minor and short-term non-compliances with ments. A new treatment plant for oxidised white environmental permit requirements were liquor was taken into operation at Rauma reported at Metsä Board’s Alizay, Husum, More information about environmental mill, improving the Gohrsmühle and expenditure and other environmental items is available in Metsä Group’s annual report, control of the mill’s Kaskinen mills as well Financial Statements Note 38 on p. 101. chemical balance. The We conduct regular as Metsä Fibre’s Kemi flue gas treatment for environmental risk mill. The authorities Metsä Tissue the lime kiln was also analyses at our were informed and The chemical filling station at Kreuzau mill improved. Äänekoski production units. corrective actions was updated. Improvements were also made at mill improved the taken in all cases. the dosage system for caustic soda thus treatment of malodorimproving environmental and work safety. At ous gases by investing in treatment capacity Düren mill, a large amount of asbestos was and extending the coverage of gas collection. removed from the soil during the restructurThe flue gas treatment of the recovery boiler ing of the production halls. The mill also was also improved with repairs in the electroinstalled new, continuous emission measurestatic precipitator. A development project ment equipment for CO2 and NOx at the aiming at improvements in the operation of power plant. the wastewater treatment plant was finalised Mänttä and Zilina mills have introduced a with promising results, especially in nutrient new energy management operating system as control. part of Metsä Tissue’s energy efficiency pro20 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY — FOCUS ON PROACTIVE RISK PREVENTION Environmental incidents per unit Business Area Unit Incidents Corrective actions Metsä Tissue Mänttä mill, Finland The permit limits for phosphorous and nitrogen emissions to water were Several corrective actions have been taken in exceeded several times due to operational problems in wastewater treatment. cooperation with the external operator of the effluent The permit limits for COD and BOD emissions were exceeded in October due treatment plan to improve its performance. to maintenance work at the wastewater treatment plant. Metsä Board Kyro mill, Finland The permit limit for phosphorous emissions to water was exceeded in The mechanical problems at the plant were corrected January due to mechanical problems at the wastewater treatment plant. and the emissions returned to their normal level. Simpele mill, Finland The permit limit for sulphur dioxide emissions to air from the power plant was Quality control of the fuels and flue gas monitoring exceeded in May due to sulphur rich peat fuel. systems have been improved. The permit limit for nitrogen in wastewater was exceeded due to an overdose Training has been given to staff in nutrient dosing in of nutrients to the wastewater treatment plant. wastewater treatment. A development project for the operation of Metsä Board's treatment plants as a whole has been initiated. Äänevoima Oy, Finland An oil spill occurred at Äänevoima power plant in August due to mechanical Plant monitoring and spill containment systems were failures in the oil pumping station and spill containment systems. About fixed and upgraded. Extensive clean-up measures were 10 m3 of heavy fuel oil was discharged to Lake Kuhnamo, requiring clean-up taken at lake Kuhnamo. measures. Metsä Fibre Rauma mill, Finland The permit limits for sulphur dioxide emissions to air from pulp production The malfunctions in the emission treatment equipment were exceeded in February and November due to malfunctions in the flue gas have been corrected and several improvements made. treatment. Daily emission limits for malodous gases were briefly exceeded in February, June and August. The permit limits for nitrogen and phosphorous emissions to water, set as a An internal investigation was carried out on the three-month average value, were exceeded from September to November at operation of the wastewater treatment plant. the joint wastewater treatment plant with UPM Rauma mill. The noncompliance was caused by operational problems at the wastewater treatment plant in September. Äänekoski mill, Finland The permit limit for phosphorous emissions to water was exceeded in Internal surveys to correct the nutrient balance were December due to a nutrient unbalance in the production process. carried out. Joutseno mill, Finland The permit limit for phosphorous emissions to water was exceeded in June A temporary, additional chemical treatment of due to an unusually high phosphorous content in the wastewater from the wastewater to cut down the phosphorous levels was mill. made. Internal surveys to correct the nutrient balance were carried out. Svir Timber, Russia Svir Timber paid RUB 95,000 as a fine for exceeding the permit limits for A report on the development actions was introduced to wastewater parameters. the authorities and the most severe operational problems at the wastewater treatment have been resolved. Metsä Wood Punkaharju mill, Finland The permit limit for COD emissions to water was exceeded in the 1st and 2nd The water level in Lake Saimaa has returned to normal, quarter of the year due to problems in the fresh water intake to the plant. The ensuring normal water intake to the plant. Operational permit limit for phosphorous was exceeded in the 3rd quarter due to a problems at the wastewater treatment have been temporary operational problem at the wastewater treatment plant. resolved. The Group's main environmental impacts Greenhouse effect (CO2 equivalent): Acidification (SO2 equivalent): tons Eutrophication (P equivalent): tons 1,000 tons 1,800 10,000 300 1,600 250 1,400 8,000 1,200 200 6,000 1,000 150 800 4,000 600 100 400 2,000 50 200 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Some minor corrections made to 2010 figures compared to the previous Annual Report. FOCUS ON PROACTIVE RISK PREVENTION — ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 21 We create well-being We generate well-being at work, in the local communities where we operate and in society at large. By behaving responsibly towards our stakeholders, we can improve their quality of life. We also support local communities and cooperate with organisations such as WWF Finland. Cooperative by nature Large scale socio-economic impacts Metsä Group is a cooperative that comprises Metsä Group is a regional player that operates some 125,000 forest owners. This unique in some 30 countries, mainly in Europe, with background determines our basic task – to production units in 9 countries. In the regions create value for the wood grown by our memwhere we operate, we are also a major player bers. The total forest area owned by our memand an active member of the local communibers amounts to about one-half of all Finnish ties. The socio-economic impacts of our operprivately-owned forests, altogether 5.3 million ations thus have major effects on different hectares. stakeholder groups and locations. Cooperation with WWF Finland Metsä Group signed a two-year cooperation agreement with WWF Finland at the beginning of 2011. We supported WWF Finland’s activities during the UN International Year of Forests in Finland, including WWF’s 50th anniversary seminar on forestry and a series of round table discussions on Finnish forests and climate. We also participated in a seminar on sustainable packaging with WWF Finland’s other cooperation partners. Metsä Tissue, one of the Group’s subsidiaries, offered training to almost 100 employees in four different regions on themes related to sustainable development such as water, the carbon footprint, forest certification as well as eco-labelling and environmental management systems. Within the cooperation agreement WWF Finland’s representatives joined the dialogue offering insights mainly on the status of the world’s forests. 22 WELL-BEING — WE CREATE WELL-BEING Metsä Group, together with WWF Finland, promotes the sustainable use of forests and increases knowledge of the world’s forests by training its personnel As well as providing livelihood for forest owners, Metsä Group is an important Examples of socio-economic impacts employer, also in many remote areas. In addi2011 2010 tion to the people we employ directly, we Stakeholder group Monetary flow EUR million EUR million generate significant employment opportuniCustomers Sales 5,346 5,377 ties indirectly for our partners and subconSuppliers and forest Purchases of materials, raw materials owners and services 3,770 3,599 tractors. We aim to create well-being for mutual benefit of all our stakeholders. Employees Wages and benefits (incl. social security and pension costs) 863 745 For this reason, we take into account the Members of the Interests impacts that the surrounding communities cooperative 38 1) 35 might undergo due to changes in our operaFinanciers Interests 135 122 tions already during the planning phase Governmental bodies Net taxes 59 131 whether it is investing in the current, starting 1) Proposal by the Board of Directors up new or closing down existing operations. After the restructuring operations completed in 2011, the Group’s determined restructuring Group and its Business Areas sponsored work has now reached its final phase. Today, numerous small-scale projects at the local we are a focused and strong international level. However, the Group did not make any forest industry group that continuously devellarge donations to charitable causes as it has in ops its operations and production units in a the previous years. stable and long-term basis. For example, Metsä Group participated in the launch of a Finnish national committee to build up a new global network UN Women Shared strategy on sponsorship to promote equal opportunities for girls and Metsä Group has a shared sponsorship stratwomen in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and egy that aims to support our business and Latin America. In addition to Group-level product marketing, and create a positive actions, The Group’s subsidiaries have multiimage for the Group. In targeting our sponsorple ongoing development projects in different ing, we favour youth projects. In 2011, Metsä communities. WE CREATE WELL-BEING — WELL-BEING 23 Responsible employer, responsible business We adhere to widely respected principles, such as the UN Global Compact and Declaration of Human Rights, and endorse ethical business practices. We also have Group-wide targets to highlight the importance of safety and the well-being of our employees. Streamlining policies in the field of social responsibility taking into for 3% of all Metsä Group’s personnel at the In 2011, Metsä Group completed a Groupconsideration the aspects of human rights and end of 2011. wide project and introduced 16 new or child or forced labour. Correspondingly, the The year was challenging for the personnel revised policies. Best practices from different Sustainability Principles state that our as Metsä Group implemented several restrucparts of the Group were collected, existing employees are free to associate with or join turing activities to mitigate the losses of its policies streamlined and additional policies any union. In 2011, 98% of our employees in paper business. The restructuring measures introduced. Our daily sustainability work is Finland were covered by collective bargaining taken were: the start of the consultation and guided by our Sustainability Principles as well agreements and 77% were known to be memnegotiation processes to plan the shut down of as our employee and supplier Codes of Conbers of trade unions. Metsä Group applies the Alizay mill in France and discontinue duct. country-specific collective bargaining agreeunprofitable businesses at the Gohrsmühle Ethical business practices are the core of ments. and Reflex mills in Germany; and the restrucall our operations. Thus our target is to have We conduct a formal employee consultaturing of the coated paper business, including the whole personnel covered by Code of tion process for Metsä Board and Metsä Tisthe process of shutting down the Äänekoski Conduct training by the end of 2012. Trainsue Business Areas and develop employee paper machine in Finland. In addition, tissue ing in the new policies for our employees and dialogue across countries through the Europroduction, converting and supply chain management started with the employee Code pean Works Council (EWC), a forum of operations at Konstancin-Jeziorna mill near of Conduct in autumn 2011. communication between management and Warsaw, Poland, are to be discontinued. employees. The main objective is to ensure The restructuring of businesses affected a that cooperation and mutual communication total of 3,270 employees during 2011, of Responsible management in working towards common goals is accordwhom 349 were made redundant and 136 Metsä Group promotes equal opportunities ing to mutual values. Additionally, the parent contract ended due to another reasons such as and emphasises that discrimination may lead company's personnel has elected four memretirement or temporality. Total of 822 to disciplinary actions. It is the responsibility bers to the Cooperative's Supervisory Board employees were temporarily laid off in 2011. of each employee to report any discriminaeach for a three year period. Metsä Group supports all affected personnel tion. All formal complaints are systematically In all operating countries, Metsä Group in finding new employment and takes responhandled through the Group’s Code of Conconforms to the country specific laws and sibility in the local communities. duct practices. No cases of discrimination or agreements in terms of employment. human rights violations were reported in At the end of 2011, Metsä Group had 2011. total of 12,525 employees, of whom 94% were Ethical business Metsä Group’s Code of Conduct and permanent employees while 6% had tempoThe Code of Conduct guides employees in Sustainability Principles guide the employees rary contracts. Part-time employees accounted dealing with gifts, possible bribery and corrup24 WELL-BEING — RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS diate actions to investigate the incident and find solutions on how to prevent similar accidents from happening in the future. High-quality everyday management Metsä Group’s HR processes aim to ensure that the right people are in the right position at the right time and with the right skills. Combined with good management practices, this creates a basis for well-being at work, organisational efficiency and provides opportunities for personal and organisational development. We promote safety at work – for our employees and for our partners. Our accident rate is lower than the industry average. tion, and instructs employees not to accept Safety is our top priority Management processes and systems are any bribes or high-value business gifts, or in We continuously develop and promote the designed to support high-quality everyday any way advance business through bribery or occupational safety and well-being at work of management and provide solutions for the blackmail. During 2011, Metsä Group has not our employees. We monitor absenteeism and employees' professional development. These been accused of participating in any corrupaccident rates through Group-wide targets common tools and processes help our managtive activities. The Code of Conduct also calls and reporting. Surveys enable us to identify ers provide the quality of leadership that all for each employee to report any conduct and address any issues at an early stage that employees are entitled to. contrary to the guidelines. A report can be may potentially threaten work capacity or submitted to an employee’s superior or to the safety. Local Occupational Health and Safety Group General Counsel. In 2011, two cases Committees play an important role in trainAn attractive employer were reported. ing and facilitating health and safety at the In 2011, newly recruited permanent employDuring 2011, Metsähallitus, a state enterlocal level. These committees cover 100% of ees accounted for 6% of the total number of prise that administers state-owned land and our employees in all main operating countries. employees (full-time equivalent). For all of its water areas, together with several Finnish We strive for continuous improvement and permanent, fixed-term and part-time employtowns, municipalities and private forest ownour aim is to improve our lost-time accident ees, Metsä Group provides the benefits ers filed claims for damages against Metsäliitto rate by 10% each year. Our long-term target required by local legislation such as occupaCooperative and two other forest companies for lost-time accident rate is zero. In 2011, the tional health service, insurance against occuat the Courts of Finland. The claims relate to lost-time accident rate was 18.3 (17.3 in pational diseases, parental leave and retirethe decision of the Market Court on 3 2010). ment benefits. In addition, the Group supDecember 2009 whereby Metsäliitto CoopWe want also to ensure a healthy work ports its employees' recreation possibilities. erative and two other forest industry compaenvironment. Our target is to keep sickness We continuously monitor employee satisnies were deemed to have breached competiabsenteeism rate at the best European level faction. Surveys capture the personnel’s views tion rules in the Finnish roundwood market and below 3% at all times. In 2011, our sickon their working environment and developfrom 1997 to early 2004. Metsäliitto Coopness absenteeism was 4.4% (4.2% in 2010). ment compared to previous years. They also erative considers the claims unfounded in We continuously seek ways to improve the provide ideas for the continuous improvement their entirety. safety culture of the organisation and the of the company’s operations which, in turn, No significant fines were paid or other safety of the working environment to prevent improves working conditions and helps the non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance all work-related injuries and accidents. HowGroup and its Business Areas reach their with laws and regulations were received in ever, at the end of 2011, an accident due to strategic goals. In 2011, on a scale of 4 to 10, 2011. human error caused the death of an employee Metsä Group had an overall job satisfaction at Simpele mill in Finland. According to rating of 8.22 with a response rate of 75%. corporate safety instructions, we took immeRESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS — WELL-BEING 25 Metsä Group has a Group-wide bonus system that supports the strategy implementaResponsible profitability, reliability, tion and motivates the personnel to reach the cooperation, renewal set targets. Both permanent and temporary employees are entitled to bonuses. In 2011, Metsä Group paid as salaries, wages and benPolicies, principles and support efits (including social security and pension costs) EUR 863 million (EUR 745 million in 2010). Professional development and growth HR Well-being Management Career planning infrastructure at work practices and competence Metsä Group offers its employees the development possibility to obtain new skills through train• SAP HR tool • Management and • Outstanding • Resource planning ing, internal job rotation and other learning development of leadership • Employee data • Recruitment opportunities. These help to retain highly management well-being at work • Providing tools to • Talent skilled, talented and committed employees, • Personnel • Health and safety good management management and improve the overall satisfaction of its development • Work capacity • Internal • Personal appraisal (PDA) evaluation cooperation assessments personnel. The average years served in Metsä • Compensation and • Early intervention • Mentoring Group is 15.6. benefits • Return to work and coaching Each employee has the right to work• Job rotation related training and development. The • On-the-job employee’s annual personal development plan training is made for the forthcoming year in the Per• Training programmes sonnel Development Appraisal (PDA). In 2011, 97% of Metsä Group’s white collar employees in Finland and 83% abroad held PDA discussions. Everyday management At the Group level, Metsä Group runs its annual management development program, Challenger. At the Business Area level, there are strategic business training programmes for key personnel. Additionally, a year-long trainee program for new graduates was arranged in 2011. Several local development programs are also organised according to needs. Supporting work capacity Metsä Group recognises tight collaboration with occupational health care, supervisors are that the effective safety given tools and training to identify any potential situations that can and well-being policies threaten the employee’s ability to work . Early support starts with a along with systematic discussion with the superior to identify any work capacity difficulties monitoring of the workas not all are shown as sick leave. When the deterioration of work safety related indicators capacity is identified at an early stage, it can be supported successpromote a more longfully and major problems prevented. If the superior recognises a need term approach to the for further actions, a work capacity assessment can be requested overall health of the from the occupational health-care provider who then carries out a personnel – something work capacity evaluation. Its purpose is to support the employee who that the Group considers may be referred to the health-care provider for closer assessment on crucial. To this aim, we the need for rehabilitation. If a need for sick leave is identified, Metsä implemented globally a new unified model to support our employees’ Group has implemented a corresponding program to manage such work capacity, which includes early support, an assessment of work absence and facilitate the return to work. A successful return-to-work capacity and a personal work capacity plan. The model assists in program includes several aspects, such as a return-to-work discuscreating a caring work environment and enables the equal treatment sion between the superior and employee to ensure active and open of all employees. communication. The employee can also be offered an alternative Providing early support is part of good management practices as employment task if needed. In the coming years, we will monitor it addresses an employee’s right to receive support and places an the impacts the early support model has on the well-being of our obligation on the superior to provide it. With the new model, and in employees. 26 WELL-BEING — RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The Group's personnel data 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of employees 1) 12,525 12,820 13,592 16,729 Share of permanent employees, % 2) 94.2 94.0 95.0 96.0 Average age, years 2) 43.8 43.5 44.0 43.7 Average years served, years 2) 15.6 15.2 16.8 16.1 Employee turnover, % 2) 3) 7.8 6.9 11.2 7.7 Ration between men/women, % 2) 79/21 81/19 81/19 79/21 Share of women in management, % 4) 12.9 11.1 8.3 5.1 Sickness absenteeism, % 2) 5) 4.4 4.2 4.3 4.2 Work accident absenteeism, % 2) 0.22 0.28 0.27 0.25 Number of work related fatalities, nro of cases 1 1 1 0 1) Full-time equivalent (FTE) 2) The figures cover 99% of Metsä Group employees in 2010–2011. In 2008–2009 they cover 97% of Metsä Group employees. 3) The figure excludes fixed term employees and includes redundancies caused by restucturing of business. 4) Management includes Board of Directors, Executive Management Team and Business Areas’ management teams 5) Per cent of regular working hours Well-being indicators by Business Area Work related Sickness Lost-time Work accident fatalities, absenteeism, % 1) accident rate 2) absenteeism, % nRo of cases 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Metsä Tissue 5.1 5.1 13.6 9.4 0.2 0.2 0 0 Metsä Board 4.6 4.7 16.1 15.8 0.2 0.3 1 1 Metsä Fibre 4.8 5.7 6.9 14.6 0.1 0.4 0 0 Metsä Wood 4.7 3.2 37.4 35.6 0.4 0.4 0 0 Metsä Forest 1.4 2.2 3.2 1.8 0.1 0.1 0 0 The Group 4.4 4.2 18.3 17.3 0.2 0.3 1 1 1) Per cent of regular working hours 2) Per million worked hours Organisational functionality research by business area Response rate 2011 2010 2011 Metsä Tissue 8.41 8.44 74% Metsä Board 8.16 8.05 70% Metsä Fibre 8.34 8.31 77% Metsä Forest 7.98 n.a. 80% The Group's personnel by country: Personnel by Business Area: The Group's age distribution: 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 31 DEC 2011 25 years 26–35 36–45 46–55 > 56 100% Finland 45% Germany 18% 80% Sweden 12% Great Britain 6% 60% Russia 5% France 4% Metsä Board 33% Poland 4% Metsä Tissue 26% 40% Slovakia 3% Metsä Wood 23% Baltic countries 1% Metsä Forest 8% 20% Rest of Europe 1% Metsä Fibre 7% Other countries <1% Group functions 3% 0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS — WELL-BEING 27 Sustainability data by unit in 2011 Metsä Tissue Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain of Custody Tissue and ISO Number of Accident cooking papers ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ employees 1) rate 2) 1,000 t 9001 14001 3) 18001 BRC PEFC FSC Mänttä 5) Finland 411 32.1 124 x x ISO 22000 x x Düren Germany 103 0,0 11 x x x ISO 22000+BRC x x Kreuzau Germany 424 18.6 146 x x x BRC x x Raubach Germany 263 14.8 50 x x x BRC x x Stotzheim Germany 281 0,0 21 x x x BRC x x Krapkowice Poland 225 14.3 27 x x x x x Warsau Poland 128 8.1 18 x x x x x Žilina Slovakia 236 8.8 78 x x x BRC x x Nyboholm Sweden 210 29.0 25 x x x Pauliström 6) Sweden 22 x x x Katrinefors Sweden 290 17.6 74 x x x Others 722 7) Metsä Tissue Total 3,293 13.6 599 1) Number of employees on 31 December 2011 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 4) Reported as wet waste 5) Includes Tissue and Baking and Cooking businesses 6) Pauliström's personnel figures are included in Nyboholm figures 7) Excluding personnel from technology operations and supply chain. Naro Fominsk's personnel included Metsä Board Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain of Custody BOARD AND ISO Number of Accident Pulp PAPER ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ employees 1) rate 2) 1,000 t 1,000 t 9001 14001 3) Energy 18001 BRC PEFC FSC Joutseno BCTMP Finland 52 0.0 246 x x EN 16001 x x x x Kaskinen BCTMP Finland 75 16.3 212 x x x x x Kemiart Liners Finland 102 12.4 337 x x EN 16001 x x x x Kyro Finland 240 24.0 74 199 x x EN 16001 x x x x Simpele Finland 318 16.6 77 193 x x EN 16001 x x x x Tako Finland 204 17.2 182 x x EN 16001 x x x x Äänekoski Board Finland 162 25.4 192 x x EN 16001 x x x x Äänekoski Paper Finland 195 31.2 136 x x EN 16001 x x x Alizay France 296 39.4 200 x x x x Gohrsmühle Germany 688 11.5 163 x x x x x x Reflex Germany 210 13.7 45 x x x x x Husum Sweden 861 9.8 651 636 x x SS 62 77 50 x x Others 667 5) 100 Metsä Board Total 4,070 16.1 1,361 2,284 1) Number of employees on 31 Dec 2011 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 4) Reported as wet waste 5) Includes personnel from sales and logistics operations, management and subsidiaries Metsä Fibre Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain of Custody ISO Number of Accident Pulp SAWN TIMBER ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ employees 1) rate 2) 1,000 t 1,000 m3 9001 14001 3) Energy 18001 BRC PEFC FSC Joutseno Finland 144 8.4 603 x x EN 16001 x x x x Kemi Finland 193 12.8 532 x x EN 16001 x x x x Rauma Finland 120 9.8 567 x x EN 16001 x x x x Äänekoski Finland 154 3.9 503 x x EN 16001 x x x x Svir Timber Russia 129 0.0 196 x x x x x Others 132 5) Metsä Fibre Total 872 6.9 2,205 196 1) Number of employees on 31 Dec 2011 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 4) Reported as wet waste 5) Includes personnel from sales operations, a subsidiary and management 28 PERFORMANCE DATA — SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT Emissions to air Discharges to water Solid waste CO2 Sulphur NOX Total suspended Waste Landfill Hazardous fossil (as SO2) (as NO2) ParticLES COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids water waste waste t t t t t t t t t 1,000 m3 t 4) t 4) 13,741 0 6.1 0 429 45 2.19 27 138 4,815 2,362 16 44,278 0 50 0 104 8.5 0.43 0 8.5 854 0 169 86,866 11 87 0.027 299 16 0.80 0 16 1,604 6,590 33 23,634 0 22 0 131 4.7 0.23 0 4.7 467 117 142 10,610 0.2 8.6 0 6.5 1.8 0.088 0 1.8 175 0 244 0 0 0 0 18 2.8 0.43 3.5 1.9 447 706 0.63 42,596 182 73 62 81 5.2 0.46 4.4 7.7 332 843 1.4 13,313 0 6.6 0 157 11 0.54 0 11 1,085 2,568 14 10,266 2.3 18 4.8 11 1.6 0.026 1,4 3.8 379 0 2.2 8,020 0.6 10 7.1 45 19 0.055 0.82 6.2 394 0 194 11,171 0 5.5 0 297 60 0.57 13 13 2,408 191 33 26,4495 196 286 74 1,578 176 5.8 50 213 12,959 13,378 848 Emissions to air Discharges to water Solid waste CO2 Sulphur NOX Total suspended Waste Landfill Hazardous fossil (as SO2) (as NO2) ParticLES COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids water waste waste t t t t t t t t t 1,000 m3 t 4) t 4) 18,771 0 9.3 0 446 141 0.34 5.1 10 683 28 18 9,011 79 173 19 1,330 92 1.2 12 91 3,583 2,962 0 1,975 0 0.9 0 569 32 1.8 32 124 7,102 986 13 139,559 0 138 0 326 44 0.96 15 54 4,141 23 21 67,640 121 175 5.7 293 20 1.6 12 27 4,004 122 23 72,654 0 71 0 146 90 0.91 0.90 29 2,211 313 69 3,011 8.0 77 1.1 531 212 0.75 3.8 111 3,066 63 5.9 3,574 10 68 0.96 245 101 0.28 0.54 62 1,047 63 14 1,798 7.7 217 6.2 67 6.5 0.97 6.7 30 3,389 851 41 239,802 603 427 7.6 117 35 2.0 6.9 51 3,900 0 91 1,919 0 1.0 0 49 14 0.72 0 14 1,430 150 46 82,952 302 1,213 283 9,996 981 24 161 755 46,053 185 1.0 38,796 58 192 8.4 3,165 667 7.3 18 323 5,363 151 2.7 681,461 1,188 2,762 332 17,280 2,436 43 275 1,683 85,973 5,896 344 Emissions to air Discharges to water Solid waste CO2 Sulphur NOX Total suspended Waste Landfill Hazardous fossil (as SO2) (as NO2) Particles COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids water waste waste t t t t t t t t t 1,000 m3 t 4) t 4) 79,247 195 1,067 212 6,480 112 8.7 136 274 18,327 13,641 39 65,532 171 1,044 56 7,216 147 5.1 92 332 18,916 216 70 61,673 166 1,094 113 7,615 101 7.5 67 325 13,095 19,646 0 37,827 424 760 423 5,651 151 8.7 71 461 14,651 15,099 47 28 5.3 41 3.8 8.6 1.5 0.11 1.6 8.4 181 235 0.43 244,308 962 4,007 808 26,971 512 30 368 1,400 65,170 48,837 157 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT — PERFORMANCE DATA 29 Sustainability data by unit in 2011 Metsä wood Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain of Custody Number of Accident Wood products ISO ISO OHSAS employees 1) rate 2) 1,000 m3 9001 14001 3) 18001 PEFC FSC Reopalu Estonia 37 44.7 sawn timber 60 x Eskola Finland 12 0.0 sawn timber 57 x x x x Hartola Finland 46 44.8 glulam production 20 x x x Karihaara 5) Finland 2 0.0 sawn timber x x Kaskinen TC ja Thermowood Finland 61 26.2 further processing 102 x x x x Kerto, Lohja Finland 177 93.7 Kerto® 93 x x x x Kolho 6) Finland further processing 32 x x x x Kyrö Finland 81 111.8 sawn timber 196 x x x x Lappeenranta Finland 78 66.8 sawn timber 208 x x x x Merikarvia Finland 75 55.0 sawn timber 184 x x x x x Punkaharju Finland 473 63.4 plywood and Kerto® 159 x x x x Renko Finland 69 16.2 sawn timber 252 x x x x x Suolahti Finland 477 43.9 plywood 189 x x x x Vilppula Finland 138 30.3 sawn timber 403 x x x x x Aichach Germany 94 28.9 further processing 24 x Boston Great Britain 325 16.0 further processing 256 x x x x x Grangemouth Great Britain 108 4.6 further processing 53 x x x x x King's Lynn Great Britain 32 further processing 122 x x x x x Newport Great Britain 26 0.0 further processing 29 x Widnes Great Britain 99 20.3 further processing 54 x x x x x Boulleville and Honfleur France 133 45.9 further processing 87 x Casteljaloux France 44 12.3 further processing 34 x Others 287 7) Metsä Wood Total 2,874 37.4 2,611 Not reported 1) Number of employees on 31 Dec 2011 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES) 4) Reported as wet waste 5) Operations at Karihaara sawmill have been suspended until further notice since 1 July 2009 6) Kolho's personnel figures are included in Kaskinen TC and Thermowood figures 7) Includes personnel from sales operations and management Metsä Forest COUNTRY Personnel Wood procurement Management systems Chain of Custody Number of employees 1) Accident rate 2) 1,000 m3 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 PEFC FSC Estonia 27 0.0 416 x 3) x 4) x x Finland 577 5.4 22,792 x x x x Latvia 62 0.0 430 x x 4) x x Russia, St. Petersburg 15 0.0 x 3) x 4) x x Russia, Podporozhye 306 0.0 610 5) x 4) x x Sweden 4 0.0 3,434 x 3) x 4) x x Others 37 6) 1,494 Metsä Forest Total 1,028 3.2 29,176 1) Number of employees on 31 Dec 2011 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's quality systems (ISO 9001) 4) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative's environmental systems (ISO 14001) 5) Includes wood procurement from St. Petersburg 6) Includes management Metsä Group Wood Personnel procurement Production Board Tissue and Number of Accident Wood products Pulp and paper cooking papers employees 1) rate 2) 1,000 m3 1,000 m3 1,000 t 1,000 t 1,000 t Metsä Group total 12,525 18.3 29,176 2,807 3,566 2,284 599 1) Number of employees on 31 Dec 2011 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) 2) Lost time accident frequency rate (LTA FR): Accidents at work per million working hours 3) Reported as wet waste 30 PERFORMANCE DATA — SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT Emissions to air Discharges to water Solid waste CO2 Sulphur NOX Total suspended Waste Landfill Hazardous fossil (as SO2) (as NO2) ParticLES COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids water waste waste t t t t t t t t t 1,000 m3 t 4) t 4) 26 0.0019 7.05 7.02 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.0 6.2 0 0 1.5 1.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 8.0 4.0 0 0 10.5 10.5 0 0 0 0 0 1.5 55 0.40 0 0 0 2.3 2.8 1.3 0.011 0.016 0.25 0 169 55 865 2.8 1.1 0.56 0 0 0 0 0 0 11 0.40 474 0.035 22 21 0 0 0 0 0 6.4 6.0 2.0 0 0 21 21 0 0 0 0 0 11 8.1 5.8 609 0.044 19 18 0 0 0 0 0 4.8 13 2,4 84 47 0.050 0.26 2.8 39 3,494 79 92 0.0067 25 25 0 0 0 0 0 4.4 34 5.0 490 0.14 76 12 5.5 3.6 0.12 0.37 4.8 10 28 114 871 2.8 51 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 6.0 34 0.0013 1.6 1.5 0 0 0 0 0 1.7 0 226 0 0 0.048 0.048 0 0 0 0 0 0 197 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 131 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 88 23 477 0.035 0.64 0.064 0 0 0 0 0 7.5 54 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.0 0 0.060 4.4 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 19 24 5,889 7.6 63 33 9,826 13 303 221 92 52 0.18 0.65 7.8 86 4,385 620 Wood Products Industry's emissions to the water occur only in plywood production processes. St. Petersburg planing plant in Russia is not included in the figures above. Data measurement techniques Environmental impacts, acidification and eutrophication, are calculated by multiplying impact Calculation coverage follows that of the financial accounting with the following corrections: causing emissions by coefficients. Acidification is expressed as sulphur dioxide equivalents. • discharges to water through external waste water treatment plant (typically municipal) are Coefficient for SO2 emission is 1 and for NOX 0.7. Eutrophication is expressed as phosphorus taken into account assuming 85% reduction for COD, emissions of BOD, phosphorus and equivalents. Coefficient for total phosphorus is 1, for BOD 0.0088, for total nitrogen 0.14 and suspended solids are calculated according to flow with the following residual concentrations: for NOX 0.0041. Greenhouse impact consists only from fossil carbon dioxide emissions with BOD 10 mg/l; total phosphorus 0.5 mg/l; total suspended solids 10 mg/l; total nitrogen coefficient 1. emissions is regarded as zero, because there is surplus nitrogen in municipal waste waters and reduction of our BOD is binding nitrogen to biomass and therefore reducing the plants In mill specific data, discharges from waste water plants serving several mills are allocated to total nitrogen emission mills using the methodology explained above. Emissions from power plants separate to mill • the emission of external waste waters treated in our waste water treatment plants are not units are also allocated to mills using the energy. In this allocation, the use of 1 MWh of included. Allocation of emission between internal and external inflows is carried out assuming electricity is valued double compared to the use of 1 MWh of heat. theoretical COD reductions for each inflow, which then are corrected according to the real COD reduction for the whole plant. Other emission parameters are allocated according to flow. Waste volumes are reported including the moisture. Total energy consumption is expressed as primary fuel consumption and calculated by assuming 40% energy efficiency for purchased electricity production and 85% energy efficiency for purchased heat production. Emissions to air Discharges to water Solid waste CO2 Sulphur NOX Total suspended Landfill Hazardous fossil (as SO2) (as NO2) ParticLES COD BOD Phosphorus Nitrogen solids Waste water waste waste t t t t t t t t t 1,000 m3 t 3) t 3) 1,200,090 2,359 7,358 1,435 45,920 3,176 79 693 3,303 164,188 72,496 1,970 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT — PERFORMANCE DATA 31 GRI table The Sustainability Report 2011 has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines (version G3.1). We have selected those indicators most relevant to our operations, products and stakeholders. The table specifies also where you can find more information on each indicator. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+. Fully reported SR Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2011 Partially reported AR Metsä Group Annual Report 2011 GRI core indicator FS Metsä Group Financial Statements 2011 CG Metsä Group Corporate Governance Statement 2011 GRI table Strategy and Analysis More information Reporting level 1.1 Statement from the CEO ar p. 2–3 opening words SR p. 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities SR p. 2–3 Organisational Profile More information Reporting level 2.1 Name of the organisation AR and Sr, coverpages, CG p. 118 2.2 Primary brands, products, and /or services AR p. 14–23 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR p. 8–9, SR p. 4–5 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters AR and sr coverpages, CG p. 118 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR p. 10 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form CG p. 118 2.7 Markets served AR p. 6–7, 10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation FS p. 47–86, SR p. 4–5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR p. 10–11 Report parameters More information Reporting level Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report April 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions Sr p. 2–3, sustainability@ metsagroup.com Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining the content of the report SR p. 4–5 3.6 Boundary of the report SR p. 4–5, FS p. 47–86 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, etc. FS p. 47–86, 95–97 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SR p. 31, FS p. 117 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance for the report SR p. 5, 35 Governance, Commitments and Engagement More information Reporting level Governance 4.1 Governance structure CG p. 118–123 4.2 Position of the Chair of the Board of Directors CG p. 118–123 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive directors on the Board of Directors CG p. 118–123 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations/directions to the highest CG p. 118–123 governance body 4.5 Executive compensation CG p. 124–125 Executive remuneration is based on the group– level and personal target. which depend on the person's area of responsibility incl. issues related to sustainability. 4.6 Ensuring processes to avoid conflicts of interest CG p. 118–123 4.7 Determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance CG p. 118–124 body and its comittees 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and sustainability principles SR p. 4–5, AR p. 8–9 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and SR p. 4–5, CG p. 118–124 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, incl. relevant risks 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own sustainability performance SR p. 4–5, CG 118–124 32 PERFORMANCE DATA — GRI TABLE Governance, Commitments and Engagement More information Reporting level Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautinary approach or principle SR p. 5–6, CG p. 118–123 4.12 Externally developed sustainability charters, principles or other initiatives SR p. 6–7 4.13 Memberships in associations SR p. 7 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SR p. 6–7 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders SR p. 6–7 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR p. 6–7 4.17 Responding to key topics and concerns resulting from stakeholder engagements SR p. 6–7 Economic indicators (EC) More information Reporting level Economic perfomance and the related management practices at Metsä Group are guided e.g. by employee FS and CG and supplier Codes of Conduct, Purchasing Policy, Tax Policy, Risk Management Policy and Investment Policy. Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR p. 22–23, FS p. 3 EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change SR p. 2–3, , 10–11, 16–17 EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations FS note 24 p. 86–88 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the Government SR p. 20, FS note 7 p. 70–71 Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and the proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers SR p. 10–11 Indirect economic impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts SR p. 22–23 Environmental indicators (EN) More information Reporting level Environmental management practices at Metsä Group are guided e.g. by Environmental Policy, SR p. 4–5, 8–9, 10–21 Sustainability Principles and supplier Code of Conduct. These instruct in issues such as mills' environmental performance and sustainable forest management. Materials EN1 Materials used SR p. 11 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recyled input materials SR p. 11 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SR p. 16–17 EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR p. 16–17 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SR p. 16–17 EN6 Renewable energy-based products SR p. 9–10, AR p. 14–23 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved SR p. 16–17 Water EN8 Water usage by source SR p. 18 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the withdrawal of water SR p. 18 EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water SR p. 18 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SR p. 12–15 EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity SR p. 12–15 EN13 Protected or restored habitats SR p. 12–15 EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity (incl. engagement with relevant stakeholders) SR p. 12–15 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 21, 28–31 EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions SR p. 16–17, 21 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions SR p. 11, 28–31 EN21 Water discharge SR p. 11, 18, 28–31 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method SR p. 11, 19, 28–31 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills SR p. 21 EN24 Transported, imported, exported or treated hazardous waste SR p. 11, 19, 28–31 EN25 Water bodies and related habitats affected by the discharges of water SR p. 18, 21 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of products SR p. 8–9 Compliance EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR p. 20–21 Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation SR p. 10–11 Overall EN30 Environmental expenditures and investments FS p. 101, 111 GRI TABLE — PERFORMANCE DATA 33 Labor practices and Decent Work (LA) More information Reporting level The people management practices in Metsä Group are guided by several policies that are mandatory for SR P. 24–26 all employees to follow. These policies instruct in issues of equal opportunities and human resources. Employment LA1 Breakdown of workforce SR p. 24–27, 28–31 LA2 Employee turnover SR p. 24–27 LA3 Employee benefits SR p. 24–27 Labour/management relations LA4 Collective bargaining agreements SR p. 24–25 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational change SR p. 24–25 Occupational health and safety LA6 Workforce represented in formal joint management health and safety programs SR p. 24–25 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and fatalities SR p. 27, 28–31 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs SR p. 24–27 Training and education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning SR p. 24–27 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR p. 24–27 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees SR p. 24–27 Human rights (HR) More information Reporting level The practices related to human rights management are guided by our Sustainability Principles and Code SR P. 10–11, 24–27 of Conduct that are mandatory to each employee to follow. In addition, we have a PUrchasing POlicy and we expect all our new suppliers to comply with our suppliers Code of Conduct. Investment and procurement practices HR2 Significant suppliers and other business partners screening human rights SR p. 10–11 HR3 Employee training on human rights SR p. 24–25 Non-discrimination HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR p. 24–25 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 the rights of operations and significant suppliers to exercise freedom of association and collective SR p. 10–11, 24–25 bargaining Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, SR p. 10–11, 24–27 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory SR p. 10–11, 24–27 labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Remediation HR10 Percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews SR p. 4–5, 10–11, 24–27 HR11 Grievances related to human rights field SR p. 24–26 Society indicators (SO) More information Reporting level Metsä Group's Code of Conduct and Competition Policy instruct all employees in the field of ethical SR p. 10–11, 22–25 business practices. In addition, we required all our new suppliers to engage to the the supplier's Code of Conduct. Local communities SO1 Management of impacts on communities in areas affected by activities SR p. 22–23,24–26 SO9 Operations with negative impacts on local communities SR p. 22–23,24–25 SO10 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION MEASURES IMPLEMENTED IN OPERATIONS THAT HAVE NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL SR p. 22–23,24–25 COMMUNITIES Corruption SO2 Percentage of business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR p. 4–5 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures SR p. 24–27 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR p. 24–27 Public policy SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying SR p. 7 Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Anti-trust and monopoly court cases SR p. 24–25 Compliance SO8 Sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations SR p. 24–25 Product Responsibility indicators (PR) More information Reporting level Metsä Group is committed to developing the quality of its operations abiding by the principle of sR P. 8–9 continuous improvement. Our operations and their development are guided by Metsä Group’s certified operating systems and we have a quality policy determining our goals and operating procedures. We guarantee that our products are safe for people and the environment. Consumer health and safety PR1 Product safety SR p. 8–9 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regualtions and voluntary codes concerning SR p. 8–9 product safety no incidences reported in 2011 Product and service labelling PR3 Product information SR p. 8–9 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regualtions and voluntary codes concerning SR p. 8–9 product infomation no incidences reported in 2011 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction SR p. 6– 7 34 PERFORMANCE DATA — GRI TABLE Independent responsibility to anyone else, except to Metsä Group for our work, for this report, or for the • Visiting Metsä Group’s Head Office as well as five sites in Finland and Germany Assurance conclusions that we have reached. We conducted our work in accordance (Metsä Wood, Lohja; Metsä Tissue, Raubach; Metsä Board, Joutseno; Metsä Report with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Fibre, Joutseno and Metsä Forest, Finland). engagements other than audits or reviews of • Interviewing employees responsible for historical financial information”. This Standthe collection and reporting of the inforTo the Management of Metsä Group ard requires that we comply with ethical mation presented in the Sustainability We have been engaged by the Management of requirements and plan and perform the assurinformation at Metsä Group level and at Metsä Group to perform a limited assurance ance engagement to obtain limited assurance the different sites where our visits took engagement on quantitative sustainability whether any matters come to our attention place. performance indicators in the areas of social that cause us to believe believe that the Sus• Inspecting relevant documents and sysand environmental responsibility disclosed in tainability information has not been prepared, tems for gathering, analysing and aggreMetsä Group’s Sustainability Report 2011 for in all material respects, in accordance with the gating the information presented in the the period of January 1, 2011 to December Reporting criteria. Sustainability information as well as test31, 2011 (hereinafter “Sustainability informaIn a limited assurance engagement the ing on a sample basis. tion”). evidence-gathering procedures are more lim• Assessing the data consolidation process ited than for a reasonable assurance engageof the information presented in the Susment, and therefore less assurance is obtained tainability information at Metsä Group Management’s responsibility than in a reasonable assurance engagement. level. The Management of Metsä Group is responsiAn assurance engagement involves performing ble for preparing the Sustainability informaprocedures to obtain evidence about the tion in accordance with the Reporting Criteamounts and other disclosures in the SustainConclusion ria as set out in Metsä Group’s reporting ability information. The procedures selected Based on our limited assurance engagement, guidelines and the Sustainability Reporting depend on the practitioner’s judgement, nothing has come to our attention that causes Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative including an assessment of the risks of mateus to believe that the Sustainability informa(version 3.1). rial misstatement of the Sustainability infortion has not been prepared, in all material mation. respects, in accordance with the Reporting Our work consisted of, amongst others, criteria. Our assurance report should be read Practitioner’s responsibility the following procedures: in conjunction with the inherent limitations Our responsibility is to express a conclusion • Interviewing senior management of Metsä of accuracy and completeness for corporate on the Sustainability information based on Group. responsibility information. This independent our work performed. Our assurance report has • Assessing how Metsä Group employees assurance report should not be used on its been made in accordance with the terms of apply the reporting guidelines and proceown as a basis for interpreting Metsä Group’s our engagement. We do not accept or assume dures of the Group. performance in relation to its principles of sustainability. Helsinki, 30 March 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Johan Kronberg Sirpa Juutinen Authorised Public Accountant Partner Sustainability & Climate Change INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT — PERFORMANCE DATA 35 Metsä Group P.O. Box 10 FI-02020 Metsä, Finland Tel. +358 10 4601 More information at www.metsagroup.com/sustainability Send your feedback to sustainability@metsagroup.com
