www.ict-alliance.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period: 29 June 2011 to 28 June 2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Date: Friday, June 29, 2012 To our stakeholders ICT Alliance supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. We have also recommended these principles to our joint venture companies, and sister concerns. Similar to most of the developing countries our operation in South Asia is not out of context of corruption, human rights violation etc. Since they exist both in public and private sectors (in majority of the organizations), it is up to independent companies like ICT Alliance to stick to the right ways while conducting business, creating robust internal and external operational systems and processes that can help promote the principles. ICT Alliance has consistently followed several policies, supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact, right from the company’s inception. We would like to further confirm our continued support to these important values by being a member of Global compact. We believe that we are a unique company and hope to create a positive difference for society through the policies. Yours sincerely, M. Manzurur Rahman, CEO UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011-2012 2 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. ICT Alliance follows the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We maintain a flat management system with our employees and maintain a transparent work environment. We have declared policies which guarantee the employees their rights. As we gain more experience in the IT sector, we hope to create more stringent policies that provide our employees with the benefits that they deserve. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Existing Family Members: A transparent system in ICT Alliance allows its employers to easily share any sorts of issues during their work which is handled efficiently. Members of the top management team and trainees work in the same sorts of facilities, shoulder by shoulder, to avoid any sense of discrimination. We believe that knowledge is our raw material and sharing knowledge increases our inventory. We promote “sharing is caring”, which enhances productivity. The benefit and reward policies are well defined, so that no prejudice in the process takes places. This allows a sense of proportion to exist in the working environment. The health and safety of our employers are our topmost priorities. We encourage our employees to take proper leave and take care about their health properly. We maintain working facility based on individuals health condition wise need (e.g. orthopedic chairs, cushions, special displays etc.). While visiting factories for process consultation, we always start with a “safety matters” session prior to entering such facilities with risk, and make sure proper safety equipment like helmet, gloves, glasses etc as necessary are used. Prospective Family Member: ICT Alliance from the beginning adopted a policy to groom fresher for 80% of its recruitments. It is a discrimination in the job market out there that people without experience do not get a job, and if people do not get a job how do they get their experience. To break this egg and chicken situation, ICT Alliance has adopted this policy. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. As a result of the polices, our employees remain satisfied. We haven’t yet received any complaints regarding a violation of human rights in our firm, since its inception. It has also had a positive effect on our projects. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011-2012 3 Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities).Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. In a country like Bangladesh, where the rights of labourers, more often than not, are given least preference, a large number of employees from various sectors feel disgruntled. Keeping these statistics in mind, ICT Alliance ensures that the company’s employees are treated in accordance to international labour standards. All ICT Alliance employees are provided contracts of employment which clearly state their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. The conditions of employment, basic terms, additional benefits, rules and disciplinary procedures are provided before-hand in order to avoid any sort of confusion in the future. In the coming years we hope to draft many more policies that’ll provide further support to our employees. We will also ensure to comply with labour-related rules and regulations—both local and international—and hope to continue meeting their requirements. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. ICT Alliance recruits based on merit and follows a no-discrimination policy. As a result of which we have employees from various communities, castes and religions. We strongly focus on performance and results. Each month we provide an ‘Employee of the month’ award in order to encourage our employees. ICT Alliance doesn’t support forced labour. At this point of time it does not have any permanent blue collar worker. Employees have the freedom to make decision in their jobs as long as they produce result. Where they cannot produce result, there is a policy to help them out with proper guidance and care. ICT Alliance also has a firm stance against child labour. With children forced to work in almost every field in this country, ICT Alliance has decided to take this stance in order to provide awareness and further encourage other companies to follow the same. We have a healthy male to female ratio of 2:1, a statistic that is extremely rare to find in the IT companies in the industry we work. We also have a quota for persons with disabilities to work in our firm. In future we are planning to have quotas to have HIV positive persons in our working facility. ICT Alliance follows HR Policies which aim to provide equal opportunities and provide them with deserving benefits. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We follow a detailed structure in order to monitor our employee performance. Our quarterly appraisals are based on declared performance matrix comprising performance (KPI) from system, UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011-2012 4 peer review, supervisors review, customer review (where applicable), mentor’s review, and HR review on soft aspects. This also gives us a fair idea regarding where our employees stand. As a result of the policies ICT Alliance has successfully manage to build its brand in the recruitment market, and we get one of the highest number of applications in response to our recruitment advertisements. Because of fair review, we get performance and quality in our deliverables, which in turn has provided us many worthy contracts. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ICT Alliance has been following a ‘Grow Green’ concept from the very beginning. It is the company’s aim to be an environment-friendly ‘work place’ and put lesser stress on the declining resources of the earth. In the coming years ICT Alliance aims to become a ‘paper-less’ organization and also increase the usage of recyclable/renewable materials and environment-friendly products. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. ICT Alliance follows a paper-less policy where employees are encouraged to deal with soft-copies. We also have a policy that ensures the usage of equipments that are energy efficient. We use of telecommunication and online support giving tools to decrease the number of physical customer visit, to reduce the carbon emission on the road. The company actively participates in promoting awareness regarding the environment through various projects. It is embedded into the mission statement of the company, to let every employees act keeping the environment in mind as a priority. Threat to the environment is one of our top-most concerns and we make it a point to follow nature-friendly strategies in our projects. The CEO’s blog on ICT Alliance’s website promotes the need of environment-friendly offices and also provides various researched articles on the necessity of growing GREEN. (http://blog.ict-alliance.org/) Unlike various other offices in the city, which prefer flamboyant rooms that occupy unwanted space, ICT Alliance, has a compact structure where we maintain a balance between the comfort of our employees and the ecology. We believe less space requires less air-conditioning, which is a new way of thinking of being energy efficient. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We monitor the following: • Make sure we do not print more than 500 sheets of A4 paper per month, and 90% of it has to be for making offers that has a mandatory hard copy submission. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011-2012 5 • Room temperature in office is not going below 24 degree Celsius to be energy efficient. • The ratio of physical visit to customers in comparison with online support. • Every quarter we are taking some stands (articles, awareness sessions, projects, campaigns etc.) to make the world greener. We are consuming less power which saves money, add more margin to our projects; aside we are raising our brand to be environment friendly, which intern is increasing our business volume. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. The Asia operation of ICT Alliance is located in one of the most corrupted countries in the world. Keeping that in mind, the company has designed a transparent system which ensures that no corrupt practices take place in the company. We have set policies which ensure that no unfair practices take place in the company. We also support the “UN Convention Against Corruption” and we don’t deal with customer that perform or request us to help them doing corrupt activities (e.g. deceiving Government to avoid tax etc.). Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • We have zero tolerance in corruption. In our projects we do not allow stakeholders to make any sorts of deception and corruption. • Our product lines are designed to decrease corporate corruption, aligning processes to best practices. Our CSR programs are targeted to bring transparency to stakeholders. • Our innovation department comes up with ideas to take the citizens out of vicious circles of syndicated oligopoly players; with the input from our researchers who find they key factors in the process of theses syndicated business. • With seminars and sessions, we help the industry and government to transfer knowledge about best practices from other countries that has minimum corruption. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. ICT Alliance has a team that ensures that our anti-policies are adhered to. We haven’t faced any cases or charges with regard to corruption, ever since the company’s inception. As a result of the policies, ICT Alliance has built a good reputation in the market over the last three years. This has also had a positive effect on our employees moral and projects’ outcome. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011-2012 6
