Communication on Progress (COP) The United Nations Global Compact Reporting Period: 2011-2012 Bedag Informatik AG Engehaldenstrasse 12 CH-3012 Bern Switzerland Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 Contents 1 Statement of Support of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Peter Schmutz ................. 3 2 Bedag Code of Conduct ................................................................................................................. 3 3 Principles of the Global Compact ................................................................................................. 4 4 Annual Report: Social Responsibility .......................................................................................... 5 Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 2-6 Bedag Informatik AG Bedag has a turnover of over 100 million Swiss francs which makes it one of Switzerland's leading information technology service companies. With a workforce of 470 – 20 of whom are young trainees – Bedag disposes of a broad, well-founded knowledge of data processing. Its core business is the development, maintenance and operation of information technology solutions crucial to business operations. Bedag's expertise ensures customers can enjoy the benefits of information technology in an economic and trouble-free manner. The company has a strong presence in Switzerland's regions with a network of secure data centres and business premises in Bern, Aarau, Delémont, Geneva, Lausanne and Wettingen. Its customers are mainly public administrations and services, companies in the health and insurance fields, and UN organisations. Bedag was founded in 1990 and is owned by the Canton of Bern. Services offered:  Scalable data centre services for system management, operation and maintenance of servers and networks using a number of technologies, and security services that meet the highest standards.  Decentralised services, such as desktop services and local support supplemented by a multi-lingual user help desk.  Software development with the main focus on specialised solutions and individual developments.  Integration of standard products.  Consultation services.  Integrated solutions and services: Full outsourcing or computing on demand and/or software as a service (SAAS). Thanks to the quality of Bedag's services, customers are able to work better, faster, more securely and economically. On the basis of cost leadership Bedag demonstrates a high degree of service and customer orientation responding flexibly and proactively at all times to clients' needs. By means of its decentralised sites all over Switzerland, the company maintains proximity to customers and thus good personal relationships. Bedag conducts its business solely in Switzerland. It has been certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO/IEC 27001:2005 standards and also as an EcoEnterprise for operational sustainability. 1 Statement of Support of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Peter Schmutz “As Switzerland's leading technology company wholly owned by the State, Bedag Informatik AG expressly undertakes to observe the principles and objectives of the U.N. Global Compact. The foundation for our business is strict adherence to the laws of Switzerland and to international standards, such as those contained in the U.N. Global Compact. By means of our Code of Contact, we draw our values to the attention of our employees and show how such should be reflected throughout the company and into the business community.” 2 Bedag Code of Conduct Through the fundamental values of commitment, integrity and professionalism our firm has a distinctive profile which is reflected in its interactions with all other groups with which we engage – customers, proprietors, suppliers, business partners, the cantonal government and authorities, the media, and society as a whole. Implementation of these fundamental values builds trust, a prerequisite for sustainable success in business and long-term security of employment. We want to further maintain and build up this trust with our Code of Conduct. Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 3-6 The fundamental values defined in the Code of Conduct of commitment, integrity and professionalism and the principles of conduct based on such are the hallmarks of our daily routine and our corporate culture. These values are actively supported and lived by the Board of Directors, the Management Board and all employees. All who work for Bedag in any capacity undertake to achieve the company's objectives. Implicit to this is the responsibility to adhere to the three fundamental values of commitment, integrity and professionalism established in the Code of Conduct, the three values with which Bedag will achieve its objectives and guarantee its long-term success. 3 Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  Bedag is expressly committed to the principles of same work, same pay and of gender equality and is a pioneer in Switzerland in this respect. As the first company in Switzerland Bedag had an independent agency audit its company-wide salary structure with respect to equality and salaries are checked annually as part of the certificated human resources processes. Bedag does not issue contracts to partners in other countries where it is unable to check whether wage equality prevails. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Through the institution of the staff council, Bedag ensures that the rights of its employees are protected. Ombudswomen are elected to represent female staff to ensure the rights of women, and women in general, are respected. The most recent election for this position was held in December 2010. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Bedag expressly adheres to the recommendations of the branch associations and disposes of a transparent compensation system as a result of its equal wage policy. Equality of salary between the genders is checked annually. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  There is no compulsory labour in Switzerland or at Bedag. Bedag does not place contracts abroad. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour.  Child labour is classified as work performed by children who are under the age of 15. In Switzerland the minimum age for employment is determined in labour legislation, legislation on domestic employment and the obligatory education requirement, which is nine years. Today, child labour is not a problem that occurs in Swiss society. Bedag does not issue contracts to partners in other countries where child labour could be used.  Bedag adheres to the strict legal framework regulating vocational training and to the agreement “Fair Play bei der Lehrlingsausbildung” (Fair Play in Apprenticeship Training). Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 4-6  The fundamental values and principles of conduct laid down in the Code of Conduct are a fixed component of our corporate culture. Both management and employees are under obligation to apply these fundamental values in their daily work and to implement them actively and responsibly.  Adherence to the Code of Conduct is checked during the annual employee assessment. Behaviour contrary to the fundamental values is not tolerated in any manner by Bedag. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Bedag's commitment to environmental protection is certificated. This certification takes place on the basis of the „Nachhaltige Entwicklung EcoEntreprise” (EcoEnterprise Sustainable Development) check list established by the Ecoparc Association in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Certification was carried out by the Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems (SQS) and an annual audit is made to check compliance with the conditions of certification. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  When purchasing standard hardware for employee workplaces, Bedag takes heed of the ecological rankings established by Greenpeace when evaluating the various products. The ranking list is drawn up taking into consideration such factors as the use of environmentally friendly materials and worldwide availability of a recycling system. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  As part of its certified management system, Bedag assesses its suppliers each year; suppliers’ performance in the environmental field is also checked. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  The fundamental value of integrity contained in the Code of Conduct prohibits Bedag from engaging in any such conduct. 4 Annual Report: Social Responsibility In its current annual report as in those for previous years Bedag dedicated a whole chapter to the topic of Social Responsibility . In this chapter Bedag publicly expresses its agreement with the United Nations' Global Compact in that the company pledges to manage its business in a responsible manner in accordance with the ten principles of the Global Compact. In its corporate strategy Bedag does all it can to promote sustainable use of the environment and resources. Bedag's commitment to ecology is certificated by the Ecoparc Association's Nachhaltige Entwicklung EcoEntreprise check list previously referred to. By implementing the EcoEnterprise programme, Bedag undertakes to adhere to the principles of sustainable development and to train employees to ensure they are aware of the sustainability objectives set by the company. Among such are efficient use of raw materials and energy, consideration of sustainability in purchasing and reduction of emissions to the atmosphere. Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 5-6 Bedag also contributes indirectly to emission reduction by subsidising travel between the company's various premises provided employees use public transport. Each year every employee receives a coupon which can be used for a railway half-fare travelcard issued by the Swiss Federal Railways SBB. This permits employees to use public transport at a reduced price. Bedag refunds the cost of reduced rate tickets when paying employee expenses. This benefit makes public transport much more attractive for business travel than individual transport. In view of the fact that Bedag is distributed over six different sites in Switzerland, Bedag guarantees its regional presence and proximity to the customer. Short distances reduce the cost in terms of time and energy. This was the reason for opening two new premises in Aarau. Bedag opened a new branch near the railway station in Bahnhofstrasse as well as another in Rohrerstrasse. At the latter address, ten minutes on foot from the station, Bedag has centralised both printeries, which were previously located at Bern and Wettingen. Concentrating the input and output processes at one and the same address not only brings logistical and economical advantages but also leads to saving energy. For many years Bedag has made an annual donation to the Kantha Bopha Children's Hospital foundation run by Beat Richner in Cambodia. In this manner Bedag seeks to honour the incredibly valuable work which this institution has done for the past 20 years to ease the plight of the needy in Cambodia. Link: http://www.bedag.ch/portrait/geschaeftsbericht_d.php Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01.07.12 6-6
