November 29, 2012 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Goldcorp Communication on Progress 2011 Dear Mr. Secretary General, Goldcorp has long been committed to the principles articulated in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have been proud signatories to this international voluntary initiative since 2009. As part of our commitments, Goldcorp continues to advance the UNCG principles and integrate best practices in human rights, labour standards, environmental performance and anti-corruption into its culture and day-to-day operations. We remain diligent in protecting our workers’ health and safety, just as we are in environmental stewardship and in advancing the socio-economic development of local communities. Our corporate vision is “Together, Creating Sustainable Value”. Our programs are designed as catalysts for positive, lasting contributions in the communities where we do business, while working in partnership with host governments, indigenous groups, non-governmental organizations, contractors and suppliers. This Communication on Progress, the second for Goldcorp, provides an overview of Goldcorp’s 2011 key achievements, aligned with the UNGC principles. Goldcorp also publishes a comprehensive GRI-based Sustainability report with key performance data annually. The annual Sustainability report document our commitments, corporate responsibility strategy and performance at our operations and development projects across a broad range of areas, including our social, community, workplace, human rights and environmental performance. The full report and related data are available online at www.goldcorp.com/Responsible-Mining/Reporting. I hope you will find this Communication on Progress informative and I invite you to view Goldcorp’s website and annual Sustainability Reports and our online blog Above Ground for further detailed information on our commitment to corporate social responsibility and the principles of the UNGC. We will be continuing our efforts to advance the UNGC Principles and look forward to reporting on our progress again next year. Sincerely, GOLDCORP INC. Charles A. Jeannes President and Chief Executive Officer
