Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Our Statement of support Our company Plougmann & Vingtoft is one of the leading EuropeBy supporting the Global Compact, we intend to an firms offering intellectual property consulting with spread the message to the people we do business a commercial and strategic focus, particularly within with and thereby encourage them to join the Global patents and other intellectual property rights. Compact and abide to the ten principles. Supporting the UN Global Compact is a matter of taking a Our core competence is the ability to quickly understance and signaling to our stakeholders that we stand new technologies and to develop these into care to be a responsible business in all possible well-protected and commercially profitable intellecaspects. tual property rights for our clients. Our clients range from innovative start-up companies to large multinaFocus areas tional corporations within all industries. In this COP report our focus is especially on the We have a staff of 100 dedicated professionals principles of labour rights and the environment. Our spread across our offices in Denmark, Norway, efforts in supporting the Continuing Professional Germany, and Spain. Development of all of our employees has been, and continues to be, an important area in our Human How we support Resources department. We are pleased to support the UN Global Compact, Further, our Copenhagen office earlier this year and we strongly agree with all the ten principles relocated to a more environmentally office building which we strive to incorporate in our daily business which contains many opportunities for implementing routines. Since some of the principles concern isand improving environmentally concious behaviour. sues which we, as company working from a ScandiThe results and plans within these ares will therefore navian basis, could take for granted, we believe it is be explicited in this COP. important not to rest on our laurels, but continuously work to conform with and recognize the importance Happy reading of supporting all the principles. Kim Heshe Therefore, we are moving in the direction of CEO formulating a relevant code of conduct for our business by communicating the Global Compact principles to our employees in order to further integrate the Global Compact principles in our company. Human Rights ”We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses” Our Commitment Our Employee Policy covers, among others, the continuing professional development of our emploAt Plougmann & Vingtoft we support the UN Declayees and the working conditions and environments ration of Human Rights as well as the general ideas at our offices. about human rights which, as a Scandinavian company, are deeply rooted in our company values. Further, we have a Cooperation and Work life ComFurther, we are committed to respecting human mittee which continuously strives to maintain and rights throughout all of our business activities, incluimprove the working conditions for all employees. ding the way we treat our employees and clients. The Committee includes members from all areas of Therefore, we also require our business partners to the company, which ensures that the everyday talk conform with our approach to human rights, and we among the employees is heard by the Committee, strive not to assist clients who knowingly violate the which makes it easier for us to react to potential isUN declaration of Human Rights. sues at an early stage. Processes and systems Implementations and results We communicate our views on human rights to our Plougmann & Vingtoft has been ranked as one of business partners. Our business terms reflect the the best workplaces in Denmark. This bears witness way we seek to do business with current and proof the satisfaction our employees feel about working spective partners and we reserve the right to termiat our company. One of the main characteristics of nate cooperation with any business partner if a conour company is our “7 day weekend” concept, flict of interest occurs. Currently, we communicate which enables employees to work as flexible as posour support for the UN Global Compact externally to sible in order to balance their work life with their perour stakeholders as well as internally in our sonal life. company and we are working towards creating a concrete code of conduct which will reflect our ethiEvery two years we undertake an employee satisfaccal views, values, and standards for doing business. tion survey among our staff to ensure that all of our employees are content and satisfied with their job As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees and the company. We continuously invite the emploare our greatest asset. Therefore, we are highly foyees to help us create an even better workplace. cused on the rights of our employees by having a The results of last year’s survey showed a harmonic specific Employee Policy regarding the rights, duties, work-life balance of our employees, not least due to and personnel conditions of the employees at the flexibility of their working conditions. Further, the Plougmann & Vingtoft. This policy is made available flat structure of our company was positively highlifor all employees via our Employee Handbook and ghted as everyone has a say in regards to the through our intranet. company’s activities. Labour Rights ”We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and we support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ” Our Commitment and level of experience. It is therefore our wish and goal that the majority of our consultants supplement As Plougmann & Vingtoft is a Scandinavian their scientific education with an education as a company, we view the labour rights principles as European Patent Attorney, and we support this by commonplace due to the cultural and social guideliallocating time for studies and paying for the educanes of our society. Thus, our employees can freely tion on previous agreement. This year several of our join any union they prefer as we have organisational consultants have taken the EQE exam and have befreedom in Denmark. come European Patent Attorneys. We have a clear policy not to support, use, be comAs an internationally oriented company we welcome plicit in or benefit from any kind of forced labour. employees from any part of the world, as we see diChild Labour is not a problem or concern within our versity as a strength and competitive advantage in line of business, as we are a knowledge-based conan international company like ours. What matters is sultancy. The biggest risk is thus through our busithe knowledge and competences of the individual ness partners and we strive to make sure that the employee. Furthermore, we are working to ensure companies we co-operate with comply with the that employees at all levels know and respect natioprinciples of upholding the effective abolition of fornal and international standards for prevention of ced and child labour. discrimination. At Plougmann & Vingtoft we dissociate ourselves Implementations and results from discrimination of any kind. We believe that everyone is equal and should have the same rights in We communicate our commitment to the Global respect of employment and occupation. Compact to all of our employees, in order to increase awareness for our employees about the principProcesses and systems les and to integrate our ethical views on labour rights further in the company. This is also a step in At Plougmann & Vingtoft we have a high focus on the idea process of creating our own code of conthe continuing professional development of our duct. Further, we also adhere to the code of conduct employees. Besides undergoing the European Qualiof the European Patent Institute (epi). fying Examination (EQE) our attorneys are provided with internal training adapted to their job function The environment ”We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Our Commitment centre of Copenhagen, named Mikado House. Mikado House has undergone a screening from the AmeAt Plougmann & Vingtoft, we are focused on implerican certification system LEED (Leadership in Enermenting environmentally and socially responsible gy and Environmental Design) in order to determine business practices in our interaction with clients, the sustainability level of the building. The screening employees and communities. As a company, we result was 73 points which places Mikado House at believe that it is important to live up to our responsithe LEED Gold certification level. There are four posbilities and contribute to making a positive impact sible certification levels where LEED Gold is the seon the society at large. cond highest. By introducing a few more environmental initiatives – which also includes the actions of As a policy of ours is to support environmental the tenants of the building – Mikado House would efforts, we encourage employees to consider the be able to be LEED Platinum certified. environment in their daily work activities. In April 2012 our Copenhagen office relocated to a more The relocation also entails that the environmental efenvironmentally friendly office building, as a way of forts and improvements of the tenants as well as the promoting environmental responsibility. overall building can be measured and compared to not only our previous office location in Copenhagen Within our group of consultants we have a compebut also to general office facilities. The measurement tent and innovative cleantech team whose work as the improvements and results will be undertaken helps to promote technological development which this year, as the office is still quite new, and be inclucan improve environmental conditions. Our team ded in next year’s COP report. works with products and services that improve operational performance, productivity or efficiency while Implementations and results reducing costs, inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution. While the concrete environmental improvements are not yet determined, due to the fact that the Mikado Processes and systems House office has existed for less than half a year, we continuously encourage employees to comply with The relocation for our Copenhagen office has entaiand take advantage of the environmental benefits of led several environmental improvements. The new this new location. address is a large office complex close to the city The environment An example of the environmental improvements is At all our offices we have continuously implemented the fact that the office building is close to public initiatives such as recycling of water bottles, avotransportation facilities as well as being an ideal iding unnecessary paper waste by encouraging location for using bicycles as transportation to and employees only to print when necessary as well as from work. Other, smaller initiatives have been the printing on both sides of the paper, and promoting elimination of plastic water bottles at the office as the avoidance of unnecessary transportation by well as improved printing systems. using the IT facilities for long-distance meetings. We also recycle used printer paper by delivering it to In our daily work, we also include our suppliers and various child care facilities rather than disposing business partners in our environmental consideratiof it. ons. An example of this is that the cleaning companies we use for our offices are environmentally focused in their operations. Anti-Corruption ”We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” Our Commitment Implementations and results In the Scandinavian countries corruption is not very We use the knowledge from the Confederation of widespread and is thus not a direct issue in our daily Danish Industry as a guideline in order to avoid business. Still, we consider our company to be corruption and we Continuously keep ourselves upcommitted to non-acceptance of bribery directly or dated with new knowledge within this area through indirectly, in any form, and we make an effort to various media and organisations . ensure that all of our employees are aware of this policy. Furthermore we have strict invoice and receipt approval procedures to keep our business Further, we comply with the guidelines of Danish leprocesses as transparent as possible. gislation regarding the ban of insider trading of stocks. The ban on insider trading means that buying, selling or encouraging to buy or sell stocks/securities is prohibited for persons with inside knowledge (For instance our employees), which could be of significance for the trade of these stocks. Processes and systems The company has participated in a conference where the topic revolved around avoiding corruption in a globalised world. The conference was hosted by the Confederation of Danish Industry and provided insight on the possible corruption challenges for us, such as the markets we operate in and the industries where corruption are higher. The speakers of the conference further elaborated on how to view external grey areas, such as facilitation payments and how to avoid internal corruption.
