We create value by responsibly supplying the energy that fuels people’s lives. 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About Nexen SUSTAINABILITY: WHERE WE’VE BEEN, WHERE WE’RE HEADED Nexen Inc. is an upstream oil and gas company responsibly This publication highlights the sustainability developing energy resources in some of the world’s most initiatives underway at Nexen, with most of the information relating to activities that occurred significant basins, including the UK North Sea, offshore in 2011. Additional information — including West Africa, the Gulf of Mexico and Western Canada. We’re data, graphs and videos — is available at www.nexeninc.com/responsibledevelopment. strategically focused on three businesses: conventional oil and gas, oil sands and shale gas. Our reporting is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Application Level B+). At Nexen, it’s not just what we do that matters — it’s how we This reporting framework sets out principles get the job done. And the foundation of our growth strategy is and indicators that help corporations measure and report their sustainability the energy and expertise of our employees who are committed performance. Please refer to our GRI Index to working with integrity and engaging our stakeholders. We’re at www.nexeninc.com/gri. Our report is also guided by reporting guidelines from IPIECA, proud of our track record of safe, reliable and environmentally a global oil and gas industry association for responsible energy development. That’s Nexen’s Way. environmental and social issues. In late 2011, we undertook a materiality analysis Nexen is a publicly traded company listed on the TSX and NYSE to better understand what sustainability issues under the symbol NXY. matter most to our stakeholders and to identify what impact these issues could have on our business. The content of this report reflects the most significant issues that were identified. NEXEN’S INTEGRITY SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT/ OIL SANDS CLIMATE COMMUNITY WAY EMERGENCY WATER DEVELOPMENT CHANGE RESPONSE 2 8 10 16 20 22 24 Create value in a responsible way. Our Long Lake oil sands upgrader converts bitumen into premium synthetic crude oil, which is transported by pipeline to customers throughout North America. The consumption of oil sands crude supports economic growth and the revenue generated enables investments in new technologies that are key to developing the oil sands in a sustainable manner. Responsible development is Nexen’s Way At Nexen, responsible development is the way we supply the energy that fuels people’s lives today, without compromising the well-being of future generations. It’s our roadmap for producing clean, secure and affordable energy and respecting the environment, community and our stakeholders. MESSAGE FROM THE TOP CEO’s Message Our Values To Stakeholders PROTECTING PEOPLE & As a global upstream oil and THE ENVIRONMENT We each play a role in protecting the gas company, Nexen’s purpose safety and well-being of ourselves, is straightforward: we create our co-workers and the communities and environment in which we work. value by responsibly supplying the energy that fuels people’s COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE lives. By exploring and developing We drive for, and reward, high performance. We are passionate some of the world’s most significant basins, we’re doing our part about delivering results and innovative to provide secure and affordable energy consumers, and growing in overcoming obstacles. economies, require. At a time when a quarter of the world’s population lack access to basic energy needs, that’s a mandate ACCOUNTABILITY We each know our responsibilities and are accountable we can pursue with pride. for our decisions, behaviour and actions. We measure our results to validate But just as important as the mandate are the With global energy demand on the rise, our individual and shared ownership means. At Nexen, we’re committed to being building a sustainable future is about of Nexen’s successes and shortcomings. a sustainable energy company in every sense responsibly developing a wide range of of the word. So it’s not just what we do energy sources. While renewable forms that matters — it’s how we get the job done. of energy hold promise, it’s going to take INTEGRITY We conduct business Nexen’s Way is to be true to our values, time and investment to make them in an ethical manner and build starting with integrity. We conduct business viable and competitive. In the meantime, relationships based on collaboration, in an ethical manner and build relationships hydrocarbons will remain the world’s honesty and respect. dominant energy source. based on collaboration, honesty and respect. We take steps to reduce the impact of our Nexen is strongly positioned to help COURAGE We’re not afraid to break operations on water, land and air. Finally, meet this energy demand. Our portfolio is from the pack. We have the confidence we earn and maintain our social license to strategically focused in three businesses — to speak up and make difficult decisions. operate by working safely and responsibly conventional oil and gas, oil sands and We take informed risks based on facts to create value responsibly. while investing in our host communities and shale gas. All of these resources present openly engaging all of our stakeholders. technical and sustainability challenges, 2 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Nexen’s Way: Responsibly developing the energy that fuels people’s lives. The oil Nexen produces is sold to refineries internationally where it’s refined into a variety of products including transportation fuels like gasoline, diesel and jet fuels. amplified by fluctuating commodity prices, Our commitment to responsibly develop At Nexen, we live by a core set of values. which can swing widely over the energy is one that’s made at every level Operating with integrity, compliance with construction of a project, let alone its full of our company and ingrained in all that we the law and respect for our stakeholders life-cycle. We address these challenges by do. And every day, we challenge ourselves not only helps our operating performance — committing to operational excellence, which to do better: we believe it’s the best way to succeed. includes individual accountability among That’s Nexen’s Way. • As a publicly traded company, we employees and contractors for meeting high are ultimately responsible to our safety and environmental performance Kevin Reinhart shareholders. We must invest their standards as well as production targets. Interim President and capital wisely to support growth of their Chief Executive Officer For example, Nexen is a major player in investment. In sustainability terms, this Canada’s oil sands — an important source includes up-front design considerations, of new oil but one that comes with where an early investment can pay environmental, social and economic challenges dividends over the life-cycle of our assets. PROGRESS & CHALLENGES: and opportunities. Nexen continues to invest • We are responsible to our employees A CEO’S PERSPECTIVE in new technologies to increase production, and contractors to provide a challenging, Nexen made progress on many of our and reduce costs and environmental impacts. rewarding and safe place to work. Our new sustainability goals in 2011 — but we We’re also putting industry minds together Life Saving Rules are evidence that we take continue to work to address outstanding by co-founding Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation this responsibility seriously. challenges. Despite impressive gains Alliance (COSIA), a collaborative effort by oil on key employee safety measurements, sands producers to accelerate improvement • As a responsible member of the energy contractor injuries increased and, tragically, in environmental performance. We work industry, we contribute to public policy there was an off-site, work-related with our neighbouring communities as issues, including government’s response contractor fatality. We recorded significant well — a commitment that has made the oil to climate change and providing insight decreases in spills, but continued to sands industry one of the largest employers on how best to regulate energy resources experience an unacceptably high number of Aboriginal peoples in the country. such as shale gas and deepwater of environmental exceedances. developments. This combination of investment in technology Nexen placed a renewed focus on social and innovation, collaboration with industry • And as a responsible member of society, responsibility in 2011. We worked to peers and community engagement is one we have to manage our use of natural refine our Human Rights and Aboriginal that is repeated across Nexen’s operations; resources and the impacts of our operations Relations policies, drafted a guide to improve engagement of stakeholders from offshore operations, where we’re on the environment we share. This means and indigenous peoples and began to strengthening safety and emergency response working to reduce water use and limit develop key benchmarks for monitoring preparedness processes, to our shale gas emissions and waste generated. How we and measuring our social performance. assets in British Columbia, where we’re achieve this in a context where the easy-toWe also recognized the need to improve leading the industry in developing new develop resources are declining will require local hiring, particularly building technology to reduce our fresh water use . the engagement of policy makers and Aboriginal capacity. energy consumers. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 3 Supplying the energy consumers demand. The key to energy security and continued economic growth is harnessing technology to produce more oil and natural gas from challenging basins, including offshore. While innovative technologies have boosted production, they’ve also enabled advancements in safety and environmental performance. WESTERN CANADA UK NORTH SEA AT NEXEN, WE HAVE THREE CORE BUSINESSES NORTHEAST B.C. POLAND YEMEN Conventional Oil & Gas The largest component of our conventional business occurs offshore, in the UK North Sea — where we are the UK’s second largest oil producer — the Gulf of Mexico and offshore West Africa. We also have onshore production in Canada, Yemen and Colombia. In 2012, approximately 70% of our production is expected to come from offshore faciilities. U.S. GULF OF MEXICO COLOMBIA OFFSHORE WEST AFRICA Oil Sands We’re a major player in Canada’s oil sands CONVENTIONAL OIL & GAS OIL SANDS SHALE GAS with investments in oil sands mining, in-situ bitumen production and upgrading. THE ENERGY WE DEVELOP We operate the Long Lake oil sands facility Whether it’s using hydraulic fracturing technology that uses innovative technology to develop to unlock unconventional gas assets, implementing this vast resource. gasification technology at our oil sands operations, or drilling wells 34,000 feet deep in the Gulf of Mexico, we work to responsibly develop the energy products consumers need. Shale Gas DID YOU KNOW: Like all natural gas, shale gas is a clean-burning In 2011, we produced an average and abundant resource. We produce shale gas of 207,000 barrels of oil equivalent in northeast British Columbia, Canada and per day before royalties. From we’re exploring development opportunities filling our gas tanks to heating our in Poland and Colombia. homes, the energy we produce has a variety of uses. Petroleum by-products are used to create everything from cosmetics to cell phones to shoes. 4 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report ABOUT NEXEN THE ENERGY INDUSTRY Our capital investments include: hospitals that are essential to the well-being of society. Nexen also contributes to the economy HELPS DRIVE • Advancing our Usan discovery in through the direct employment of about 3,000 ECONOMIC GROWTH offshore West Africa towards first oil, people. For each of these positions, an Energy is the lifeblood of any economy. which occurred in February 2012. estimated three additional indirect jobs are It’s what heats our homes, fuels our • Bringing on new production in created by third-party providers to our industry. vehicles, powers our factories — and the UK North Sea. generates the jobs and economic growth • Advancing new exploration projects. Total Royalties1 and Current Income Taxes2 that shape the quality of our lives. • Continuing to ramp up production (CAD$ millions) at our Long Lake oil sands operations. 2009 2010 2011 The International Energy Agency (IEA) Yemen 662 730 779 estimates that worldwide energy Measuring the economic benefits Canada 3 126 113 95 consumption will increase 36% by 2035, we create driven in large part by expanding economies United States 43 21 41 The economic benefits of Nexen’s activities and rising standards of living in China and extend beyond our company’s shareholders United Kingdom 632 1,005 1,448 India. While alternative energy sources will and employees. For example, production Other 4 (4) (20) (27) become increasingly important, the IEA before royalties averaged 207,000 barrels Total 1,459 1,849 2,336 estimates fossil fuels — oil, gas and of oil equivalent per day in 2011, which 1 Royalties are cash payments and, in some international coal — will account for more than 50% of in turn resulted in royalties and taxes of operations, the government’s share of Nexen’s production. the increase in total primary energy demand. approximately $2.3 billion. These taxes and 2 Negative amounts represent income tax refunds accrued. royalties are then reinvested by governments 3 Includes oil sands (Syncrude and Long Lake). Nexen is in the business of responsibly 4 Includes results of discontinued operations. to support civic infrastructure, schools and producing oil and gas to help meet this demand. And while our business enables us to deliver value to our shareholders, it JOINT VENTURES & local resources, including labour, to ensure also generates far-reaching economic benefits the local economy benefits from our NEXEN STANDARDS through various means including direct and investment. The Usan project, which began indirect job creation, the payment of taxes Nexen frequently develops strategic producing oil in early 2012, involved an partnerships with other companies to invest and royalties, and community investment. unprecedented level of Nigerian local content, in large-scale assets. In joint ventures where with more than 500,000 engineering person Nexen is the operating partner, our standards Investing in our energy future hours and 14 million construction and are used throughout the operation. When we In 2011, Nexen invested $2.5 billion in oil installation person hours performed in act as a non-operating partner, we review the Nigeria. Construction included an offshore and gas activities. Our capital spending plan standards of the operating partner to ensure integration of 3,500 tonnes of locally for 2012 calls for investments between they are aligned with our values and practices. fabricated structures. In addition, large-scale $2.7 billion and $3.2 billion, primarily to fund For example, we have a non-operating training and capacity building programs were future growth as we move ahead with several interest in the Usan project, offshore West put in place to raise the skills of the local major projects. Africa. Our partners share our view of using workforce and benefit future projects. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 5 Nexen is committed to transparent disclosure and continuous improvement. That’s why we track and share our health and safety, environmental and social performance through metrics that show how we’re doing and what’s required to continuously improve. OUR PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE A closer look at what led to exceeding regulatory limits Nexen exceeded environmental regulatory 2009 2010 2011 requirements on 445 occasions in 2011, Employee total recordable injury frequency 0.37 0.37 0.22 an increase from 423 in 2010. Contractor total recordable injury frequency 1.04 0.80 0.86 Combined employee and contractor total recordable injury frequency 0.83 0.67 0.67 Environmental Exceedances Company-wide production carbon intensity 2011 445 (tonnes of CO2 equivalent/m3 of oil equivalent) 0.20 0.28 0.31 10 423 Company-wide CO2 equivalent (million tonnes) 4.72 6.34 5.82 09 74 Number of reportable environmental spills 127 83 80 Volume of reportable spills (m3) 2,261 630 208 Number of environmental exceedances (company-wide) 74 423 445 Of the 445 exceedances, approximately 95% occurred Community investment ($ millions) 11.4 11.4 11.3 at our Long Lake oil sands facility, where half were due to water exceedances and half were due to air exceedances. • Water exceedances at Long Lake resulted from MAKING PROGRESS MORE WORK REQUIRED using two wells with expired temporary licenses for 100 days. The water well licenses have been Overall, 2011 was a positive year Gains in employee safety amended, and internal procedures were revised for Nexen with the achievement were offset by an increase to prevent reoccurrence. of a record-setting Total in contractor injuries and • We have also worked to reduce air exceedances Recordable Injury Frequency tragically, there was a workat Long Lake. In 2011, we reduced the number (TRIF) for employees only and related fatality of a contractor in of NOx exceedances from our Heat Recovery for employees and contractors 2011 (see page 11). To improve System Generators (HRSG), Once Through Steam combined (see page 10). We our safety culture, we launched Generators (OTSG) and Sulphur Recovery Units Nexen’s Life Saving Rules (see (SRU) by increasing process reliability, improving recorded a 67% decrease in operator training and strengthening our procedures. the volume of liquid spilled over page 11), which provides While we significantly reduced air exceedances 2010, of which only one spill practical guidance on safe from the utility boilers — to 161 in 2011 from 208 totaled over 30 m3. We also behaviour in the workplace. in 2010 — this will be an area of continued decreased the number of crude focus in 2012. We continue to work to reduce oil, chemical and produced water our environmental exceedances, spills by nearly 5% (see page 17). which increased in 2011. 6 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report SUMMARY SCORECARD PROGRESS ON OUR PROMISES In our 2010 Sustainability Report, we highlighted several focus areas for 2011. The table below summarizes what we promised, what we’ve achieved and our commitments for 2012. What we promised in 2010 What we achieved in 2011 Our Commitments for 2012 Health & Safety Implement the Life Saving Rules Created from industry-recognized practices, • Complete a major audit of our Health, Safety, for safety. our Life Saving Rules lay the foundation for us Environment and Social Responsibility (HSE&SR) to achieve zero serious incidents. These rules management systems at our UK and U.S. operations. were launched in 2011 through a company-wide • Revise our Occupational Health and Industrial awareness campaign and they are being enforced Hygiene procedures and communicate them at all our facilities. See page 11. throughout the company. • Conduct assessments of our Process Safety Management System. Advance the implementation of process In 2011, we introduced the eMOC application, safety standards across our business. a tracking tool that electronically captures changes to our operating facilities, procedures and organization — enhancing process safety. See page 12. Environment Advance work to capture and verify Established a data management system • Continue implementation of the centralized water waste and water data. to centralize waste and water data across and waste data management system. the company. See page 18. • Advance the water monitoring program in our shale gas operations in British Columbia. At our shale gas operations in British We’re in year four of a water monitoring program • Continue to test new technology for using saline Columbia, continue the hydrometric and are assessing new technology that is water instead of fresh water in oil sands and shale assessment and monitoring program expected to enable the use of water from the gas development. and advance research into new Debolt formation in our shale gas operations. • Implement a program to reduce wildlife attractants technology that may reduce the use See page 19. at our Long Lake oil sands facility to minimize of fresh water. human-wildlife interaction. Social Update our Human Rights Policy to The revised Human Rights Policy is expected • Conduct a benchmark study of Nexen’s reflect United Nations and multistaketo be issued in 2012. See page 9. approach to Aboriginal Relations and identify Responsibility holder developments in this field. improvement areas. • Draft and test social performance metrics that Complete a stakeholder relations Nexen’s Guide to Effective Engagement with enable us to measure and benchmark our social good practice guide. Stakeholders & Indigenous Peoples has been performance. drafted and is undergoing review. See page 25. EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE OUTSIDE OPINIONS KEY TO Nexen’s Board of Directors provides strategic direction and oversees CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT how we manage the HSE&SR aspects of our business. The directors For Nexen, seeking input from third parties is a vital part of on our HSE&SR Committee meet at least five times a year to continuous improvement. Since 2004, we’ve had select performance monitor our progress against those measures. indicators assured by an external verifier. See page 31 for an assurance letter from our external verifier, Deloitte & Touche LLP. Performance indicators are also reviewed regularly by divisional leadership and an Executive HSE&SR Management Committee that Nexen engages a diverse group of external stakeholders to includes Nexen’s CEO. This committee also monitors Nexen’s contribute to the development of the sustainability report. This approach to, and performance on, strategic issues such as process group has representatives from a number of organizations including safety management and climate change. More information on environmental and disclosure, with individual expertise in their governance at Nexen is available at www.nexeninc.com/sustainability. respective areas. For more information, see their report on page 28. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 7 INTEGRITY Integrity & • How We Work: Our Integrity Guide for Suppliers sets expectations for how suppliers conduct business on our behalf. • Our Prevention of Improper Payments Policy requires that all Compliance employees comply with applicable laws everywhere we operate. We have workshops to provide employees in high-risk positions with guidance on avoiding improper payments. In line with the UK Integrity is not just a value at Nexen — it’s a Bribery Act, Nexen does not permit facilitation payments in any of its operations. defining characteristic. From our earliest days in Integrity incidents Western Canada, to our international operations When a concern is reported to Nexen’s Integrity and Compliance in conventional oil and gas, oil sands and shale group it is promptly investigated. In 2011, 44 concerns were reported, compared to 35 in 2010. Thirty-two of the reports were gas — how we work has always contributed to confirmed as integrity-related and the remaining 12 were transferred our business success. to the appropriate department for resolution. Of the 32 integrityrelated incidents, 16 were substantiated breaches of the Integrity By fostering a culture of integrity — in all of the environments where Guide with two ranked as medium-risk and the rest as low-risk. we operate — our organization achieves better results. When we Ninety-four percent of incidents identified have been resolved behave ethically, safely and responsibly, we build loyalty with all and the remaining 6% are still under investigation. of our stakeholders. Substantiated Breaches to Nexen’s Integrity Guide Our culture is defined by the actions of our employees. We set high expectations and provide a variety of resources to help our Category 2009 2010 2011 employees make responsible decisions. Working this way helps us Employee Relations 3 3 6 attract and retain talented employees, enables us to access capital Misuse of Computer Assets 5 5 4 and opportunities in countries that might otherwise be difficult, and Falsification of Business Records – 1 2 strengthens the work we do with our stakeholders. Safety Violations – – 2 Breach of Confidentiality 1 1 1 Our integrity tools Fraud – – 1 • How We Work: Our Integrity Guide is Theft – 1 – Nexen’s code of conduct and is Conflict of Interest 3 1 – recognized as being in line with best Vandalism/Violence 1 – – practices. It provides practical advice that helps ensure our actions are Community Affairs 1 – – consistent with our commitments. Solicitation for Gifts & Entertainment – – – Human Rights – – – Total 14 12 16 8 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Energy and ethics. The United Nations encourages Western investment in higher risk nations because it can have a positive influence on a country’s social and economic conditions. Codes of conduct — like Nexen’s Integrity Guide — are essential to setting the ground rules for engagement and maintaining our social license to operate. ANTI-CORRUPTION Supporting our culture of integrity Nexen’s culture and processes REPORTING A CONCERN Embedding standards at support our commitment to integrity. Providing employees and external stakeholders with all levels of our company A Prevention of Improper Payments a safe environment to raise concerns is an important Corruption, whether in the private Policy, which requires that all element of an ethical culture. While we encourage or public sector, is a significant employees comply with applicable concerns to be initially raised with Nexen management, impediment to sustainable economic laws everywhere we operate, is employees and external stakeholders can use a and social development. It’s also periodically reviewed for best secure reporting system operated by EthicsPoint, an illegal. As a responsible global citizen, independent third-party service provider. The helpline practices, vetted by external legal Nexen is committed to doing business allows anyone to anonymously report a concern and counsel and reviewed by our free from all forms of corruption. can be accessed online or through a toll-free number. Compliance Committee. The link to the reporting page and the integrity helpline This commitment is embedded in The Compliance Committee is numbers are available on Nexen’s Integrity and Nexen’s leadership principles and comprised of members from our Compliance webpage at www.nexeninc.com. is endorsed by our executive executive management team, who management team, who emphasize provide oversight on potential high that compliance with our standards risk payments. The Committee deals of integrity is supported at the with any approvals required under the highest level of our organization. policy. As an additional control, our These standards apply to all of internal audit department assesses MODIFYING OUR HUMAN RIGHTS us — every employee, director and corruption risk on a periodic basis and POLICY TO ALIGN WITH UNITED NATIONS officer is required to comply with our conducts investigations if necessary. GUIDING PRINCIPLES policies and is personally responsible In June 2011, the UN Human Rights Council endorsed Another way Nexen is contributing for refusing to pay bribes or make Professor John Ruggie’s Guiding Principles on Business to the fight against international improper payments. and Human Rights. The Guiding Principles provide a corruption is by participating in the UN Global Compact (UNGC) antiblueprint for companies to reduce the risk of causing corruption multistakeholder working or contributing to human rights harm. group, which supports the UNGC’s Nexen is working with IPIECA, a global oil and gas 10th principle that “business should industry association for environmental and social issues, work against corruption in all its forms, to develop a coordinated, effective industry response to DID YOU KNOW: including extortion and bribery”. the Guiding Principles. We plan to update our systems Transparency International recognized and processes for due diligence and grievance Nexen as a leader in its “Promoting mechanisms. As part of this effort we’re updating our Revenue Transparency, 2011 Report Human Rights Policy, one of the first to be published by on Oil and Gas Companies”. The report examined the reporting practices of an upstream oil and gas company. The updated policy is 44 global oil and gas companies expected to be launched in 2012. and their anti-corruption programs. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 9 SAFETY & EMERGENCY RESPONSE Improving Safety Culture RECORD-SETTING TRIF PERFORMANCE and Performance Our ongoing efforts to provide safety training and instill safe work practices and attitudes among employees and contractors are paying off. In 2011, for the second consecutive year, we attained a total Producing energy is an important job, but just as recordable injury frequency rate (TRIF) of 0.67 — the important is ensuring the safety of workers and nearby lowest in our history. Our lost time incident frequency (LTIF) was also the lowest we have recorded. communities. We do both. Over the last five years we’ve accomplished a 34% At Nexen, we’re focused on having a safety-first mindset. Preventing workplace reduction in TRIF. We’re challenging ourselves to incidents and injuries means empowering everyone to take action. Our ultimate reduce TRIF to 0.66 in 2012, with an ultimate goal goal is to eliminate workplace injuries. It takes continued commitment to be a of zero serious incidents. leading health and safety performer and we work towards that goal through: • strong safety awareness; Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) Company-Wide TRIF represents the total number of combined employee/ • consistent work practices; contractor fatalities, lost-time injuries, medical treatment cases • proactive hazard identification; and modified work cases for every 200,000 hours worked. • rigorous risk mitigation, especially for non-routine work; and • recognition and support for safety performance. 2011 0.67 We’re committed to providing our employees and contractors with clear 10 0.67 expectations about safe on-the-job performance and to ensure ongoing safety 09 0.83 training and resource support is provided everywhere we operate. 08 0.97 07 1.02 PREDICTING TO PREVENT INCIDENTS Nexen tracks 10 leading indicators as a proactive way of managing safety Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) performance. Leading indicators are developed to help predict the likelihood LTIF is a measure of safety performance calculated as the total of incidents before they occur. Some of our leading indicators relate to training, number of combined employee/contractor lost time injuries inspections, drills, safety critical equipment and senior management visits. recorded for every 200,000 hours worked. Targets are established and performance is monitored regularly. 2011 0.15 10 0.20 09 0.22 08 0.29 07 0.29 10 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Consumers and employees demand that the energy products they use are produced in a safe and reliable manner. We’re committed to excellence in health and safety performance and target zero harm to our employees, contractors and community neighbours. TRAGIC INCIDENT A CATALYST FOR CHANGE LIFE SAVING RULES START WITH AWARENESS Sadly, in 2011, a contractor who worked at our northeast British Columbia shale gas operations was fatally injured in a vehicle As part of our commitment to creating a safe working environment, collision on a public highway while driving to our Dilly Creek facility. we implemented 12 Life Saving Rules in 2011. The rules apply to all of our employees and contractors and provide practical guidance An independent investigation determined that poor visibility due on safe behaviour in the workplace. A variety of activities and to roadway dust was a contributing factor in the incident. We materials were created to raise awareness about the rules, including shared the results with employees, contractors and peer companies. presentations to employees and a dedicated internal website. To help prevent similar incidents, we’re working in two areas: The rules are: driver training and road improvements. In the Horn River area, • Always conduct a hazard • Work safely at heights Nexen crew cab truck drivers must now take defensive driving assessment • Conduct safe lifting operations courses, and a defensive driving session has been added to our • Ensure safe systems of work • Drive safely contractor orientation. In conjunction with some of the members • Follow the management of • Assess all ground disturbance of the Horn River Basin Producers Group, we’re in discussion with change (MOC) process hazards the B.C. government about improving road conditions through a new • Isolate energy sources • Do not work under the influence central access road and enhancing dust control on roads in the region. • No breaking of containment of drugs or alcohol without a valid work permit • Ignition sources are not allowed • Do not enter a confined space in areas where hydrocarbons without authorization may be present Created from industry-recognized practices, these Life Saving Rules give clear and direct guidance on occupational safety. The program also includes the Stop Work Authority Card, which means all Nexen employees, contractors and partners are responsible and authorized to stop any work that does not comply with the rules. At Nexen, we want to do work safely or not at all. Living the Life Saving Rules: Employees and contractors are embracing our 12 Life Saving Rules from our offshore platforms to our head office in Calgary. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 11 The first step in achieving an excellent safety record? Personal accountability and awareness. And Nexen’s first Life Saving Rule is to always conduct a hazard assessment before beginning any task. Our employees and contractors are instructed to err on the side of caution and are authorized to stop work that does not comply with government regulations and company standards and procedures. A COMMON LANGUAGE FOR CHANGE PROMOTING HEALTHY WORK Nexen has adapted a framework for process safety management ENVIRONMENTS designed by the Center for Chemical Process Safety called Risk At Nexen, we’re committed to anticipating, recognizing, evaluating Based Process Safety (RBPS). The goal of the framework is to and controlling workplace environmental health hazards that may reduce the likelihood and consequences of incidents involving cause illness or impair the well-being of our employees, contractors unplanned or sudden hazardous releases of materials or energy or the community members who live or work near our operations. from our operations. As a result, we’ve developed an occupational health management system that works to promote healthy work environments, protect Nexen’s framework was developed in 2008 and we immediately the well-being of employees and prevent occupational injuries began integrating 20 different elements of RBPS company-wide. and illnesses. We’ve made steady progress; our current focus is on integrating six key elements including Management of Change (MOC) — Progress in 2011 a standardized approach to managing change activities across each operating area. Nexen tracks the progress of implementation using • We began revising and expanding our Occupational Health and a scorecard. Every quarter the maturity level of the six key elements Industrial Hygiene Manual, which outlines protocols including is reported for each division and reviewed with senior management hearing conservation standards and codes of practice in the case of and the Board of Directors. exposure to potential chemical, physical, ergonomic and biological workplace hazards. In 2011, we introduced the eMOC application, a tool that electronically captures changes to our operating facilities, procedures • We enhanced our Wellness Portal Program — an online tool that and organization. It’s gained rapid uptake because employees find provides Nexen employees and their families with a variety of it accessible, user-friendly and flexible. The eMOC application health-related information including psychological and physical is now in use in our conventional businesses in Canada and the U.S. health, nutrition and physical fitness. and will be rolled out to our Oil Sands and UK divisions in 2012. USER-FRIENDLY APP FOR MANAGING CHANGE Management of Change (MOC) is a fundamental element of our environment, health and safety and process safety management systems. “If we don’t effectively manage changes in our operations, we could introduce hazards that result in increased risk to people, the environment and our assets,” said David Guss, Manager, Process Safety. “The eMOC application was developed as a tool to help identify and manage risks that may result from process changes.” 12 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report SAFETY & EMERGENCY RESPONSE Wellness is important to Nexen • We’re constructing a new fitness facility at our Calgary office. • We provide a physical wellness subsidy for employees that can be used towards gym memberships, fitness dues, nutritional counseling and smoking cessation. • When employees need support, there is a comprehensive Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) that provides confidential counseling to employees and their dependents in all our locations. • All employees have access to free (and healthy!) snacks; in Canada we provide emergency child care; and in the UK we support a cycle to work program. MINIMIZING INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE Responsible Care® — a shared training experience Nexen first introduced Responsible Care® at our Balzac, Alberta, gas processing facility in 2002 and in 2010, our Canadian Conventional Oil and Gas division attained Responsible Care® “In-Place” verification status. In 2011, we followed this milestone by establishing a training program designed to instill a deep familiarity with Responsible Care® practices. Dubbed “Responsible Care 101”, this two-day offsite workshop brought together 17 senior operators from our Alberta-based Conventional Oil and Gas business. The training session included interactive, hands-on exercises, case studies and group discussions. Marty Yarrow, an operator at our Fort Assiniboine facilities, said, COMPLYING WITH REGULATION “The offsite was valuable because we don’t get many opportunities Regulators regularly visit offshore platforms in the Gulf of Mexico to meet with operators from other locations. We all do basically to conduct compliance inspections, many of which are unannounced. the same type of work, but our perspectives on how to conduct In 2011, regulators made eight visits to a mobile offshore drilling the work can sometimes be quite different. The offsite ensured unit that Nexen had under contract, identifying in total, two everyone is on the same page and tackling our work the same way.” incidents of non-compliance that we took action to correct. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 13 Priority: reduce the risk of a spill or incident through prevention efforts. However, if an emergency occurs, it’s also extremely important to reduce the impacts through rapid response. The reason is simple. We want to protect employees, contractors, communities, facilities and the environment from the impact of any unplanned event. Being Prepared — Emergency response drills involve full activation of our company’s emergency response plan, personnel and external resources, and may also involve A 24/7 Responsibility regulatory agencies and industry peers as participants or observers. Usually staged as one or two day events, Nexen conducts emergency response drills in full Producing energy is a 24/7 business accordance with regulatory guidelines, with the intent to learn from each simulation and share our learnings and so is emergency preparedness. with relevant stakeholders. Nexen has plans in place to respond to a wide variety of incidents everywhere Crisis management training we work and has highly trained specialists and significant resources at the ready. Protecting our employees, the public, the environment and our corporate assets is Major exercises in 2011 tested the capabilities of not just a regulatory requirement, it’s a commitment Nexen makes as a responsible our corporate emergency management systems. energy developer. Simulated emergencies at our Scott Platform in the UK North Sea and in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Meeting that commitment involves more than being prepared for potential required the mobilization of company-wide resources emergency situations. Our primary focus is to prevent incidents from occurring including Human Resources, Health, Safety and by providing a high degree of stewardship, risk assessment and scrutiny of major Environment, Corporate Communications and Legal. accident hazards through our Process Safety Management System and personnel Nexen’s executive team was also involved in these training programs. exercises. Practice makes perfect Neil Shand, Nexen’s Corporate Emergency Response Manager, said, “The ability of both local and corporate Emergency situations can be chaotic, fast-moving and dangerous, which is groups to effectively support, communicate and why continuous training, practice and testing are essential. Nexen uses the work together while focusing on their respective internationally recognized Incident Command System as a basis for our emergency responsibilities is one of the key objectives of the management philosophy. exercises.” The exercises were also an opportunity Tabletop exercises are part of the testing and measurement processes for our to identify areas for improvement, which were emergency management system. These are theoretical scenarios we conduct in incorporated into Emergency Management an office environment. Emergency response team members are provided with event Planning processes. parameters and work together to test existing plans and develop new approaches. A specific scenario may be escalated during a training exercise and role-playing is often used to test individual capabilities and identify opportunities for improvement. 14 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report SAFETY & EMERGENCY RESPONSE ENHANCED EMERGENCY RESPONSE OIL SPILL PREVENTION & CAPACITY IN THE GULF OF MEXICO RESPONSE |N THE NORTH SEA In 2011, Nexen staged two emergency near-shore oil spill close to the coastal Beginning in December 2010, Nexen participated response exercises in the deepwater Louisiana wetlands, the exercise in a collaborative effort among the offshore oil Gulf of Mexico. The exercises gave increased our understanding of and gas industry, regulatory agencies and trade us a chance to put into practice some of potential shoreline impacts and how unions to coordinate the UK’s response to the safety, the enhancements we’ve made to our an oil spill clean-up unfolds over an environmental and commercial issues arising from response capability. Enhancements in extended time. the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico. well design, cement parameters and The UK Oil Spill Prevention and Response Advisory • In October 2011, approximately Group (OSPRAG) was tasked with assessing and blow-out preventer capabilities address 130 people attended a two-day addressing the implications for offshore oil and gas the more stringent offshore emergency emergency response drill that tested activity in the UK Continental Shelf through: response regulations developed by the our ability to address a source control U.S. Department of Interior’s Bureau of • first response protection of personnel; issue (in this case, an oil leak on the Safety and Environmental Enforcement • oil spill response capability and remediation, ocean floor). We demonstrated our (BSEE). We also significantly increased including national emergency response measures; oil spill clean-up capacity while being our oil spill clean-up capacity, sub-sea • indemnity and insurance requirements; and observed by federal regulators and • Pan-North Sea regulations and response dispersant capability and personnel, the U.S. Coast Guard. mechanisms. equipment and additional resources available for response. Applying lessons learned OSPRAG’s recommendations were developed over • In June 2011, we staged a full-day We applied the lessons learned 16 months and are now being adopted by the UK tabletop exercise involving from the Deepwater Horizon incident offshore oil and gas industry. The recommendations approximately 90 people. Designed and worked to strengthen our included: to test our ability to respond to a environmental and safety prevention • increasing the frequency of testing of the Oil and measures. Actions we took included Gas National Contingency Plan, to every three years hiring additional environmental instead of every five years as done previously; compliance specialists and ensuring • strengthening of the UK offshore environmental blowout preventers on third-party regulatory regime; drilling rigs surpass the criteria of new • enhancing Oil Pollution Emergency Plans and regulations. We also strengthened our Environmental Statements; and ability to respond to a spill by joining a • using the OSPRAG capping device, designed to consortium of deepwater operators in swiftly seal off an uncontrolled well and to be the Gulf of Mexico that provides us with ready for deployment. the ability to capture or contain and process 55,000 barrels of oil per day from a subsea well. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 15 ENVIRONMENT/ WATER Reducing Impacts • In the Gulf of Mexico, we monitor and report on NOx, SO2, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO) and particulate emissions through Through Responsible the Gulfwide Offshore Activities Data System (GOADS), managed by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement. This air emissions Development inventory allows regulators to understand the sources of air pollutants and their effect on local air quality. As global demand for hydrocarbons continues to • At our offshore operations in the UK we estimate and report on NOx, SO2, VOCs, CO and other increase, our commitment is to responsibly develop the emissions to the Environmental Emissions energy needed by consumers and a growing economy. Monitoring System (EEMS) managed by the Department of Energy and Climate Change. To do this, we focus on strengthening our operational To learn more about our emissions management or performance — increasing oil and gas production while to see more detailed emissions disclosure please visit also working to reduce our impacts to air, water and land. www.nexeninc.com/responsibledevelopment. We apply technology and innovation to improve operating efficiencies and minimize our footprint. We also work cooperatively and constructively with industry peers, governments, Aboriginal and local community leaders, and many diverse stakeholder groups to bring about outcomes that reduce environmental impacts. WORKING TO REDUCE EMISSIONS Through investments in technology, we’re working to ensure the oil and gas The deep sea (below 200 metres) is the largest habitat on earth, but due to cold temperatures and a lack of products we generate are produced in a manner that meets or exceeds regulatory sunlight, little is known about life in this ecosystem. requirements that preserve regional air quality. Some examples of how we’re To operate in and learn more about these environments, working to reduce our emissions include: Remotely Operated Vehicles (ROVs) are used. ROVs are the “eyes and hands” needed to complete deep • Our Long Lake oil sands facility in northern Alberta features state-of-the-art sulphur subsea missions, from turning bolts to closing valves. recovery equipment that enables the capture of at least 98.4% of sulphur dioxide When the ROV is not being used to support rig (SO2) emissions. operations, it’s employed as part of an innovative academic/industrial collaboration known as SERPENT. • At our shale gas operations in northeast B.C. we’re working to reduce nitrogen By performing bottom and mid-water column surveys, oxides (NOx), SO2 and particulate emissions through the use of a bi-fuel/diesel the Gulf SERPENT Project is able to document the engine system, which allows diesel fuel use to be offset with cleaner-burning range of habitat for known species while also visually natural gas. identifying wildlife that has rarely, if ever, been seen. 16 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report As global demand for hydrocarbons continues to increase, our commitment is to responsibly develop the energy needed by consumers and a growing economy. To do this, we focus on strengthening our operational performance — increasing oil and gas production while also working to reduce our impacts to air, water and land. WORKING TOWARD ZERO SPILLS WATER— REDUCE, REUSE & PROTECT In 2011, we decreased the total volume of liquid we spilled by 67% Water is a key ingredient that enables us to successfully develop over 2010. Our spill reduction programs were key to this success, hydrocarbon resources around the world. We’re implementing enabling us to: new processes and new technologies to reduce our water use • reduce hydrocarbon spills by 25% between 2010 and 2011; and our impacts. • reduce hydrocarbon spills (not recovered) by 46% between 2010 and 2011; and Continually evolving hydrocarbon recovery technologies such as • decrease the size of our spills. Nexen had only one spill over 30m3 steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) and hydraulic fracturing in 2011, compared to three spills of this size in 2010. have increased our industry’s water requirements. At the same time, technological innovation, monitoring and recycling measures, as Spills well as industry cooperation, are improving the way we work with All data for 2011 water. We’re also improving the way we engage our stakeholders Volume2 Location Number1 (m3 ) about our water use, providing them with more transparent Canadian Conventional Oil & Gas 5 10.7 information about our water use and our water strategy. Energy Marketing (pipelines & tank farms) 0 0 Water use mirrors development activity Oil Sands 22 105.6 In 2011, our land-based operations used approximately 4.11 million Technical & Operating Solutions 16 64.8 cubic metres of fresh water, an increase of 0.65 million cubic metres U.S. 8 1.3 from 2010. This increase reflects a growth in production, including Yemen 4 1.6 exploration and development activity at Long Lake and at our shale UK 25 24.3 gas operations in northeast British Columbia. Other International 0 0 Total 80 208.3 Annual Fresh Water Withdrawn & Consumed (millions of cubic metres/year) 1 Reportable spills only, not including exceedances. 20101 2011 2 Not including natural gas releases; volumes are estimated. Long Lake Oil Sands Facility 2 2.76 3.06 Nexen reports to Canadian federal and/or provincial regulatory NE B.C. Shale Gas 0.47 0.89 authorities whenever a spill is released into the environment and Other 0.23 0.16 a) established volume criteria are exceeded or b) the spill (any volume) Total for Onshore Assets3 3.46 4.11 has, or may cause, an adverse effect. 1 Only two years of data are provided since data was not systematically tracked prior to 2010. Under United States Coast Guard legislation, all spills of hydrocarbons 2 Includes water use for SAGD and upgrader. to sea are reportable, regardless of volume. 3 Includes all of Nexen’s onshore operations that use fresh water. Under the UK Offshore Petroleum Activities Regulations, all spills (unplanned releases) of hydrocarbons to sea are reportable, regardless of volume. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 17 The advancement of drilling technologies means shale gas is now readily available and affordable — making it a clear choice for establishing a secure energy future. And the advancement of drilling technology, combined with ongoing research and development, allows this energy source to be developed safely and with environmental care. TRACKING OFFSHORE WATER USE New initiative aims to reduce hydrocarbon releases in the UK North Sea During offshore oil and gas production, a mixture To achieve our goal of zero environmental incidents across all of our operations, of hydrocarbons and water is extracted from the we’re working to strengthen specific processes and systems which are directed at reservoir. The water is separated from the oil and gas improving operational reliability and reducing unplanned downtime. One of the key and once it meets strict regulatory requirements, the focus areas for our UK operations is reducing hydrocarbon releases from our water is discharged into the ocean. This water is called offshore platforms including Buzzard, our largest producing asset. “produced water”. Nexen reports these discharges to We implemented our Hydrocarbon Release Reduction Project in 2011 and we’re regulators. If the water does not meet specifications, already seeing results. A number of improvements made to our management it is injected into a disposal well or sent back to systems associated with facility integrity have led to the reduction in the number separators to be retreated. A disposal well is a deep and size of releases. Key to this project’s success has been the engagement of well in a closed formation that is drilled to dispose the workforce and the involvement of management and leadership. The use of a particular type of waste. large-scale simulations to raise workforce awareness of the hazards resulting from hydrocarbon releases has been particularly successful, illustrated by a 40% Produced Water Discharged Overboard reduction in releases since the project was initiated. (millions of cubic metres/year) Initiatives under the Hydrocarbon Release Reduction Project include: 2010 2011 UK 6.78 6.97 • Hydrocarbon Leak Prevention Inspection, a strategy using advanced imaging technology to spot seeps and leaks before they escalate. U.S. 1.10 0.49 • Small Bore Tubing “No Leak” Campaign. Small bore tubing failures are the single Total for Offshore Assets 7.88 7.46 largest contributor to hydrocarbon releases in the industry. • Mandatory Hazard Awareness workshop for all offshore and onshore personnel. Hydrocarbon Discharged Overboard • Hydrocarbon release “Save Awards” to recognize areas where potential hydrocarbon leaks could occur. 2011 • Established a working group to carry out systematic audits and to review and UK 1 87 tonnes improve containment procedures. U.S. 4 tonnes • Analysis of human factor causes of hydrocarbon releases, and a company-wide Total for Offshore Assets 91 tonnes initiative to address our safety culture. 1 In 2011, 6.97 million m3 of water was discharged from our UK operations. Hydrocarbon releases in the Gulf of Mexico This equates to the average concentration of oil in discharged water being 0.00001 tonnes/m3. In the Gulf of Mexico, there were eight reportable spills in 2011. While this is a Nexen began measuring this data in 2011. As a result, no disappointing increase from seven releases in 2010, it is a decrease from 10 spills comparable information for prior years is available. In order in 2009. The total volume spilled in 2011 was one cubic metre. to discharge produced water to the ocean it must meet strict regulatory limits. 18 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENT/WATER Going with the flow in the Horn River Basin A major part of our development plan for our shale gas resources in northeast B.C. is our Horn River Basin Surface Water Management Plan. The plan was developed in 2009 to support our application for a long-term water allocation license and includes 500the following features: 900m • Nexen was granted long-term allocations of variable water volumes, based on 2500m actual water availability, which we’ve backed with a lifetime water monitoring commitment rather than making annual ad hoc requests for water withdrawals. • We’ve invested more than $1 million to create a local water monitoring network and we’re sharing this data with the Horn River Basin Producers Group (Nexen is a founding member), Geoscience B.C., B.C. Ministry of the Environment, the B.C. Oil and Gas Commission and other interested stakeholders. 150m • In 2012, we committed to continue the water assessment and monitoring program at our shale gas operations in B.C. and advance research into new To unlock shale gas, Nexen horizontally drills and technology that may reduce the use of fresh water. stimulates (fractures) gas-bearing zones, most of which are located hundreds or thousands of metres Pioneering new pressurized fracturing technology below groundwater aquifers. Multiple layers of In 2009, we began investigating the use of groundwater from the Debolt formation cement and protective steel casing in the well beneath our Dilly Creek shale gas development in northeast B.C. to reduce fresh provide well control and protection of water sources. water use. Water from the Debolt formation is both saline and sour, meaning it contains salt and hydrogen sulphide (H2S) and other gases. While the sour water is INDUSTRY’S NEW FRACKING abundant, the gas and saline content make it difficult to use given current technology. GUIDELINES The potential solution? Pressurized Frac on Demand. This technology is essentially Nexen was part of a Canadian Association of a pump that is designed to handle saline and sour water at the high pressures Petroleum Producers (CAPP) team that developed necessary for shale gas operations. If successful, this technology will enable Nexen new guiding principles for hydraulic fracturing. to utilize sour water from the Debolt formation rather than fresh water currently used during the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, we would not require water “The principles represent a philosophy of responsible treatment facilities on site, further reducing our footprint. development and we’re using them to guide the development of recommended practices for the In 2011, we continued with prototype testing and applied for a patent, and will continue industry,” said Shad Watts, Director of Community to advance this technology over the coming years as our development grows. Consultation and Regulatory Affairs — Shale Gas, who represents Nexen on the CAPP Shale Water Steering Committee. For more information on CAPP’s operating practices, go to www.capp.ca. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 19 OIL SANDS DEVELOPMENT Responsibly Developing MAXIMIZING ECONOMIC BENEFITS Production from the oil sands, and the supporting Canada’s Oil Sands fabrication and manufacturing activities across Canada, provide a major benefit to employment and economic activity across Canada. And the potential for boosting economic benefits even further is As conventional resources decline and become less significant. The Canadian Energy Research Institute accessible, Canada’s oil sands — the world’s third-largest (CERI) projects there will be more than $2 trillion in oil sands investment over the next 25 years and nearly hydrocarbon basin — will play an increasingly important one million new jobs generated. To realize that role in supplying secure and affordable energy that growing potential, Nexen recognizes the industry must be sustainable. That’s why we’re a founding member economies require. But, as with other forms of energy, of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), oil sands development presents both environmental a joint effort by oil sands producers to accelerate improvement in industry’s environmental performance. and social challenges. MINIMIZING LAND IMPACTS By harnessing technology, innovation and industry Long Lake is an integrated steam assisted gravity collaboration, and by investing in the communities drainage (SAGD) and upgrading operation. Unlike oil sands mining, SAGD disturbs much less land and does where we operate, Nexen seeks to maximize not produce tailings. Importantly, Long Lake’s in-situ wells are drilled horizontally, which further reduces the benefits and minimize the adverse impacts land disturbance. We’re also working with other land of developing this vital resource base. users in the region to reduce the linear disturbance caused by roads, pipelines and utility corridors. Trees Planted as Part of Long Lake Site Reclamation 2009 Newly planted trees Established trees DID YOU KNOW: Nexen is committed to reclaiming 2010 Future trees land disturbed by operations. One way that we’re making a difference is by planting trees to grow forests faster. To 2011 date, we’ve planted more than 200,000 trees and that number is expected to more than double by 2015. 2015 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 20 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Our oil sands assets make us one of the industry’s largest landholders. Nexen is a 65% owner of the Long Lake in-situ and upgrading facility. We also have a 7.23% interest in the Syncrude Canada oil sands mining joint venture and a 25% interest in Hangingstone, a SAGD project. Oil sands and greenhouse gas emissions According to Jacobs Consulting Canada, the crude IMPROVING WATER MANAGEMENT AT LONG LAKE oil produced through oil sands development, on Oil sands development can be watertreated before it is recycled and a “well-to-wheels” basis, is only marginally more intensive. Long Lake is designed to reprocessed back into steam and then carbon-intensive than other oil sources. Nexen, recycle over 90% of all water used and re-injected into the reservoir. While along with the industry as a whole, is investing this recycling process reduces our need we’ve further reduced fresh water in new technologies to further narrow that gap: consumption by using saline water in for water, we still require about three our operations. We’re also supporting million cubic metres of water per year. • We are one of four companies working jointly research that would see wastewater on a new approach towards two major SAGD Early in 2011, Nexen devised a series of from tailings ponds, a by-product of inputs — water and fuel for steam generation. strategies to reduce our need for fresh oil sands mining, recycled and used The research could reduce water use and water. These included daily monitoring at in-situ operations. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from SAGD of water use, aggressive water and operations. At Long Lake, Nexen uses SAGD to steam conservation, and improvements extract bitumen from the oil sands to the electronic control systems on the • We’re also part of a five-year multistakeholder reservoir. The SAGD process involves steam generators. This enabled us to project that could lead to improved energy efficiency injecting hot steam into the ground, not only more accurately track the and reduced GHG emissions in oil sands upgrading. which enables the bitumen contained amount of water we use, but to use it within the sand (which is later as efficiently as possible and reduce While these initiatives are longer term, immediate upgraded into oil) to be heated and the amount of water loss. Within a progress on managing GHG emissions has been released. The resulting water and month, we saw an increase in water made. By improving operational reliability, we bitumen is pumped back to the surface, recycling as we were able to recover decreased CO2e emission intensity by 2% at Long where the water is separated and more water from the process. Lake in 2011 over 2010. We also anticipate an improvement to GHG emissions on a per barrel basis as our Long Lake facility moves from a ramp-up stage to operating at full capacity. ODOUR COMPLAINTS operations, about odours. Long Lake CO2 Emissions at Long Lake has 12 air monitors that continually (million tonnes) As Long Lake production ramps up, report ambient air quality, with occasional process upsets occur and real-time data provided to Alberta 2011 3.19 there is potential for intermittent flaring Environment and the Wood Buffalo 10 3.24 and odours. Sometimes, the cause of Environmental Association (this data odours can be difficult to pinpoint. In can be viewed at www.wbea.org/ 09 1.38 December 2011 and continuing into air-monitoring). We’re determined to early 2012, Nexen received several resolve community concerns and keep complaints from residents in Anzac, the our stakeholders informed every step community nearest to our Long Lake of the way. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 21 CLIMATE CHANGE Taking Action • Participating in carbon markets — Nexen operates in some jurisdictions, including Alberta, British Columbia and the UK, where GHG emissions are on Climate Change regulated. In addition to the carbon credits earned through our ownership in the Soderglen, Alberta wind farm, we pay into an Alberta technology fund Climate change is a global issue requiring global solutions that is directed towards researching and developing new low-carbon technologies. Nexen’s UK facilities from energy producers, governments and consumers. are covered by the UK Emissions Trading Scheme. At Nexen, we’re committed to doing our part. In instances where our emissions exceed our allocations, we purchase European Union • Investing in technological solutions — One of the biggest opportunities for Allowances (EUAs) or eligible Kyoto Protocol reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is improved energy efficiency. While credits such as certified emission reductions the first step is to utilize energy-efficient technology in the initial design and (CERs) to attain compliance. construction of our facilities — as we did with our Long Lake oil sands project and our Buzzard platform in the UK North Sea — it also entails investing in the research and development of future technologies that enable the production of oil and gas in a less carbon-intensive manner. Our investments include collaborating with the University of Calgary on research to reduce the energy and environmental impact of oil sands upgrading, and testing technology that has the potential to reduce the amount of steam used by in-situ operators — a key step to improving energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions. • Engaging in public policy — World energy demand is increasing and hydrocarbons will continue to be an important part of the energy mix for decades to come. Companies such as Nexen are in the business of responsibly developing the oil and gas resources our economies require, and that responsibility includes working towards a lower-carbon future. While that means taking action within our WIND CREATES ENERGY… own operations to tackle climate change, transitioning to a lower-carbon future AND CARBON CREDITS also means focusing on energy consumption. Approximately 80% of the GHG Nexen is a 50% partner in the 70.5-megawatt (MW) emissions associated with oil use come from combustion. Industry, governments Soderglen wind farm in southern Alberta and we and consumers need to work together on a suite of solutions from biofuels and own 100% of the carbon credits associated with powertrains to transportation systems in an effort to achieve this low-carbon future. its production — credits that can be used to help Nexen is actively involved in the public policy arena. Our efforts are focused on us meet our GHG compliance at our Albertaencouraging energy and climate change policies that are fair, transparent and based operations. provide clarity for companies, shareholders and the public alike. 22 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report We all play a role in combating climate change. Energy producers must focus on improving energy efficiency and reducing their environmental footprint. Governments must provide a regulatory environment that encourages investment and protects public interest. And consumers need to make wise decisions to reduce overall energy consumption in several sectors, including transportation. Overall GHG emissions decrease, while intensity DID YOU KNOW: measures increase The carbon intensity of oil is dictated primarily by the type and age of a On a company-wide basis, carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) reservoir, as well as the age and fuel source of the production facilities. emissions declined to 5.82 million tonnes in 2011 from 6.34 million Our UK North Sea oil production has the lowest carbon intensity in the tonnes in 2010. This 8% decrease is attributed to the divestiture of Nexen portfolio. our Heavy Oil operations in mid 2010; the closing of the Balzac gas plant in May 2011; and efforts undertaken at our Long Lake oil sands facility to improve operational performance (for more on Long Lake GHG emissions, see page 21). However, production carbon intensity (PCI), which measures the amount of carbon dioxide equivalent per unit of production, rose 11% in 2011 over 2010. And production energy intensity (PEI), which measures the amount of energy consumed for each gross operated cubic metre of oil equivalent production, rose by 20% over the same period. These intensity increases occurred primarily because our gross operated company-wide oil and gas production was 18.5% lower in 2011 than 2010. GHG Emission Intensity (PCI and PEI) Company-wide Units 2009 2010 2011 Production Carbon Intensity (PCI) t CO2e / m OE 3 0.20 0.28 0.31 Production Energy Intensity (PEI) GJ / m OE 3 2.47 3.42 4.11 Total GHG Emissions1 (million tonnes CO2e) TEST DRIVING THE FUTURE 2011 5.82 We consider it important to monitor and understand the range 10 6.34 of transportation technology options available as well as 09 4.72 developments in policy related to hydrocarbons and mobility. 1 Emissions include direct emissions and indirect emissions. As part of that process, we’ve decided to test drive the Chevrolet Volt, an electric car, for ourselves, and spark a wider discussion about transportation and our energy future. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 23 COMMUNITY Engaging Our BUILDING MUTUALLY-BENEFICIAL RELATIONSHIPS Our stakeholders contribute to our success. That’s why meaningful engagement with our host communities is embedded in the way we work. Stakeholders Like our operations, the stakeholders we work with are diverse; their issues, interests and backgrounds vary. As a result, the way we engage with them depends on the circumstances and their preferences. Integral to Nexen’s culture of operating • Information Sharing—We provide timely information to stakeholders through with integrity is demonstrating respect open houses, special events and our website. In Canada, we also issue a for our stakeholders and Aboriginal newsletter called Community Matters. communities and building trust through • Consultation —We consult our stakeholders in various ways, from face-to-face meetings to multistakeholder sessions. ongoing, meaningful engagement. We • Collaboration—We participate in shared decision-making through forums. do this by working with stakeholders In Canada, for example, we collaborate with stakeholders through the and community members to integrate Cumulative Environmental Management Association (CEMA) and Wood Buffalo Environmental Association (WBEA)—two organizations working their interests into responsible resource to improve the environmental performance of the oil sands industry. development. We support community activities through donations, sponsorships and We believe stakeholders have a right to know about volunteering. And we always welcome feedback and can be reached by our future plans and ongoing activities and to be involved phone or in person at our “storefront” offices in several communities. in the decision-making process on issues that affect them. That’s why we’ve worked to integrate stakeholder ABORIGINAL RELATIONS AT NEXEN engagement into all stages of the lifecycle at our Nexen operates on or near the traditional lands of Canada’s Aboriginal peoples. operations; it’s how we earn and maintain our social Our engagement with Aboriginal communities is founded on respect for their license to operate. rights and unique culture, traditional knowledge and practices, good faith negotiation, as well as meaningful consultation. Our work with Aboriginal communities focuses on four key areas: • information sharing and mitigation strategy development; • business development and capacity building; • Aboriginal employment; and • community investment. 24 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Consumers want safe, secure and reliable forms of energy. Working constructively — with industry peers, governments, Aboriginal and community leaders, NGOs and other stakeholders — creates more successful outcomes for all concerned. We strive to be a good neighbour and we provide Aboriginal cultural awareness training to help our employees understand and work more effectively with Aboriginal peoples. Through ongoing dialogue, our goal is to work with Aboriginal communities to understand their concerns and views regarding both the potential benefits and impacts of our operations. Our aim is to achieve mutually-satisfactory outcomes. We invest in Aboriginal communities and work to identify and develop opportunities to ensure Aboriginal people fully participate in our industry and share in the economic and social benefits of our energy development. Since 2008, we’ve invested more than $1.3 million in health, arts and culture, education, environmental and civic initiatives that support Aboriginal communities. To achieve greater consistency in our work with Aboriginal communities across our operations, we drafted an Aboriginal Relations Policy that will be finalized in 2012. We’re also developing an Aboriginal Relations strategy, which will be completed in 2012. STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES WHO ARE OUR STAKEHOLDERS? In 2011, Nexen developed a Guide to Effective Engagement with Stakeholders We define stakeholders as any individuals or groups & Indigenous Peoples that sets out our commitment and approach to working who could be affected by our operations or who could, with communities in Canada and across Nexen’s global operations. As part of through their own actions, affect our business. Many our commitment to continuous improvement we’re also developing key people have a “stake” in Nexen: performance measures to help us monitor and evaluate our social performance • investors; across our operating divisions. We continue to participate in multistakeholder • employees, contractors and suppliers; groups to engage stakeholders on environmental, social and community-based • governments and regulators; issues. These groups include Synergy Alberta, Wetaskiwin Synergy Initiative, • industry partners and peers, and other industry sectors; and the Fort Assiniboine and Area Multi-stakeholder Alliance, as well as industry • community residents and landowners; groups such as the Oil Sands Leadership Initiative and the Horn River Basin • Aboriginal/indigenous communities; and Producers Group. • special interest groups, media, non-government organizations and civil society organizations. DID YOU KNOW: Nexen invests considerable effort to build positive and During our recent drilling program in Colombia, we brought together community leaders, mutually-beneficial relationships. We take into contractors and security providers in an innovative forum to identify stakeholder consideration project and operational size, the scope concerns and implement mitigative measures and focused social investment. of the anticipated impact and the degree to which stakeholders themselves wish to be involved. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 25 At Nexen, giving back to the communities where we operate is a deeply rooted value. Whether we’re investing in organizations to help street children in Nigeria or volunteering to clean up public beaches in the Gulf of Mexico, we’re working alongside our neighbours to help build strong communities. Measuring GIVING In 2011, we invested approximately $9.1 million Our Commitment in communities through grants and donations. Education excellence Wherever we operate, Nexen is reaching out to • The Nexen Yemen Scholarship Program has, since 1997, awarded scholarships to 130 Yemenis to help build sustainable communities. Through our pursue post-secondary degrees in Calgary. community involvement strategy called ReachOut, • Educational partnerships that support high school we contributed $11.3 million to communities in 2011. students and graduates in Fort McMurray and Anzac, Alberta. The investments were made in three areas: • Support for universities including the Nexen Scholars Program at Mount Royal University, funding for research chairs at the University of Alberta and GIVING MATCHING HELPING University of Calgary, and contributions to the University of Texas at Austin’s Jackson School Direct financial Matching Two paid days-off of Geosciences. contributions to employee, director annually to volunteer; non-profit and and contractor employees can qualify registered charitable contributions to for volunteer hour Community support organizations. registered charitable grants to help local • We’re helping the Calgary Drop-In and Rehabilitation or not-for-profit organizations. Centre finance an affordable housing complex. organizations. • Support for the Greater New Orleans Foundation is helping fishing families recover from the impact of the Deepwater Horizon incident. Community Investment • In the UK, we fund the Journey of a Lifetime Trust, HELPING Nexen employees are encouraged 1.59% which helps disadvantaged young people. GIVING to take two paid work days to 80.09% volunteer and give back to the • In Colombia and Nigeria, we’re investing in MATCHING community projects aimed at advancing health care, community. We estimate that we 18.32% contributed an additional CAD child welfare and environmental protection. $384,500 in 2011 “sweat equity.” 26 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report COMMUNITY Celebrating arts and culture HELPING Arts and culture are a vital part of the fabric of our communities. Nexen recognizes this by funding prominent arts and cultural Many Nexen employees are putting community first by giving organizations such as Alberta Ballet, the Calgary Philharmonic their time as volunteers. We estimate that Nexen contributed Orchestra, Aberdeen Opera Company, Theatre Junction Grand and approximately $565,000 to communities through our employee Telus Spark. volunteer program in 2011. The value we bring as neighbours, partners and employers includes: MATCHING • In 2011, our employees applied for $180,000 in grants for volunteering 40 hours of personal time to qualified organizations. The generosity of Nexen employees led to a record-breaking giftmatch in 2011: Nexen matched $2 million in employee contributions • Employees also contributed 13,550 hours to their communities dollar-for-dollar. The previous gift-match record was $1.6 million in in 2011 through Nexen Volunteer Days, team-building initiatives 2010. In Calgary, we also broke our United Way fundraising record, and summer student secondments to charitable and non-profit raising $1.48 million in 2011. organizations. When monetized, these hours represent $384,500 of value given back to communities. We organized volunteer opportunities for 20 young professionals at Nexen. They worked DID YOU KNOW: with six local community agencies throughout the summer of 2011. Through our ReachOut program, Nexen supported more than 500 charitable/ non-profit organizations in our communities worldwide in 2011. It’s a bird…it’s a plane…it’s 437 Nexen employees dressed up like Superman! To kick off the 2011 United Way Campaign in Calgary, we broke a Guinness World Record and raised a record-breaking $1.48 million. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 27 EXTERNAL ADVISORY GROUP INTEGRITY & GOVERNANCE INTEGRITY & GOVERNANCE SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SHALE GAS Jermyn Brooks Julie Desjardins PREPAREDNESS Jennifer Miskimins Board Member and Chair, President Mark Fleming Associate Professor Business Advisory Board Desjardins and Associates Professor, Department Colorado School of Mines Transparency International Mississauga, ON of Psychology Golden, CO Berlin, Germany Saint Mary’s University Halifax, NS WATER STAKEHOLDER ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL Jim Bruce ENGAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE AND GOVERNANCE AND ABORIGINAL RELATIONS Andrew Logan Dayna Linley Independent Consultant Ottawa, ON Roger Hammond Director, Oil & Gas Program Sr. Sustainability Analyst Development Director Ceres Sustainalytics Living Earth Foundation Boston, MA Toronto, ON London, UK 28 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Nexen Advisory Group Statement PROCESS This process involved conference For the ninth consecutive year, Nexen engaged a diverse calls, meetings with Nexen staff and group of experts to provide feedback on our sustainability executives, a site visit to Nexen’s shale gas operations and interviews with three local management, performance and disclosure. This engagement stakeholders. We were impressed with the access and transparency that Nexen provides substantial value to Nexen in addressing and navigating provided the Advisory Group, including complex sustainability issues. The group is organized and internal documentation, staff time and a dialogue with the Interim President & CEO. facilitated by Stratos Inc., a specialized management consultancy, We feel this openness is critical and and members provide their input and expertise as individuals commend Nexen for creating an effective and thorough engagement process. rather than as representatives of their organizations. This statement expresses our views on Nexen’s sustainability management, performance and disclosure. Members OVERVIEW Governance and integrity of the Advisory Group were offered an While we saw evidence of good oversight honourarium in recognition of our time The Advisory Group (AG) highlights an of material sustainability issues and and expertise, payable to us individually inherent tension between sustainability and performance, we are concerned that Nexen or to an organization of our choice. a long-term strategy founded on fossil fuel Nexen also paid for all expenses related extraction. This issue is particularly critical does not have a long-term sustainability to our travel and accommodation. for Nexen, whose assets are long-lived, strategy. Because turnover of executive carbonand water-intensive. We recognize leadership can impact the continuity of that Nexen is in many ways a sustainability sustainability performance, the Board of leader in the oil and gas industry, and Directors should strengthen oversight encourage the company to address this of the development and implementation We commend Nexen for seriously tension as it develops its business strategy. of such a strategy. addressing anti-corruption and for their Our comments below reflect the issues We strongly support the integration of commitment to transparency through the explored in this engagement process. sustainability factors into executive Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative compensation and encourage Nexen to (EITI). We welcome the recent shift to expand this practice by linking compensation a zero tolerance policy regarding facilitation to publicly available shortand long-term payments and encourage Nexen to follow sustainability goals. Transparency of the UN Global Compact-Transparency sustainability goals has previously been International Reporting Guidance on recommended in AG letters. the 10th Principle Against Corruption. NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 29 Safety and emergency preparedness the impact of its oil sands and shale gas Additional comments There is evidence of a strong commitment operations on the Mackenzie watershed We recognize Nexen for valuable at the senior level to safety and establishing in the Northwest Territories and take action contributions such as commissioning the right processes to ensure results. We to address any impacts identified. third-party research on biodiversity impacts; recognize Nexen’s effort to implement however, the company’s increasing We recommend setting targets to drive globally, an industry best practice process exceedances of environmental regulations Nexen’s move to saline versus fresh water safety management system, and encourage is a negative trend. use. Nexen should also set a long-term adopting a similar approach for occupational water strategy and ensure the management We encourage Nexen to more aggressively health and safety. and disclosure of all chemicals used in shale address its greenhouse gas emissions We question how senior management gas operations. and energy efficiency, and to expand assures itself that Nexen’s safety culture transparency of its policy position on has traction at the site-level, and encourage Stakeholder relations and energy and climate change. the assessment of the behavioural impact Aboriginal engagement of the new “Life Saving Rules” program. We acknowledge Nexen’s efforts in Sustainability disclosure This assurance is equally important when stakeholder and Aboriginal engagement The Advisory Group reviewed draft versions it comes to contractor safety management and the strong relationships with some of the online and printed sustainability report and education. We welcome the integration communities. We commend Nexen for and provided substantive recommendations. of more leading safety indicators and the recognizing the need to better institutionalize However, we did not have the opportunity evaluation of safety risk. We encourage learnings and to bring greater global to review the final versions to see where Nexen to review the adequacy of their consistency to their engagement systems, our input was reflected. Given this limitation, emergency preparedness procedures processes and practices. We look forward we are not providing a perspective on to deal with climate change impacts and to seeing the Aboriginal Relations strategy, Nexen’s disclosure in this statement. natural disasters (e.g. wildfires). scheduled for completion this year. We look forward to monitoring progress We recommend that Nexen engage external on Nexen’s commitments and to observing Water stakeholders directly in the materiality how the company’s sustainability Nexen has established water management analysis. Stakeholder engagement should management, performance and disclosure principles, emphasizes water reuse and aim to co-create plans and to develop evolve over time. We commend Nexen recycling, and is working with Aboriginal trust-based relations. Nexen should ensure for its leadership in conducting this open partners on a water monitoring program. its pace and scale of development is aligned engagement process. We encourage Nexen to do more to share with the community’s capacity to engage. monitoring results and to work with industry We encourage Nexen to continue to to better engage the Horn River Basin Nexen External Advisory Group contribute to local capacity building and community on long-term water plans and May 24, 2012 sustainability, and to inspire leadership potential impacts. Nexen should investigate through collaborative sector initiatives. 30 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report Independent Assurance standards and procedures We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Assurance Report Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Federation of Accountants. As such, we planned and performed our work in order to provide limited assurance with respect to the Subject Matter. We obtained To the Board of Directors and Management of Nexen Inc. (“Nexen”) and evaluated evidence using a variety of procedures including: We have reviewed selected performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) presented in Nexen’s • Interviewing relevant Nexen management and staff responsible Sustainability Report (the “Report”) for the year ended December 31, 2011. A review does not for data collection and reporting; constitute an audit and, consequently, we do not express an audit opinion on the selected • Obtaining an understanding of the management systems, performance indicators. processes and the relevant controls used to generate, aggregate, and report the data at Nexen operations and Subject matter corporate office; We reviewed the selected performance indicators listed below and set out in the Report [GRI Reference]: • Reviewing relevant documents and records on a sample basis; • Community investment [EC1] $11.3 (CAD millions) • Testing and re-calculating information related to the selected • Fresh water withdrawn and consumed in onshore assets [EN8] 4.11 (millions of cubic meters) performance indicators on a sample basis; and, • Total CO2 equivalent emissions [EN16] 5.82 (million tonnes) • Assessing the information for consistency with our knowledge • Production carbon intensity [EN16] 0.31 (t CO2e / m3OE) of Nexen’s operations, including comparing Nexen’s assertions • Number of reportable environmental spills [EN23] 80 to publicly available third-party information. • Estimated volume of reportable environmental spills [EN23] 208 (cubic meters) Our assurance criteria comprised the Global Reporting Initiative • Number of reportable environmental exceedances [EN23] 445 (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 3.0 Guidelines (2006 Version), • Percentage of Yemeni employees [LA1] 91% industry standards, and Nexen internal management definitions • Voluntary employee turnover rate [LA2] 8.87% as disclosed in the Report, informed by relevant regulations. Our • Employee and contractor loss time injury frequency [LA7] 0.15 assurance team included individuals with environmental, health • Employee and contractor total recordable injury frequency [LA7] 0.67 and safety, social, economic and assurance experience. • Employee engagement score 53 • Reported and substantiated integrity incidents [SO4] 16 Environmental and energy use data are subject to inherent limitations of accuracy given the nature and the methods used The Subject Matter was chosen by Nexen management primarily on the basis of perceived external for determining such data. The selection of different acceptable stakeholder interest. We did not review the narrative sections of the Report except where they measurement techniques can result in materially different incorporated the Subject Matter, nor did we review other performance indicators included in measurements. The precision of different measurement the report. techniques may also vary. Responsibilities Conclusion Nexen management is responsible for collection and presentation of the Subject Matter set out in Based on our work as described in this report, nothing has come the Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion, based on our assurance procedures, as to to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter whether anything has come to our attention to suggest that the Subject Matter is not presented fairly is not, in all material respects, presented fairly in accordance with in accordance with the relevant criteria. the relevant criteria. This report is intended solely for use by the Management and Board of Directors of Nexen. Deloitte & Touche LLP Calgary, Alberta, Canada May 2, 2012 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report 31 Learn More About Nexen FOLLOW US ONLINE Looking for some hard numbers? Our online Watch us on YouTube. www.youtube.com/Nexen disclosure includes comprehensive performance Want more information? A more detailed version data on how we’re doing on health, safety, of Nexen’s sustainability disclosure is available at environmental stewardship, social responsibility www.nexeninc.com/responsibledevelopment. and economic benefits. See photos of our operations, how we invest in our communities and how we’re working Easy viewing: If you don’t want to read more about Gung-ho about good governance? Nexen is a to be a responsible energy developer. what we’re doing, you now have the opportunity to www.flickr.com/photos/nexeninc recognized industry leader in corporate governance. watch instead; our online disclosure includes Our approach, detailed online, is all about building several concise videos on our sustainability and maintaining the trust of our stakeholders Nexen is hiring! progress and challenges. www.linkedin.com/company/nexen-inc through systems and programs based on ethics, integrity and transparent communication. Among others, watch: GRI-minded? We continue to use the Global • Interim President & CEO Kevin Reinhart Reporting Initiatives G3.1 Guidelines. Check out on Nexen’s culture of integrity. our online content index prepared in accordance • Aboriginal contractors on Nexen’s positive with GRI G3.1 Application Level B+. Our impact on the Wood Buffalo regional economy. Sustainability Report is also guided by a joint, industry-specific framework on oil and gas industry • Balzac’s Reeve and homeowners on how guidance for voluntary reporting developed by Nexen’s early adoption of the Responsible Care® IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute, and the model is leading to continuous improvement International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. in the company’s environmental, health and safety performance. Why the web? The intent of our online sustainability reporting is to be timely, comprehensive and environmentally responsible. We are reducing our paper use while also achieving a better balance between the annual data we report and relevant information we share via our website throughout the year. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements and forward-looking information, including statements regarding: business strategies; expected production growth and developments; planned environmental and regulatory targets, performance, monitoring and initiatives; planned safety targets and programs; planned studies, evaluations and internal management system audits; planned emission monitoring, reporting, reduction and recovery; planned technological and systems advancements, developments, implementation, testing and initiatives; planned support of research; planned emissions offset and climate change policy; planned stakeholder collaboration; planned updates to Human Rights Policy; planned Aboriginal Relations Policy and strategy; planned employee health initiatives; planned scholarship programs; planned community commitment including employee volunteer program, direct contributions and matching; statements about possible future events, conditions, results of operation or performance; and changes in any of the foregoing. All forward-looking statements in this report are based on Nexen’s current expectations, estimates and projections, and are qualified by the assumptions that are stated or inherent in such forward-looking statements. Although we believe these assumptions are reasonable, readers should not place an undue reliance on these assumptions and such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, levels of activity and achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Except as required by law, Nexen undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The forward-looking statements contained herein are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. Readers should also refer to the Risk Factors contained in our 2011 Annual Information Form, and to the Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk and our Forward-Looking Statements contained in our 2011 Management Discussion and Analysis. All financial information is in Canadian dollars. Reproduced with permission of Yahoo! Inc. ©2012 Yahoo! Inc. FLICKR and the Flickr logo are registered trademarks of Yahoo! Inc. 32 NEXEN INC. | 2011 | Sustainability Report The Last Word… We’re pleased to be recognized, especially when the awards Less than a ten minute drive west of Nexen’s reflect our values: good governance practices, transparent Long Lake oil sands operation is Gregoire Lake disclosure, effective stakeholder relations and a dynamic Provincial Park, a year-round facility that workplace that attracts and engages talented people. Here offers swimming and boating in summer are just a few of the recent recognitions earned by Nexen: and snowmobiling and cross country skiing during the winter. It’s frequently Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations visited by out of town campers and residents from Corporate Knights magazine of the nearby communities of Anzac and Fort McMurray, Alberta. Our cover photo was taken at Gregoire Lake Canada’s Top 100 Employers because it illustrates Nexen’s Way: it’s located in from MediaCorp Canada the heart of the oil sands region, is popular with energy sector employees while the services the park offers — recreational activities and community events — enhances the lives 2011 Dow Jones Sustainability Index of the people and families who live there. 2012 Macleans Sustainalytics Top 50 Macleans Green 30 The world needs clean, secure and affordable energy. At Nexen, we help meet this need by harnessing our exceptional talent, world-class assets and progressive technology to find and develop oil and gas resources around the world. It’s Nexen’s way of building a profitable and responsible business. 801 – 7th Avenue SW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 3P7 T 403.699.4000 F 403.699.5800 ww.nexeninc.com The print report focuses on a sampling of high-priority issues. For additional information visit www.nexeninc.com/ responsibledevelopment. June 2012
