United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a purely voluntary (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness initiative with two objectives: the power of collective action in the 1 To mainstream the ten principles in promotion of responsible corporate business activities around the world; citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to 2 To catalyse action in support of aligning their operations and strategies broader UN objectives, such as the with the ten universally accepted Millennium Development Goals. principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and antiThe UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, corruption. but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency As the world’s largest global corporate and disclosure to complement regulation citizenship initiative, the Global Compact and to provide a space for innovation and is concerned with demonstrating and collective action. building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Marshalls plc became a This is the Company’s third signatory of the UNGC in January 2009 Communication on Progress and outlines and a member of the UK Network later how Marshalls is aligned with the ten the same year. principles and how, throughout 2012, the plc intends to develop its activities in support of the framework laid out by the UNGC. UNGC Ten Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; Principle 8: Principle 2: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-Corruption association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of Principle 4: corruption, including extortion and bribery. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Contents Statement of Support for the UNGC Graham Holden, Marshalls CEO 8 Foreword and Focus for 2012 Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director (Responsible for Sustainability) 9 Scope of Operations 14 Achievement Indicators 16 Third Party Assurances 18 Marshalls’ Brand Manifesto 19 Marshalls the Superbrand 20 Leadership Blueprint 22 Millennium Development Goals; how Marshalls is contributing 30 Marshalls Fairstone® 32 Human Rights 36 Labour 40 Environment 48 Anti-Corruption 56 Third Party Recognition & Awards 60 2011 COP Feedback Survey 64 Statement of Support for the UNGC Foreword and FOCUS FOR 2012 Graham Holden, Marshalls CEO Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director Graham Holden, Marshalls’ CEO, Princes Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Ambassador, Chairman of The Yorkshire Director, (Responsible for Sustainability), & Humber Regional Advisory Board of UNGC UK Network Advisory Committee, Business in the Community ETI Non-executive Director The UNGC continues to be the key driver of As sustainable business operations, ethical A warm welcome to all readers of Marshalls’ third Marshalls has worked to reiterate its stance corporate responsibility and sustainability and corporate behaviour and ‘moral capitalism’ Communication on Progress (COP) detailing in relation to these important matters has become the international standard. Many remain topics of discussion at all levels of work that has been done, lessons learned and communicating both internally and externally organisations have long since grasped the society, Marshalls will continue to drive forward the advances made during 2011. the expectations of the Company in this area. importance of the ten principles, Marshalls its commitment to the UNGC guided by its Marshalls’ board also ratified an anti-corruption among them. Throughout 2012 these principles own longstanding values of trust, honesty and It is important to state that the leadership, and anti-bribery policy. will continue to act as a guide, an inspiration integrity. education, dialogue & learning, facilitation and an aspiration as business across the UK and specialised work streams offered by the Most of Marshalls’ employees are aware of our and across the globe assume their positions This report outlines the strides that our business UNGC UK Network continues to be a massively involvement in the UNGC and the businesses as agents for positive change in relation to all has made, the work that is underway and the important aspect of UNGC membership for commitment to sustainable business practice. aspects of sustainability. long terms plans which are already in action. I Marshalls. Of particular importance during There is an increasing understanding of how look forward to updating you again next year 2011 was the joint supplier education initiative, this relates to all areas of the business as the With a new congruence between the objectives regarding Marshalls’ contribution to corporate the first of its kind in the UK, which saw a Leadership Blueprint is rolled out. of the international community and those of the sustainability in the world economy. workshop event delivered to Marshalls top tier business world there is a unique opportunity suppliers. This initiative also inspired a broader Each year many employees participate in a through Rio +20 in June 2012 to scale up the understanding and response from Marshalls’ range of initiatives and activities during the promising solutions that corporations have procurement team as it continues to develop year aimed at achieving our collective goals to offer. Marshalls is engaged in this process its sustainable procurement approach. As we and commitments. This year was no exception and wholly committed to common goals, such (March 2012) continue to implement the Leadership Blueprint and included a wide range of projects such as as building markets, combating corruption, programme embedding sustainability within the establishment of a senior leadership group safeguarding the environment and ensuring our business continues to be an important and regarding sustainability, a series of educational social inclusion. ongoing focus. roadshows across the business, the updating of employee ambassadors and our 60 energy The UNGC UK Network provided excellent champions, as well as the training of some education, information and debate regarding employees as bee keepers. anti-bribery and anti-corruption as this took centre stage during part of 2011. In response 8 9 Focus for 2012 CONTINUED An increasing number of employees throughout the business have become involved during 2011; Andy Ackroyd (Commercial Controller), Richard Capper (Energy Management Engineer), Neil Davidson (Group Corporate Social Responsibility Manager), Graham Holden (Chief Executive), Kevin Hull (Human Resources Director), Jon Isherwood (Group Procurement Director), Ian Manley (Group Environmental Conservation Adviser), David Morrell (Group Head of Sustainability), Christine Morris (Environmental Manager), David Sarti (Chief Operating Officer), Pete Stevens (Group Carbon & Energy Manager), Steve Swanik is Systems Manager, Rachel Waugh Group Brand Manager. INAB The increasing involvement of key individuals is fundamental to Marshalls engagement in the Blueprint process. S USTA BLE SPE LE BUSIN FTSE4GOOD MEMBERSHIP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE LLS IC AVAILAS EN ISO 1400CIFICATIO ES In alphabetical order: HA PUB L B 1 N9 9 S NS GLOBAL CO NATIO MA M ITED RPORATE SUSTAINA PACT EL RS OD UN O BILI ORC TY TF LE BL PR IN AD IP M UE Environmental ER SH Water use CO2 and CO2e Biodiversity Waste to Andy Ackroyd Richard Capper Neil Davidson Graham Holden Kevin Hull Jon Isherwood landfill Commercial Controller Energy Management Group Corporate Social Chief Executive Human Resources Group Procurement Legal Engineer Responsibility Manager Director Director Social Economic Ethical sourcing Safety Total shareholder Community return 01 Customer BS E 180 responsibility service index N I SAS SO9 00 OH 1 E FTSE IV T 4G TI A OO I NI DM EMB RT ING ERSHIP GLO BAL REP O Ian Manley David Morrell Christine Morris David Sarti Pete Stevens Rachel Waugh Group Environmental Group Head of Environmental Chief Operating Officer Group Carbon & Energy Group Brand Manager Conservation Adviser Sustainability Manager Manager These employees work alongside those with reporting methodology for UNGC participants special responsibilities including; Group Head of and will allow Marshalls to chart its progress Championed by Chief Executive, Graham The three pillars of sustainability; economic, Sustainability, David Morrell, Group Corporate and benchmark against other international Holden and Chief Operating Officer, David environmental and social provide focus for Social Responsibility Manager, Neil Davidson and organistations. It will also provide even greater Sarti, Marshalls’ Sustainability Model, which activity. Marshalls aims to be a successful and Group Procurement Director Jon Isherwood. transparency regarding the Company’s activities. may be familiar to regular readers of our COP’s, profitable business whilst minimising our impact incorporates our membership of the UNGC and on the environment and looking after the Marshalls progress is monitored thoroughly I’m thrilled to be able to report that during FTSE4GOOD, and our continued commitment to people and communities we work with, both in and on an ongoing basis against both internal 2011 Marshalls retained its Superbrand status Integrated Management Systems. It also reflects the UK and overseas. and external measures. As a matter of course for the third year running, a feat which we are our active engagement in and responce to the Marshalls seeks verification from third party particularly proud of given the challenging Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. organisations which include non-governmental climate. Driven by myself, Group Marketing Director, and organisations and independent auditors. These embraced by all employees, it continues to be include The Carbon Trust, BSI, Wild Life Trust, ETI Throughout this, our third Communication integral to how Marshalls harnesses it values & BITC. We also work particularly closely with on Progress, we want to share with you the of trust, honesty and integrity in the name of Indira Saxena regarding social issues in India and strides that we have made to uphold the business. It is now quite simply ‘how we do Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd. UNGC principles during 2011 and our enduring business’. commitment as we move throughout 2012 and During 2012 we have committed to an internal what promises to be another challenging year. education programme which will allow us to implement the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) moving forward. GRI is the preferred 10 11 Focus for 2012 CONTINUED As you read through this report you The CEO Water Mandate Embracing & Embedding Children’s Rights & Business will see that we have set targets for Marshalls is working towards becoming a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Principles each area of activity in relation to the signatory of this UNGC special project, The CEO In early 2012 Marshalls committed to Global Following the recent launch of The Children’s UNGC principles. I wanted to draw your Water Mandate. This is an initiative by business Reporting Initiative monitoring and reporting. Rights & Business Principles by Save the Children, attention here to four exciting programme leaders in partnership with the international Reporting covers economic, environmental, UNGC and UNICEF, Marshalls is committed to areas for further development during community and its structure covers six key social, human rights, society & product embedding the principles and utilising the 2012. The CEO Water Mandate, GRI, areas in a comprehensive approach to water responsibility. It will complement current comprehensive framework for understanding Procurement for Sustainability and management. Commitment to The CEO Water monitoring and reporting methodology and and addressing the impact of its business on Children’s Rights & Business Principles, Mandate will assist in the development of procedures, is transparent and will further the rights and well-being of children. Working each of which is featured later in this COP. Marshalls’ current water management approach assist stakeholders in assessing Marshalls with business and NGO partners in the UK and to flooding, water quality and drought performance. overseas, and It is also important to acknowledge here throughout 2012. building upon the importance of the United Nations its Human Rights Impact Assessment Conference on Sustainability. process, the organisation will review its impact on children in terms of the market place, work place, Procurement for Sustainability community and environment. The further development and embedding of World leaders will convene at the UN Marshalls’ Sustainable Procurement Strategy is of Conference on Sustainability known as Rio key importance for 2012. This process has built +20, in Brazil on the 20 – 22 June 2012 – to build upon Marshalls existing procurement policy consensus on a more sustainable course for which clearly defines the organisations position regarding issues of responsible sourcing, ETI our world. The private sector has a critical role Base Code, UNGC principles, anti-corruption and to play in this endeavour through progressive anti bribery. and promising work which is already underway and by making significant and lasting solutions. This unique focus for 2012 serves to strengthen Marshalls’ committed to achieving corporate sustainability. http://www.uncsd2012.org/rio20/index.html (March 2012) Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, Marshalls plc 12 13 Scope of Operations WORLDWIDE UK BELGIUM CHINA INDIA VIETNAM 14 15 Achievement indicators Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 79% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Throughout this and all previous Marshalls Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Collaborating & Sharing Best Practice Communication on Progress you will find a self assessment indication which represents what • Delivering Best Practice openly about sustainability, a globally shared Marshalls believes it is achieving in relation to • Achieving Good Results each of the principles. Marshalls will strive to framework of concepts, consistent language, and • Reviewing Feedback & Developing improve its achievements year-on-year. metrics is required. It is the GRI’s mission to fulfil this Our Approach need by providing a trusted and credible framework Marshalls initially developed its own indicators for sustainability reporting that can be used by • Piloting New Initiatives for its COP reporting rather than use an existing organisations of any size, sector, or location’. (2) • Legal Compliance one, such as the Ethos Indicators and Global The GRI is a framework for reporting on an Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology. Whist organisations economic, environmental and Key executives, managers and individuals it is Marshalls intention to introduce GRI social performance have undergone GRI accredited training and methodology in subsequent COP reports it have formed a working party responsible for has left its own indicators in place for this 2011 The goal of sustainable development is to report. the delivery of GRI monitoring and reporting ‘meet the needs of the present without moving forward. Marshalls 2012 COP will compromising the ability of future generations to contain GRI disclosures regarding economic, Each indicator is broken down in percentage meet their own needs.’ (1) As key forces in society, environmental, social – labour practices and terms, which allows any progress made to be identified by all readers of this report with organisations of all kinds have an important role decent work – human rights, society and ease. It is also intended to make any year-onto play in achieving this goal. product responsibility. year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and informative. ‘The urgency and magnitude of the risks and (1) World Commission on Environment and Development. Our threats to our collective sustainability, alongside Common Future. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987, p.43 Marshalls constantly monitors best practice increasing choice and opportunities, will make (2) GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2011, p.2 in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate transparency about economic, environmental, responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any and social impacts a fundamental component informative developments and advancements in effective stakeholder relations, investment in this area will be introduced into subsequent decision, and other market relations. To support COP reports. this expectation, and to communicate clearly and 16 17 Third Party Assurances brand manifesto Once this report is submitted to the UNGC and published online, it will be volunteered for peer-review by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the UNGC. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted, if required, to the UNCG following the peer review process. As indicated in the 2010 COP Marshalls has sought to extend stakeholder engagement in the COP process by inviting feedback from employees, customers, suppliers, partners, NGOs, third parties and peers. Marshalls looks forward to receiving comments from its wide range of stakeholders. Details of where to submit feedback via a dedicated survey can be found at the end of this report. During 2010 Marshalls underwent a process The 2010 brand evolution firmly captures the of brand development and evolution. A key organisation’s desire to engage in creating and element of this involved the emergence of a sustaining better landscapes by engaging in brand manifesto which reflects our strategy of creative and innovative solutions to some of maximising benefits and clearly states to all of society’s most pressing issues. the organisation’s stakeholders the collective mission, beliefs and drivers. 18 19 Marshalls the SuperBrand Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands can not Superbrand status during 2012. Published apply or pay to be considered for Superbrand annually since 1995 the Superbrands Annual status. Only following a rigorous and documents some of the strongest consumer independent selection process is the accolade and business-to-business brands in Britain today. awarded on an annual basis. The book establishes how Superbrands manage to achieve outstanding success. The 2012 Superbrand book provides insights into Marshalls’ branding strategy and business success. Further information can be found at www.superbrand.uk.com 20 21 Leadership Blueprint Understanding the Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Key Dimensions and Components of Leadership The Blueprint offers UN Global Compact The Blueprint encompasses three Implementing the Taking Action participants a model for achieving higher levels distinct but overlapping and synergistic Ten Principles into in Support of Broader of performance and generating enhanced value dimensions. They are: through the UN Global Compact. It allows Strategies and Operations UN Goals and Issues* Piloting New Achieving companies and their stakeholder toGood assess 1. Implementing the Ten Principles into& Collaborating Initiatives progress with respect to Results their commitment, Strategies and Operations Sharing Best 1. Full Coverage and 1. Core Business Contributions strategy and implementation and to communiPractice Integration Across Principles to UN Goals and Issues cate effectively as they ascend the learning 2. Taking Action in Support of Broader 38% and performance curve. UN Goals and Issues 2. Robust Management 2. Strategic Social Investments Policies and Procedures and Philanthropy In the context of the Blueprint, corporate sus3. Engaging with the UN Global Compact 3. Mainstreaming into CEO Commitment tainability is defined as a company’s delivery of Reviewing Feedback 3. Advocacy and Public long-term value in financial, social, environmenEach dimension contains a number of key Corporate Functions and and Leadership & Developing Our Delivering Best Policy Engagement tal and ethical terms. It thus covers all princiComponents. In addition, several cross-cutting Business Units Board Adoption and Legal Compliance Approach ples and issue areas of the UN Global Compact. Practice Components of leadership were identified as Oversight 4. Partnerships and a crucial overlay to the three dimensions. 4. Value Chain Collective Action The Blueprint is grounded in the two core Implementation Stakeholder Engagement commitments made by participating companies. The opposite page contains the visual represenIt includes aspects of leadership that are tation of the Blueprint, encompassing the three Transparency considered Marshalls continues key to maximizing to with results demonstrate that it as well as, at the centre, the key dimensions and Disclosure a leader respect toisthese in its field commitments, and active including 2010 that Components. Each of the Compostated incross-cutting engagement with the UN Global Compact nents within the Blueprint contain associated it recognised that Blueprint for Corporate Blue rint Engaging with locally and globally. Action Items. These are fully detailed in the Sustainability Leadership offered aCorporate model Action for Plan on pages 10 and 11. the UN Global Compact achieving even higher levels of performance For Corporate Sustainability Leadership Key Dimensions and Components and generating enhanced value through the 1. Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement of Leadership – taken from the UNGC. 2. Global and Local Working Groups UNGC Blueprint document. “Broader UN Goals and Issues” refers to an array of global issues – based on the most acute or chronic COP detailed 2010challenges Theglobal thePeace – including elements of the & Security; the Millennium Development Goals; Human Rights; Children’s Rights; Gender Equality; Health; Education; Humanitarian Assis3. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives Blueprint together with why and how Marshalls tance; Migration; Food Security; Sustainable Ecosystems and Biodiversity; Climate Change hasand Mitigation engaged. Adaptation; Please Water Security years’ see lastand COP for Sanitation; Employment and Decent Working 4. Promotion and Support of more detailed information (www.marshalls. Conditions; and Anti-Corruption. the UN Global Compact co.uk/sustainability/publications) and also the This is an illustrative list of issues covered “Broader UN Goals and Issues”, and there are obviUNGC’s own ously considerable betweendocument: Blueprint overlaps http://www. individual elements. The order of this list does not indicate unglobalcompact.org/docs/news_events/8.1/ any prioritization of issues. For a list of further Global Issues that are relevant to the work of the UN as well as business, please refer to http://business.un.org/en/browse/global_issues. Blueprint.pdf Engaging in the Blueprint process has allowed Marshalls to effectively assess progress with respect to its commitment, strategy, implementation and communications as the organisation ascends the learning performance curve. The UNGC Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership document can be found at http://www.unglobalcompact. The Blueprint has been developed: Marshalls target position to 2020 org/docs/news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf • To challenge and inspire companies to achieve higher levels of sustainability and beyond demonstrates the long performance within the UNGC; and term nature of its commitment. • To evolve the UNGC and its engagement opportunities to deliver more value to leading participants. Marshalls will continue to work towards realising the elements within the Blueprint as identified in the targets for 2012. The organisation remains realistic that this will be a long term commitment. 22 23 suppliers and other relevant business partners. Partnerships and Collective Action • Implement monitoring and assurance • Develop and implement partnership projects mechanisms within the company’s sphere of with public or private organizations (UN entities, Leadership Blueprint influence. government, NGOs, or other groups) on core business, social investments and/or advocacy. • Undertake awareness-raising, training and other types of capability building with suppliers • Join industry peers, UN entities and/or other and other business partners. stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to Moving forward Marshalls will work towards In order that readers have a full understanding solving common challenges and dilemmas at realising elements within the Blueprint of this commitment we have reproduced here Taking Action in Support the global and/or local levels with an emphasis as identified in the targets for 2012. The the Corporate Action Plan from within the UNGC of Broader UN Goals and Issues on initiatives that extend the company’s positive organisation is realistic that this will mean a long Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. impact on its value chain. term commitment. Core Business Contributions to UN Goals and Issues Engaging with the UN Global Compact • Align core business strategy with one or more relevant UN goals / issues*. Local Networks and Subsidiary • Develop relevant products and services or Engagement Realising the Blueprint: Corporate Action Plan design business models that contribute to UN goals / issues. • Contribute to the building and operating of at least one UN Global Compact Local • Adopt and modify operating procedures to Network and help elevate performance of other maximize contribution to UN goals / issues. companies through training, mentoring, COP peer review, etc. Implementing the Ten Principles training activities, the development and into Strategies and Operations adjustment of business processes, and sound Strategic Social Investments and • Encourage subsidiaries to engage with incentive schemes. Philanthropy UN Global Compact Local Networks and to • Pursue social investments and philanthropic participate actively in events and activities. Full Coverage and Integration Across • Implement a system to track and measure Principles performance based on standardized contributions that tie in with the core • Publish sustainability information related performance metrics. competences or operating context of to each individual subsidiary separately or • Implement all the ten UN Global Compact the company as an integrated part of its reference it explicitly in the Communication on principles into strategies and operations. Mainstreaming into Corporate Functions sustainability strategy. Progress of Corporate Headquarters. • Design corporate sustainability strategy to and Business Units • Coordinate efforts with other organizations leverage synergies between and among issue • Place responsibility for execution of and initiatives to amplify – and not negate or Global and Local Working Groups areas and to deal adequately with trade-offs. sustainability strategy in relevant corporate unnecessarily duplicate – the efforts of other • Ensure that different corporate functions functions (procurement, government affairs, • Participate in relevant global or local working contributors. coordinate closely to maximize performance human resources, legal, etc.) and ensure groups and share experiences, networks, tools that no function is operating in conflict with • Take responsibility for the intentional and and good practices with other UN Global and avoid unintended negative impacts. sustainability commitments and objectives of unintentional effects of funding and have due Compact participants. the company. regard for local customs, traditions, religions, and • Take active part in defining scope and Robust Management Policies and priorities of pertinent individuals and groups. • Align strategies, goals and incentive structures objectives of new working groups when Procedures of all business units and subsidiaries with relevant. • Assess risks and opportunities on an ongoing Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement corporate sustainability strategy. basis at both enterprise and product level and • Assign responsibility for corporate sustainability • Publicly advocate the importance of action in Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives undertake due diligence to ensure that the implementation to an individual or group within relation to one or more UN goals / issues. company identifies any negative impacts caused • Join and help advance one or more existing each business unit and subsidiary. • Commit company leaders to participate in UN Global Compact initiatives, e.g. Caring by its operations and activities. Value Chain Implementation key summits, conferences, and other important for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, Women’s • Develop strategies and policies specific to • Analyze each segment of the value chain public policy interactions in relation to one or Empowerment Principles, and Global Business the company’s operating context – as well carefully, both upstream and downstream, when more UN goals / issues. Initiative on Human Rights. as scenarios for the future and establish measurable short, medium, and long term goals. mapping risks, opportunities and impacts. • Spearhead need-driven development of new • Engage and educate employees through • Communicate policies and expectations to issue-based or sector initiatives within the UN Global Compact and the wider United Nations. 24 25 Promotion and Support of the UN Global Stakeholder Engagement Compact • Publicly recognize responsibility for the • Advocate the UN Global Compact to business company’s impacts on internal and external partners, peers and the general public. stakeholders. • Encourage suppliers and other business • Define sustainability strategies, goals and partners to join the UN Global Compact, and policies in consultation with key stakeholders. take on mentoring role on issues related to the • Consult stakeholders in dealing with initiative. implementation dilemmas and challenges and • Participate in activities to further develop and invite them to take active part in reviewing strengthen the UN Global Compact. performance. • Establish channels to engage with employees The Cross-Cutting Components and other stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their concerns, and protect ‘whistleCEO Commitment and Leadership blowers’. • CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and demonstrates personal leadership on Transparency and Disclosure sustainability and commitment to the UN Global • Share sustainability information with all Compact. interested parties and respond to stakeholder • CEO promotes initiatives to enhance inquiries and concerns. sustainability of the company’s sector and leads • Ensure that Communication on Progress covers development of industry standards. all aspects of the Leadership Blueprint and • CEO leads executive management team utilize, where appropriate, the Global Reporting in development of corporate sustainability Initiative framework. strategy, defining goals and overseeing • Integrate Communication on Progress into implementation. annual financial report or publish them together. • Make sustainability criteria and UN Global • Secure external verification of Communication Compact principles part of goals and incentive on Progress or seek other methods for schemes for CEO and executive management legitimization by external stakeholders. team. ** For companies without a formal Board, other Board Adoption and Oversight governance or ownership body assumes these • Board of Directors (or equivalent**) responsibilities assumes responsibility and oversight for long term corporate sustainability strategy and performance. • Board establishes, where permissible, a committee or assigns an individual Board member with responsibility for corporate sustainability. • Board (or committee), where permissible, approves formal reporting on corporate sustainability (Communication on Progress). NOTE: Reproduced from the UNGC Blueprint document http://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/ news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf 26 27 Leadership Blueprint Targets 2012 Achievements 2011 Targets 2012 Achievements 2011 Targets 2012 Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and issues: Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and issues: Global & Local Working Groups; Global & Local Working Groups; Aligning core business strategy with one or more relevant Continue to align core business strategy with one or more Participate in relevant global or local working groups and Continue to anticipate in relevant global or local working UN goals/issues. relevant UN goals/issues. share experiences, networks, tools and good practice with works and share experiences, networks, tools and good Developing relevant products and services that contribute to Continue to develop relevant products and services that other UNGC participants. practice with other UNGC participants. UN goals/issues. contribute to UN goals/issues. Take active part in defining scope and objectives of new Continue to take active part in defining scope and Adopt and modify operating procedures to maximize working groups when relevant. objectives of new working groups when relevant. ✔ contributions to UN goals/issues.. Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives; Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives; Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Join and help advance one or more existing UNGC Advance one or more existing UNGC initiative – CEO Water Pursuing social investments and philanthropic contributions Continue to pursue social investments and philanthropic initiative; e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, Mandate, Women’s Empowerment Principles. that tie in with the core competencies or operating context contributions that tie in with the core competences or Women’s Empowerment Principles, and Global Business of the company as an integrated part of its sustainability operating context of the company as an integrated part of its Initiatives on Human Rights. strategy. sustainability strategy. Taking responsibility for the intentional and unintentional Continue to take responsibility for the intentional and Promotion and Support of the UNGC; Promotion and Support of the UNGC; effects of funding and having due regard for local customs, unintentional effect for funding and having due regard for Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers and the Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers and the traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent individuals and local customs, traditions, religions and priorities of pertinent general public. general public. groups. individuals or groups. Encourage suppliers and other business partners to join Encourage suppliers and other business partners to join Co-ordinate efforts with other organisations and initiatives the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues related to the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues related to to amplify – and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate – the the initiative. the initiative. ✔ efforts of other contributors. Participate in activities to further develop and strengthen the UNGC. Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Publically advocating the importance of action in relation to Continue to publicly advocate the importance of action in Stakeholder Engagement; Stakeholder Engagement; one or more UN goals/issues. relation to one or more of the UN goals/issues. Establish channels to engage with employees and Establish channels to engage with employees and Committing company leaders to partiticipate in key summits, Continue to commit company leaders to participate in key other stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their other stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their conferences, and other important public policy interactions summits, conferences, and other important public policy concerns, and protect whistle blowing. concerns, and protect whistle blowing. in relation to one or more UN goal/issue. interactions in relation to one or more UN goals/issues. ✔ Transparency and Disclosure; Transparency and Disclosure; Partnerships and Collective Action; Partnerships and Collective Action; Integrate the COP within the financial reporting or publish Share sustainability information with all interested parties Developing and implementation partnership projects with Continue to develop and implement partnership projects then together. and respond to stakeholder inquiries and concerns. public or private sector organisations on core business, social with public or private sector organisation on core business, investments and/or advocacy. social investments and/or advocacy. Ensure that COP covers all aspects of the Leadership Blueprint and utilize, where appropriate, the Global Joining industry peers, UN entities and/or other stakeholders Continue to join with industry peers, UN entities and/or the Reporting Initiative framework. in initiatives that contribute to solving common challenges stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving common and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with emphasis challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels Integrate the COP within the financial reporting or publish on initiatives that extend the company’s positive impact on with emphasis on initiatives that extend the company’s them together. its value chain. ✔ positive impact on its value chain. CEO Commitment and Leadership: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and Active participation in events and activities. Active participation in events and activities. demonstrates personal leadership on sustainability and Encourage subsidiary to engage with Un Global Compact Encourage subsidiary to engage with UNGC Local Networks commitment to the UNGC. Local Networks and to participate actively in events and and to participate in actively in events and initiatives. initiatives. Contribute to the building and operating of at least one local Board Adoptions and Oversight: Actively participate in events and activities network and help elevate performance of other companies Board approves formal reporting on corporate ✔ through training, mentoring, COP peer review, etc. sustainability. 28 29 Millennium Development Goals How Marshalls is Contributing The Millennium Development Goals (MDG’s) are a set of comprehensive United Nations development agenda, set Marshalls position is one of actively engaging and human rights, child labour, child education, time-bound targets, by which progress in reducing income the course for the world’s efforts to alleviate extreme poverty maximising benefit; both in terms of business women’s empowerment and health. Marshalls poverty, hunger, disease, lack of adequate shelter and by 2015. performance, upholding the ten UNGC principles will actively seek to make a positive contribution exclusion — while promoting gender equality, health, and supporting the delivery of the MDG’s. towards achieving the MDG’s operating within its education and environmental sustainability — is being Marshalls is working in international partnerships areas of influence to maximise impact. measured. They embody basic human rights — the rights in India & China to tackle issues of labour rights, of each person on the planet to health, education, shelter and security. The MDG’s are ambitious and together with the GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 a day. Workers rights education in India. Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all, including women and young people. Fairstone® product. Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people who suffer from hunger. Community school development in India. Collaboration and education of quarry owners in India. GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike, will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling. GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education Foundation and ongoing funding for five community schools and three street schools. GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women School serve x number of children. Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education, preferably by 2005, and in all levels of education no later than 2015. % girls, % boys. GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality Reduce by two thirds, between 1990 and 2015, the under-five mortality rate. GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women Schools in India giving % girls the opportunity for primary education % of girls moving on to further education. GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health Introduction of a women’s empowerment project in India in collaboration with NGO in 2012. Reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio. Achieve universal access to reproductive health. GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality Vacination programmes for children in India. GOAL 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Other Diseases Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS. Achieve, by 2010, universal access to treatment for HIV/AIDS for all those who need it. GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the incidence of malaria and other major diseases. Maternal health camps in India. GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability Integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies and programmes and reverse the loss of GOAL 6: Combat Hiv/Aids, Malaria and Other Diseases environmental resources. AIDS/HIV education programme as part of health camps in India. Reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by 2010, a significant reduction in the rate of loss. Halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation. GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability By 2020, to have achieved a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers. CEO Water Mandate. Biodiversity benchmark activity. GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development Water management programme. Develop further an open, rule-based, predictable, non-discriminatory trading and financial system. Address the special needs of least developed countries. Address the special needs of landlocked developing countries and small island developing States. GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Development Deal comprehensively with the debt problems of developing countries. Product development In cooperation with pharmaceutical companies, provide access to affordable essential drugs in developing countries. Extending Fairstone® to China and Vietnam. In cooperation with the private sector, make available benefits of new technologies, especially information and communications. 30 31 MARSHALLS Fairstone® A vehicle for ungc principle delivery by Fairstone® INDIA Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced range of Natural Stone that has been quarried and produced in-line with a clear set of ethical values and commitments. Marshalls has pioneered regarding the ethics of Marshalls has always Fairstone® Fairstone® Indian sandstone since 2007. In 2009 the organisation launched its Fairstone® brand to enable consumers with communicated clearly the reality of the use of child labour INDIA Defined CHINA Defined a conscience to buy Indian sandstone which is clearly in Indian sandstone quarries and the poor conditions identified as ethically sourced. Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced endured by many workers. Its range of Natural Stone. by range of Natural Stone. by publication of ‘The Truth About Fairstone® means that Marshalls knows where its quarried India Sandstone’ in 2007 did Fairstone® means that Marshalls knows where its quarried “We can clearly and confidently say that Fairstone® involves Indian stone comes from, how it is manufactured and Chinese stone comes from, how it is manufactured and much to raise awareness of the that it has been produced in accordance with a clear and that it has been produced in accordance with a clear and no child labour, that workers receive living wages and that issue of child labour. unequivocal set of ethical values and commitments; unequivocal set of ethical values and commitments; health & safety practices are firmly in place. Our ongoing research, engagement with commitment to our Indian partner ✔ No child labour is used ✔ Living Wages are paid for a normal working period organisations has enabled us to achieve this landmark position.” ✔ Indian workers receive living wages ✔ Working hours are not forced economically or physically Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director ✔ Health & safety practices are in place ✔ Health & safety practices are in place Marshalls employ a full time, field-based, Fairstone® Manager Marshalls employ a full time, field-based, Social Auditor in in China who works, from a local office in Xiamen, with India who works with quarry owners and workers on a daily quarry owners and workers on a daily basis to ensure the “Since early 2007 Marshalls has fully funded Hadoti to develop basis to ensure the ongoing implementation of the Ethical ongoing implementation of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Trading Initiative Base Code and to monitor and report on and run a number of schools, free to children of quarry Code and to monitor and report on progress. Daily contact, progress. Daily contact, weekly reporting, annual third party weekly reporting, annual third party auditing, regular quarry workers and the wider local community, including the migrant auditing, regular quarry inspections and a third party whistle inspections and grievance procedure allow Marshalls to community. Quite simply without these educational facilities blowing procedure allow Marshalls to ensure that Fairstone® commitments are upheld. ensure that Fairstone® commitments are upheld. children would not have the opportunity to receive any schooling The Fairstone® Manager takes the lead on all ethical supply at all. In addition health centres in the heart of the quarrying Since 2007 Marshalls has fully funded a local NGO to provide chain matters and the co-ordination of the in-field Quality area in Bundhi allow access to information and free medication free education to the children of quarry works and the Controllers who play a critical role in monitoring and migrant community (6 permanent schools and 6 street for workers and their families. We are also able to communicate improving worker conditions. schools), run monthly health camps, dedicated maternal the ETI Base Code and what this means in practice for workers. health camps and provide free medicine, undertake labour Marshalls works with a small number of suppliers in China and The posters which were recently produced by Marshalls and put Marshalls also produced an rights education, offer social security provision and to deliver is committed to building relationships which promote shared women’s empowerment projects. learning, best practice and the continuous improvement of up in the quarries tell workers what they should expect regarding information booklet ‘Behaving conditions throughout the supply chain for workers. pay and health & safety and what to do should this not be the Ethically – Marshalls in India’. Working in collaboration with the NGO, and consulting Marshalls is working to ensure that every quarry and case”. Mrs Joshi, Hadoti The booklet tells the story of with the local community, Marshalls has worked to deliver a production facility in its supply chain has the appropriate first Marshalls’ approach to ethical programme which has touched the lives of over 35,000 toaid kit and has funded the training of a nominated worker in date. These people previously had no access to health care, supply chains in India and first aid practices. schools and education. BEHAVING ETHICALLY highlights the company’s “The development and co-ordination of the work to bring Marshalls is also funding regular community events based Marshalls journey in working on the around Cultural activities that include all workers, their Fairstone® to market represents a great deal of work between in India ground with a local NGO and families and members of the wider community. Stone Shippers, Marshalls and Hadoti. It has meant a striving to tackle issues of substantial commitment, not only in terms of money, but of 1 social importance. time and effort. The progress made should be acknowledged as brave and forward looking. Marshalls pioneering work ETI BASE CODE has often been met with resisted and disbelief by the sector both in the UK and in India. However, the benefits are clear In becoming a member of the ETI, Marshalls made a commitment to uphold the ETI Base Code which is itself based on ILO conventions. • No-one should be forced to work • Workers should be treated equally, regardless of their sex, ethnic group, religion to see and the launch of Fairstone® is wholly positive. Indian • Workers should be able to or political opinions join and form trade unions • Where possible, workers • Working conditions should should be provided with be safe and healthy sandstone is among the best in the world and the fact that regular employment • Child labour shall not be • Workers should not Marshalls is committed to the principles of • Child labour shall not be used • No-one should be forced to work used be verbally, physically • Working hours should not or sexually abused or it can now be purchased with a clear conscience should be excessive disciplined the ETI Base Code and the application of • Living wages are paid • Working conditions are safe & hygienic WORKING WITH • Wages should be enough to live on and provide some discretionary income its elements throughout its supply chain. • Working hours are not excessive • No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed bring peace of mind to those consumers in the UK who care THE ETI “Every industry needs its leaders and Marshalls can be proud of their role in putting ethical trade on the agenda of the natural The implementation of the Base Code is a enough to use their influence for the benefits of communities stone industry. Marshalls was the first of a number of companies • No discrimination is practised • Regular employment is provided in the sector to join the Ethical Trading Initiative and has acted As Marshalls got more The ETI is a unique decisively to address complex issues such as child labour.” involved in the issues facing organisation bringing journey to which Marshalls is committed; the Indian sandstone market, together global companies, Dan Rees, Director, ETI. (May 2008) across the globe.” Rajiv Bazaz, Managing Director, Stone it was clear that a standard trade unions and NGOs, with • There is freedom of association was needed for doing things the right way. the focus on developing practical solutions to ethical trade that deliver concrete Marshalls’ employees have also been learning more about the company’s ETI programme through training days designed to (The ETI base code can be seen in full on page 44) In 2007, Marshalls became Shippers benefits for workers. explain the ETI Base Code and to ensure that every member of the first company in the hard staff is doing all they can to ensure that workers’ welfare and landscaping industry to join rights are protected in Marshalls’ supply chain. the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). 12 12 13 13 32 33 Fairstone® INDIA by Fairstone® CHINA “Marshalls has been getting more recognition of During 2012 Marshalls will launch its Fairstone its leading campaign against child labour in the China range. Marshall has established an office production of Indian Sandstone. The more profile the in China, has employed a team including the issue gets, even at this time of recession, the more it Fairstone China manager and has been working validates the good work the company has put into with its suppliers in China for a number of taking a lead on challenging the silence over one of months; implementing the ETI Base Code, the most dangerous and dirty forms of child labour. undertaking supplier education, undertaking a The company has had an uphill struggle to take a series of audits, establishing links with the local stand, and to get the benefits when some competitors community and developing relationships with turn a blind eye.” quarry & factory owners and workers. Laying Mallen Baker, Member of the Ethical Corporation the foundations for an ethical supply chain has Advisory Board (July 2009) been the focus of activity. “Marshalls is a true example of a company which has innovated to ensure sustainability runs through its whole business, providing products that really address the sustainability needs of its customers.” Todd Stitzer, former CEO of Cadbury and chair of the judges at the Business in the Community Awards 2010 – Marshalls received a Big Tick for it International work regarding the delivery of the Millennium Development Goals. Marshalls’ commitment to Fairstone® has never waivered, even in the difficult economic climate of recent years, and the organisation remains at the forefront pushing boundaries and tackling important issues. For example, as part of a long-term investigation into the status and conditions of migrant workers in the India stone supply chain, in 2011 Marshalls commissioned Just Solutions Network (JSN), a trade union based organisation, to assign an investigator to research the employment position of the migrant workers. 34 35 Human Rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 72% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Marshalls continues to deliver on its In addition the HRIA India undertaken in 2010 commitment to a four year Human Rights has been reviewed and an update published. Impact Assessment (HRIA) programme. Efforts In 2012 HRIA activity will focus upon Marshalls during 2011 were focused upon undertaking a HRIA executive summaries and information can supply chain in Vietnam. The following year India HRIA in the factories in China from where the be found at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ will see a HRIA undertaken in the UK. The China organisation purchases goods. An executive publications order of these impact assessments has been summary is available online. influenced by the percentage of product Rest of World imported by Marshalls. Marshalls Policy on Human Rights As a consequence of the HRIA process, Marshalls has developed a policy regarding its approach to human rights; Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Where human rights are under threat Marshalls’ works Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conducting to uphold local laws, promote international standards its business activities across the globe Marshalls and strives to have international standards upheld respects these rights and seeks to uphold, preserve and by the appropriate governments, institutions and promote them. agencies. Marshalls works to ensure that its presence cultivates Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a fair and sustainable relationships. broader understanding of human rights values working within its sphere of influence. Marshalls respects and values the dignity, well being and rights of employees, their families and Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate with the wider community. The Company actively works appropriate organisations to promote respect for and collaborates with employees, elected employee human rights in a manner which is consistent with the representatives, communities, non-governmental role of business. and other appropriate stakeholders to uphold and promote these rights. 36 37 Human Rights Supply Chain Research – Issues of Bonded Labour In 2011 Marshalls commissioned detailed and Marshalls is committed to the welfare of these long term research to investigate the extent workers and their rights in accordance with the of slave/bonded labour with the quarrying ETI Base Code. Investigation into the status and region of Kota and particularly those supplying conditions of these workers will be overseen by Children’s Rights & Business Principles Marshalls sole supplier, Stone Shippers India. A Just Solutions who assigned an investigator to high percentage of the workforce in quarries work alongside the social auditor to research During 2011 Marshalls took part in a consultation process with Save the supplying Stone Shippers are migrant workers the employment situations of these migrant Children, UNGC and UNICEF regarding the development of principles either from other parts of Rajasthan or from workers. and a framework to ensure that a business’ actions both respect and Madhya Pradesh. Periodically there is conflicting support children’s rights; synonymous with the ‘human rights of children’. information given regarding slave/bonded labour and Marshalls wished to be fully informed Following the recent launch of The Children’s Rights & Business Principles regarding this issue. by Save the Children, UNGC and UNICEF, Marshalls is committed to embedding the principles and utilising the comprehensive framework for understanding and addressing the impact of business on the rights and well-being of children. Working with business and NGO partners Targets 2011 Targets 2012 in the UK and overseas, and building upon its Human Rights Impact Assessment process, the organisation will review its impact on children • Continue to ensure that ETI base code is • Continue to ensure that ETI base code in terms of the market place, work place, community and environment. adhered to and that no child is employed is adhered to and that no child is in the supply chain. employed in the supply chain. Marshalls is committed to upholding these principles and will work ✔ throughout 2012 to integrate them into its business as appropriate. This process will include making a policy commitment and binding principles • Continue to gather weekly reports from • Develop the reporting process into its existing HRIA process. the social auditor in India. ✔ undertaken by the social auditor in • Develop, together with Chinese partners, India. a suitable reporting process which seeks • Continue to receive social auditor to uphold human rights in the ✔ reporting from China. • Continue to receive monthly reports • Develop the reporting and monitoring from NGO in Kota. ✔ provided by the NGO in India. • Develop a cultural activities reporting process. • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of HR in India. HR in India. • Undertake HRIA in China in relation to ✔ • Annual review of HRIA India. the manufacturing process. • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of ✔ HR in China. • Annual review of HRIA China. • Undertake HRIA for Vietnam in relation to Marshalls activities. • Process of embedding human rights • Further develop the process of within the organisation; achieving the embedding human rights within the goals set out within the HRGD. organisations; achieving the goals set out within the HRGD. ✔ • Undertake a report which clarifies • Embed childrens rights and business Chinese laws regarding employment, principles throughout operations human rights and environmental rights. ✔ • Seek engagement with UNICEF 38 39 Labour Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 70% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Marshalls’ approach to labour rights remains Social Auditors driven by the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, the UNGC Labour principles and Marshalls now employs a Social Auditor in India and the organisations commitment to sustainable a Fairstone® manager in China. They work on a daily business. basis with quarry owners, factory owners, managers and workers to ensure the ongoing implementation of the ETI Base Code. Marshalls head office has daily contact with the social auditor and manager. Both provide weekly reporting on all aspects of the ETI 4 `mvt Base Code; for example the amount workers are 2011 paid, the hours that they work, the conditions they work in, health and safety measures that no child labour is used and that there is no harsh or inhumane M/S SHREE CHARBUJA STONE treatment of workers. AUDIT R EPORT “It Is not al ways wh at we kn makes it ow or an a great alyzed be decision fore we . it is wh make a de to imple at we do cision th ment an after we at SITE REPORT From pre vious visits d execut e it that make th e decision implement we have makes it the ETI Ba understood a good de se codes. the worki cision. ng condit Again a vis ions & als Site Details Rajpura for it of a mi ne was car o have trie d to M/s. Stone ried out fro District. As Shippers m where Audit Reference Number : 352/VI/SSL/2011 we knew it Limited. one of our fro Th is mine is situ sup pli ers Singh S/o m our pre procures Gordhan Sin vious visit ated in blocks of gh. that this mi Rajpura vill Audit Date : 24/12/2011 As we ent ne is registe age of Bu ndi ered into red in the the mine name of Da previous vis site, we fou lpat LOCATION/SITE : RAJPURA it and obs nd the sam gave a big erved that e wo smile. strength wa rkers with s almost the whom we DEALER NAME : MR. JUJHAR SINGH same. Wo met durin We did fin rkers also g our d neither recognise asked them Owner no d us and about their r superviso FIRM NAME & ADDRESS : M/S SHREE CHARBUJA STONE well being. r at the site Interactio . So we int VILLAGE RAJPURA 1. Mukes n was done eracted wit h Kumar with the fol h the worke DISTT BUNDI lowing wo rs and rkers: RAJASTHAN 2. Kalu Ba njara AUDITED BY 3. Pyara CORRESPONDENCE ADDRESS : Banjara SIDDHARTH SOOD 4. Shiv Sin gh 12/24/2011 LEASE NO. : 147/49 5. Gokul TYPE OF MATERIAL : BLOCKS OF RAJPURA GREEN 6. Ganpat AREA : 22,500 SQ.FTS 7. Naray an 8. Kishan Singh Audit team & Auditee’s Representatives They said they are hap they have py and fee started ma ling better taken by intaining after our them from their own previous vis maintain the owner records of it. Further s and it hel daily work they told Name of M/S SHREE CHARBUJA STONE STONE SHIPPERSing LTDthese record s, they are ps them du done as we ll as advanc us that able to pla ring taking es being Company Owner has n for some full and fin provided savings. al payments the worke SOOD dri nking water . By Audi tee MR. JUJHAR SINGH Auditor : MR. SIDDHARTH rs. Also we observed facility at site as we maintained that First_ ll as shed by mine ow Aid Box pro for taking ner on reg vided by M/ lunch and No ular basis. s. Stone Shi rest by Observers recommendati ppers Ltd. workers. on was giv is being en this tim e and we left the site after shakin g hands wit h the 40 41 Beneficiaries in India of the Marshalls Funded Programme Health • Winter education camps were also held in • The total number of beneficiaries of the 2011. health programme reached 35,226 in 2011. • School students also received a medical • Improvements to the monitoring and health check-up during school hours in reporting process have been implemented 2011. in the last 12 months allowing Marshalls to Women’s Empowerment Programme monitor for the needs of the community in relation to HIV & AID’s screening, support • Marshalls financial commitment in the area and education. of social security can now be phased out and costs will be met by Government. In • A dedicated maternal health clinic response to local community consultations programme is now firmly established as Marshalls funds are being re-directed into a part of the ongoing programme with 1,418 women’s empowerment project. women receiving treatment during 2011. • A pilot women’s literacy project is already • 8,133 people received treatment at monthly underway at each of the Marshalls funded health camps during 2011. schools. • 12,181 people received treatments on a • The schools are firmly established as an door-to-door basis during 2011. important part of the community. • 482 people received specialist treatments, • Literacy is of key importance if women i.e. paediatrician, skin specialist, etc, during in the community are to be empowered 2011 and encouraged to participate fully in the Insurance running of their communities. • Since 2007, Marshalls has enabled Hadoti to provide insurance to over 4000 workers. “Baili Luhar attended the Marshalls funded • The number of beneficiaries is still increasing primary school in Gararda village. She was year-on-year as labourers fully understand a very bright student and was admitted to a the value of having insurance cover. Government school in the year 2011 in Class 4. She said that this would not have been possible • After communicating and lobbying local without the help and support she had received at government together with Hadoti since the Marshalls’ funded school. Teachers there had 2006, Marshalls is delighted that the Local helped to prepare her for admission tests for the government in Kota has ordered compulsory Government school. Baili says all of her brothers social security insurance for mining and sisters are studying at the Marshalls school”. labourers. Education Mrs Joshi, programme co-ordinator at Hadoti • In 2011 346 children attended 5 regular reporting on one of the children who received schools and 5 street schools operating primary education at Marshalls funded schools. in Gararda, Gawar, Bewadia, Kewadia, Kanwarpura, Palka, Loicha and Golput. • Summer education camps were also held in 2011. 42 43 The ETI Base Code states that: Supplier Education, Dialogue and Collaboration 1. Employment is freely chosen whichever is higher. In any event wages should always be enough to Marshalls jointly hosted a supplier event in meet basic needs and to provide some discretionary income. collaboration with the UNGC UK Network 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written and understandable 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge “deposits” or their identity information about their employment conditions in respect to wages during autumn 2011. The event brought papers with their employer and are free to leave their employer after before they enter employment and about the particulars of their together Marshalls’ first tier suppliers, both from reasonable notice. wages for the pay period concerned each time that they are paid. the UK and overseas, to enable them to gain a 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be greater understanding of Marshalls approach to 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by sustainability and commitment to human rights, are respected. national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. labour, environment and anti-corruption. 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. 6. Working hours are not excessive Suppliers also heard first-hand from the Groups’ 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude towards the activities of CEO, Marketing Director and Procurement trade 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws and benchmark Director, about Marshalls’ work in each of unions and their organisational activities. industry standards, whichever affords greater protection. 2.3 Workers representatives are not discriminated against and have 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be required these areas and in particular how the plc’s access to carry out their representative functions in the workplace. to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at approach regarding anti-corruption and 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association and collective least one day off for every 7 day period on average. Overtime shall be human rights is shaping the Company’s bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, and does voluntary, shall not exceed 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded approach towards working within its area of not hinder, the development of parallel means for independent and on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium influence to contribute to the MDG’s. The event free association and bargaining. rate. resulted in opportunities for collaboration and 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic. 7. No discrimination is practiced. development. 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, “Collaboration on this supplier event represented specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the orientation, union membership or political affiliation. an excellent opportunity to educate and engage course of work, by minimising, so far as is reasonably practicable, the suppliers and to get direct feedback from causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. 8. Regular employment is provided. participants on matters of sustainability. I look 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and safety forward to engaging with Marshalls and its training, and such training shall be repeated for new or reassigned 8.1 To every extent possible work performed must be on the basis suppliers on this series of exciting events which are workers. of recognised employment relationship established through national 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable water, and, if law and practice. the first of its kind in the UK.” appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour or social security laws 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and meet and regulations arising from the regular employment relationship Steve Kenzie, UNGC UK Network Secretariat the basic needs of the workers. shall not be avoided through the use of labour-only contracting, 3.5 The company observing the code shall assign responsibility for subcontracting, or home-working arrangements, or through health and safety to a senior management representative. apprenticeship schemes where there is no real intent to impart skills or provide regular employment, nor shall any such obligations 4. Child labour shall not be used. be avoided through the excessive use of fixed-term contracts of employment. 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child labour. 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in and contribute to 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed policies and programmes which provide for the transition of any child found to be performing child labour to enable her or him to attend 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual and remain in quality education until no longer a child; “child” and or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation “child labour” being defined in the appendices. shall be prohibited. 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. The provisions of this code constitute minimum and not maximum 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to the provisions of standards, and this code should not be used to prevent companies the relevant ILO standards. from exceeding these standards. Companies applying this code are expected to comply with national and other applicable law and, 5. Living wages are paid. where the provisions of law and this Base Code address the same subject, to apply that provision which affords the greater protection. 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards, 44 45 Stone Sector Collaboration in India 2012 Targets LABOUR During 2011, and after many months of standards and working conditions of the many approaching the wider quarry owning fraternity people employed in this industry in the Kota in Kota, Marshalls together with the ETI met region. This meeting was the result of Marshalls’ with local quarry owners to present and discuss engagement with the ETI, the Company’s central the benefits of ETI Base Code implementation. role in the formation of the ETI Stone Group and This meeting represented an enormous step ongoing dialogue with the local community in forward in terms of improving the labour Kota. Targets 2011 Targets 2012 • Maintain accreditation to Integrated • Maintain accreditation to IMS. Management Systems. • Continue researching, reporting and embedding relevant information regarding labour laws and their • Continue researching, reporting and implications; both in India & China. embedding relevant information regarding labour laws and their India implications; both in India & China. • Maintain funding for NGO. • Develop the NGO monthly reporting process. • Continue schools programme and seek India collaborative partners. • Maintain funding for NGO in India. • Continue workers rights education. • Further develop and enhance the • Continue the community health camps weekly reporting process regarding with a sharp focus on maternal health. social auditing. • Develop the women’s empowerment • Continue to deliver workers’ rights project in Kota. education camps. • Undertake research regarding slave/ • Continue education on health & safety bonded labour. practices. Quarry Owners Meeting in Kota – Martin Cooke (left) from the ETI and David Morrel (right), Chair of the ETI China China Stone group and Marshalls Head of Sustainability. • Put in place a social auditing process in • Maintain social auditing. China • Launch Fairstone® China. • Implement the cultural programme of activity. 46 47 Environment The key environmental Piloting New Initiatives Achieving Good Results Collaborating & Sharing Best issues for Marshalls are climate change, water Practice 72% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best and biodiversity. Legal Compliance Approach Practice Due to Marshalls’ plc status the environmental Water as a resource is becoming scarce and key performance indicators will be published Marshalls has identified clean water shortage alongside the annual report. This will be as one of the biggest challenges of the future. available online in due course. Biodiversity is also key because of the activities Marshalls carries out – extracting material has All environmental targets have strategic plans an impact on the environment and it is only by driven by board executives and implemented by working with the land that we can manage our a large internal resource. Significant investments impact on the land. have been made in systems which allow the real time monitoring of energy consumption and Marshalls attended the UNGC Leaders Summit relates this to carbon reduction measures. in New York in 2010 which proved provocative and invaluable in terms of the evident At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable business thought leadership. The subsequent sharing model, shown on page 10 of this report, is an and processing of this led to a strategic shift approach which combines key business issues in thinking away from a position of simply and KPIs with third party verification, legislation minimising harm to one of actively engaging and industry standards including ISO14001 for and maximising benefits as the slide below environmental management. Key environmental demonstrates. targets and drivers for our business are determined by legislative requirement and also the Company’s commitment to sustainability, cost efficiency and shareholder value. Marshalls Environmental Policy Statement and Energy & Climate Change Policy Document show in key performance indicators see page 49. The key environmental issues for Marshalls are climate change, water and biodiversity. These are particularly significant because Marshalls is aware of its contributions to man-made climate change (as detailed by the Inter-Government Panel on Climate Change) and as such is committed to helping reduce it. Marshalls strategic position: Actively engaging and maximising benefits. 48 49 Environment Carbon Reduction Energy Water Marshalls has already demonstrated good Climate change is one of Marshalls’ KPIs from Marshalls is on track to reduce its water energy management by achieving The Carbon the sustainable business model. Marshalls consumption to 0.053m3 per tonne of product Trust Standard and is now well equipped has made a commitment to reduce emission by 2012. for the Government’s Carbon Reduction of greenhouse gases by 80% by 2050 by Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC), employing energy management systems, In 2012 Marshalls will commit to The CEO which was launched in April 2010. Marshalls reviewing processes and keeping abreast Water Mandate, an initiative by business already voluntarily discloses information on its of new technologies, reporting progress, leaders in partnership with the international greenhouse gas emissions, risks, opportunities and developing carbon tools to allow our community. Its structure covers six key and plans via the Carbon Disclosure Project and customers to measure their impact. In 2009, areas in a comprehensive approach to water The Prince’s May Day Network. The Company is Marshalls announced carbon footprints for all its management and will help develop Marshalls also addressing alternatives such as renewables, commercial products, bringing the total carbon current water management approach to as well as committing to reducing consumption labelled products to over 2,000 commercial and flooding, water quality and drought: through a number of energy management domestic hard landscaping products – the most programmes. of any company in the world at the time. Since • Direct Operations then, Marshalls has continued to work to reduce • Supply Chain those product footprints further. • Watershed Management • Collective Action • Public Policy Community Engagement • Transparency Now in its fifth year, the Energy Management Steering Group promotes Marshalls’ carbon reduction policy throughout the organisation. Chaired by the Board Management Board Chief Operating Officer Director who reports on sustainability, the group meets Board Members quarterly to: • Identify current inefficiencies • Advise on setting of company and site specific targets • Oversee training practices relevant to energy • Summarise progress for annual report and investors • Review energy management procedures ENERGY MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP ChAIR Energy Management Coordinator From the group, ideas and projects get filtered Site/Regional/Business Managers Corporate Team Members through sites and corporate teams to a team of 60+ energy champions who are based on site. SITES/REGIONS SITE/Regional energy champions Energy working groups Site Staff 50 51 Environment Biodiversity Sustainable Procurement Strategic Forum for SFC Construction Construction (SFC) Commitments: Sustainability Marshalls has drafted a biodiversity strategy, Marshalls sustainable procurement approach in consultation with external stakeholders, and its procurement policy and proceedures Marshalls is a member of the SFC a unique Sustainability lies at the heart of design and documenting a systematic approach to legal, guard against the organisation procuring from forum in which members can share best construction. A sustainable approach will bring full protection and enhancement commitments suppliers that ‘willfully and avoidably damange practice and learning’s with peers and where and lasting environmental, social and economic to the biodiversity on its sites. This strategy the environment’. Though its sustainable findings and knowledge can be shared and benefits. includes a priority approach to defining procurement journey Marshalls is engaging and ultimately fed into a continuous improvement appropriate sites together with evaluation of collaborating with suppliers on environmental process. the biodiversity ecosystem services delivered. issues, expectations, shared learning and the • The overarching government and industry Marshalls is on plan to deliver it’s Biodiversity potential for innovation. The SFC has developed a series of Construction Strategy for Sustainable Construction provides Action Plan (BAP) target by the end of 2012. Commitments, which Marshalls has committed the framework for future construction projects. to. They bring together six key areas vital • Each project will develop a specific Sustainability to delivering construction projects on time, Action Plan which will address environmental, Marshalls procurement policy covers 9 main areas; procurement Working in partnership safely and to budget. They represent the objectives; legality; ethical, social, environmental & responsible social and economic aspects and aim to exceed with the RSPB Marshalls sourcing; code of conduct for procurement – covering conflict of principles which it is intended will underpin the highest levels within relevant standards and is implementing a interests, anti competitive behaviour and serious concerns; structure & all construction projects in order to achieve a include all aspects of the supply chain. project during 2012 at authority; payment; intellectual property and commercial information; better industry and exceed current best practice. three sites regarding information and reporting, and finally compliance. Here you will find In support of this the Strategic Forum has set a • Targets, including the business case, will be set excerpts and information about Marshalls purchasing policy. A copy of within all contracts and performance will be the suitability of urban number of key targets which will demonstrate the policy can be downloaded at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability industrial zones as habitats for birds; the the improvements that the industry is making as monitored and appraised regularly. context being birds as a measure of a Procurement Objectives a result of the adoption of these commitments, • Projects will incorporate best practice changing climate. The initial project will ‘Our procurement activity always aims to deliver the best possible value for these include environmental considerations: approaches to resource use, waste minimisation, run for three years and involves putting our customers, at the lowest possible overall cost. Value includes the quality low-carbon performance, employment, training up bird boxes on industrial buildings and and reliability of the goods or services we procure and the punctuality and reliability of their delivery’. and community engagement. monitoring nesting habits. ‘Value also consists of our ability to meet the needs of the internal or external • Development plans will seek to enhance, create customer.’ ‘Both the goods and services we buy and the methods by which we procure and protect the local natural environment. them must as a minimum comply with existing laws and conform to the • Projects will actively aim to enhance the vitality highest ethical, social and environmental standards. Marshalls has its own Waste Reduction & Packaging obligation to meet as members of both the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and viability of local communities. and UN Global Compact and as a signatory to industry commitments such During 2011 Marshalls continued to measure as the Strategic Forum for Construction’s responsible sourcing targets. ‘Cost is considered over the lifespan of the goods or service (e.g. financing, Source: SF Commitments www.strategicforum.com the amount of waste leaving site and is ontrack depreciation, maintenance, energy consumption etc) and is not merely to achieve its aim of reducing waste by 3% per limited to the initial price or acquisition expense’. annum averaged over a three year period. The ‘ To improve all these facets, we strive to work with our suppliers, all of whom target for packaging is to reduce by 2% per are considered an integral part of our business. Where possible we shall annum over a three year period. The Company establish long-term relationships based on mutual trust. We try to create and foster relationships within which we can learn how to make it easier for our continues to carefully monitor the sourcing of suppliers to meet our requirements and they can be encouraged to invest timber by pallet suppliers having worked with in improving their products, prices, quality and service. We, our suppliers, them to achieve Forestry Stewardship Counsel customers and stakeholders all benefit from this. We support the company’s accreditation at the end of 2009. core values of honesty, trust and integrity and expect our suppliers to uphold similar values themselves.’ 52 53 Environment 2012 Targets ENVIRONMENT Employee Engagement Bee Keeping Initiative Targets 2011 Targets 2012 Marshalls’ employees regularly contribute their During the last 12 months and inspired by time, ideas and innovative approach to a more employees, Marshalls had a number of beehives To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with environmentally sustainable way of working, by placed on site at the head office location in Government targets; 80% by 2050 and 34% Government targets; 80% by 2050 and 34% taking part in a number of different activities: Elland. Eight employees by 2020. ✔ by 2020. are now fully trained bee keepers. In the first year • Engaging in energy saving programmes Carbon footprinting of 500 consumer the hives produced 125 jars Carbon footprinting of 500 consumer prod(Energy Saving Week) products and 1565 commercial paving of honey which have been ucts and 1565 commercial paving products • Taking part in biodiversity events (Biodiversity Open Days and Events) sold to raise money for local products ✔ charities. • Becoming Energy Champions Uphold the BITC May Day Network pledges Uphold the BITC May Day Network pledges • Promoting sustainability outside the business • Volunteering and getting involved in partner ✔ events (Walk to Work, Living Streets audits, RHS Campaign for School Gardening) Marshalls Energy Savings Week ✔ Marshalls Energy Savings Week Reduce use of water from mains and Reduce use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of tonne of production by 2015 ✔ production by 2015 Energy Posters Develop biodiversity plans for all Develop biodiversity plans for all During 2011 Marshalls undertook an internal communications programme to raise awareness appropriate sites by 2012 ✔ appropriate sites by 2012 of climate change issues and the targets and commitments made by the business. These Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill Reduce by 3% the total waste-to-landfill per posters were placed across Marshalls UK per production output per annum on 3 production output per annum on 3 year operations: year rolling average. Reduce by 2% per rolling average. Reduce by 2% per tonne of tonne of production output per annum production output per annum over a 3 year over a 3 year cycle to a level where pack cycle to a level where pack and product and product safety is not compromised. safety is not compromised. ✔ 54 55 Anti-Corruption Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 64% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The tenth principle commits UNGC signatories of agreement and conduct may lead to criminal have effects on downstream markets. Buyers During 2010, Marshalls has further developed not only to actively avoid bribery, extortion sanctions for the individuals involved and/or the should consult with the Group Procurement its Procurement Policy Statement which covers; and other forms of corruption but to develop disqualification of directors of the companies Director before discussions over the possibility procurement objectives; legality, ethical, social policies and concrete programmes to address involved.’ of joint procurement arrangements. Any and responsible sourcing; code of conduct corruption and related risks. ‘It is our policy at all times to comply with all agreements, arrangements or conduct that may for procurement; conflict of interests’ antiapplicable laws, including competition laws and infringe UK competition laws, and put Marshalls’ competitive behaviour; serious concerns; The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on we must consider them when we are dealing interests at risk, will be regarded with the structure and authority; payment; intellectual the 1st of July 2011. It amends and reforms UK with our suppliers.’ utmost seriousness and should be reported property and commercial information; criminal law and provides a modern legal immediately to the Group Procurement information & reporting; and compliance. framework to combat bribery in the UK and ‘We may come across agreements or conduct Director. ‘ This policy can be viewed at internationally. on the part of suppliers, such that they may Bribery is not a victimless crime; it discourages www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability infringe UK competition laws, such as:developmentally effective trade, siphons off The Bribery Act creates the following offences: • Cooperation between suppliers to fix prices, funds away from projects designed to help the Throughout 2010 a plan of activity has been • Active bribery: promising or giving a financial limit production or divide up markets; most disadvantaged. It tarnishes reputations, developed which further supports Marshalls’ or other advantage. • Refusals to supply on the part of a dominant drains corporate motivation and distorts stance in this area. The key performance • Passive bribery: agreeing to receive or supplier; competition. indicators regarding this plan are reflected accepting a financial or other advantage. • Unfair pricing policies on the part of a within the targets for Anti-Bribery for 2011. • Bribery of foreign public officials. dominant supplier; At the 1998 Organisation for Economic • The failure of commercial organisations • Unfair discrimination between customers on Co-operation & Development (OECD) to prevent bribery by an associated person the part of a dominant supplier. Convention on Bribery international (corporate offence). consensus was gained with regard to the We will not collude with, or participate in, following: Marshalls understands that bribery is not any form of anti-competitive behaviour. Any 1. Governments must have effective laws and a victimless crime and that it discourages suspicions of any such conduct or any similar enforcement capacity in place. developmentally effective trade and siphons off conduct on the part of suppliers which might 2. Governments must take action against the funds away from projects designed to help the give rise to competition issues (on the part of cultures of bribery that exist in certain sectors most disadvantaged. It tarnishes reputations, any person, whether within Marshalls or on the in certain parts of the world. drains corporate motivation and distorts part of our suppliers, competitors or customers, competition. Marshalls has an anti-bribery policy and whether or not this has any impact on our 3. Businesses must be pro-active in adopting in place and also addresses anti-bribery and business) should be reported immediately to the anti-bribery measures. corruption in its procurement policy: Group Procurement Director.’ ‘Certain types of anti-competitive agreements It is likely that April 2011 will see the and conduct are illegal under UK competition ‘In addition, some forms of cooperation between commencement of the Bribery Act in the UK. laws and have severe consequences, including buyers, or conduct on the part of buyers may The UK Bribery Act will protects companies the voidness and unenforceability of infringe UK competition laws. This could arise in that are committed to conducting business in a agreements and the possibility of fines and the context of cooperation between buyers, for lawful and ethical manner. liability to third parties. In addition, some forms example, where this may eliminate suppliers, or 56 57 ANTI BRIBARY CODE 2012 Targets HUMAN RIGHTS 1. In this Code, “Marshalls” means Marshalls behaviour by an employee that is unlawful business partners who have adopted similar plc and its subsidiary companies. or prohibited by this Code will constitute policies and objectives and will avoid doing Targets 2011 Targets 2012 gross misconduct and may result in business with those who act unlawfully or 2. Marshalls is committed to conducting its dismissal. Employees may be suspended in a way that is not consistent with ethical business with the utmost integrity and in Make the Procurement Policy Statement Finalise and publish the sustainable while investigations are carried out. business principles. accordance with the principles set out in available online procurement strategy. the UK Bribery Act 2010. • Employees who engage or do business 6. Monitoring and Compliance with third parties who act on behalf of Marshalls plc is a signatory of the UN Global • The Board of Marshalls plc has approved Marshalls or represent Marshalls should Compact, which informs and governs the this Anti-Bribery Code and will set standards ensure that this Code is drawn to their way in which we do business. Marshalls in relation to its principles and their attention. Marshalls expects such third expects its employees and business application across the Marshalls Group. parties to comply with this Code and with partners to respect and support our core Brief the procurement department on the Brief procurement team on further UNGC the applicable law relating to bribery. • The Audit Committee of the Board will values of trust, honesty and integrity and to recognise and implement this Code. • Marshalls reserves the right to terminate review procedures across the Group and UNGC and specifically the Anti-Corruption developments. will monitor their effectiveness. principles. immediately any contract or business 3. Marshalls does not tolerate the offering, relationship with any agent, consultant, or • Designated individuals within each giving, requesting, receiving or acceptance other business intermediary where bribery business area, together with the Company of bribes in any form. Engage procurement personnel in UNGC Further engage the procurement team in has occurred. Secretary (who oversees day to day A bribe is a financial payment or other form compliance) have responsibility for the activities. appropriate UNGC UK Network events & 4. Our Policies and Procedures of reward that is intended to induce or implementation and development of such activities. influence an individual, company or public Marshalls has adopted policies and procedures. body to perform their functions improperly. procedures intended to address the • All employees have an obligation to This may include showing partiality, acting potential risk of bribery and corruption. comply with this Code and support and Produce an Anti-Corruption Guidance Undertake further supplier engagement in bad faith or acting in a way that is These include:promote its principles in their business Document for multiple stakeholders. and education activity. inconsistent with a position of trust. • The Group Procurement Policy Statement; function. Bribes, for the purpose of this Policy, include • The Code of Ethics; 7. Any employee having a question or facilitation payments, kickbacks and any Make the Anti-Corruption Guidance Undertake further supplier engagement concern in relation to this Code, the other reward, favour or payment designed • Guidance on hospitality and gifts, and to induce or influence the recipient to the maintenance of a hospitality and gifts administration of Marshalls policies and Document available online. and education activity. procedures designed to prevent bribery, perform his or her functions improperly. register; or any issue where guidance is sought on In the case of a foreign public official, it is • The Serious Concerns Policy. a particular set of circumstances may raise Ensure the Anti-Corruption Guidance not permitted to offer a payment or other it with their line manager or the Company Document is part of the procurement These are regularly reviewed and updated, reward to a foreign public official that may Secretary (Cathy Baxandall, Birkby Grange, policy process. and should be read together with this influence that official to give an advantage Birkby Hall Road, Huddersfield HD2 2YA: Code. This Code and these policies can be to our business, whether or not intended to Tel: 01484 438930: email cathy.baxandall@ accessed via the Marshalls intranet. The induce improper performance. marshalls.co.uk) Communicate with all existing suppliers hospitality and gifts register is maintained Hospitality designed to improve business at Birkby Grange (contact Gillian Harley/Jill 8. Any employee who suspects that bribery regarding the Anti-Corruption Guidance relations which is proportionate to the Bedford). has occurred or that there has been any Document. circumstances and which is not for an other breach of this Code should report it Among our procedures to mitigate risk are improper purpose is not usually regarded as in accordance with the procedure in the the following:a bribe. Further guidance can be found in Serious Concerns Policy so that it can be Identify key overseas partners/suppliers and the Procurement Policy Statement and the • Supplier and customer risk assessments; formally investigated. undertake face-to-face briefing/working Hospitality Guidelines. sessions to identify areas of risk and to • Training for employees and those working Adopted by the Board on 5 October 2011. No employee, agent, consultant or business for Marshalls or representing Marshalls in a Graham Holden develop appropriate plans. intermediary acting for Marshalls may offer, business capacity ; Chief Executive Chairman give, request, receive or accept any bribes, whether directly or indirectly. • Written commitments from those we work with to engage with the principles in this Review and develop anti corruption What does this mean for me? Code. processes and procedures • Any alleged or suspected incident of 5. Marshalls will work with its business bribery will result in a formal investigation, partners worldwide to develop and improve and may result in disciplinary action for good practice and to seek to eliminate any employee involved. Any activity or bribery and corruption. It will select 58 59 Third Party Recognition & Awards Marshalls Awards – 2010 to 2011 Date AWARDING BODY CATEGORY RESULT June 2011 Business in the Community Awards Sustainable Marketing BIG TICK NATIONAL EXAMPLE OF EXCELLENCE June 2011 Business in the Community Awards Coffee International BIG TICK NATIONAL EXAMPLE OF EXCELLENCE SHORTLISTED June 2010 Business in the Community Awards Skills in the Workplace RE-ACCREDITED January 2009 Sustain Magazine Awards International Award for Trade – Supply Chain Ethics WIN Graham Holden receives ambassador Chris Harrop receives the Big Tick award Award for Governance – Carbon Labelling certificate from Stephen Howard Award for Sustainability, Business and the WIN Built Environment WIN May 2011 British Precast Concrete Federations Biomass Trials HIGHLY COMMENDED Independent third party scrutiny and verification Marshalls has included this table of awards March 2009 Creating Better WIN Futures Awards British Precast Concrete Federations Sustain ability RUNNER UP is a key component to Marshalls’ approach to from 2010 and 2011 to highlight the third party May 2011 business, as is award recognition from external recognition of its achievements. bodies. It is of great importance to Marshalls March 2009 The PLC Awards Achievement in Sustainability WIN that the awards entered both showcase and April 2011 Ethical Corp Best Collaboration WINNER challenge the company’s pioneering approach. May 2009 British Precast Awards Sustainability Award (Corporate Category) WIN April 2011 Natural Stone SustainabilitySustainability Awareness Award (Site Category) WINNERWIN Sustainability Award (Site Category) HIGHLY COMMENDED Concrete Targets 2010 Gold Award with WIN Red Seal April 2011 Wildlife Trust Biodiversity Benchmark AWARDED June 2009 Marketing Society Awards Ethical Marketing Award HIGHLY COMMENDED February 2011 PLC Awards Sustainability WINNER June 2009 Business in the Community Awards Climate Change BIG TICK Supply Chain Ethics RE-ACCREDITED October 2010 Eco-EfficiencyDigital Communications Award RE-ACCREDITED SHORTLISTED Construction Marketing Awards July 2009 Business Commitment to the Premier Product Category MAJOR COMMENDATION August 2010 Environment (BCE) Awards Sustainability Environmental Manufacturer of the Year SHORTLISTED Leadership Awards Nov 2010 July 2009 Business in the Community Awards Building Green Guru Regional Work Experience HIGHLY COMMENDED WIN June 2010 Business in the Community Awards Sustainable Marketing BIG TICK NATIONAL EXAMPLE OF EXCELLENCE 60 61 Third Party Recognition & Awards Auditing Independent Auditing Accreditation Ongoing Stakeholder Consultation and Feedback In the past, Marshalls has worked with generally Marshalls works with Just Solutions in order Marshalls only works with reputable and recognised auditors for its work in India. to gain a consistent approach to auditing its reliable suppliers that meet its own stringent As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would very Whilst working in India however, Marshalls supplier network and ensure supply chains requirements and those within the industry. much appreciate your feedback and comments found it really needed to work with auditors remain ethical and best practice is shared where With Marshalls’ help, Stoneshippers India on its 2011 Communication on Progress (COP.) with specialist knowledge of trade unions possible. Led by expert supply chain auditing achieved the internationally recognised You may be aware that Marshalls became a and ILO (International Labour Organisation) specialist Stirling Smith, Just Solutions is an SAI integrated management system that Marshalls signatory of the UNGC in January 2009. Our standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is listed consultant who works to develop and has in the UK, incorporating ISO 9001, ISO 14001 commitment to the UNGC requires that we not just about hitting the baseline and doing extend the SA8000 standard and the ETI Base and OHSAS 18001. submit an annual COP to the UN office in New the minimum, it’s about going the extra mile Code. The company relies upon the hard core of York. This 2011 COP is our third. Both 2009 and ensuring the process is as thorough and convinced companies to engage stakeholders and 2010 COP’s can be found on our website at rigorous as possible. and professionals together in an agreed www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/publications. programme. Marshalls’ supply chain strategy follows the ETI Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status from Base Code, which is based on the International Audits are carried out at least annually, by a the UNGC, an acknowledgement made to only Labour Organisations conventions. two-person team over two days. Also, a qualified a small percentage of signatories. We will make Marshalls assessor goes out to India five to this 2011 COP’s available for UNGC UK Network In embedding the Base Code in the supply six times a year to audit informally. If nonpeer review again this year. chain, Marshalls has put in several processes to compliance is found, an action plan is agreed ensure compliance and improvement. to ensure rectification takes place and this is We are particularly keen to gain frank feedback followed up by an external audit. from a range of our stakeholders as we further In 2010, Marshalls took auditing to a new level. engage in a drive for corporate sustainability Having already independently audited sole leadership throughout 2012 and beyond. The Indian Sandstone supplier Stoneshippers and link below allows you to give feedback on each verified working practices by regular Marshalls of the areas of activity. It also includes a section visits, the Company took the bold step of for any other comments that you’d like to share. employing a full time social auditor in India. You are also invited to email directly Working on the ground alongside elaine@marshalls.co.uk Stoneshippers and Hadoti, the auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base Code are upheld. http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/PTH6P7F Likewise in 2011 a Fairstone China manager was appointed who is reponsible for ethics in the supply chain. 62 63 For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Marshalls plc, Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road, Birkby, Huddersfield, HD2 2YA Telephone: 01484 438900 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS FEBRUARY 2011
