Basic Communication on Progress (COP) Time period: April 2011 – June 2012 Prepared By : Mohd Nazri Bin Mohd Nordin Statement of Continued Support HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals WISB has explicitly defined the Human Rights related with SOPs and Hand Book that’s create a fair, respectable for all employees in the company. We also have to make that all employees in WISB has contribution to the success of company target achievement with no any discrimination of gender, races, religious and etc. We ensure that all employees health cover all basic health treatments including panel clinic and hospital. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB conducted SOPs and Hand Book briefing to educate employees awareness of internal process and company polices which requires all employees to read and understand daily Operation Standard and the policies. √ Living wages – all employee's salaries are aligned with market wage standard and government rules of basic salary which is effective March 2012. It is clearly stated in the WISB’s regulation that any human rights abuses will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any human rights issues. . √ Give the opportunities to local community and other potential foreign worker to joint with WISB which is new candidates can search vacancy via newspaper & advertisement at nearest Labor Office. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals WISB committed to support the abolition of child labour by ensuring that there are no children on the factory sites. WISB not tolerance towards physical or verbal discriminatory harassment in factory. WISB give facility opportunity to all employees whatever the level and qualification to have time and place for their religious activities based on their own beliefs. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB ensure that there are no children on the factory sites which will potentially lead to child safety and labor , some action have been taken such as: √ Warning / Notice Sign were posted on the factory sites. √ Educate local employees not allow enter their children to factory sites. WISB ensure every employees has a contract of employment stating the T & C of service, flexible working hour and KPI employees performance and promotion evaluation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals WISB more efficiently and effectively to produce competitive products accepted by customer and recognize by local government. Clean and Go Green – “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” process is the only way to reach the company target optimally. Saving energy, efficient working system, 5S activity can achieve corporate targets and give more benefits to all stakeholders. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB clearly stated in the company’s vision, “Go Green for earth , for better environmental” for saving energy consumption such as: √ Awareness to all employees to turn off electricity and water if not use. √ Encourage to use recycle paper and print any documentation in a proper way. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals WISB have committed and agree with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in all employees personal life as well as business activity. Hand Book has expressly prohibited any kind of immoral conduct whereas have specified the fiscal limits for transactions at various level position and all procurement are subject to internal and external audit process. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions implemented & Measurable Results / Outcomes WISB socialized the company’s regulation regarding the corruption policies to the all employees and vendor. Internal and external audit conducted 3rd parties to ensure audit process fairly. There have been no such incident involved employees and related vendors so far.
