Transforming lives Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 1 About this report 4 Executive summary 8 About Safaricom 22 Our sustainability strategy 44 Our performance 50 Dynamic regulatory environment 56 Energy security 48 Network stability 62 Innovation 66 Supplier ethics and performance 78 Ethics and values 82 Employee environment 86 Environmental performance 96 The Safaricom Foundation 102 Indicator overview 108 Global Reporting Initiative table 112 Table of abbreviations 120 Safaricom sustainability team 124 Sustainability report feedback form 130 2 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 3 1 About This Report 4 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 5 About this report About this report 1. About this report 1.1. Scope 1.2. Where we are in the journey 1.3. Navigating this report The Safaricom Limited Sustainability Report of reporting This sustainability report consists of a number QR code (like the example at the bottom of 2012 (hereafter referred to as ‘sustainability This is the first sustainability report for of sections that describe who we are as an this column) work like barcodes. Once you report’) is our first annual sustainability report Safaricom. It reflects our ongoing commitment organisation, the market in which we operate, have installed the free ‘Tag reader’ app on and covers the period 01 April 2011 to 31 March to operating and growing in a sustainable our sustainability risks and strategy, as well your smartphone, the patterned square can 2012. manner, and our aim of becoming a leader in as our achievements and performance. be ‘scanned’ using the phone’s camera to sustainability in Kenya. automatically access to requested content Presenting a balanced overview of our material The structure of this report online. Open your phone’s web browser and sustainability issues and related performance, 1. About the Report visit http://gettag.mobi to get started. Accordingly, we will continue to develop and this report includes information on Safaricom improve our management of environmental, 2. Executive Summary P.8 Limited’s (hereafter referred to as ‘Safaricom’) social, economic and governance challenges, • Safaricom Annual Report 3. About Safaricom P.22 operations in Kenya. We do not believe that together with our sustainability reporting • Safaricom Foundation Report there are any material economic, social or processes. We are also committed to 4. Our Sustainability Strategy P.44 environmental impacts of the organisation that • Safaricom Website managing our carbon footprint as we continue 5. Our Performance P.50 have been excluded from this report. to uplift and stimulate the communities and • GRI Performance Indicator Dynamic Regulatory Environment R1 P.52 society to which we belong. Energy Security R2 P.56 In 2011, Safaricom undertook a risk Network Stability R3 P.62 identification assesment to define key issues This report has been collated with all of our Innovation R4 P.66 Let us know what you think of relevance to the organisation and its key stakeholder groups in mind, namely, Supplier Ethics & Performance R5 P.78 We welcome the views of our stakeholders on stakeholders. The key material sustainability customers, future generations, regulators, Ethics and Values R6 P.82 our first sustainability report. There are three issues defined as part of this process inform employees, shareholders, business partners, Employee Environment R7 P.86 ways you can contact us with your feedback our strategy and provide the basis for our Environmental Performance R8 P.96 and comments: sustainability@safaricom.co.ke, the media and society. sustainability reporting. 6. The Safaricom Foundation P.102 complete the form provided at the back of this There have been no significant changes report and drop it off at any of our retail centres Our material sustainability issues include: 7. Indicator Overview P.108 countrywide, or access our online feedback during the reporting period regarding the size, structure or ownership of the organisation. 8. GRI Table P.112 form using the feedback QR code below. Dynamic regulatory environment Energy security 9. Table of Abbreviations P.120 Network stability 10. Safaricom Sustainability Team P.124 Innovation 11. Sustainability Report Feedback Form P.130 Supplier ethics and performance Quick Response (QR) codes and icons Ethics and values Throughout this report, we make reference Employee environment to information contained within our annual Environmental performance report, Safaricom Foundation report and the Safaricom website. Rather than duplicating Reporting guidelines this background information here, we have We have used the Global Reporting Initiative incorporated QR codes and icons to help (GRI) version 3.1 reporting guidelines to interested readers locate this supplementary develop this sustainability report and it fulfils information as easily as possible. the requirements for a C-level application. More information about the GRI is available at www. globalreporting.org. Our achievements against each of our material sustainability issues are provided in subsequent sections of the report. Please also refer to the GRI Table on page 114 for an overview of our GRI C-level application. 6 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 7 2 8 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 9 Executive summary Executive summary Our sustainability vision Affordable and relevant Strong Ethics and products and services Financial inclusion governance structure anti-corruption initiatives Transformational products and services Responsible, ethical business Mobile technology has the potential to Acting responsibly, honestly and with integrity is transform lives and societies. good for business, good for individuals and We are committed to developing innovative good for society. We are committed to the products and services that help our customers highest ethical standards and promote a culture realise this potential and enjoy improved access that values personal and corporate integrity. to essential services. Public sector support Innovation for social Supplier ethics and Corporate social development performance investment 10 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 11 Sustainability Performance: At a glance (31 March 2012) Solar Energy ‘Diet Sites’ Carbon emissions 31 Financial sustainability Continuing customer 11 Revenue KShs Billion growth and rising Profit KShs Billion ARPUs across voice, 15.16 mobile broadband and 107 M-PESA increased 94.83 revenues by 12.8% from 13.16 2011, but increasing Current FY 2012 Goal Scope1: 25 462tCO2e Scope2: 44 795tCO2e Total: 70 257tCO2e 83.96 direct and operational 12.63 For full data and discussion, see page 63 For full data and discussion, see page 98 costs, as well as a forex 14,900,000 loss in the year, resulted in a 4% decrease in net FY 2012 Hybrid/Renewable BTS FY 2010 FY 2011 income. 23% FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 240 102 Infrastructural investment Total number of registered M-PESA customers Percentage of annual GDP transferred through M-PESA CAPEX Communication Commission of Kshs. billion Kenya (CCK) compliance Energy management Current FY 2013 180 sites 1,136 30 40% 25 34 35% Facilities Lighting 27 30% 80% 20 21 25% 70% 15 24 20% 10 15% 60% 23.82 17.44 25.48 25.28 10% 5 50% 5% Digital villages successfully implemented 0 0% 40% FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 30% FY 2011 FY 2012 Employee environment CAPEX CAPEX Intensity 20% LED lighting has been installed in all the main administration facilities, resulting in a substantial 40% 10% reduction in energy consumed. Employees by gender Base Stations Perecentage of employees who Diesel Generator Running Hours 2010 2011 have undergone OSH Training 2900 2501 The CCK has developed eight key performance indicators (KPIs) to assess the 90% 2162 performance of mobile operators. Safaricom’s performance improved from being 37.5% compliant in 2010 to 75% by November 2011. FY 2011 FY 2012 1543 1158 For full data and discussion, see page 65 Combination of network-related energy efficiency initiatives For full data and discussion, see page 86 has had the cumulative effect of reducing the running Recognition 3,591 hours (and carbon emissions) of our diesel generators by approximately 67%. FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 • United Nations — Lifetime Contribution to the Millennium Development Goals Energy consumption • MIT Technology Review — Top 50 Most Innovative Companies 2012 Safaricom has continued to invest in • Global Mobile International Awards 2012 — Best Product, Initiative or Service for modernising its network to improve call Underserved Segments Diesel quality and capacity. Over KShs 25billion Total number of permanent and temporary employees 84% Electricity 16,500 For full data and discussion, see page 36 118 232 786 Kwh 8 424 563 Litres of capital expenditure has been invested in the current financial year and the network As this is our first sustainability report, no formal benchmarks have yet been established for our energy performance. In has expanded to approximately 2,900 Base financial year 2012/13, we will establish energy performance Stations (BTS) and over 50% of these are baseline data that can be used to benchmark our progress going forward. 3G-enabled. For full data and discussion, see page 60 For full data and discussion, see page 63 Kenyans enjoying water security through the Maji na Uhai project Average supplier sustainability self-assessment score 12 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 13 ” Executive summary Executive summary We are also proud of Innovation remains a key driver the contribution the Innovation continues to be a key growth Safaricom Foundation driver and we remain focused on providing products and services that add value to the continues to make lives of Kenyans. One example of this is our ‘‘ M-PESA mobile money transfer service. With towards improving the over 15 million customers and over 39, 000 lives of Kenyans agent outlets, M-PESA continues to grow in significance and to dramatically improve the way Kenyans carry out their daily activities. Delivering on our CSI mandate It is in this spirit that we offer this report as We are also proud of the contribution the a transparent and holistic account of our Safaricom Foundation continues to make current performance and future targets. The towards improving the lives of Kenyans. first of many such reports, it represents a Registered in 2003, the Safaricom benchmarking of where we are now and the Foundation is an independent charitable start of an ongoing conversation about the trust that delivers on our Corporate Social exhilarating journey ahead. Investment mandate and addresses a wide range of issues, such as health, Trends and concerns education, economic empowerment and Our future is being shaped by international the environment. Particularly noteworthy, and regional trends. Worthy of particular was the Kenyans for Kenya initiative where mention is the impact of global economic the Foundation and the company played trends, fast moving technology trends and a key role in galvanising Kenyans towards rapidly shrinking borders. fundraising for famine relief initiatives. Among other immediate concerns, diesel Future outlook price hikes and exchange rate fluctuations Our business priorities for the year are Message from have impacted our operating environment, dependent on our focus on quality of but we have continued to produce good services, product differentiation, value Our Chairman results and our sustained profitability has addition and unmatched customer been used to fund further investment in our experience. We will deliver this with the infrastructure, with over KShs 25billion of Mr Nicholas Nganga capital expenditure being invested in financial utmost regards towards our impact on our ecosystem, the industry and the year 2012/13. Kenyan economy as a whole, in line with The start of an exciting journey our commitment to being an outstanding Obviously, regulatory commitments also have corporate citizen. It is with great pleasure that I present to you our first sustainability report. a significant impact on our sustainability and It is an exciting milestone for us as a Kenyan company, as it reflects we continue to take a lead role in negotiating our very real commitment to our ‘triple bottom line’ and to responsibly with government and various regulators, managing the economic, social and environmental impact we have on the protecting and supporting the industry as a communities and landscapes that surround and support us. whole through robust, constructive dialogue and positive initiatives. Being our inaugural report, it also represents the start of the exciting journey we have embarked upon as a company and as individuals. Sustainability and sustainability reporting is much more than the set of procedures, policies and business practices that constitute its parts, it is a philosophy and set of values that guides and defines decision making throughout the company, and shapes our future positioning. 14 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 15 Executive summary ” Ubunifu bado unasalia kuwa kichocheo Executive summary Ubunifu unaendelea kuwa kichocheo muhimu Ubunifu bado unasalia kuwa kichocheo muhimu cha ukuaji na muhimu cha ukuaji na tunaendelea kuangazia tunaendelea kuangazia utoaji wa bidhaa na huduma zinazoongezea thamani katika maisha ya wakenya. Mfano utoaji wa bidhaa na mzuri wa ubunifu wetu ni M-PESA, huduma yetu ya uhawilishaji pesa kupitia simu ya huduma zinazoongezea “ mkononi. Kukiwa na wateja zaidi ya milioni 15 na mawakala zaidi ya 39, 000, M-PESA thamani katika maisha inaendelea kupata ukuaji imara na kuchangia ya wakenya pakubwa kuboresha hali ya wakenya na jinsi wanavyoendesha shughuli zao za kila siku. Kutekeleza uwajibikaji wa Tunawasilisha kwenu taarifa hii tukiwa na msimamo huo, taarifa yenye maelezo yaliyo wazi maswala ya jamii na yanayojumlisha hali halisi ya mafanikio yetu na Vile vile tunajivunia mchango ambao taasisi malengo yetu katika siku zijazo. Hii ni moja tu kati ya Safaricom Foundation inaendelea ya ripoti nyingi zitakazokujieni, na inawakilisha kutoa katika kuboresha maisha ya kigezo kinachoonyesha mahala tulipo sasa na wakenya. Safaricom Foundation, ambayo mwanzo wa gumzo linaloendelea juu ya safari ya ilisajiliwa mwaka wa 2003, ni taasisi huru kusisimua tunayodhamiria kuanza. ya kuchangisha pesa za kusaidia wale wasiojiweza katika jamii. Ni hazina ya Mambo mapya yanayojiri na amana inayotusaidi kutekeleza ahadi yetu ya Mashaka yake kuwekeza katika uwajibikaji kwenye Jumuiya na inaangazia masuala mbali mbali ya kijamii Hali yetu ya siku zijazo inategemea zaidi kama vile afya, elimu, uwezo wa kiuchumi na baadhi ya matukio yanayojiri humu nchini ulindaji wa mazingira. Mpango unaostahili sifa na katika eneo hili. La muhimu kutajwa hapa, ni ile kampeni ya Kenyans for Kenya hapa ni mwelekeo wa athari ya mabadiliko ambapo Safaricom Foundation na idara zote ya uchumi wa ulimwengu, teknolojia yenye za Safaricom kwa ujumla walihusika sana Ujumbe Wa kasi inayobadilika kila kunapokucha na huku katika kuhamisisha wakenya kuchangia pesa mipaka ikiendelea kunywea. Miongoni mwa za kusaidia wahanga wa baa la njaa. Mwenyekiti baadhi ya mashaka yanayotukabili kwa sasa ni, kupanda mara kwa mara kwa bei ya Mtazamo wa siku zijazo mafuta na kubadilikabadilika kwa kima cha Bw. Nicholas Nganga ubadilishanaji pesa za kigeni hali ambayo Mambo tunayoyapa umuhimu zaidi mwakani yanategemea ari yetu wa kuboresha huduma, Ni mwanzo wa safari ya kusisimua inaathiri mno mazingira ya biashara yetu, lakini bidhaa bora zinazotutofautisha na washindani tumeendelea kuwasilisha matokeo mazuri na Nafurahia mno fursa ya kuwasilisha kwenu taarifa hii ya kwanza ya faida tunayopata tumeitumia kuwekeza zaidi wetu, kuongeza thamani kwenye hudunma na kudumisha usitawi inayoashiria mfululizo wa mafanikio. Ni tukio muhimu katika muundo msingi wetu, kukiwa na zaidi ya utoaji huduma za kipekee kwa wateja. Tutafikia na la kusisimua kwetu sisi kama Shirika la hapa Kenya, kwa vile ni KShs Bilioni 25 za faida itokanayo na mauzo ya haya huku tukizingatia zaidi athari yetu kwenye dhihirisho la kujitolea kwetu kuzidi kupania faida na kuwajibika kusimamia rasilimali zikiwekezwa katika kipindi cha mwaka mazingira yetu, kwenye biashara hii na uchumi vyema mchango wetu katika uchumi, jamii, mazingira na kwenye jumuiya wa kifedha wa 2012/13 wa Kenya kwa ujumla, haya yote yakienda tunakoendeshea shughuli zetu na tunakoendelea kuungwa mkono. sambamba na ahadi yetu ya kuwa shirika Ni jambo lililo wazi kuwa utekelezaji wa linalochukuana na matakwa ya raia. Kwa vile hii ni taarifa yetu zinduzi, ndiposa ikawa na taswira ya safari sheria pia unaathiri udumishaji wa usitawi ya kusisimua ambayo sisi kama kampuni na pia kama watu binafsi wetu na tuko mstari wa mbele kuanzisha tumeianza. Kudumisha usitawi na kuripotiwa kwake kunajumuisha mengi mashauriano na serikali pamoja na mamlaka zaidi ya utaratibu, sera na desturi za kibiashara, ni falsafa na mpangilio wa mbali mbali za kusimamia utekelezaji kanuni, maadili yanayoongoza na kufafanua maamuzi kwote katika kampuni, na huku tukilinda na kusaidia biashara hii kwa inaonyesha hali mambo itakavyokuwa katika mstakabala wetu. ujumla kupitia kuimarisha maelewano na mipango yenye manufaa. 16 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 17 Executive summary ” We recognise Executive summary Mitigating our environmental that our business footprint practices today We recognise that our business practices today must be designed to create and shape a sustainable tomorrow. must be designed We have undertaken our carbon footprint analysis and identified key actions that we need to take to manage our carbon footprint. We are proactively deploying ‘green’ to create and shape solutions in our operations and facilities, and we mitigate our impacts on the environment through voluntary “ a sustainable initiatives, such as community power projects, recycling and re-use activities and reforestation programmes. tomorrow Future outlook In April this year, I was appointed to the Board of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. This is a voluntary We are our people initiative that encourages businesses globally to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, to support The openness and transparency reflected in this report is the UN’s Millennium Development Goals, and to adhere manifested internally, as well as externally. We recognise to human rights, good labour practices and support that sustainability is driven by a shared set of values across for the environment and anti-corruption. The Board is Message the organisation and within our ecosystems, and it is made chaired by the UN Secretary General and provides high tangible in the daily actions and decisions of every employee, level, strategic advice relating to the UN Global Compact From Our CEO business partner and community partner. Accordingly, we and, at a more general level, the evolving United have made candid, sincere and open internal and external Nations-Business relationship. discussions a fundamental part of our sustainability strategy. Mr Robert Collymore We have made a number of innovations in the way that we This brings Safaricom’s work into greater focus and I am committed to ensuring that we continue to assess and listen to, and communicate with, our customers, including report on our operations from a holistic perspective. My our on-line customer care, upgrades to our customer care priorities for the year ahead are to: platforms and continuous training of our call centre and retail centre staff. This year, we held an “in your shoes” programme, • continue to improve the working conditions for our through which all staff in the company spent a day at the call employees so that Safaricom becomes the employer centre and at a retail centre to understand our drive towards of choice within the region; customer centricity. We are also passionate about creating a working environment • improve accessibility to our products and services Identifying our baseline and delivering on our pledges that supports our staff so that they are free to concentrate on for our customers with special needs; It gives me great personal satisfaction to seems appropriate that we are one of the few their work and enjoy their achievements. We take a holistic approach and offer employees a wellness programme, crèche • ensure that we, and our business partners, operate welcome the publication of this report. Kenyan companies to report on sustainability facilities, access to subsidised gym facilities, leisure amenities, to the highest level of corporate governance and Sustainability is an ongoing process using the rigorous Global Reporting Initiative ethical standards; regular social events, as well as competitive salaries and for Safaricom, and this report marks an guidelines and the United Nations Global career opportunities. important benchmark for us as a company. Compact Communication on Progress. • develop a robust portfolio of products and services The Future Generation is part of the Improving gender ratios is something about which I to address some of the challenges we face as Safaricom 2.0 ecosystem charters, and Our sustainability reporting and our feel strongly. As we document in this report, the overall a nation in the areas of health, education and the imperative exists to bring our holistic sustainability actions will not be one-off gender ratio across all job grades within the company is agriculture, and to approaching 1:1, but there is still room for improvement, performance into focus and transparently events or events in isolation, since setting particularly at the higher grades. We are committed to • continue to minimise the impact our operations have benchmark ourselves. We wanted to sustainability targets, benchmarking our employing women with the right skills in top positions on the environment. do this to start an honest conversation progress and reporting back on improvements and have introduced specific initiatives to help female about sustainability with our community of is now an ongoing activity that is central to employees successfully maximise their career opportunities. stakeholders. our operational culture. Broadening our ethical commitment As a company with a reputation for We have signed onto the code of ethics for business in Kenya enthusiastically leading the way, it also and made a public commitment to adhere to ethical business practices at every level of the company. We are tough on Want to get up close and personal? internal corruption and fraud, but we also recognise that we Use this QR code to watch a short video can only be as successful as our environment allows, and that clip of Chief Executive Officer, Bob our suppliers and business partners also have an important Collymore, presenting his message. role to play. 18 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 19 Executive summary Executive summary Kuweko kwetu kunatokana na Juhudi za kupunguza athari yetu watu wetu kwenye mazingira Uwazi na ubayana uliyo kwenye taarifa hii ya kifedha Tunatambua kuwa jinsi tunavyoendesha biashara yetu unadhihirika humu ndani, pamoja na nje. Tunatambua hivi leo sharti iweni kwa njia inayotilia maanani usitawi vyema kuwa udumishaji wa usitawi unasukumwa mbele katika siku zinazokuja. Tumeandaa uchanganuzi kwa maadaili ambayo yanashirikisha watu wote katika kabambe kuhusu kaboni na kutambua hatua muhimu shirika na katika mazingira yetu, na utekelezaji wake tunazohitaji kuchukua ili kupunguza athari yetu ya hutokana na shughuli za kila siku na maamuzi yafikiwayo kaboni. Tukiwa na moyo wa kujituma tutafuatilia na kila mfanyikazi, mshirika wa kibiashara na mshirika suluhisho zitazopelekea ulindaji misitu wakati katika jumuiya. Kwa madhumuni hayo, tumechukulia tunapoendelea kutekeleza shughuli zetu, na kupitia majadiliano uliyo wazi na wa uaminifu, humu kwenye shirika harakati za kujitolea kama vile miradi ya kutoa nishati na nje, kuwa kiungo muhimu cha mkakati wetu wa usitawi. kwa jamii, uundaji wa bidhaa tena na vitu vilivyomaliza kutumika na kupanda miti upya, kwa njia hizi basi Tumebuni njia mbali mbali za namna ya kusikiliza na tunapunguza athari yetu kwenye mazingira. kuwasiliana na wateja wetu; hii ikijumuisha kuwahudumia wateja wetu moja kwa moja kupitia internet, kuboresha huduma tunazotoa na kuendelea kutoa mafunzo kwa Mtazamo wa siku zijazo wafanyikazi wetu waliyo kwenye vituo vya kuhudumia Mnamo mwezi wa Aprili mwaka, nilitueliwa kwenye wateja na madukani. Mwaka huu, tulizindua mpango wa Bodi ya Umoja wa Mataifa ya United Nations Global “in your shoes”, ambapo wafanyikazi wote wa kampuni Compact. Huu ni mpango wa harakati ya kujotolea wa hii hupata fursa ya kuhudumu siku nzima katika kituo cha kuhimiza wenye biashara kote ulimwenguni kukubali Ujumbe Wa kuhudumia wateja na kwenye duka ili wapate kufahamu sera za kuwajibika kwa masuala ya kijamii, na kuhimiza ana kwa ana umuhimu wa uhusiano wetu na wateja. mashirika kuunga mkono ruwaza ya Malengo ya Afisa Mkuu Milenia yaani Millennium Development Goals, pamoja Pamoja na hivyo tunajizatiti kuhakikisha kuwa kuna na mashirika kuzingatia haki za kibinadamu, maadili mazingira mazuri yanayowasaidia wafanyikazi wetu Mtendaji yafaayo ya kuajiri, kuunga mkono ulindaji wa mazingira kujisikia huru na kumakinika kwenye kazi zao na na vita dhidi ya ufisadi. Mwenyekiti wa Bodi hii ni pia kufurahikia mafanikio yao. Mkabala wetu ni wa Katibu Mkuu wa Umoja wa Mataifa na huwa inatoa Bw. Robert Collymore kujumuisha kila kitu na huwapa wafanyikazi wetu mpango kamili wa uzima, mahali pa watoto kucheza, ushauri wa upeo wa juu wa mikakati kwa hili la UN Global Compact, na kwa kiwango cha kawaida, pia huduma ya ukumbi wa mazoezi kwa bei nafuu, wasaa hutoa ushauri kwa kitengo kinachoendelea kukuwa cha wa mapumziko, sherehe za kijamii za mara kwa mara, kudumisha uhusiano baina ya Umoja wa Mataifa na pamoja na mshahara mzuri na fursa mbali mbali za Wafanyibiashara. kujiendeleza kikazi. Hii inabainisha zaidi shughuli za Safaricom, na mimi Kuendelea kuimarisha uwiano wa jinsia ni jambo naahidi kuwa nitahakikisha tunaendelea kukadiria Kutambua msingi wa malengo yetu na utimizaji wa ahadi zetu ninalolipa uzito sana. Wakati huu tunapotoa ripoti hii, na kuwasilisha kwenu ripoti yetu ya utendaji kazi Nimejawa na furaha isiyo kifani ninapokaribisha jambo sawa kabisa tunapotambulika kuwa uwiano wa jinsia katika vyeo vyote vya kazi vilivyo katika kiukamilifu. Miongoni mwa mambo nitakayoyapatia kampuni hii uko katika hali nzuri ya kima cha 1:1, hata kipaumbele katika mwaka huu unaokuja ni: taarifa hii ya udumishaji wa usitawi. Kudumisha miongoni mwa kampuni chache za hapa hivyo kuna nafasi ya kuimarika zaidi, hasa upande wa mafanikio ni jambo linaloendelea daima hapa Kenya kutoa taarifa yake ya usitawi kwa kazi na nafasi ya juu katika kampuni. Msimamo wetu • Kuendelea kuboresha mazingira ya kazi ya Safaricom, na taarifa hii inaashiria kigezo kutumia muongozo mkakamavu wa ukadriaji ni kuwaajiri wanawake wenye ujuzi ufaao katika vyeo wafanyikazi wetu ili Safaricom iwe ndiyo muajiri muhimu kwetu kama kampuni. Kizazi kijacho wa Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) na ule wa hivyoo vya juu na tumeanzisha mpango maalum wa anayependwa zaidi katika eneo hili kimejumuishwa kwenye mikataba ya Safaricom Umoja wa Mataifa wa United Nations Global kuwasaidia wafanyikazi wa kike kufanikisha fursa zao za ya kuzingatia mazingira yaani Safaricom 2.0 Compact Communication on Progress. kupanda madaraka kazini. • Kuboresha njia za kupatikana kwa bidhaa na ecosystem charters, na kuwepo kwa jambo hili Kushadidi ahadi yetu juu ya huduma kwa wateja waliyo na mahitaji muhimu. muhimu kunaonyesha lengo letu la kutimiza Uwasilishaji wa taarifa ya usitawi na juhudi maadili • Kuhakikisha kuwa sisi na washirika wetu wa wajibu kwa ujumla na kujiwekea kigezo zetu za kufikia usitawi huo sio matukio ya mara Tulitia saini mkataba wa kuzingatia kanuni za maadili kibiashara tunaendesha shughuli zetu kwa uadilifu cha ufanisi kwa njia ya uwazi. Tulipendelea moja tu au matukio ya kiupweke, kwa vile sasa ya biashara hapa Kenya na kuahidi umma kuwa tutatilia na uwajibikaji wa hali ya juu zaidi. kutekeleza haya ili kuanzisha mjadala na kuweka malengo ya usitawi, kujiwekea kigezo maanani maadili katika uendeshaji wetu wa biashara washikadau wetu kwa uaminifu. cha mafanikio na kuwasilisha ripoti juu ya ukuaji ni hii katika kila kiwango cha kampuni hii. Tunachukulia • Kukuza jalada imara la bidhaa na huduma ili shughuli inayoendelea ambayo ni muhimu na kiini kwa uzito mkubwa swala la ufisadi na ulaghai ndani ya kuangazia baadhi ya changamoto zinazokabili taifa Kama kampuni inayoheshimika na yenye hasa cha namna tunavyotekeleza shughuli zetu. shirika, lakini hata hivyo tunatambua kuwa kufaulu kwetu hili katika maswala ya afya, elimu na kilimo. sifa ya kuwa kiongozi, basi pia inakuwa ni kwa suala hili kunategemea zaidi mazingira yaliopo, na kuwa hata wagawaji na washirika wetu wa kibiashara • Kuendelea kupunguza athari kwenye mazingira vile vile wana jukumu muhimu la kutekeleza katika isababishwayo na uendeshaji shughuli zetu. kufanikisha azimio hili. Jee ungependa kumskiza Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji Robert Collymore? Tumia kodi hii ya QR kufungua tovuti ya Safaricom na utazame video fupi/onyesho kupitia kwenye mtandao Afisa Mkuu Mtemdaji akitoa ujumbe wake. 20 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 21 3 22 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 23 Safaricom About Safaricom at a glance Launched FY 2011/12 in October 3.1.Who we are 2000 Annual revenues of With over 19.1 million subscribers, Safaricom is one of the leading integrated communications Operating solely in Kenya, Safaricom is listed on the Nairobi Stock Exchange, trading in the KShs 107 companies in Africa, providing voice and data communications services to business, telecommunications and technology segment. The company headquarters are located at BILLION consumer and public sector clients. Safaricom House along Waiyaki Way in Nairobi. • Widest 3G network and most Safaricom exercises its corporate social expansive WIMAX presence in Kenya investments through the Safaricom Foundation, Safaricom provides connectivity to over 70% of Kenyans who use the a separate legal entity registered as a charitable trust. The Foundation is responsible 19.1 million • internet regularly. Most successful commercial mobile for charitable contributions to communities, community groups and NGOs in Kenya. customers money transfer service worldwide Since its launch in 2007, M-PESA has As an organisation, we consist of ten operating grown spectacularly and is now used divisions, namely: actively by over 15 million people. • Chief Executive Office • Continuously innovating and connecting communities • Executive Business Office Average minutes use per month Safaricom continues to innovate and create new solutions to service the Project Management Office per subscriber: communication needs of Kenyans. Our ability to deliver voice and data services • Profit centres: Enterprise Business Unit 116 minutes Consumer Business Unit across a diverse variety of platforms Financial Services is backed by substantial investments in broadband capacity and a strong 64% of revenue from • Corporate centres: foundation in undersea cable, satellite, Risk Management metro and trunk cable connectivity. Customer Care Marketing voice calls Over 70% share of Corporate Affairs Finance internet Resources Technology subscriptions 71.3% Market penetration 67% market share by SIM cards 24 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 25 About Safaricom About Safaricom 3.2. What we do Our Products and Services VOICE SMS DATA FINANCIAL SERVICES DEVICES Contributing 64% Focused initiatives The next frontier Spectacular growth Migrating to of total revenues deliver growth of growth drives expansion data-enabled devices and evolution FY 2011/12 Despite intense competition and Ongoing initiatives have mainLow penetration and rapidly growing Launched in 2007, M-PESA has Focus is on transitioning to price wars, mobile voice calls remain tained usage and year-on-year demand presents significant growth been responsible for significantly data-enabled devices (handsets/ the primary contributor to the revenues have remained stable at opportunities. WIMAX is an area that deepening financial inclusion and laptops/ tablets). The terminals team company revenues. 7.7% of total revenue. has been identified as offering now forms a core part of the lives (responsible for purchasing) has a particular opportunities for growth for of Kenyans, with over 15 million KPI to ensure that 96% of the Reduced tariffs continue to stimulate Successful initiatives include: enterprise data. subscribers, over 900 business devices they purchase are increased demand: • Introduction of SMS bundles partnerships and a nationwide data-enabled within the year. Safaricom currently enjoys more than agent network of over 39 000 Voice usage grew 84% year-on-year • Launch of unlimited SMS 70% share of the internet subscriptions outlets. Successful initiatives include: and average monthly minutes of use services with Twitter and market. • Smart O Campaign (MOU) per subscriber rose from 96 to Facebook SMS Successful initiatives include: 116 minutes. Successful initiatives Our investment in the most extensive • Webbox include: • Premium Rate Service Provider 3G national data network, capable of • Nunua na M-PESA service • Introduction of a sub US$100 (PRSP) promotions offering speeds of up to 42 mbps, has (buy goods) • Skiza (caller ringback tone) service smartphone ensured our continued strength in this 22% of subscribers key area of future growth. • M-PESA PrePay Visa Card • International traffic 130% increase • Lipa Karo na M-PESA Successful initiatives include: (pay school fees) • Safaricom Media Store • M-Ticketing • Daily bundles launched • Kulahappy local content push • Internet down campaign usage and bundle awareness Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue KShs 68.96bn KShs KShs KShs KShs 7.77bn 6.59bn 16.87bn 6.80bn 26 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 27 About Safaricom About Safaricom 3.3. The market in which we operate Telecommunications is an exciting, Although the entire Information and rapidly developing industry. The Communications Technology (ICT) sector continuous introduction of new only accounts for approximately 2-3% of technologies shifts capabilities and global CO2 emissions2, the anticipated growth brings new entrants and competitors into of global demand for telecom services will the sector. As a result, the landscape require huge amounts of energy in the years is a vibrant one of shifting competition to come, more than doubling the sector’s between traditional fixed-line telcos, global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by mobile network operators, internet 20203. service providers and cable operators. The rapidly growing demand for This competition is also changing and telecommunication products and services expanding the role of telecommunications also requires large energy inputs, particularly and creating new product and service as datacenters continue to grow, which will opportunities that have the potential to not continue to contribute to the sector’s carbon only be profitable, but to mitigate climate footprint. change and reduce fossil fuel use as well. As the KPMG report concludes, the challenge The sector has the ability to help other for the T&I sector is to remain innovative sectors address their sustainability and proactive in offering other industries challenges by providing enabling sustainable solutions, while improving its technologies to help increase their own preparedness for the effects of the energy efficiency and reduce their carbon sustainability megaforces. footprints. Remote networking and mobile applications for services such as banking, healthcare and shopping, Accepting the challenge KPMG’s International Survey of Corporate for example, can help to reduce travelResponsibility Reporting 2011 indicates related carbon emissions. that 74% of T&I companies now report on sustainability, an increase of over 50% An assessment of the sustainability of the since 2008. telecommunications sector undertaken We are delighted to be part of this group by KPMG1 notes that the opportunity is and to be leading the way as one of the first there for the Telecommunications and Kenyan companies to report on sustainability Internet (T&I) sector to become the key based on the GRI reporting guidelines. enabler for ‘green growth’ in all sectors of the economy. The T&I sector is not without its sustainability challenges, nonetheless. The KPMG report also notes that the sector faces the risks inherent in the sustainability megaforces of climate change, population growth, urbanisation and wealth. 1. KPMG International (2012): Expect the Unexpected: Building Business Value in a Changing World. 2. OECD (2010): Greener and smarter: ICTs, the Environment and Climate Change. 3. The Climate Group (2008): SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age. Global eSustainability Initiative (GeSI). 28 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 29 About Safaricom About Safaricom 3.4. The value we create As a converged communications company, the provision of our services directly contributes to the functioning and development of Kenyan society, both directly and indirectly. 30 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 31 About Safaricom About Safaricom Our direct value to society The direct value we create is represented in the value added statement below: Sustainability Report Financial Data ( FYs 2010/11 and 2011/12) FY 2011/12 FY 2010/11 KShs ’000 KShs ’000 FY 2012 FY 2011 Value Generated Revenue 106,995,529 94,832,227 Other income 487,881 36,368 Finance income 873,518 871,249 Share of profit from associate 805 7,748 Total value generated 108,357,734 95,747,592 Value Allocated Distributions to Employees as Salaries, Wages and Other benefits 5,103,487 4,463,404 Paid to dealers and agents 16,536,008 14,601,409 Paid to landlords 1,050,839 920,106 Paid to other suppliers 43,082,884 35,926,022 To government as taxation and dividends 11,226,376 11,036,541 Current income tax 4,741,793 5,202,390 Dividends 3,080,000 2,800,000 Licences fees 3,404,582 3,034,151 To shareholders (except Government) as dividends 5,720,000 5,200,000 To providers of finance as finance expenses 3,656,280 1,907,783 To Corporate Social Investment through Safaricom Foundantion 210,000 200,000 Retained for growth 21,771,860 21,492,328 Depreciation and amortization 17,944,253 16,333,355 Retained income 3,827,607 5,158,973 Total value allocated 108,357,734 95,747,592 Over and above the KShs 11 bn payments shown above, we also contributed the following to the government: PAYE & Withholding taxes 4,878,344 4,402,875 Net Value Added Taxes 10,594,103 9,293,240 Duty (Stamp, Excise & Import taxes) 8,884,047 10,989,022 24,356,493 24,685,137 This is a reflection of our commitment to development within the country. We won the top tax payer award for the 4th year in a row. 32 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 33 About Safaricom About Safaricom Safaricom Groove Awards Safaricom Kenyan Classical Fusion The Safaricom Groove Awards seek to promote, Safaricom Kenyan Classical Fusion aims to 3.5. Sponsorships Safaricom Sevens Rugby Tournament expose and celebrate gospel talent across Africa. nurture and develop budding local musical Safaricom has been the title sponsor of Since its inception in 2004, over 1 000 artists talent, taking young vocalists, instrumentalists Safaricom Marathon Africa’s premier sevens rugby tournament, and groups have been nominated and over 150 and choirs to the next level. Selected artists Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in northern Safaricom Sevens, since October 2009. An groove statuettes have been presented to artists are given a shared platform to perform for Kenya hosted the 13th Safaricom Lewa iconic event, the tournament is a platform for throughout Kenya and the East Africa region in audiences all over the world. Marathon in 2012. The event allows marketing Kenya as a tourism destination and recognition of their gospel talent. participants from all over the globe to for raising the profile of the sport of rugby. compete in an internationally-acclaimed Since its inception in 1996, the Safaricom race, while running through some of Africa’s Sevens tournament has continued to grow in most breathtaking scenery. strength, as more and more teams express interest in attending Africa’s premier 7-a-side As a result, this popular race has become rugby tournament. one of the country’s major sporting events and one of the 10 ‘must do’ marathons in the world, growing from 180 runners raising US$50 000 in 2000 to 1 000 runners raising US$500 000 in 2011. Since the inaugural marathon in 2000, US$3.25m has been raised for a wide range of projects and thousands of Kenyans have benefitted through schools, hospitals, community and conservation projects. Dealer of the Year Awards (DOYA) DOYA is an annual event that recognises the Safaricom Kenya Live efforts and successes of our dealer and agent Safaricom Kenya Live is an exciting partners. As well as recognising and rewarding engagement between Safaricom and the top achievers, the event allows us to show our Sakata Ball Kenyan music industry. It is an initiative aimed appreciation for all of our business partners and to Safaricom Sakata Ball aims to expose and at promoting music excellence and talent build rapport with them in a festive, social setting. nurture our youth football talent. After a among Kenyan artists across all genres and rigorous and competitive selection process of regions. The initiative helps artists hone their countrywide under-17 football tournaments, 22 stage skills through a series of live music boys and 14 girls are chosen to represent the performances and provides eager audiences diversity of the Kenyan nation. The selected with access to fresh, exciting homegrown players then spend six months at a training musical content downloads via digital academy, being coached by seasoned, mobile platforms. professional football talent managers and exposed to local and international scouts. 34 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 35 About Safaricom About Safaricom 3.6. Recognition We are proud of the numerous awards we have won since our launch in 2000. As this is our first sustainability 3.7. Governance report, we have included highlights of the awards we have received during the last 10 years, with an emphasis The CEO on sustainability and innovation. In the future, we will share significant milestones and awards received for the The Board of Directors of Safaricom is is the Sustainability reporting period. responsible for the governance of the company and has final accountability for its management, Champion on direction and performance. In executing these the Board duties, the Board is accountable to stakeholders for ensuring that the company complies with all relevant laws and the highest standards of business ethics. Best Product, Initiative or Service for Warrior of Warriors 2010 Underserved Segments 2012 Most Profitable Company 2010 Lifetime Contribution to the Best Mobile Money Transfer Service 2011 Best Social Marketing Campaign 2007 The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the Best Mobile Money Service 2009/2010 Best CSR Campaign 2005 Millennium Development Best Broadcast Commercial (Runner Up) Sustainability Champion on the Board and Goals 2010 Category 2008 Best CSR Campaign 2004 presents the sustainability strategy, and related considerations, to the Board. Regular updates on the sustainability process are provided to the CEO to feed into updates to the Board. Appointment process In accordance with good corporate governance, Outstanding contributions and/or the appointment of Directors to the Board is innovations in conservation of natural made in a formal, rigorous and transparent Company of the Year 2004/2005/2007 areas and support for sustainable Investor of the Year 2004/2005/2007 Changing Lives tourism 2007 manner, based on merit and against objective Corporate Social Responsibility Award (Kenyans for 2002/2003/2004/2005/ 2007 Kenya) 2011 criteria. Members of the Board also have to declare whether they have any shareholdings in companies that deal with Safaricom or in companies that could pose a potential conflict of interest. Best Overall Campaign 2011 Corporate that has planted the most Highly Commended Work Place Sponsorship of the Year 2010 Board members Campaign of the Year trees in the year 2005/2006 Practice Award 2010 (non-profit) 2006 The Board is composed of the following members, represented in the table below. For further detail regarding members of the Board, and their résumés, please refer to the Annual Report. Mr Nicholas Nganga Mr Robert Collymore Chairman and Non-Executive Director (Male) CEO and Executive Director (Male) Mrs Susan Mudhune Mr Michael Joseph Non-Executive Director (Female) Non-Executive Director (Male) Mr Joseph Kinyua Mrs Esther Koimett Non-Executive Director (Male) Alternate Director to Joseph Kinyua (Female) World Business and Development Technology Review 2008 Top 50 Most Innovative East Africa’s Most Respected Companies 2012 Company 2007/2009 Mr Timothy Harrabin Mr Nicholas Johnathan Read Non-Executive Director (Male) Non-Executive Director (Male) Ms Nancy Macharia Mr John Tombleson Non-Executive Director (Female) Alternate Director to Robert Collymore (Male) African Mrs Enid Muriuki Company Secretary (Female) Ms. Karen Witts Non-Executive Director (Female) BUSINESS African Telecoms of the Year 2010 Best ICT Solutions Provider For Enterprise Markets in Africa at the 2011 AfricaCom Awards 36 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 37 About Safaricom Our stakeholder charters An output of the Safaricom 2.0 The employee Board committees The customer charter process, the following charters charter The Board has established an Audit Committee and We will communicate honestly, describe our commitment to each of We will provide a great place to work We recognise and value our mutually beneficial relationship offer simple and relevant products, our stakeholder groups. and grow, where both individual a Nomination and Remuneration Committee, each of with the communities that surround us. We operate within a and deliver on our promises to the accomplishments and team effort which has formal terms of reference approved by business ecosystem comprised of numerous stakeholders will be rewarded. customer with speed the Board. whose dedicated support enables our continued success. and consistency. We will provide opportunities for The Audit Committee assists the Board in personal empowerment and career In recognition of this interdependence, we are committed to discharging its duties relating to the safeguarding of growth in an atmosphere of trust, engaging our stakeholders in a consistent manner guided honesty and openness. assets, the operation of adequate financial systems by the ‘Safaricom Way’ values of speed, simplicity and trust. and control processes, and the preparation of The future financial statements and related financial reporting generation’s charter in compliance with all applicable legal requirements The future is now — and The precautionary principle our conduct and business and accounting standards. Risk Management matters At Safaricom, the precautionary principle is applied in the following instances and manner: practices today must be relating to operations are regularly reported to the designed to create and shape Board Audit Committee. • Where unambiguous scientific proof of cause and a sustainable tomorrow. effect is not available (in the case of rolling out our The regulators It is comprised of financially-literate members, BTS, for example), we act with a duty of care. charter having the necessary ability and experience • Where the benefits of early action are judged to The shareholder We will build constructive, to understand financial statements. The Chief be greater than the likely costs of delay respectful, open and transparent (installation of new masts and radio equipment, charter Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and relationships with all regulators. for example), we will inform society why such We will enhance shareholder value Director of Risk Management, as well as external While being compliant with all action is being taken. through adherence to the highest audit representatives (the company’s auditors) regulation and applicable laws, • Where there is the possibility of irreversible standards of corporate governance and attend all committee meetings as permanent we will adopt a firm approach on damage to natural life-support functions, we take world-class management practice. issues that may be detrimental to attendees. precautionary action irrespective of the forgone industry growth. benefits. Our shareholders can expect timely The media charter The Director of Risk Management and the external • We always listen to calls for a change of course, and accurate information, and the In order to actively participate in auditors have unrestricted access to the committee incorporating representatives of such calls into opportunity to engage with us through informing public opinion, we will deliberative forums and maintaining transparency various convenient forums. and its Chairman. continuously and proactively engage throughout the discussions. with the media in a factual, speedy • We never shy away from publicity and never try The Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s and honest way. to suppress information, however unpalatable. responsibilities include the review of remuneration and • Where there is public unease, we act decisively incentives for the Board and Senior Management. The We will take the lead in building to respond to that unease by facilitating extensive, open deliberations. industry knowledge among the terms of this committee satisfy the requirements of the various media groups and hold them Capital Markets Authority. At present, compensation to account for is not linked to social and environmental performance The society charter responsible reporting. We will work closely with specifically, but to the overall performance of Kenyans to be a respected the company. and empowering contributor to society. Focused on Accessibility and accountability upliftment, our relationship Shareholders and employees are able to provide will be built on the recommendations or direction to the Board through principles of partnership, the Annual General Meeting (shareholders), Investor We subscribe to the United Nations Global humility, openness and Briefings (shareholders) and via inputs into the Compact, all the regulations of the National The business professionalism. management report to the Board. Environment Management Authority, and the partners charter Global Reporting Initiative. We will engage in mutually beneficial and sustainable relationships For further detail on committee members and meeting with all business partners in an attendance, please refer to the Annual Report. environment of equity, mutual respect and honesty. We are committed to growing Kenyan businesses and will offer preferential support to innovative local businesses. 38 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 39 How we engage with Customers Employees our stakeholders What matters to them What matters to them • Innovative products (M-PESA) • Remuneration and benefits • Network stability and quality • Recognition and career opportunities • Affordability • Safe, flexible working environment • Value for Money • Opportunity to interact directly with management and CEO Future Generations • Feedback on products & services • Help company to achieve its objectives and network performance. What matters to them • Source of revenues • Brand ambassadors and the face of Shareholders the company • Their needs influence tariffs/costs • Actions on managing • Drive business operations carbon footprint • Their reactions influence and innovation What matters to them competitor activities • Return on investments (Dividends) • Innovation • Staff survey results • Sustainability • Appreciation of share value • Long-term business and financial sustainability • Corporate Governance • Our future ecosystem lde takeho rs • Their investments rs i • Show of confidence in the business nce us Media How ou lue nf • Enhance brand and Image What matters to them • Provide a platform for • Accurate and timely information communication to customers, • Opinion pieces Kenyans and the world • Partnerships • Provide distribution channel • Awareness of products • Secondary face of the company and services • Generate revenues • Influence tariffs and costs Dealers • Provides conducive operating environment What matters to them • Revenues • Pricing and profit margins • Enhance brand and image Society • Secured, consistent supply of stock • Support from Safaricom • Quality of products and services • Business and financial What matters to them • Influence tariffs and costs • Influence earnings, tariffs and costs sustainability of Safaricom • Influence business operations • Provide medium and infrastructure • Partnerships • Competitor activity for operations • Environmentally friendly • Secondary face of company activities • Preservation of society and cultures Regulators Suppliers What matters to them What matters to them • Compliance with legislation • Profit margins • Quality of services • Good payment terms • Public-private partnerships • Business and financial • Taxes and licenses Sustainability of Safaricom • Reputation and credentials 40 40 Safaricom SafaricomSustainability Report2012 SustainabilityReport 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 41 41 About Safaricom About Safaricom Ways in which we engage with our stakeholders Method Customers Employees Shareholders Business Partners Regulators Society Media Future Generations Dealers Suppliers Media (traditional and social)    SMS   Direct (shop etc)  Web      Team-building activities  Staff Council  Surveys and market research   Briefings        Annual General Meeting (AGM)   Phone   Email      Bulletins       Visits     Newsletters      Magazine      Forums (online and offline)       Proactive engagement on  behalf of the Industry Company Events        Reports       Charters          We’re listening Channels customers and other Customercare@safaricom.co.ke stakeholders can use to reach us: 100 (PrePay) or 200 (PostPay) www.facebook.com/SafaricomLtd +254 722 002100 (PrePay) @ Safaricom_ltd +254 722 002200 (PostPay) 42 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 43 4 44 44 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 45 45 Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy 4.1. Our strategic vision 4.2. How we manage risk Sustainability is fundamental to our strategic Risk Management at Safaricom is promoted and Our ERM process is based on the COSO framework. It uses a defined risk universe and definitive thinking. As this report reflects, we understand promulgated by the Risk Management Division. scales of 1 to 5 for ‘likelihood’ and ‘impact’. Established risk registers are reviewed by division that we have a significant role to play as a The division works with management to address managers, with risks re-assessed quarterly. The divisional assessments are compiled by the enterprise responsible corporate citizen, and take the key risks in the telecommunications environment risk team and the critical and high risks are presented to, reviewed, discussed and moderated as cumulative effect of our activities on long-term — including revenue assurance and fraud, necessary by the Executive Committee (Ex-Co). sustainability very seriously. information systems auditing, security, and business improvements and controls — using a 4.3. Our sustainability risks As a growing organisation, we appreciate the credible Enterprise Risk Management importance of managing our carbon footprint. (ERM) process. In determining our sustainability risks, Safaricom engaged KPMG to undertake a sustainability risk The first step is to measure our emissions and materiality assessment for the business. KPMG interviewed eight Ex-Co members to identify the crossthese are reported on in this document. Most environmentally compliant functional risks to the business. In December 2010, we were distinguished We maintain three to five year strategic as the most environmentally compliant The identified risks were then grouped together into eight risk categories, with associated sub-risks. planning cycles and review the social, firm in telecommunications by the National Once categorised, Ex-Co members were asked to rank each risk category using Safaricom’s existing environmental and economic contexts of our Environment Management Authority. ERM criteria at a materiality assessment workshop. operations during each cycle. The outcome of the materiality assessment is presented in the sustainability risk heat map below. Maintain market leadership in subscriber 5 & revenue market share R1 R1 Dynamic Regulatory Environment R6 R2 Energy Security 4 R2 Grow all revenue R3 Network Stability streams through R4 Innovation value addition R3 Growth towards Total Communications IMPACT R5 Supplier Ethics & Performance R5 R6 Ethics and Values 3 R4 R7 Employee Environment Capitalise on the R8 Environmental Performance R7 data opportunity 2 R8 Sustain Voice Revenue 1 Increase penetration under financial services Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Certain LIKELIHOOD Transforming lives Drive organisational performance & generate returns Performance 1 2 3 4 5 Continued cost reduction programs The heat map plots each of the eight identified risks (R1 to R8) in terms of the possibility or ‘likelihood’ of the risk happening and the potential damage or ‘impact’ it will have on the business should it occur. 46 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 47 Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy Our risk categories and associated sub-risks Each of the risk categories and its associated sub-risks are described in the following table. The risks are also linked to the organisational strategic pillars and stakeholder groups they are likely to impact, as well as how Safaricom measures its performance in relation to the risk and sub risk category. Risk category Sub-risks identified Strategic pillars Relevant GRI Performance Measures Risk category Sub-risks identified Strategic pillars Relevant GRI Performance Measures affected stakeholder affected stakeholder group(s) group(s) R1 Dynamic • 4% revenue to • M-PESA • Regulators • SO5: Public policy positions, R6 Ethics and • Ethics • M-PESA • Shareholders • SO2: Percentage & total Regulatory regulator and • Voice revenue • Customers participation in public policy Values • Bribery and corruption • Organisational • Society number of business units Environment increasing • Cost reduction development and lobbying • Fraud Performance • Employees analysed for risks related • Changing legislation • SO7: Total number of legal actions • Perceived dominance • Cost reduction to corruption and regulation for anti-competitive behaviour, antiin market • SO3: Percentage of • Compliance trust, and monopoly practices and • Transparency in CSI employees trained in • Regulatory their outcomes programmes organisation’s anti-corruption environment around • SO8: Monetary value of significant mobile money transfer policies and procedures fines and total number of non• Spectrum allocations • SO4: Actions taken in monetary sanctions for non— particularly Long response to incidents compliance with laws Term Evolution/4G of corruption and regulations R2 Energy Security • Availability • Cost reduction • Regulators • EN4: Indirect energy consumption R7 Employee • Skills availability • Market leadership • Employees • LA1: Total workforce • Cost • Customers by primary source Environment • Retention • Value addition by employment type, • Emissions • EN3: Direct energy consumption by • Employee health and • Organisational employment contract, and primary energy source safety performance region, broken down R3 Network • Lost hours • Cost reduction by gender • Coverage • Market leadership • Regulators • Completed calls Stability • Maintenance • LA 3: Benefits provided to • Value addition • Customers • Call setup success rate • Customer churn full-time employees that are • Data opportunities • Business • Dropped calls • Sub-optimal fibre not provided to temporary or • M-PESA partners • Blocked calls infrastructure part-time employees, by • Speech quality • Vandalism/theft major operations • Handover success rate • Health and safety statistics. • Call set up time • LA10: Average hours • RX Levels of training per year per R4 Innovation • Stagnation employee by gender and by • Market leadership • Customers • Social innovations successfully • Cost employee category • Value addition • Society piloted or taken to market • Competitive edge • EC5: Range of ratios of • Data opportunities • Future • Speed of deployment standard entry level wage • M-PESA generations • Consumer awareness by gender compared to local • Organisational minimum wage at significant performance locations of operations • Cost reduction R5 Supplier Ethics • Bribery and corruption • Organisation • Business • Number of suppliers that completed R8 Environmental • Carbon emissions • Market leadership • Regulators • EN8: Total water withdrawal & Performance • Fraud performance partners Supplier Sustainability SelfPerformance • Waste (electronic, • Cost reduction • Future by source • Compliance • Cost reduction Assessment exercise paper) generations • EN16: Total direct and indirect • Child labour • Electromagnetic • Society greenhouse gas emissions radiation by weight • Infrastructural impacts 48 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 49 5 Safaricom’s sustainability performance is linked to its material sustainability issues. Each material issue has one or more Our associated Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) by which it is measured. In this Performance section, each of the eight categorised sustainability risks is assessed in detail. Each category of risk is evaluated from the following perspectives: how we have approached the risk, our engagement with stakeholders and our performance. 50 50 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 51 51 Dynamic regulatory environment Dynamic regulatory environment Some of the risks associated with this risk to mobile money transfer in compliance with the law and has category include: services. Safaricom is, engaged in competition with other however, engaging proactively operators using superior product • Risk of non-compliance with with the Central Bank and other offerings, customer management, quality regulatory requirements stakeholders to ensure that any of service and a strong brand as key Apart from the conditions set out in regulations passed continue to differentiators. Safaricom’s operating licence, Safaricom promote the growth of mobile is required to comply with the provisions money transfer and to deepen • Development of Long Term Evolution of various Acts of Parliament and financial inclusion. (LTE) in the Kenyan market the Regulations, such as the Kenya Long Term Evolution (LTE) is currently Information and Communications Act • Increasing regulatory fees being discussed by Government (KICA), Environmental Management Fees paid to regulators (such as as a way to offer more broadband and Coordination Act (EMCA), Capital licence fees, spectrum charges, capacity in the telecommunications Markets Authority (CMA) and the Kenya compliance charges, local market. Accordingly, Safaricom has Safaricom operates in a Civil Aviation Act (KCAA). Adherence to authority payments) remain a to ensure that it is ready to offer these dynamic regulatory environment Local Authority by-laws and guidelines, significant cost to Safaricom and services from both a technological that requires it to ensure as well as Codes of Practice developed amount to approximately 4% of and infrastructural perspective in full compliance with licence by Regulators is also mandatory. Failure revenues. Failure to pay these order to remain competitive in the conditions, regulations, byto comply with any of these regulatory fees would expose Safaricom telecommunications industry. laws and changes to governing requirements would expose Safaricom to penalties and compromise legislation. Failure to meet to non-compliance penalties and other our ability to operate and deliver Long Term Evolution prescribed compliance levels will unfavourable regulatory interventions. services to customers. Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a Fourth expose Safaricom to penalties Generation wireless broadband and other remedial sanctions Safaricom’s compliance with regulatory • Safaricom’s perceived technology. It is an easily deployable requirements remains very high. dominance in the market network technology, which offers high R1 from sector regulators. Safaricom files Quarterly Returns with Owing to our market share, speeds and low latencies over long distances. the Communications Commission Safaricom is anecdotally of Kenya (CCK) on a wide range of perceived as being dominant parameters, including service levels, — although no official finding in customer management and usage of this regard has been made at spectrum resources. Safaricom will this time. If Safaricom is found to Our approach continue to ensure compliance with all be dominant in certain markets, For all of the risks identified, Safaricom’s Dynamic regulatory and licence requirements, the company will be subject to while ensuring engagement with industry additional regulatory scrutiny and strategy to mitigate or manage them includes: regulatory regulators on issues that affect obligations. • Proactively ensuring compliance our operations. with licence obligations, legislation, Competition Law in Kenya environment regulations, by-laws and regulator • Changing legislation and regulations provides that an entity in a guidelines. relating to mobile money transfer dominant position does not • Actively engaging with regulators Legislation and regulatory requirements automatically attract regulatory through face-to-face meetings, written governing mobile money transfers sanction unless it is found to be submissions and memoranda when are evolving alongside changes in the abusing its dominant position changes to the existing environment are Kenyan telecommunications sector. in the market, in which case, a under discussion. More specifically, the financial services heavy penalty of up to 10% of • Facilitating workshops and information provided by Safaricom through M-PESA revenues may be imposed. sessions with regulators, members of are likely to attract regulation, creating the media and affected stakeholders to additional compliance requirements. In keeping with Competition discuss public policy issues. Law provisions, Safaricom has • Attending stakeholder workshops and Any significant changes to existing ensured that its operations lobbying on behalf of the industry. regulatory environment may present a and actions in the market are 52 52 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 53 Dynamic regulatory environment Dynamic regulatory environment Stakeholders with whom we engage Safaricom engages with a range of stakeholders on regulatory and policy issues affecting the communications industry. How we performed Accordingly, we have developed a Regulatory Charter (see p 39 ) to guide our interactions with regulators. The Charter In this context, our performance is measured through the following KPIs: commits us to building constructive, respectful, open and transparent relationships with all regulators. Non-compliance fines Formal legal actions lodged Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: One way we measure our performance in Another measure of our performance this area is the number of fines received in this area is whether there are any The Communications Safaricom engages with regulators and industry stakeholders on a range of issues as highlighted for non-compliance. In the financial year formal legal actions* for anti-competitive Commission of below through face-to-face meetings, written submissions and by attending and lobbying at industry 2011/2012, we were fined KShs 500 000 behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly Kenya (CCK) workshops and events. for failing to meet the Quality of Service practices lodged against Safaricom. (QoS) levels set by the CCK. Mobile Termination Rates (MTRs) At the time of reporting, no formal legal MTRs represent the cost of terminating or completing a call received from other networks. Safaricom While there are specific reasons, including The Central Bank of actions of anti-competitive behaviour have receives the largest number of calls from other networks and this charge helps to cushion the cost of the expansion of our network, that certain Kenya (CBK) been lodged by, or against, Safaricom. terminating incoming calls from other networks to Safaricom customers. Safaricom has maintained a CCK QoS levels were not reached, we consistent engagement strategy with CCK, the Government and other stakeholders to ensure that the nevertheless continue to take measures Ministry of Information MTR regime in Kenya is cost based and reflective of the operating costs in the industry. *For simplicity, we adopt the definition of the term so as to improve our QoS on an ongoing ‘action’ as provided in section 2 of the Interpretation and and Communications basis in order to exceed the QoS targets General Provisions Act (Chapter 2 of the Laws of Kenya) Spectrum usage fees set by the CCK. which is any civil proceeding in a court as defined in Safaricom relies heavily on spectrum resources allocated to it by CCK to provide mobile voice section 2 of the Civil Procedure Act. The National Environment and data services. CCK charges Safaricom (and other mobile operators) significant fees for use The ‘Network Stability’ section of this of spectrum. In the 2011/2012 financial year, Safaricom paid KShs 3.2 billion in spectrum fees. report (see Section R3.) describes Management Authority Safaricom has continued to lobby CCK to reduce the fees charged for spectrum to reduce operating our performance relative to each QoS (NEMA) costs. Following dialogue with Government and the CCK, on 06 October 2011, spectrum usage fees indicator and the actions we are taking to were reduced by an average of 41%. The new spectrum charges took effect from July 2012. improve our performance. Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) Universal Service Fund (USF) The USF is created under the provisions of the Kenya Information and Communications Act (KICA). Music Copyright This fund is expected to enable the Government to rollout communication services to underserved Society of Kenya areas that operators may not otherwise invest in. The CCK has set the contribution level to the (MCSK) fund at 0.5% of an operator’s gross turnover. Safaricom and other members of the communications industry are, however, concerned about the regulatory framework governing the USF, the governance The Capital Markets structure of the USF and the lack of representation for contributors to the fund. As an active member Authority (CMA) of the industry, Safaricom is continuing to engage the CCK and other industry stakeholders with a view to deferring the implementation of the USF levy until acceptable governance structure is in place The Betting Control to administer the fund. and Licensing Board (BCLB) In the meantime, Safaricom has been discharging its Universal Service Fund obligations by rolling out 1 136 digital villages (remote rural villages connected to the internet through cyber cafés) in various The Kenya Revenue parts of Kenya. Authority (KRA) Vandalism of telecommunications equipment The Kenya Civil The communications sector has continued to suffer from equipment vandalism and theft. These actions Aviation Authority have led to disruption of services to customers and increased the cost of operations. As a result of (KCAA) engagements with regulators and stakeholders by Safaricom and other operators, the Energy and Communications (Amendment) Bill (“the Vandalism Bill”) has been drafted and is currently awaiting enactment into law by Parliament. Designed to help deter vandalism and theft, this Bill proposes new Awareness workshops offences and stiffer penalties. In addition to the engagements described to Counterfeit handsets the right, our Regulatory & The CCK had issued a directive to all mobile operators to switch off counterfeit handsets by Public Policy Department September 2011. Along with other mobile operators and handset manufacturers, Safaricom is periodically hosts engaging the CCK regarding the gradual phasing out of these handsets. The Government and CCK awareness workshops need to put in place measures to ensure that these handsets are not allowed into the country. An on these risk areas with awareness campaign about the detrimental effects of these handsets is being carried out to inform relevant stakeholders, consumers. CCK and operators are working on the technical aspects of blocking including regulators, these handsets. investors and the media. Subscriber registration The Government has directed mobile operators to register the identity of all their customers to improve security. As of May 2012, there is no legislation mandating the registration of subscribers in Kenya, CCK and mobile operators have developed a set of Guidelines to provide a framework for registering customer identities. As at 01 May 2012, Safaricom has 90% of its subscriber base registered. 54 54 Safaricom SafaricomSustainability Report2012 SustainabilityReport 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 55 55 Energy Security Energy Security The primary energy source used by Current energy supply resources for the Safaricom is electricity from the national Safaricom network (and facilities) include national grid. Grid electricity is supplemented grid electricity, diesel generators and certain by backup diesel generators and renewable sources (solar, wind). Grid electricity renewable sources. supply is unpredictable, with long outages often experienced and current downtimes of around Electricity is used in Safaricom facilities an hour per day. As a result, approximately 90% and the network. As of the 31 March of our BTSs have backup generators that run on 2012, Safaricom facilities consist of diesel fuel. four offices (Jambo Contact Centre, Safaricom Headquarters I and II, Our renewable energy commitment and the Mahiga building) and 37 Safaricom currently has approximately 100 sites retail centres (34 existing and three using a hybrid renewable energy source planned). Within the network, there are (solar-wind-diesel-battery hybrid systems) and two approximately 2 900 Base Transceiver 100% renewable energy sites, which Energy security poses a significant Stations (BTSs), over 20 Major Switch run on solar-wind-battery hybrid systems4. challenge for Kenya and Safaricom, Rooms and medium-size Media Gate given the nation’s irregular energy Way (MGW) sites. Our present objective is to convert 78 sites that supply and the company’s expanding are currently powered 24/7 by diesel generators to infrastructure and energy requirements. Our energy policy statement hybrid renewable energy sources this year. Our network relies on energy, making it Base Transceiver Station Energy Supplies: a vital input into our business operations. Source % of BTSs Accordingly, we have drafted an R2 National grid 90.5% energy policy statement. Our statement 24/7 diesel-generated energy 5% prioritises energy efficiency as a means Renewable and Hybrid energy 4.5% of both reducing our environmental impact and generating cost saving opportunities, and we currently Our carbon footprint have several initiatives underway. It We are also aware of the carbon also guides decisions made by our emissions associated with our energy technical division regarding equipment consumption and have calculated our Energy specifications, site designs, power carbon footprint for the first time this year. This will help us understand optimisations and power strategies. where our biggest emission sources security are and how we can start to reduce our Energy security-related risks impact (see section R8 Environmental The risks associated with this category Performance for further detail). include: • Energy dependence (for network stability) • Availability of energy • Cost of energy • Emissions associated with our energy consumption 4. It is important to note that our criterion for implementing renewable energy systems is that a minimum of 70% of power can be supplied by renewable sources. 56 56 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 57 Energy Security Energy Security Stakeholders with whom we engage Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: Local communities As well as discussing proposed sites with the communities it serves, Government of Kenya (through • Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) petitioned to Safaricom also provides power and other services through its GSMAMinistry of Energy, Energy guided Community Power for Mobile (CPM) programme. Regulatory Commission and Ministry review electricity tariffs, and Examples of the amenities provided include: of Finance) reimburse the Road Maintenance Levy (RML) paid by Safaricom for diesel usage by BTS generators (as the levy applies to diesel used in vehicles, not stationary generators). • excess power and computers in Faza and Ndau, • community lighting in Tegea, and Safaricom has also petitioned to gazette this exception • a community water pump at Archers post. through the Ministry of Finance. The status of both petitions is pending. In sites where renewable energy sources are deployed, such as wind turbines, the objective of the installation is explained and discussed Kenya Power (KPLC) KPLC is the sole supplier of electrical power within the country. with the local community. Regular engagements take place to address the speed of grid connection, quality of supply, maintenance issues (such as Safaricom also contributes — directly and indirectly — to the extension stolen transformers) and billing activities. of the national grid in remote areas, improving the lives of these communities. There have been some improvements, especially regards billing management, but less so concerning the supply of National Environment Safaricom works closely with NEMA as it is the local environmental quality power, the slow speed of connection and responses to Management Authority (NEMA) regulatory authority and sets the standards that Safaricom installations maintenance issues. must meet. The REA is responsible for the extension of the national Rural Electrification Authority (REA) The green initiatives implemented by Safaricom — including Green grid supply in rural areas. Safaricom liaises and coordinates its network extensions with the REA to ensure the optimal BTSs, e-waste recycling (in partnership with CFSK), SIM recycling and allocation of resources and sites. tree planting — have also been recognised by NEMA and, in 2010, Safaricom was awarded the best telecommunication company in GSMA (GSM Association) The GSMA brings together stakeholders from the global GSM terms of environmental conservation. telecommunication sector, including mobile network operators, equipment vendors/suppliers and solution developers. Renewable energy equipment Safaricom engages with its renewable energy equipment partners suppliers by monitoring and reporting on the performance of installations and Safaricom is an active participant in GSMA best practice feeding back any performance deviations. This engagement has workshops, hosting two workshops in September 2008 and one resulted in the optimal operation of systems, improved efficiencies and in March 2011. reduced energy waste. In partnership with the GSMA, Safaricom has also embarked on a community power feasibility study — to determine the viability of Safaricom providing power to the communities that live around its BTSs. Green energy awareness workshops Safaricom held a company-wide green energy awareness workshop in February 2011, which showcased the green energy initiatives we are undertaking. Safaricom vendors and regulatory stakeholders were also invited to Shareholders ( Vodafone Plc, Safaricom shareholders, Vodafone in particular, have assisted exhibit and share experiences with our staff. Government of Kenya Public (NSE) in addressing the energy security risk by sharing best practices and processes and acting as a reference for new technologies, products and solutions, Inviting Safaricom, for instance, to attend Vodafone conferences and workshops. The most recent being the November 2011 Johannesburg conference on site and energy infrastructure. 58 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 59 Energy Security Energy Security How we performed The following tables detail our electricity and diesel consumption for the 2011/2012 financial year. Facilities energy management initiatives Electricity Digital Addressable Lighting Interface Building Management System Safaricom House II has had the latest Digital Jambo Contact Centre, Safaricom Care Facilities Network Addressable Lighting Interface (DALI) Centre and Safaricom House II feature a fully BTSs MSRs installed. The DALI adjusts the lighting levels integrated building management system, in the main work areas based on the intensity incorporating occupation-based lighting and Megawatt Hours (Mwh) 8 538.8 78 040.52 31 653.46 of external lighting, optimising lighting power air-conditioning control. The system has Gigajoules (GJ) 30 739.68 280 945.88 113 952.47 consumption throughout the building. enabled the company to monitor and control building systems, increasing energy efficiency. Merged Electrical Systems Previously, the power supplied to Safaricom Houses I and II was LED Lighting supported by different electrical and Power Factor Correction Banks Diesel LED lighting has been installed generator systems. By integrating Office and administrative facilities Facilities Network in all the main administration these systems, we have been able to have had power factor correction BTSs MSRs facilities, resulting in a substantial achieve reduced generator running banks installed as part of the 40% reduction in energy hours, lower exhaust emissions and electrical system. This ensures Volume (Litres) 244 518 7 345 436.52 834 608.88 consumed. Plans are in progress reduced diesel consumption. efficient delivery of power and that Gigajoules (GJ) 8 866.08 266 341.23 30 262.43 to install LED lighting in all retail Safaricom only draws from the shop facilities during the next national grid the actual load it utilises. financial year. * The buildings data is based on monthly bills received from KPLC and includes Safaricom Headquarter I and II and the Network energy management initiatives Jambo Contact Centre, but excludes the Safaricom Care Centre (SCC), which is measured as part of the Technical Network electricity consumption. Immediately after deployment, the network-related energy efficiency initiatives described below had the cumulative effect of reducing the running hours (and carbon emissions) of our diesel generators by approximately 67%. Benchmarking energy performance As this is our first sustainability report, no formal benchmarks have yet been established for our energy performance. One Power Management Units (PMUs) of our overall objectives in financial year (FY) 2013 is to Automatic Voltage Regulators (AVRs) By stabilising the quality of grid supply (reducing voltage improve efficiency in diesel and electricity consumption In These stabilise input voltages and are ideal for sites fluctuations, conditioning voltages, isolating bad power, with very high and very low voltages. FY 2013, we will also establish energy performance baseline regulating under and over-voltages, regulating generator data that can be used to benchmark us against other running and monitoring battery condition) these reduce Vodafone companies going forward. unnecessary generator running and diesel consumption. Other initiatives Other initiatives under trial include: biofuels, hydrogen fuel cells and grid extensions Auto Phase Selectors (APS) Vanadium Redox Batteries (Safaricom constructs up to 6km of power lines in off-grid areas to substantially reduce generator running hours). These trials will be reported on at the end of the Similar to the PMUs, these Switching from Lead Acid current financial year. check voltage phases batteries to these high-cycle, and isolate unhealthy grid deep-discharge batteries phases, delaying generator also significantly reduces Lighting the way running in case voltage generator running hours and LED lights are currently being installed at the Jambo Call tolerances are not met. diesel consumption. Centre in Mlolongo, all future retail shops will incorporate LED lighting and, in existing retail shops, a phased replacement of the existing incandescent fluorescent lamps will be implemented in the new financial year. By 1 April 2013, all retail shops will be lit using LED lights. 60 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 61 Network stability Network stability There are a number of sub-risks associated with To help address the shortage of suitable network stability, including: sites, Safaricom engages with other telecommunication service providers on the • Coverage possibility of co-locating BTSs. Currently, Although Safaricom boasts the widest network there are over 400 co-locations and footprint in the country, there remain ‘hard to Safaricom ‘hosts’ other providers at 66% of reach’ areas that are not yet covered. these sites. To increase coverage in remote areas, Safaricom is rolling out miniature sites, known as Diet sites. Run on renewable solar energy, over 10 sites have been rolled out to date, in the areas of Mandera West and Wajir North, and over 20 more are planned. An extending technology called Multi Carrier Power Amplifier (MCPA) A stable network has also been successfully trialed and is available, uncongested expected to assist with increasing coverage and performing optimally in remote areas in the near future. is critical to the provision of our services and, • Maintenance therefore, our business as From a network stability perspective, a whole. the two main maintenance challenges Safaricom faces are network failures and congestion. R3 Network failures are largely attributable to power failures and fiber cuts. To combat power failures, Safaricom is focusing on improving power maintenance efficiency, as well as Current 2G and 3G coverage enhancing power solutions in the BTS sites. The fiber cuts are usually caused 2G 3G by vandalism, theft or construction and % of Kenyan landmass 66% 16% mechanisms are being put in place to Network % of Kenyan population 85% 46% mitigate these disruptions (see overleaf). Stability In the major towns and environs, acquisition Network congestion usually occurs of sites for Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs) when growth in demand for voice is an increasing challenge. The issues include, and data services outstrips planned but are not limited to, statutory regulations network capacity. To mitigate this (especially height restrictions), residential congestion, Safaricom has embarked associations’ concerns, lack of landlord interest on a programme of continuous network and/or unrealistic rental demands, and lack of ownership documents. 62 62 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 63 Network stability Network stability How we performed capacity expansion, acquiring extra bandwidth, While mechanisms are being put in place to The Communications Commission of Kenya Safaricom’s performance improved from being 37.5% introducing new technologies and modernising ensure that fiber redundancies protect traffic (CCK) is mandated with ensuring the provision CCK-compliant in 2010 to 75% by November 2011. the network — upgrading radio elements, loss — including deploying our own fiber of quality services by licensed mobile service The following table details the various CCK KPIs and core network elements and transforming infrastructure — network disruptions caused operators. To meet this objective, the CCK has Safaricom’s current compliance performance status. the transmission network. This network by multiple fiber failures remain a major developed eight Key Performance Indicators modernisation initiative has seen over 95% of challenge. In March 2012, for instance, up (KPIs) to assess the performance of mobile CCK Compliance Mobile Switching Centers (MSC) replaced with to 20% of network unavailability was due to operators. Mobile operators are expected to 75% modern, high capacity MSCs to date. fiber failures. meet at least 80% (i.e. 7 out of 8) of the targets set by these KPIs. • Customer churn As well as spreading the risk across multiple Customer ‘churn’ is when an existing customer fiber providers and specifying continuity The CCK carries out national Quality of Service leaves to join another network. The highly in service level agreements, Safaricom is (QoS) assessments based on these KPIs, to 37.5% competitive nature of the telecommunications currently implementing a BCP (Business determine the level of compliance achieved industry has resulted in significant reductions Continuity Plan) that will see microwave by mobile operators. The results of these in tariffs and, as a result, significant increases backups installed at all major nodes, assessments are released to the general public in network traffic. This increase in traffic has providing alternative traffic routes in the and can also be found on the CCK website. led to network congestion and dropped calls event of a fiber failure. These are already in etc. This congestion, together with network place at Tier 1, high-risk locations and Tiers 2010 2011 disruptions due to fiber cuts and power 2 and 3 will be completed in August 2012. failures, has hampered service quality and resulted in customer churn. From a network • Vandalism and theft stability perspective, the measures taken to As already noted, the repeated vandalism Safaricom Results reduce this sub-risk are, essentially, the same of telecommunications infrastructure often as those taken to mitigate the ‘maintenance’ leads to network instability disruptions. As and ‘coverage’ risks. a result of engagements with regulators KPI CCK Target 2010 2011 and stakeholders by Safaricom and other • Sub-optimal fiber-optic infrastructure operators (see Section R1. for further Completed Calls 90% Safaricom leases fiber-optic infrastructure to detail), the Vandalism Bill has been drafted provide the additional capacity required by and is ready to be enacted into law by the large volumes of data and voice traffic we Parliament. Call Setup Success Rate 90% handle, but the local fiber network has been significantly impaired by fiber cuts recently. Dropped Calls 2% Stakeholders with whom we engage Blocked Calls 10% Stakeholder group What we engage them on: Subscribers Information regarding planned works and network failures is Speech Quality (MOS, PESQ values) 95% of Samples >2.7 Subscribers promptly disseminated to Customer Care for communication to subscribers. Handover Regulator Success Rate (CCK) 85% Regulator (CCK) Engagement with the CCK has taken place regarding the drafting of the Vandalism Bill and the CCK’s targets (KPIs). Call Set Up Time <13.5 Seconds Government (through Ministry of Government (through Ministry of Again, we have liaised with government regarding fees, levies and Information & Communication) Information & Communication) the drafting of the Vandalism Bill. RX Levels Outdoor -102 dBm Safaricom leases fibre from fibre-optic providers and engages with Source: www.cck.go.ke Fiber Providers them regarding SLAs and BCPs etc. Telecommunication Service Safaricom has agreements with other mobile operators to share Providers some of its BTSs, and vice versa. 64 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 65 Innovation Innovation M-PESA: At a glance In order to differentiate ourselves, we develop • Data • Launched in March 2007 as a money transfer service both revenue-driven and social innovations. As We also recognise that our customers want • Over 14.9 million customers the latter’s name suggests, social innovations access to more data, and meaningful data and over 39 000 Agent prioritise uplifting and improving the wellbeing services, which is why we are constantly Outlets • Over 900 Pay Bill partners of fellow Kenyans more than stretching the looking to innovate in this area, introducing and over 300 Bulk Payment capabilities of existing technologies and cloud services and making more exciting, Partners generating profits. relevant local content available, as well as • Monthly value of P2P transfer is KShs 58.3 billion introducing convenient new data bundles • Total cumulative money Revenue generating and reducing prices. moved in P2P transactions innovation from launch to date is KShs Innovation is at the core of From a revenue-driven innovation perspective, Social innovation 1.46 trillion, approximately KShs 56.3 billion per month Safaricom. The mobile phone Digital Inclusion is the innovation arm of the Safaricom’s strategy includes: • Over 4 million transactions market in Kenya is becoming company responsible for the development of conducted by customers increasingly saturated and our every day • Customer Service social innovations. Digital Inclusion aims to ability to innovate remains a key create products and services that address key Customers are the backbone of our Broadening financial differentiator between us and other social issues using mobile communication, inclusion organisation and we strive to improve the network operators. We are also focussed on education, agriculture, health, M-PESA provides financial customer experience at every touch point. playing a key role in the country’s services to a previously Reducing the time customers have to spend ‘green’ energy, economic empowerment for ‘financially excluded’ segment growth and transformation in line women and youth, as well as gender issues like in Safaricom shops, for instance, through of the Kenyan population as with Vision 2030 public sector gender-based violence. 47% of M-PESA customers are the introduction of automated services and reform and SME private sector currently ‘un-banked’. Current the imminent launch of self-service kiosks financial inclusion levels in growth, supporting both of these The objectives of social innovation include: and online shops. Kenya are at 80%, but, if you sectors through innovations that remove mobile money from liberate the economy and touch the this, the number of people with • Customer Value Management • positioning Safaricom as an innovative lives of all Kenyans. access to financial services and We aim to develop innovative services company; products drops to 23% (CBK that help us create additional customer • providing our customers with social products statistics). Importantly, M-PESA provides financial security for R4 value at every phase of our customer that will help them improve the way they women as it gives them an management model (acquire, grow usage, meet their specific social needs; independent place to store and retain and manage churn). We also seek to • demonstrating value to our customers by manage funds, and the number providing non-revenue generating solutions of female users has risen from develop innovative tools that aid customer 38% in 2008 to 51% in 2010. segmentation and management based on that meet the needs of the customers, value. including emergency, gender-related, peace Empowering communities initiatives, civic awareness and healthM-PESA has successfully empowered communities to • M-PESA related services, and pursue sustainable livelihoods M-PESA continues to grow in significance • ensuring Safaricom continues to enjoy a by providing convenient, safe and dramatically improve the way Kenyans high, positive profile among customers. and affordable micro-payment services countrywide, in Innovation carry out their daily activities. We continue addition to partnering with Non to evolve and expand the offering, which Governmental Organisations is now a bouquet of services that includes (NGOs) to provide essential rural services, including secure Prepay Safari card, Pay Bill, M-Ticketing, water supplies, affordable M-Kesho and Nunua na Mpesa. We aim to maternal healthcare and maintain this evolution by developing even agricultural insurance. more innovative new services. On average, M-PESA subscribers save over 3 • Value Added Services (VAS) hours of time and US$3 per transaction — time and money Value added services like our Caller Ringthat is ploughed back into Back Tone (CRBT) and SMS and Emergency economic productivity. Services are innovations that make a genuine difference in our customers’ lives. 66 66 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 67 Innovation Innovation • Category 3 —internally developed, • Consumer awareness As well as developing solutions, Safaricom The Gate Process — rapid, responsible To keep our customers engaged and integrated and taken to market. needs to ensure its target markets are aware innovation This process helps to ensure regular loyal, Safaricom is focusing on social of them and has adopted an innovative below evaluation during product development In order to keep the overall costs of innovations that meet health, education and through-the line marketing approach, and only allows a product to move to the social innovations low, the majority of and agriculture needs. These innovations which keeps communication costs low while next ‘Gate’ once the Gate committee, give our customers a reason to remain with projects are Category 1 and 2, which effectively generating the required levels of the CEO and Executive Committee, is require minimum budget. Since most Safaricom as the competition grows. customer awareness. convinced the product is ready to move to the next level. The process is divided of the inclusion services require our into the normal phases for a project, although projects can be fast tracked partners and their expertise to take Stakeholders with whom we engage the products to market, Safaricom has due to urgency or technical readiness. From an innovation perspective, our key stakeholders include: our shareholders, customers, solution The gates start at concept overview and adopted a revenue-sharing model to partners, NGOs, universities, research organisations, regulators and various Government ministries. The end at project management and post reflect the shared risk. table below describes each stakeholder group and what we engage them on. implementation. • Competitive edge Increasing competition between players in the telecommunications market has driven Stakeholder group What we engage them on: There are a number of sub-risks associated prices and revenues down. Safaricom with innovation, including: Medical service providers These partners provide the required medical expertise and are also has chosen to not be drawn into these responsible for running our mobile health services. They get the ‘price wars’ and to gain a competitive • Stagnation necessary approvals from the medical regulators and indemnify edge by providing value added services Safaricom needs to ensure that it does Safaricom from any medical responsibility. that complement its basic voice and data not stagnate within the market, which offerings, instead. In running Daktari-1525, a tele-triage service, for example, Call-acould lead to a loss of revenue growth doc Ltd is responsible for recruiting and scheduling doctors, getting and market leadership to our competition. As well as helping us to maintain our the required approvals from health boards and ensuring patient Constantly developing innovative products competitive edge, this continuous confidentiality is maintained, while we are responsible for keeping the and solutions is the most effective way of innovation and staying ahead of the service level high, for marketing the service and for ensuring service mitigating this risk. technology curve helps us reduce the risk uptake is above the necessary thresholds. of new technology disruption. • Cost Agriculture service providers These partners offer the agricultural expertise required to run our Most social innovations are ideas brought agro-based services, while we provide the enabling technology for • Speed of deployment to Safaricom by partners. Ideas usually farmers to access services, content and information. In this instance, Cross-functional teams are used to come from three sources and require three our partners champion the interactions with farmers. accelerate development, integration different levels of engagement: and getting to market. The same crossfunctional teams are also involved in Education service providers These partners are experts in education and are approved by the • Category 1 —— partners who have Kenya Institute of Education (KIE). Our engagement with them is to testing the service and determining ready-developed solutions and are provide learning courses and content on a revenue-share basis. readiness to launch. simply looking to integrate into the Safaricom network, with minimum These partners are responsible for ensuring course content quality and Streamlining internal administrative modifications. The business model we provide the platform to manage online and mobile learning. As in processes also helps reduce deployment adopted upon commercialisation is other services, Safaricom provides integration into payment systems timelines and this has been achieved normally a revenue-sharing model. for the courses and content. by standardising as much internal documentation and as many internal Content aggregators • Category 2 — partners who have These are VAS providers licensed by the CCK to offer content to processes as possible, for example, the ideas, but lack the capacity to develop network operators. introduction of a cross-departmental Service the solutions. They partner with us to Level (SL) document that has standardised develop and integrate the solution. Safaricom engages with content aggregators on a revenue-share project plans and delivery processes. The business model adopted upon basis. Safaricom provides them with connectivity and access to the commercialisation is normally either Safaricom network elements to facilitate their services. revenue-sharing or outright purchase. 68 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 69 Innovation Innovation How we performed Stakeholder group What we engage them on: Non-Governmental Safaricom partners with NGOs to implement social innovations that Social Innovation address the specific agendas/issues these NGOs tackle. Areas The Digital Inclusion/social innovation portfolio products launched include the Daktari 1525 Organisations (NGOs) currently being addressed include green energy, general health, aims to develop relevant and sustainable medical tele-triage service and the innovative gender, maternal and new-born health, youth issues, agriculture and products and services in the area of health, Refugees United service that has reunited organic farming, water, peace and displaced persons. education and agriculture. Examples of refugee families worldwide. Universities and research Universities and research bodies engage with Safaricom to conduct bodies studies and pilots in specific areas. When the pilots are successful, there is normally some learning and the likelihood that the service can be scaled up to commercial levels. Safaricom normally provides the Health projects technology and customer base necessary for this research. Daktari-1525 is a medical tele-triage service launched in November 2011. Customers dial 1525 and Regulators Social innovations bring many partners from various specialised receive medical advice from doctors. Calls are charged at KShs 20.00 per minute. The service is currently disciplines on board, and each of these disciplines/professions is receiving around 2 000 calls a day. Safaricom rolled out the service in partnership with Call-a-doc Ltd. governed and regulated by a different body. Safaricom does not deal directly with these regulators (except for the Changamka is a micro savings health product that enables lower income groups to access essential CCK) as we only engage partners who are already licensed to operate health services that would otherwise be too expensive. Changamka customers are provided with a by the relevant regulators. smartcard that they can use as a ‘wallet’ for pre-paid purchases of health care. Different packages of care are available, covering consultations, laboratory tests and drugs. The cards are pre-loaded with credit and Government Government is the biggest client for Safaricom’s services, as well as the bearer can use M-PESA to top-up the balance at any time. As well as offering a convenient way to our most important partner in social inclusion innovations (since the save for health care, the bearer enjoys access to discounted products and services. Medical providers, government is the custodian and architect of Kenya). in turn, benefit from access to higher numbers of customers and assured, fortnightly payments free of administrative costs. Safaricom engages with the government through lobbying and partnering in implementing social solutions that help the government Over 2 500 Changamka cards have been purchased meet its national objectives. to date and maternity-related issues are the most popular services accessed. Changamka is licensed as a Shareholders Our shareholders need to see continuous growth — of our active Medical Insurance Provider by the Insurance Regulatory customer base and revenue — despite the heightened competitive Authority. environment. Customers Our customers need to see products and services evolve to achieve Safaricom is also involved in the Kenya Integrated better price points and to make constructive differences in their lives. Maternal and Child Health initiative (KIMnCHip), collaboration with various private sector and NGO partners to provide a range of solutions and interventions to improve maternal health through information, education, messaging, health financing and service provider capacity building. Safaricom leadership in this field is underscored by Sylvia Mulinge’s (General Manager, Safaricom Business) nomination to The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health Board. Government 70 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 71 Innovation Innovation Supporting the next generation of innovators Safaricom Academy As a market leader in innovation, Safaricom, in partnership with Strathmore University, has started The Safaricom Academy, a Master’s degree program in Telecommunication, Innovation and Development (MSc TID) This program equips students with the know-how to develop applications for both mobile phones and computers. The program started in March 2010 with a class of 30 students and grew to two classes of 60 students in 2011. It catered for a day class and an evening class of 70 students in total, fully sponsored by Safaricom. The outcome of the course has seen some students develop commercial quality applications, some of which have won acclaim, such as the application that runs the NASCOP HIV test system and dashboard. @iLab Africa Safaricom is also the lead sponsor for @iLab Africa; a state of the art innovation and incubation lab to be used by the students and other innovators from the region. The KShs 20 million sponsorship was used for the setup and equipping of both the innovation and Incubation labs. The innovation lab focuses on equipping students with hands-on technical skills to develop applications for every type of platform. The incubation lab focuses on imparting business acumen to the graduates by providing the right environment for them to launch their technology companies. It also provides an environment where venture capitalists are able to partner with these start-up companies. 72 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 73 Innovation Innovation Wholesale/Carrier Safaricom can now provide wholesale capacity and services to clients in the region who require international connectivity and internet capacity services. With around 11 Gigabits per second (Gbps) of capacity available and designed to a capacity of 1.24Tbits/ second, Safaricom’s wholesale capacity is the result of its ownership of 22.5% of The East African Marine System (TEAMS) capacity, the IRU purchase of Optical Power Ground Wire (OPGW) fiber with Kenya Power and Lighting Company, and the purchase of the GovernmentCorporates Government owned National Fibre Optic Backbone Infrastructure (NOFBI). Cheque clearing has been reduced from four days The Safaricom TeleJustice solution has to two days, thanks to an innovative solution from improved the efficiency of the appellate courts Safaricom Enterprise. In partnership with the Kenya and helped Kenyans get their cases heard. Bankers Association, Safaricom has implemented a Winner of the Best ICT Solution Provider for new, robust network and data centre that connects the Enterprise Markets In Africa Award at AfricaCom Central Bank of Kenya and all 44 banks nationwide, 2011, the TeleJustice solution enables Court of ensuring Kenyans can access their money faster. Appeal judges to sit in Nairobi and hear cases from around the country through the use of Cisco Working in conjunction with the Association of Kenya TelePresence. Agricultural projects Insurers, Safaricom’s integrated motor insurance data system enables 42 insurance companies to Prior to the introduction of the Safaricom solution, Kilimo Salama means ‘safe farming’ and exchange information and work more efficiently, people around the country would have to wait for is an agro service with two components: a minimising fraudulent or multiple claims and allowing the judges to travel to their cities and towns to crop insurance service — supported by 44 for a better flow of information. have their cases heard, and the appellate courts local weather stations that provide accurate in Nairobi would have to shut down for that period local weather data used to confirm claims Designed to help SMEs improve their productivity, of time. The acclaimed Safaricom TeleJustice (the weather stations are fitted with GSM Zidisha Biashara is an initiative by Safaricom that solution has dramatically improved the efficiency SIM cards that automatically relay data to a offers growing companies bundled voice, data and SMS of the appellate courts and reduced the backlog central database), and with payments made services, which can be distributed in a discretionary of cases. through M-PESA — and an agro and vet manner to specified Safaricom numbers. SMEs can also information service that is managed by agro get a free website on signing up for any bundle between experts providing advice via the Safaricom KShs 3,499 and KShs 59,999 per month. Over 5,600 Call Center. SMEs are already using the Zidisha Biashara solution and plans are in place to provide an active network for SMEs iCow is an application with several services to access capacity building and networking opportunities, in it. It has a cow gestation calendar, which as well as making the product eligible for BONGA Points. sends a farmer timely important messages about his cow upon registering it. It has an agro-vet market where farmers can buy and sell their animals and other agriculture items. It also has weekly prompts that give farmers important tips on farming best practices. 74 74 Safaricom SafaricomSustainability Report2012 SustainabilityReport 2012 Safaricom SafaricomSustainability SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 75 75 Innovation Innovation Humanitarian projects on the internet, thus, ensuring peace of mind Britannica, British Council (Learning English), Intel® for parents. The package includes eight fun and Easy Steps Activity Book, Intel® Education Help Refugees United is a family tracing service that exciting, yet educational computer applications Guide, PC Basics, Skoool.com, Intel AppUp(SM) helps refugees, internally displaced and stateless that aid self-learning, including: Encyclopedia center and McAfee Family Protection. people to search for, and reconnect with, missing family or friends. The service allows refugees to directly register via web or mobile phone (WAP). Ministry of Education — ‘ICT For or staff members, at any grade this offer. Our goal is to help schools A partnership between Safaricom, Ericsson Schools’ project level, qualify for this offer. We gain better access to efficient, affordable and UNHCR, Refugees United was launched in Safaricom, in conjunction with have a range of laptops to choose and relevant technologies to promote Kenya in 2011 and, to date, 30 000 people have Microsoft, Intel and KIE, is running from, depending on individual and improve learning, foster innovative been registered with the service and close to 300 an initiative to help secondary budget and/or technology needs. approaches to teacher professional families reunited. schools purchase complete internet development and provide education solutions. Safaricom came into the Deal Ya Nguvu package leaders with the tools to envision, project to offer schools an attractive includes: implement and manage education package of both hardware and • Access to Microsoft “live@ transformation in the 21st Century. Affordability projects connectivity. Each school was edu” platform that allows supplied with11 desktops, 1 laptop, 1 online collaboration and data Laptop ni Lazima A key challenge in expanding access in emerging deals on various notebooks and netbooks. The most printer, 1 LCD Projector and 11 UPS. sharing with 25GB virtual ‘Laptop ni Lazima’ means ‘a laptop is a markets is affordability. To achieve this, we continue affordable laptop ever sold at Safaricom was the memory for users must’ in Swahili. This is a partnership to work with suppliers to introduce low-cost devices, LG X120/X130, which retailed at KShs. 16,999. The Together with these, schools either • Students will be able to carry between Safaricom and Equity Bank. including: netbooks are best suited for learning purposes, as well got internet connectivity via Wimax out course work online and The idea behind this partnership is to as web browsing. or Mobile Data. The project saw us fast-track their studies offer an easy payment method to all • Handsets reach 113 schools country wide. • Students and Staff will enjoy Kenyans interested in owning a laptop Safaricom’s most affordable handset is the Vodafone • Webbox This is a continuing project and, with access information, research , but who find the costs prohibitive. VF150, retailing at KShs. 999. Increasingly, our priority In September 2011, Safaricom rolled out a plug and phase 2 on the way, Safaricom is and submit reports from any This innovation provides them with an is to reduce the cost of internet access via mobile. Our play keyboard dubbed ‘Safaricom Webbox’ which planning to pitch and provide devices location opportunity to purchase their laptop of most affordable internet-enabled handsets are the is revolutionising mobile internet access by using and connectivity to schools at a • Students and Staff will enjoy choice from Safaricom Retail Centres Samsung Maple and Alcatel OT 306, both retailing televisions to provide a big screen internet experience reasonable cost. financing at highly subsidized through financing from Equity Bank. The at KShs. 1,999. The phones use the Opera Mini at home without a computer. Adopted from Vodafone, rates product targets both salaried clients and browser, which works effectively on 2G networks. the Webbox offers an opportunity to significantly KSSHA — JIFUNZE • Data shall be made available small-to-medium enterprises that require The Kabambe 3G is our most affordable 3G internetincrease the number of homes with internet access for Safaricom has partnered with the through the Modem over funding to purchase ICT Hardware. enabled handset, retailing at KShs. 2,999. To facilitate as little as KShs. KShs 4,999. The Webbox facilitates Kenya Secondary School Heads a period of 4 months for a affordable mobile data access we have also introduced development by enabling people to research, job Association (KSSHA) to offer principals highly discounted rate of the IDEOS, a sub US$100 smartphone — the most search and send and receive email for business and an unbeatable laptop package, dubbed 50%. affordable smartphone globally. pleasure. ‘JIFUNZE’, which enables them to access genuine software to help them Mwalimu dot com Future commitments • Laptops Since its launch, the Webbox has sold 4 100 units and From a social innovation perspective, we are accomplish tasks more efficiently. For This is a special offer specifically committed to continue to develop innovative and In an effort to make computers affordable, we there is a strong demand across the market. We plan the price of only KShs. 43,999, the for teachers, with the aim of relevant products. continuously work with suppliers to provide good to launch a more advanced Webbox in the near future. teachers get a Dell Laptop packaged bringing them to the front of with free MS Office software, Antivirus, the ICT tide. Safaricom has From a revenue-generating perspective, future commitments include: plugging the voice of PC Basics, Safaricom modem, KIE partnered with Equity Bank, the customer into internal performance scores; digital content for Form 1 and Form 2, Teachers Service Commission ICT and education-related projects laptop bag and mouse, and capacity (TSC), Microsoft, Kenya Institute creating more alternative channels to promote accessibility (in the near future, we plan to A government initiative called Vision 2030 skills and tools, Safaricom, in partnership with Intel, building to enable them use the laptop of Education (KIE) and Intel advertise other channels that can be used to access customer care i.e. social media, SMS requires all schools to embrace technology launched the Fun Safe Online Education program. as a work tool. to support teachers who are and email); use of the existing IVR infrastructure at every level. In line with this vision, we have This presents an opportunity for parents to purchase members of TSC to acquire to promote self-service; use of the IVR as a various projects to promote ICT in the education a laptop with basic educational content for children Deal ya Nguvu laptops at an affordable price and promotional source and incident management sector including: aged 9 – 18 years to enable them to learn and Safaricom has partnered with Equity pay in easy installments. channel (i.e. announcement of anticipated system/ product downtimes). explore the world through the internet. Bank to help Kenyatta University Fun Safe Online Education students and staff acquire laptops All primary and secondary In order to give children an opportunity to The laptop is bundled with Parental Control to ensure and pay in easy installments. All school teachers employed and explore the world and equip them with the right that children do not fall prey to inappropriate content Kenyatta University students, faculty registered with TSC qualify for 76 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 77 Supplier ethics and performance Supplier ethics and performance Our performance There are a number of sub-risks associated with and continuously review performance. Suppliers supplier ethics and performance, including: applying the Code are, of course, also expected • Bribery and corruption to comply with all relevant laws, regulations and • Fraud standards in all of the countries in which they • Compliance operate. • Child labour Procurement Our charter and supplier code of conduct Our purchasing decisions are defined by the It is Safaricom policy that all suppliers, and following considerations: their subcontractors, observe the same high • All purchasing decisions must be made in a standards of ethics as Safaricom personnel. fair and transparent manner. Accordingly, we have developed a Business • All situations that may prejudice a Partner Charter (see p 39) and Supplier Code purchasing decision must be avoided. of Conduct to guide our interactions. • All information relating to suppliers must be treated as confidential. The Charter commits us to building mutually • All purchasing activities must be of the Supplier ethics and performance is beneficial and sustainable relationships with all highest professional, ethical, moral and legal a key issue for Safaricom. Business business partners in an environment of equity, standards. partners engaging in unethical mutual respect and honesty. • Any collusion with employees is strictly practices, or not performing as against company policy. required, may reflect negatively on The Supplier Code of Conduct sets the Safaricom’s image. standards that Safaricom and its suppliers In order to raise awareness of the risks, the wish to achieve. It is designed to promote safe Procurement and Supply Chain Department and fair working conditions, along with the has been trained on the company’s new responsible management of environmental and corruption and bribery policy by the Risk social issues, throughout Safaricom’s supply Division. Further training for the Department chain. The Code is now part of pre-qualification, and Safaricom suppliers is under consideration. RFP documentation and all signed contracts. R5 Among other aspects, the Code covers the following: bribes, conflicts of interest, gifts and other courtesies, relations with competitors, employment relations, child labour, forced labour, disciplinary practices, elimination of Honest business is good business Want to report a supplier or workplace-related discrimination, freedom of association, wages irregularity? Call our ethics hotline on Supplier and benefits, health and safety, environmental 0800 720 009, email safaricom@ethics-line.com matters and the community, compliance and or fill in the tip-off form on our ethical business implementation, taxation, financial integrity and website at www.safaricomethicsline.com. ethics and retention of records. performance Safaricom works collaboratively with its suppliers on the implementation of the Code, including joint audits and site visits to assess 78 78 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 79 Supplier ethics and performance Supplier ethics and performance Stakeholders with whom we engage How we performed The Procurement and Supply Chain human rights concerns be identified during Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: Department recently carried out a supplier site audits (or come to light generally), we Safaricom’s business partners, Safaricom continuously engages with its business partners through sustainability self-assessment exercise. A will proactively engage with the suppliers in including suppliers, contractors supplier forums, meetings and regular communication throughout the comprehensive sustainability questionnaire question, assessing these concerns with the and agents year. was sent out to 80 key suppliers, along with the management team and formulating appropriate company’s updated Code of Ethics. action plans. Should no improvement be A supplier forum was held in October 2011, for instance, where issues made after this engagement, we will consider such as bribery and corruption, fraud and compliance were discussed. The sustainability questionnaire covered the terminating contracts and relationships. following aspects: fraud and ethics, human Business continuity resources, health and safety, environment, We also recognise the need to work closely Thirty suppliers were identified for business continuity assessments community and corporate giving, and regulatory with our suppliers and to provide the relevant (based on the importance of their role in ensuring that our business compliance. reference and benchmark information they need continuity is assured). The aim of the assessments was to help to ensure they are able to comply. suppliers formulate and adopt robust business continuity management Only 12 responses have been received to date, programmes. but we are following up with the other suppliers Buying locally to ensure full compliance. Based on the current Where we can, we buy from local The suppliers carried out risk assessments of their local operating feedback, the highest score is 93.6%, the organisations in areas in which we environments, performing business impact assessments and forming average score is 84.33% and the lowest score operate. On the whole, this pertains to our crisis management committees in order to plan for, and be able to is 76%. OPEX purchases as most of our CAPEX respond proactively, to a crisis. purchases are quite specific and technical in nature. We remain committed to We are currently considering carrying supporting and building local companies Based on the assessments, 19 of the 30 suppliers were compliant. out on-site audits to corroborate the selfthat match our needs and expectations in The results of the assessments were communicated to the suppliers in assessments. Should unethical practices or terms of quality and efficiency. March 2011 and individual reports provided to help them identify and address areas needing improvement. 80 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 81 Ethics and values Ethics and values As a company, we are committed to operating The Safaricom Foundation lawfully, with integrity and respect, and to The Safaricom Foundation is a charitable trust, observing and respecting the cultures of the registered by Trust Deed in 2003. The Foundation Kenyan people. has a separate Board of Trustees and is independent from the decisions of the CEO and Company. There are a number of sub-risks associated with maintaining ethics and values, including: The Foundation considers proposals that are in line • Unethical behaviour with its mandate and strategic direction. Proposals • Fraud are reviewed by the Trustees on a monthly basis. • Bribery and corruption Feedback is given to the applicants within eight to At Safaricom, we are committed • Improper use of CSI funding twelve weeks. to the highest level of corporate governance, which we consider The Foundation ensures good corporate governance The bottom-line on governance through: critical to business integrity and Maintaining our governance and values success. • Independent trustees is important because any failure to do so could severely dent our reputation, • Annual external audits Accordingly, we promote an leading to reduced brand value, market • Random internal audits organisational culture that values share and, ultimately, share price. • A clear mandate and criteria for project selection Similarly, if the right culture is not the highest ethical standards of • Project monitoring (Foundation staff and ‘project established and upheld, the company personal and corporate integrity, faces an increased risk of individuals champions’) and expect all of our directors, engaging in unethical practices and • Transparent communication (online and print) employees and suppliers to act with fraud and bribery cases. Fraud can also impair our CSI programmes because it honesty, integrity and fairness. often results in a skewed allocation of resources. Specific ethics and values-related activities: R6 • The Safaricom Ethics Committee An Ethics Committee has been set up to establish Values and policies that support our ethics our ethics vision and to provide guidance on culture: ethics management. The Safaricom Way We are also currently reviewing our ethical Supplier Code of Conduct management structure. This includes carrying out Duty to Report Policy an ethical assessment of Safaricom, assessing our code of ethics and evaluating our ethics Ethics and The Foundation’s CSI Policy intervention initiatives (and improving on these). Corruption and Bribery Policy values • Fighting fraud Gift Policy A number of strategic actions have been Disciplinary Policy recently implemented to fight fraud, including setting up three distinct sections to handle fraud (fraud prevention, fraud detection and fraud investigation) and the use of automated fraud detection tools to increase the speed at which frauds are detected. There has also been increased prosecution of staff involved in fraud, which acts as a powerful deterrent. 82 82 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 83 Ethics and values Ethics and values • Bribery and corruption • Awareness How we performed A bribery and corruption policy has been Company-wide training and awareness All business units have been analysed for risks relating to unethical business practices. This analysis has developed to guide staff on these issues. sessions are also carried out to improve been used to identify the gaps that need to be addressed, to develop appropriate training plans and to Programs to fight corruption have also staff knowledge on matters related to prioritise fraud reviews. been developed, including bribery risk fraud and corruption. The main aim of the assessments, process changes to reduce sessions is to equip employees with the The following indicators help us to measure how we have performed: the risk of bribery and due diligences on understanding, skills and motivation to fight business partners. fraud and corruption. Internal controls Bribery and ethics awareness Internal controls reviews are Ethics awareness sessions are undertaken on high risk areas within the undertaken company-wide. The particular The Kenyan Businesses Code of Ethics organisation’s processes and systems. focus this year has been on bribery. The Kenyan business community recognises the need to have ethical standards in the course The objective of these reviews is to These awareness sessions are conducted of doing business. Under the directorship of the UN Global Compact initiative and the Kenyan evaluate and improve the effectiveness of face-to-face, supplemented with bulletins Association of Manufacturers, the business community has developed a code of ethics to guide the organisation’s internal controls. Where and emails. One thousand, six hundred the behaviour of Kenyan businesses. Safaricom took an active role in the drafting and reviewing controls are ineffective, recommendations and sixty staff, representing over 50% of of the code and was one of the first companies to sign up to it. As a signatory, Safaricom will are made and actions followed-up to close all Safaricom employees, have attended be required to follow the code and will be accountable to the Secretariat for upholding the the gap. awareness sessions to date. provisions of the code. Customer fraud Safaricom also considers customer-to-customer fraud to be a major issue and has undertaken various initiatives to curb such activities, including raising awareness through advertisements and promotions; Fraud reviews introducing Line 333 for reporting hoax promotions and scams; jamming prisons; actively supporting Fraud reviews are undertaken on high risk areas number registrations; implementing authorisation controls and processes, and supporting the police. within the organisation, with the main objective of uncovering fraud. Where fraud is detected, investigations are carried out, disciplinary measures are applied to the parties involved and action is taken to close the loophole(s). During the last calendar year, 114 investigations were successfully completed, resulting in disciplinary actions being taken, ranging from caution letters for non-deliberate negligence, police action and prosecution. Stakeholders with whom we engage Stakeholder groups Why we engage them: Employees Employees embody Safaricom’s culture. Ethics programs need the buy-in of staff if they are to be successful. Investors Safaricom investors expect a reasonable return, but corruption and fraud erode profits. Investors also need to know that their capital is safe from embezzlement and misappropriation. Government The government has developed laws and guidelines to help prevent fraud, corruption and bribery. Suppliers Supplier’s actions reflect on Safaricom. If they act unethically, Safaricom’s reputation is negatively affected and rogue suppliers harm Safaricom’s return on investments. Customers Customers need to know that Safaricom can be trusted. That the company actually charges what it advertises and that their funds are safe. 84 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 85 Employee environment Employee environment The following aspects of the employee OSH practices. Our OSH policy is environment are considered from a available at all Safaricom facilities sustainability risk perspective: and on the company intranet. • Health and safety • Lost hours • Safety and Health Committees • Skills development and retention Safaricom has also established formal, joint management-worker Our employee charter safety and health committees, Safaricom is committed to being an employer which provide a forum through of choice and has developed an Employee which dialogue and active Charter (see p 39) to guide our interactions participation of employees in the Absolute Rules with staff. The Charter commits us to implementation of OSH can be We have developed the safety absolute providing a great place to work — where both achieved. We believe that these rules, which all employees and contractors individual accomplishments and team effort committees have been instrumental must comply with. The following absolute Employees are one of will be rewarded — and a great place to in our achievement of OSH road safety rules apply: Safaricom’s most valuable grow — creating opportunities for personal excellence. • Always wear a seatbelt when travelling assets and recognised as empowerment and career growth in an in or operating vehicles. key to the sustainability of the atmosphere of trust, honesty and openness. The structure of these committees company. Overall, Safaricom is two-tiered, comprising of facilitiesis committed to investing in Occupational Safety and Health based sub-committees and an its employees and creating performance overall steering committee. There • Never exceed speed limits or travel at a healthy, happy working Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) is are 44 sub-committees that have speeds that are dangerous for the type environment. central to the employee environment at been formally constituted, trained of road, vehicle or conditions. Safaricom as we recognise the importance and are now actively involved in of creating safe, healthy and productive activities, such as quarterly OSH surroundings for all personnel. Several inspections and meetings, accident R7 steps have been taken to improve our OSH investigation, hazard identification, • Ensure that the vehicle has its statutory performance, including: risk assessment and worker safety documents prior to road use. and health training. • OSH Management System This management system provides • OSH training for a comprehensive and systematic During the past year, over 90 % • Never use a handheld phone while approach to managing OSH matters of employees underwent basic driving and only make calls by using across the organisation. The end result of OSH awareness training. An hands-free devices or pulling over the implementation of the system will be online quiz was introduced to Employee when it is safe to do so. achieving the internationally recognised gauge their understanding of OHSAS 18001:2007 certification. the course content and 85 % of Environment attendees successfully obtained a • OSH Policy grade of 80% or above. • Ensure that the vehicle is properly Safaricom has developed and published an maintained at all times. OSH policy that defines our commitment All new employees are taken to safeguarding the safety and health through an OSH induction training of employees. The policy outlines: our program, which introduces them compliance with national laws and to our OSH management system, • Never work under the influence of internationally accepted OSH standards OSH policy and the Safaricom substances (alcohol or drugs) that are and best practices; our accident, illness Absolute Safety Rules (see illegal, or in excess of legal levels, or at and dangerous occurrences prevention sidebar). The induction program levels that impair the individual’s ability measures; our explicit philosophy that will be expanded to include all to perform tasks. safety is everyone’s responsibility (i.e. Safaricom contractors, subemployee dialogue and active participation), contractors, suppliers and visitors and our commitment to maintaining open at Safaricom premises. communications regarding the company’s 86 86 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 87 Employee environment Employee environment Stakeholders with whom we engage • Other OSH-related arrangements Other initiatives that Safaricom has put in place Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: Other OSH arrangements available at the as a result of the staff surveys include: workplace include in-house clinics manned • Participating in salary surveys to ensure we Occupational Safety and Health by medical practitioners and staff trained as remain competitive on compensation The Directorate of The company engages with the Directorate of Occupational Safety and first aiders and fire marshals. and benefits; Occupational Safety Health Services as required under the Occupational Safety and Health • Identifying talent and managing their career and Health Services in Act of 2007. Skills development and retention progression and opportunities through a the Ministry of Labour Safaricom has developed several policies to talent management programme; and Human Resource The company submits annual Safety and Health Audits, Noise Surveys address the risks associated with skills and • Providing wellness programmes and Development and Fire Audits (undertaken by government-approved auditors). The retention, which every employee is able to services to establish a culture of work-life audits inform the Directorate of the company’s level of compliance with access conveniently via the company’s intranet. balance and to help staff remain fit and OSH-related legal requirements and best practices. Available policies include: talent acquisition and healthy, including nutrition, blood drives, management, promotion, recognition, learning blood sugar screening, breast cancer Other forms of engagement include: annual workplace registrations, and development, and job evaluation. screening and wellness days; reports of inspections of lifting equipment and pressurised vessels, • Launching a campaign to propagate a medical reports, reports on the occurrence of accidents, occupational Safaricom also regularly carries out staff culture that is inclusive and looks beyond diseases and dangerous occurrences, and compensation matters. surveys in order to receive vital feedback from work, dubbed ‘the Safaricom way’; employees. As a result of one survey, a Staff • Introducing Sema na CEO, an intranet Local authorities Local authorities engage with the company on OSH-related issues such as Council was formed. The Council meets with platform that allows staff to engage with the fire safety, provision of sanitary conveniences and public health issues. the CEO at least once a quarter and provides CEO on a one-on-one basis on any issues a platform for exchange of views across the affecting them; Outcomes include certificates of compliance or, in the case of nonorganisation and for staff to engage with • Hosting regular social events, such as TGIF, compliance, penalties and/or legal ramifications. management on issues affecting them. that allow informal interactions between staff at all layers of the organisation, and Employees Employee engagement is facilitated through joint management-worker • Providing gym facilities within the Nairobi safety and health committees. premises and by making arrangements with local gyms for our regional offices that The role of the employee representatives on the committees is to enable staff to access premium services at a articulate employee OSH concerns and ensure that employees actively negligible (subsidised) cost. participate in the implementation of Safaricom’s OSH policies and Family-Responsible procedures. Company Award (1st Runner Up 2011) Employee wellness programme Contractors Contractor engagement is ensured from pre-qualification stages. Strathmore Business School of Kenya One of the most comprehensive and holistic Safaricom has instituted a supplier self-assessment code of conduct programmes of its kind in Kenya, the Safaricom that seeks to determine the adequacy and efficacy of contractor wellness programme not only focuses on OSH arrangements and a clause on safety expectations is explicitly supporting employees suffering from chronic expressed in all letters of contract. diseases, it features a counselling service and family assistance, financial wellness The OSH department has recently engaged contractors who work at programmes, nutritional and health advice, as heights at Safaricom administration offices in a safe work-at-height well as recreational, religious, crèche/daycare and programme, which is to be expanded to include all contractors assigned subsidised gym facilities. to undertake work at height. 88 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 89 Employee environment Employee environment Stakeholders with whom we engage How we performed Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: The following table provides a statistical overview of our OSH performance, each of the indicators is discussed in further detail afterwards. Occupational Safety and Health (Cont’d) Occupational Safety and Health Statistics (FY 2011) Customers Safaricom is committed to safeguarding the safety and health of customers, and anyone who may be directly affected by our YTD: APR 2011 MAR 2012 business operations. ACCIDENT/ INCIDENT SAFARICOM CONTRACTORS THIRD TOTAL CLASSIFICATION EMPLOYEES PARTIES Customer’s engagement is provisioned through various channels, including the customer care helplines and email addresses, and Fatalities 0 0 2 2 comments sent directly to the OSH desk through the email address Lost Time Injuries 10 4 0 14 HSHelpdesk@safaricom.co.ke. Medical Treatment Cases 17 6 17 40 Customer-related safety and health issues are addressed in risk First Aid Cases 679 525 7 1211 assessments, safety and health audits and safety and health Work-Related Incidents 107 22 1 130 committee inspection reports. Total Manhours Worked 13 179 840 Labour/Management Relations FIFR* 0 LTIFR** 0.15 Ministry of Labour This Ministry is charged with ensuring that employment laws are being * Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) is calculated as (Fatal Injuries X 200,000)/man-hours worked. followed. They have given guidelines on the reports that we, as an ** Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as (Lost Time Injuries X 200,000)/man-hours worked. employer, are required to submit periodically. • Fatalities Fatalities/fatal injuries refer to work-related injuries that result in loss of life, with no time limit between Safaricom has complied 100% with all reports requested by the Ministry. the date of the incident and the date of death. We value all lives, whether it is our own employees, contractors or third parties. We regret to report that although there were no employee or contractor Federation of Kenya This is an entity that represents employers within Kenya and we have fatal incidents reported during the year under review, two third party fatalities occurred following a road Employers subscribed as members. They offer guidance and advocate a better accident that took place on the 7th January 2012. A Safaricom vehicle hit a motorcycle on the outskirts business operating environment by seeking to protect the rights of the of Naru-Moru Town, injuring all three motorcycle passengers, two of whom eventually succumbed to employer. their injuries and passed away. • Lost time injuries Directorate of Industrial This body is charged with subsidising the training offered by employers Lost time injuries (LTIs) are a work-related injuries that causes absence for one or more scheduled Training to employees. A company has to submit applications requesting for workdays (or scheduled shifts), counting from the day after the injury occurs to the day before the reimbursement on various courses that have been offered — a process individual returns to normal or modified work. we undertake. The majority of the LTIs reported were sustained in road traffic accidents (nine of the ten employee LTIs reported and three of the four contractor LTIs reported). Accordingly, driving presents the greatest accident risk for Safaricom employees and contractors. Other than road accidents, causes of LTIs were slip and fall injuries and, in the other contractor LTI case, a BTS pedestal fell on a contractor while at a warehouse. • Medical Treatment and First Aid Cases Medical Treatment Cases (MTCs) and Medical Injuries (MIs) are work-related injuries that require treatment by a trained health care professional. The medical treatment and first aid cases that were recorded were both work-related and non-work related cases attended to at the Safaricom First Aid Room during working hours. 90 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 91 Employee environment Employee environment • Work-related incidents Percentage (%) breakdown of incidents Permanent employees by location These are specific events, sequences of events or extended conditions that had, or could have had, Region Number of staff unwanted or unintended impact on the safety and/ Road Traffic Nairobi Region 2 276 or health of people, property, the environment, or Cut by sharp objects Western (Rift, Nyanza and Western) 190 on legal/regulatory compliance. 88.14% 5.08% Property damage Eastern (Eastern, Central & Coast) 235 The major accident type reported in Safaricom Slips,trips and falls Total 2 701 is road traffic accidents, accounting for over 1.69% Fire / Explosions 88% of reported incidents (see accompanying Safaricom employs staff throughout the Nairobi, Western and Eastern regions of Kenya, although the 0.85% 4.24% pie chart). As a result, several initiatives have overwhelming majority of the workforce is situated in Nairobi. been implemented to help deliver a reduction in the number of incidents reported, including: a review of the fleet policy; implementation of the Safaricom Absolute Road Safety Rules, along with an Employee remuneration, benefits and turnover improved defensive driving course to be offered to all staff driving company vehicles. Safaricom’s total payroll costs are The following benefits are provided to all approximately KShs 232 000,000 net per Safaricom employees: medical insurance and month. The total benefits paid to staff, including work injury benefits, as well as annual, sick, Employee demographics regular contributions like pension costs, amount maternity/paternity and compassionate leave with The following tables detail our employee demographics by gender, grade, contract and location. to approximately KShs 50 000 000 per month. funeral expenses. Permanent employees also enjoy the following additional benefits: pension, Permanent employees by gender and grade The workforce is remunerated based on wages car allowance, group life insurance, social subject to Kenya’s minimum wage rules. Our clubs (based on grade criteria), group personal 31 March 2012 2011 entry salary is 13 times higher than accident insurance and stock ownership. There Job Grade Total No. of Kenya’s minimum wage. There is no gender are no industry standards on employee turnover Permanent Staff No. of Women No. of Men Gender Ratio distinction on standard entry-level wages as and, hence, we cannot offer a comparison. these are pre-defined. Levels of staff turnover are monitored internally, 1 1 0 1 N/A nonetheless, and we would like to achieve a rate 2 10 3 7 1:2.3 of less than 8%, based on the closing turnover 3 34 14 20 1:1.4 rate for the previous year of 10.05%. 4 126 33 93 1:2.8 5 220 66 154 1:2.3 6 516 181 335 1:1.9 Hiring procedures 7 545 238 307 1:1.3 Safaricom is a Kenyan company and so our hiring procedures are rightfully focused on giving opportunities to citizens with the required skills and qualifications. Where there are deviations, these 8 1 247 623 624 1:1 have been dictated by shareholding agreements or a lack of qualified local candidates. 9 2 0 2 N/A Totals 2 701 1 158 1 543 1:1.3 We have also invested in a robust performance management system that allows employee performance to be regularly monitored and reported. The system helps us ensure that every employee receives regular, objective performance and career development reviews. Although the overall gender ratio across all job grades within the company is approaching 1:1, we openly recognise that there is plenty of room for improvement, particularly at the higher grades. We are committed to ensuring that women who have the appropriate knowledge and skills are always equally considered for positions. We have also introduced specific initiatives that ensure female employees receive mentoring, coaching and work-life balance counselling designed to help them successfully maximise their employment growth opportunities within Safaricom, while leading productive, fulfilling lives outside of the office. Total number of employees by employment contract KShs 50 000 000 total staff benefits Employment Contracts No. of employees per month Permanent 2 701 Temporary Staff 890 Total 3 591 92 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 93 Employee environment Employee environment Average employee training hours by gender and grade Total Number of Employees Trained Number of Female Employees Trained Number of Male Employees Trained Average Training Hours by Grade Total Training Hours – Females Average Training Hours Females Average Training Hours Males Total Cost of Training by Grade Average cost of Training by Grade Total Training Hours by Grade Total Training Hours – Males Category / Grade Director/General Manager 8 3 5 484 61 308 176 103 35 2,593,651 324,206 Heads of Department 41 8 33 1,364 33 952 412 119 12 6,922,600 168,844 Senior Manager 106 27 79 2,840 27 1,424 1,416 53 18 8,888,628 83,855 Manager 403 137 266 7,782 19 2,372 5,410 17 20 25,291,252 62,757 Senior Officer 1,511 476 1,035 31,926 21 9,659 22,267 20 22 61,931,336 40,987 Specialist 3,084 1,068 2,016 65,262 21 32,868 32,394 31 16 96,935,269 31,432 Operatives 5,307 2,379 2,928 173,113 33 87,622 85,491 37 29 8,690,990 1,638 Learning and development is an integral part of Safaricom’s commitment to attract, motivate and retain talented employees. We use a blend of instructor-led and e-learning courses. Instructor-led training hours will, on average, be higher for staff with leadership/management responsibilities as a result of longer course days. The reverse will be true for e-learning courses, which have been accessed by 2,750 staff in the categories of officers, specialists and operatives to date. Future commitments • An ergonomics software solution is being introduced to help staff develop good computing habits and workstation ergonomics, improving productivity and reducing the costs associated with workstation injuries and fatigue. • We plan to achieve OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, which will help us eliminate or minimise OSH-related risks for employees. • More workplace OSH-related training will be introduced as we strive to entrench our health and safety culture across Safaricom. • The Safaricom Steering Committee will be formally constituted, with a mandate to cohesively manage and co-ordinate the various OSH sub-committees and to provide leadership and guidance on OSH functions and programmes. 94 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 95 Environmental performance Environmental performance Safaricom has developed an integrated green agenda: an eight point blueprint The environmental management framework is a path to a wide range of for transforming our company into an benefits, including: environmentally aware and sustainable • financial savings from reduced waste organisation. A ‘greener’ operation is good generation; news for our triple bottom line (people, planet • efficient energy consumption and associated impacts; and profits); it means a lighter ecological • easier compliance with environmental footprint and a healthier, happier, more legislation; productive place to work. • increased staff morale and pride, and • improved customer relations. Our integrated green agenda focuses on the following, interrelated aspects: Climate change and carbon footprint The framework is divided in to three parts: Safaricom has embraced ‘Green’ Base Transceiver Stations environmental performance as Energy consumption • Part one provides an overview, explaining a key challenge, not just to fulfill ‘Green’ products and packaging the elements and commitments of our our responsibilities as a corporate Paper usage proposed environmental policies and citizen, but because we believe ‘Green’ offices objectives. it will push us to become more Water usage productive, more innovative, more Resource sharing, reuse and recycling • Part two defines the roles and efficient and more competitive as an responsibilities of the various organisation. Our environmental management framework stakeholders management in particular and The first step was to develop and adopt an environmental issues from a best practice environmental management framework. The perspective. framework includes, among other elements, a policy that describes the commitments • Part three focuses on the implementation R8 and objectives of our environmental plans of the framework, including procedures for and processes. It reinforces existing internal compliance with environmental legislation operations with a comprehensive approach to and regulations, environmental impact environmental management. assessments and audits for our internal and external infrastructure. It also includes mechanisms for the management of noise pollution, energy and mitigation of the negative impacts of climate change. The Environmental framework also addresses management of mobile phones, masts and human health. Performance The framework has also helped us devise our Environment Management System (EMS).The EMS is an automated system, modelled around ISO14001. The system will help us to address and manage our environmental impacts. The system has been deployed and will be active in the financial year 2012/2013. 96 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 97 Environmental performance Environmental performance Stakeholders with whom we engage We calculated it using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol – a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Safaricom has internal and external stakeholders regarding environmental performance. We discuss (Revised edition) developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable environmental performance-related issues with internal stakeholders on a monthly basis and with external Development— and the ISO 14064-1 standard: Specification with guidance at the organisation level for stakeholders on a quarterly or as-required basis. quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines for GHG inventories. Stakeholder groups What we engage them on: Emission factors were sourced from the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)/Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) GHG conversion factors for company reporting, Government of Kenya Safaricom works closely with NEMA as it is the local environmental along with an electricity emission factor for Kenya published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) of (through Ministry of regulatory authority and sets the standards that Safaricom 0.395kgCO2e/KWh. Environment and National installations must meet. Environment Management We have calculated our direct Scope 1 and indirect Scope 2 emissions this year. These are composed of the Authority (NEMA) The green initiatives implemented by Safaricom — including Green following: BTSs, e-waste recycling (in partnership with CFSK), SIM recycling and tree planting — have also been recognised by NEMA and, in • Direct Scope 1 emissions: These are emissions resulting from diesel consumed in generators, petrol 2010, Safaricom was awarded the best telecommunication company and diesel consumed in Safaricom-owned vehicles, as well as fugitive emissions from refrigerant gases in terms of environmental conservation. and fire extinguishers. Shareholders (Government of Safaricom shareholders, Vodafone in particular, have assisted in • Indirect Scope 2 emissions: These are emissions associated with the consumption of purchased Kenya, Vodafone Plc, Public addressing this risk area by sharing best practices and processes and electricity from the Kenyan grid. This includes electricity consumption in the head office, Safaricom Care (NSE) acting as a reference for new technologies, products and solutions. Centre, Jambo Call Centre, retail stores, BTS and MSR. Safaricom shares information with other OpCos within the Vodafone Group. Our total Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint is 70,257.52tCO2e, described in the table below: Local communities The communities served by Safaricom are consulted when proposed site designs are being investigated, and environmental impacts Scope Activity data Carbon emissions ( tCO2e ) are also assessed during these investigations — as part of the Scope 1 Diesel consumed in generators 19 013.66 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process — and mitigation measures are addressed. Fuel consumed in vehicles 2 446.34 Refrigerant gas 4 002.30 Safaricom also contributes directly to the improvement of the Total Scope 1 25 462.31 environment around our sites, setting up schools, installing motion Scope 2 Electricity 44 795.22 lights to improve security and offering free phone-charging booths. Total Scope 2 44 795.22 Total Scope 1+2 70 257.52 United Nations Environment Safaricom partners UNEP for the Annual World Environment Day Programme (UNEP) celebrations and partnered in the first ever Pan-African Conference on e-waste in March 2012. As this is our first carbon footprint, there is a certain The contribution of activity data to the carbon level of uncertainty in the completeness and accuracy footprint is broken down in the graph below: How we performed of the information. Some supporting information As a material issue, environmental performance has been separated out into the following distinct was not available and estimates were used. We are sub-categories: carbon emissions, water, waste (electronic and paper), electromagnetic waves and working with our partners and suppliers to reduce infrastructural impacts, each of which is reported on in further detail section in this section. the level of uncertainty of our carbon footprint figures going forward. • Carbon emissions Climate change has come to the fore as a key sustainable development issue. Many governments are Diesel consumed in generators 27.1% taking steps to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions through national policies that include: the Fuel consumed in vehicles 3.5% introduction of emissions trading schemes, voluntary programs, carbon or energy taxes, and regulations Refrigerant gas 5.7% and standards on energy efficiency and emissions. Electricity 63.8% Accordingly, we must be able to understand and manage our GHG risks to be prepared for future national and regional climate policies and to ensure continued long-term success. Recognising this, we have calculated our carbon footprint for the first time. 98 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom SafaricomSustainability SustainabilityReport 2012 Report2012 99 99 Environmental performance Environmental performance We do not have targets or benchmarks for carbon emissions IT waste performance data yet, but these will be defined going forward. The Safaricom Foundation and Computers for Schools Kenya All of our BTSs have been subjected to (CFSK) have partnered in the refurbishment of computers comprehensive actual EMF measurements Milestones and successes We are, nonetheless, already taking steps to manage our carbon emissions through initiatives aimed at improved that have nil net book value to Safaricom. The Finance, and we ensure that the radio equipment we • We launched the handset and generator usage and operational energy efficiency. Supply Chain and IT departments are involved in the use is approved and within the internationally accessories recycling programme clearance process of old computers and laptops. An inventory recommended EMF range. We are compliant in advance of any e-waste regulations. The modalities of the project are in • Water has been developed and is maintained by the IT department with all regulations and have conducted all EIAs discussion with NEMA, key internal Safaricom receives water from three sources for its daily on the number of PCs and laptops that have been handed and EAs as required by NEMA. stakeholders and CFSK. operations: the municipal council, boreholes and tanker water over to CFSK. Going forward, an agreement will be drafted stipulating the roles and responsibility of Safaricom and CFSK We have also developed a website answering • We were awarded the most compliant supplies. For the reporting period, the company consumed 57 company in the telecommunication 420 000 litres of water — 43 272 000 in litres from the municipal in the management of IT waste. the frequently asked questions about mobile sector by NEMA, following negotiated council and 14 148 000 litres via tanker delivery. We do not have phones, masts and your health, available using compliance to EMCA 1999 and targets or benchmarks for water consumption performance data Safaricom has also piloted a handset recycling programme the QR code on the left or via our website at subsequent regulations. yet, but these will be defined going forward. aimed at managing the environmental impact of old mobile www.safaricom.co.ke. All handsets sold in • We have installed the IsoMetrix system devices and accessories, which might otherwise end up in Safaricom shops have been ‘type approved’ and implemented an automated Water conservation measures landfills. The collected phones and accessories are recycled and fall way below the required international Environmental Management System In order to minimise water wastage, the company has installed by CFSK. standards. (EMS). sensor taps in the Safaricom Care Centre building washrooms • Infrastructural impacts • We successfully launched the Green and these will be rolled out to all other company facilities Paper and resource management Awareness Day and showcased our over the next three years. Borehole supplies are also used to Safaricom started to manage its paper consumption in 2008. In the past year, Safaricom has developed 300 green initiatives across the business. A supplement the local council water supplies at Safaricom House To minimise paper usage, printing and photocopying are only BTS sites across the country. Before a BTS or launch for the JCC is in progress. I and II and the Jambo Contact Centre. Rain water collection recommended when absolutely necessary and printers are other facility is developed by Safaricom, an EIA is conducted to ensure that the development • We designed and disseminated an systems will be considered for any new company facilities and set to duplex printing by default. All shredded waste paper is EMF communication info-pack plans are also underway for the construction of a borehole to sold to Chandaria Industries for recycling. is environmentally sound and sustainable and ‘The Answer is in your Hand: Mobile supplement the existing water supplies at the Safaricom Care that environmental consequences have been Phones, Masts and your health’. Centre. Solid waste management recognised and taken into account. Safaricom employees and contractors are encouraged to • Waste management adopt the waste management hierarchy — prevention, After one year of project existence, we conduct The Environmental Management and Coordination (Waste minimisation, re-use, recycling, energy recovery and, an Environment Audit (EA) of the site. The Management) Regulations provide guidelines on the handling, finally, disposal — to promote waste minimisation within objectives of the EA include: identifying any packaging, treatment, condition, storage and disposal of waste. our workplaces and to encourage re-use and/or recycling public concerns and significant environmental Waste generators are responsible for ensuring the segregation wherever possible. impacts (and establishing mitigation measures, at source, collection and proper disposal of their waste streams. if required); assessing compliance with all Waste is separated to promote recycling and composting relevant statutory and regulatory requirements We have contracted a NEMA-certified waste collection company of biodegradable waste. All waste is collected by a NEMA(measuring air emissions, noise and vibrations, to handle the office waste and all other waste, including IT/ licensed waste handler/collector. We avoid the use of waste management processes, electromagnetic Network waste, is also disposed of in accordance with the waste non-recyclable plastic containers and substitute thin plastic emissions, energy consumption, discharges management regulations. containers with durable containers. into the aquatic environment and land/ground contamination), as well as facilitating the Network waste We do not have targets or benchmarks for waste management and control of environmental Waste generated by Safaricom BTSs forms part of the e-waste management performance data yet, but these will be defined practices. management programme. Batteries and engine oils are returned going forward. to the suppliers for recycling (at an average of 75 generator So far, all of our facilities and BTSs have been starter batteries and 1 550 litres of engine oil a month). • Electromagnetic Frequencies subjected to an EA and all new developments Site batteries are returned to the warehouse, with Logistics At Safaricom, we are committed to ensuring that our activities are subjected to an EIA. We have 1 390 EIA responsible for declaring them obsolete and disposing of them and services pose no risk to the health and safety of the approvals for our BTSs and approximately 2 as per set procedures. communities in which we operate. Even though there is no 000 EA approvals from NEMA in total. evidence that the electromagnetic waves emitted by mobile No accidental major spills have been recorded yet, but secondary phones and base stations are dangerous, we take our containment facilities have been installed at the MSR stations and responsibilities seriously and comply with the World Health certain BTS sites have been provided with bunded areas. Organisation (WHO) recognised, International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICINRP) guidelines. 100 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 101 Here are some highlights from the more than 120 projects implemented by the Safaricom Foundation every year. 6 The Safaricom Foundation 102 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 103 The Safaricom Foundation The Safaricom Foundation Staff Participation World of Difference The immensely popular World of Difference (WoD) is a Safaricom Foundation programme that provides employees with the opportunity to actively participate in Foundation projects by working with project partners and NGOs, such as the Kenya Red Cross Society, the Northern Rangelands Trust and Moving the Goalposts. Through the competitive WoD application and selection process, chosen employees are seconded to work with Foundation project partners (at no cost to the partner), sharing their skills, time, energy and technical expertise, while working for an organisation or cause that they believe in and gaining insights into community development and the project partner’s work. Water Security Maji na Uhai In partnership with the Kenya Red Cross and ActionAid Kenya, the Safaricom Foundation has implemented community-focused water projects that improve food production and food security in arid and semi-arid areas by ensuring a constant supply of clean and safe water for domestic use, livestock farming and agriculture. A recent, typical, project was the successful piping of Disaster Response clean, borehole water to the communities in Katalwa and Mumbuni. Before the project was implemented in Kenyans for Kenya Katalwa in the Eastern province, the community had to During July and August 2011, the Safaricom walk 15 kilometres to draw water from the river or rely Foundation led a coalition of partners in the ‘Kenyans on unclean water collected from ground catchments. for Kenya’ fund-raising initiative, which raised over KShs 677 million to help address the famine situation To date, the project has directly benefited an estimated in Northern Kenya. 16 500 people, including seven primary schools, three secondary schools and three health centres. Kenya’s worst drought in six decades, compounded by runaway inflation, a poor harvest and a ballooning refugee crisis in neighbouring countries, left over 3.5 million Kenyans exposed to starvation and even death. ‘Kenyans for Kenya’ was the biggest such effort ever mounted in Kenya, the month-long fundraising initiative resulted in providing over 200 000 affected Kenyans with emergency food and water. The initiative will also finance a number of programmes designed to further alleviate suffering and underpin long-term food security in affected areas. 104 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 105 The Safaricom Foundation Environmental Conservation Food Security Aberdares National Park Elephant Grids Since its inception in 2003, the Safaricom Foundation has Ustawi supported the preservation of Kenya’s environment and natural In partnership with the Kenya Community Development resources through reforestation, the conservation of biodiversity, Foundation (KCDF), the Safaricom Foundation is reducing human-wildlife conflict and promoting of use of renewal implementing a programme designed to combat food energy sources. insecurity in a community-focused, sustainable manner. The Foundation’s latest environmental conservation project is Through the programme, communities in arid and semi-arid the commissioning of three elephant grids along the fence of areas are selected to receive funding, equipment and training the Aberdares National Park and Forest Reserve. The grids, to enable them to adopt alternative, more effective farming, which allow human and vehicular traffic to pass but prevent storage and water conservation methods. wildlife from doing so, will help stop elephants from moving into neighbouring farmland and clashing with communities. Education With technical support from KCDF staff, community groups are able to harvest food that caters for both their domestic First Girls Secondary School in Fafi District needs and generates additional income within three to six Sports Built partly through funding of KShs 5.4 million from the months. Bumper harvests of watermelons, kale, spinach, Safaricom Foundation, the new Fafi Girls Secondary butternut, tomatoes, avocados and pumpkins are now a Alive & Kicking Kenya School was officially opened on July 14, 2010. As the common feature in communities in places such as Mwingi, The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with Alive & Kicking only secondary school for girls in Fafi District, it is set Yatta, Isiolo, Garissa, Kajiado, Mbeere, Samburu, Marsabit, Kenya, a not-for-profit ball making social enterprise that makes to significantly increase access to secondary education Wajir and Mandera, which were on the brink of food insecurity and donates (or sells at cost) durable, repairable, affordable within the district and the entire North Eastern Province. less than a year ago. leather footballs, volleyballs and netballs to orphanages, refugee camps, street kids projects, community schools, youth groups Fafi District has one of the poorest school enrolment and NGOs with preventive health programmes. rates in Kenya at just 9% of girls and 11% of boys, but the new school should start to help change the situation Alive & Kicking Kenya encourages children to play sport and 54 girls were admitted in its first intake. to learn life skills like teamwork and to build self-esteem. It undertakes road shows around the country to interact directly The Safaricom Foundation believes that education is with young people and address social and health issues. the key to a brighter future for both boys and girls and The road shows use music, drama, sports personalities and a decisive way of eradicating poverty. Accordingly, the sporting events to create HIV/AIDS awareness and offer Foundation funds a range of projects in the education advice on how to avoid contracting the virus. sector, supporting the provision of learning environments The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with Alive & Kicking that encourage students to thrive and succeed. Kenya three times, most recently to visit 40 secondary Arts and Culture schools and youth sports groups in Mumias, reaching at least Kakapel Rock Art Preservation 40,000 students and youth. Overall, Alive & Kicking Kenya The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with the Trust for Rock has conducted over 20 road shows and interacted with more Art (TARA) to preserve and promote the Kakapel Rock Art site in than 800,000 young people. Western Kenya. Invaluable historical treasures, the drawings are Health over 4 000 years old and an important part of the Iteso people’s heritage. Huru Reusable Sanitary Pad Project The Foundation’s grant made it possible for TARA to remove graffiti The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with Huru International damage and rehabilitate the site, to construct the Abasuba Cultural to distribute free reusable sanitary kits to needy adolescent girls Centre, and to begin marketing the site as a tourist attraction. to ensure their dignity and help them stay in school during their monthly cycles. The project has helped uplift the community by bringing income into the area. Community members are employed at the centre on The Foundation has donated KShs 500 000 towards this project, a full-time basis, over 300 were employed during the construction which has seen the purchase of 455 Huru Empowerment and rehabilitation phase, and the income from visitors is being Kits. Each kit comes packaged in a drawstring bag that also put towards community initiatives like orphan education, building functions as a backpack and includes reusable sanitary napkins, schools and the micro-financing of local businesses. underwear, soap, a waterproof bag to safely store used pads and an educational insert featuring information on proper pad usage, sexual and reproductive health and HIV/AIDs prevention. 106 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 107 7 Indicator Overview 108 108 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 109 109 Indicator overview Indicator overview Indicator overview Parameter FY 2011 Market share of telecommunications sector (by SIM card) 67% No. of customers 19.1 Million Value added statement: Value generated (KSh) 108 357 734 Value added statement: Value allocated (KSh) 108 357 734 Safaricom revenue used to pay regulatory fees 4% Fines for 2011/12 year non-compliance (KSh) 500 000 Energy Security Percentage of base stations on grid 90.5% Percentage of base stations on 24/7 diesel generated power 5% Percentage of renewable energy hybrid base stations 4.5% No. of 100% renewable energy hybrid systems (solar-wind battery) 2 Total electricity consumption (kWh) 118 232 786 Total diesel consumption (Litre) 8 424 563 Environmental Performance Carbon emissions (tCO2e): Scope 1 25 462.31 Carbon emissions (tCO2e): Scope 2 44 795.22 Total water consumption (litres) 57,420,000 Employees Fatalities 2 Lost Time Injuries 14 Total number of permanent staff 2 701 Total number of permanent staff: Women 1 158 Total number of permanent staff: Men 1 543 110 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Safaricom Report Sustainability 2012 Report 2012 111 111 8 Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table 112 112 Safaricom Sustainability Safaricom Sustainability Report Report 2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 113 Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table Global Reporting Initiative compliance table GRI Section Description Reference Page number(s) GRI Section Description Reference Page number(s) 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision Executive Pages 14 21 About this report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Page 6 maker of the organisation (e.g. CEO, chair, Summary Scope > Message from period regarding size, structure, or ownership or equivalent senior position) about the our Chairman including: relevance of sustainability to the organisation > Message from and its strategy. our CEO • The location of, or changes in operations, About this report including facility openings, closings, and 2.1 Name of the organisation. Page 6 Safaricom Limited expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and Primary brands, products, and/or services. About Safaricom Pages 26 27 other capital formation, maintenance, and 2.2 The reporting organisation should indicate What we do (our alteration operations (for private sector the nature of its role in providing these products and organisations). products and services, and the degree to services) which it utilizes outsourcing. About Safaricom Page 36 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Recognition 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, About Safaricom Page 24 About this report Page 6 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for including main divisions, operating Who we are Scope information provided. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. This is Safaricom’s first Page 6 About Safaricom 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Page 24 Sustainability Report. Who we are Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report Page 6 3.3 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation About Safaricom Page 24 Scope operates, and names of countries with either Who we are 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Navigating this report Page 7 major operations or that are specifically or its contents. relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Our Sustainability 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Strategy Page 46 47; About Safaricom • Determining materiality; Page 6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 24 About this report > Who we are • Prioritizing topics within the report; and Safaricom is listed • Identifying stakeholders the organisation on the Nairobi expects to use the report. Stock Exchange Page 6; Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, About this report 3.6 Page 24 2.7 Markets served (including geographic About Safaricom Page 24 Who we are subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, breakdown, sectors served, and types of > Who we are suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for customers/beneficiaries). further guidance. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including: Employee Page 32; Page 92 • Number of employees Environment • Number of operations About Safaricom • Net sales (for private sector (Value added organisations) or net revenues (for statement) public sector organisations); Refer to Annual • Total capitalization broken down in Report for terms of debt and equity (for private Annual Financial sector organisations); and Statements • Quantity of products or services provided. 114 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 115 Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table GRI Section Description Reference Page number (s) GRI Section Description Reference Page number (s) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Page 6 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board About Safaricom Page 37 About this report boundary of the report. structure, state the number and gender of Governance members of the highest governance body 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Not applicable Not applicable that are independent and/ or non-executive subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced to Safaricom members. operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees About Safaricom Page 38; Page 88 period and/or between organisations. to provide recommendations or direction to Governance the highest governance body. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Not applicable Not applicable information provided in earlier reports, and the to Safaricom Include reference to processes regarding: Employee reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ • The use of shareholder resolutions or Environment acquisitions, change of base years/periods, other mechanisms for enabling minority nature of business, measurement methods). shareholders to express opinions to the highest governance body; and 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Not applicable Not applicable • Informing and consulting employees periods in the scope, boundary, or to Safaricom about the working relationships with measurement methods applied in the report. formal representation bodies such as organisation level ‘work councils’, and 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Refer to GRI Page 114 118 representation of employees in the Disclosures in the report. Identify the page table highest governance body. numbers or web links where the following can be found: Identify topics related to economic, environmental, and social performance • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2; raised through these mechanisms during the • Organisational Profile 2.1 – 2.10; reporting period. • Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13; • Governance, Commitments, and 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the About Safaricom Page 38 43 Engagement 4.1 – 4.17; organisation. Our stakeholders • Core Performance Indicators; Examples of stakeholder groups are: • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were • Civil society; * Each performance included; and • Customers; section details • Local Communities; the relevant • Shareholders and providers of capital; stakeholders and 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, Page 37 38 how we engage About • Suppliers; and including committees under the highest with them Safaricom • Employees, other workers, and their governance body responsible for specific Governance trade unions. tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of About Safaricom Page 39 stakeholders with whom to engage. Our stakeholders 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Page 37 governance body is also an executive About officer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s management and the reasons Safaricom for this arrangement). Governance 116 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 117 Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table Global Reporting Initiative Compliance Table GRI performance indicators GRI Indicator Description Reference Page number (s) Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy Security Page 60 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy Security Page 60 EN8 Total Water withdrawal by source Environmental Performance Page 100 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Environmental Performance Page 99 by weight Social LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Employment Environment Page 92 93 contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Employment Environment Page 93 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Employment Environment Page 94 gender and by employee category SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Ethics and Values Page 85 for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Ethics and Values Page 85 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Ethics and Values Page 85 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Dynamic Regulatory Page 53 development and lobbying Environment SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, Dynamic Regulatory Page 55 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Environment SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Dynamic Regulatory Page 55 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environment laws and regulations. Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, About Safaricom Page 32 including revenue, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Employee Environment Page 93 compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operations 118 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 119 118 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 9 Table of Abbreviations 120 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 121 Table of abbreviations Table of abbreviations Acronym Description Acronym Description 3G Third Generation KICA Kenya Information and Communications Act APS Auto Phase Selectors KPI Key Performance Indicator AVR Automatic Voltage Regulator KRA Kenya Revenue Authority BCLB Betting Control and Licensing Board KShs Kenyan Shillings BCP Business Continuity Plan KWh Kilowatt Hour BTS Base Transmission Station LED Light Emitting Diode CAPEX Capital Expenditure LMS Learning Management System CBK Central Bank of Kenya LTE Long Term Evolution CCK Communications Commission of Kenya LTI Lost Time Injuries CEO Chief Executive Officer LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate CFSK Computers for Schools Kenya MCPA Multi Carrier Power Amplifier CMA Capital Markets Authority MGW Media Gate Way COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organisations MI Medical Injuries CPM Community Power for Mobile MOU Minutes of Use CRBT Caller Ring Back Tone MSC Mobile Switching Centre CSI Corporate Social Investment MTCs Medical Treatment Cases CSK Copyright Society of Kenya MTR Mobile Termination Rates DALI Digital Addressable Lighting Interface MWh Megawatt hour DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change NEMA National Environmental Management Authority DEFRA Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs NGO Non-Governmental Organisation DOYA Dealer of the Year OPEX Operational Expenditure EA Environmental Audit OSH Occupational Safety and Health EIA Environmental Impact Assessment P2P Phone to Phone EMCA The Environmental and Co-ordination Act PMU Power Management Unit EMR Electromagnetic Radiation PRSP Premium Rate Service Provider EMS Environmental Management System QOS Quality of Service ERC Energy Regulatory Commission QR Quick Response FIFR Fatal Injury Frequency Rate REA Rural Electrification Authority FY Financial Year TARA Trust for Rock Art GBV Gender-based Violence RF Radio Frequency GHG Greenhouse Gas RML Road Maintenance Levy GJ Gigajoule SCC Safaricom Care Centre GRI Global Reporting Initiative SLA Service Level Agreement GSMA GSM Association SMS Short Message Service IEA International Energy Agency T&I Telecommunications and Internet ICT Information and Communications Technology TGIF Thank Goodness It’s Friday ICINRP International Commissions on Non-Ionising Radiation UNEP United Nations Environment Programme IRU Indefeasible Right of Use USF Universal Service Fund IPCC Intergovernmental Pannel on Climate Change VAS Value Added Service JCC Jambo Contact Centre VRB Vanadium Redox Battery KCAA Kenya Civil Aviation Authority WHO World Health Organisation KCDF Kenya Community Development Foundation WOD World of Difference 122 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 123 10 Safaricom Sustainability Team 124 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 125 Safaricom sustainability team Safaricom sustainability team Safaricom sustainability team Name Department 1. Bob Collymore CEOs Office 2. Nzioka Waita Corporate Affairs 3. Sanda Ojiambo Corporate Responsibility 4. Karen Basiye Corporate Responsibility 5. Paul Mugambi Corporate Responsibility 6. Valentine Cheruiyot Corporate Responsibility 7. Alfred Osiko Corporate Responsibility 8. Steve Chege Regulatory and Public Policy 9. Mwendwa Maundu Regulatory and Public Policy 10. Shaka Kwach Special Projects 11. Godfrey Munzala Network Quality and Assurance 12. Enock Wachira Network Service Operations 13. George Ponde Regional Operations 14. Miriam Jemeli Kosgei Network Quality and Assurance 15. Goldermier Opiyo Call Centre Operations 16. Linnet Odah Retail Sales 17. Sharon D’Souza Holi Risk Management 18. Kevin Kariuki Risk Management 19. Samuel Ngugi Procurement and Supply Chain 20. Nicholas Mulila Executive Business Office 21. Caroline Wanyoike Executive Business Office 22. Francis Wamwangi Human Resources Centre of Expertise 23. Karen Jeruto Rerimoi Facilities 24. Bonventure Mutuku Facilities 25. Charles Kimani Enterprise Business Development 26. Wangeci Kanjama Business Planning and Support 27. Philip Muchaba Business Planning and Support 28. Alexander Kinyae Business Planning and Support 29. Zaheeda Suleman Strategic Marketing 30. Caroline Wanjiku Gichuru Strategic Marketing 126 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Safaricom Report Sustainability 2012 Report 2012 127 127 Safaricom CEO Robert Collymore appointed to United Nations sustainability body in April 2012 Safaricom CEO, Bob Collymore has been appointed to the United Nations Global Compact Board, a voluntary UN initiative that encourages businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies. The initiative also encourages corporate support for the UN’s Millennium Development Goals and corporate adherence to human rights, good labour practices, support for the environment and anti-corruption. Mr Collymore’s appointment as an honorary board member for a three year term is seen as recognition of Safaricom’s commitment to environmental, sustainability and anti-corruption issues, as well as the work the company is undertaking to address Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5, regarding maternal health and child mortality. More about the UN Global Compact Board: 128 128 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Report Sustainability 2012 Report 2012 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Sustainability Report 2012 2012 Report 129 129 11 Sustainability Report Feedback Form 130 130 Safaricom Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 SafaricomSustainability Safaricom SustainabilityReport Report2012 2012 131 131 Safaricom Sustainability report feedback form Please either return this form to any of our retail stores or email it to: sustainability@safaricom.co.ke Notes Please provide your personal details (optional): Please rate this report in terms of the following: Name_____________________________________ Excellent Fair Poor Organisation_______________________________ Telephone_________________________________ About this report Executive summary Email address______________________________ About Safaricom What is your relationship to Safaricom? Dynamic regulatory environment Energy security Customer Network stability Business partner Innovation Employee Supplier ethics and performance Government/regulator Ethics and values Shareholder/investor Employee environment Environmental performance Media Design and layout Not-for-profit sector Other How did you become aware of our report? Printed copy delivered/posted to you Via the company website Through the media Other In what format did you view our report? Online interactive Online PDF Printed What more would you like to learn about Safaricom? __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________________ Do you have any other comments on the report? __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for your feedback. 132 132 Safaricom Sustainability Safaricom Sustainability Report Report 2012 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 133 Notes Notes 134 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2012 135 Please scan code to view the digital report
