Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals: We respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Bangladesh Labor Acts and seek to be guided by its provisions in the conduct of our business. We have separate policies for Discrimination or Equal Opportunity, Grievance Management, etc. SQ Celsius Limited is an equal opportunity employer and treats male, female and even physically challenged people equally. Here 22% of the workforces are female. SQ Celsius Ltd. discourages any form of discrimination, physical and verbal abuse. Implementation: SQ Celsius Limited has a detail policy about Grievance Management and already introduced Grievance box and Grievance cell for verbal & written grievance as well as suggestions. Awareness raising training is also conducted for workers as well as employees on Human rights. We also used to communicate with our suppliers and other stakeholders about our policy and legal requirement of the country. And we have dedicated team members under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office closely monitoring and implementing the policies & procedures supporting Human rights. Measurement of outcomes: SQ Celsius Ltd. always prefers best practices other than requirements. SQ Celsius Ltd. has dedicated Internal Audit Team under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office, who are monitoring the area of Human rights in the past reporting periods and current practices. In case of any deficiency, loophole and area of improvements are formally communicated to the Senior Management and the concern employees. To be more impartial, SQ Celsius Ltd. used to evaluate its Human Rights performance through External Audits like; SA 8000 Certification and SEDEX (Ethical Trading Initiatives) Audits by External bodies. Labour Principals Assessment, Policy and Goals: We qualify clients Global Sourcing Principles which outline the management of labor standards and more demanding Ethical Trading Initiative standards. SQ Celsius Limited is also qualifying the most prestigious Social Accountability 8000 standards. There is no discrimination lies among the labours. We are also ensuring the rights & responsibilities of employees through Quality Management System (ISO 9001). SQ Celsius Ltd. has functional and effective Workers Participation Committee (WPC) established under the guideline of Bangladesh Labour Code 2006 which ensuring the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We have separate policies for child labor, forced, prison and bonded labor, Wages & Benefits and other policies relates with Bangladesh Labour Code. SQ Celsius Ltd. discourages child labor, forced labor, prison and bonded labor and encourages freedom of association lawfully. SQ Celsius Ltd. is developing its organizational culture to growing up for sustainable development along with all its stake holders. Implementation: SQ Celsius Limited has a detail policy about Human Resources, Remediation of Child Labour, Forced Labour, Discrimination, Grievance Management, Health, Safety & Hygiene at the workplace which are already introduced and practicing. There are open grievance channels is in place through grievance boxes and verbal and written grievances. Awareness raising training is also conducted for workers as well as employees on different policies on Labour Principals. Workers Participation Committee (WPC) is successfully protecting the labour rights within the organization. We also used to communicate with our suppliers and other stakeholders about our policy and legal requirement of the country. And we have dedicated HR team members in the facility and Internal Audit Team under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office closely monitoring and implementing the policies & procedures, Labour laws and other Govt. regulations supporting Labour principals. Measurement of outcomes: SQ Celsius Ltd. has dedicated Internal Audit Team under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office, who are monitoring the area of Labour rights and other principles in the past reporting periods and current practices. In case of any deficiency, loophole and area of improvements are formally communicated to the Senior Management and the concern employees. A system Management Review Meeting is also in place to review the overall status (against the SA 8000 standard and in line with the law) of the Organization in every 6 months interval. To be more impartial, SQ Celsius Ltd. used to evaluate its Human Rights performance through External Audits like; SA 8000 Certification and SEDEX (Ethical Trading Initiatives) Audits by External bodies. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals: SQ Celsius Limited has detail policy on Environmental Management which has been developed under the guideline of Environment Conservation Rules of Bangladesh Govt. SQ Celsius Ltd aims to develop an environment friendly working place. The Environment Policy includes physical environment of the facility, raw material usage, water & air quality, noise pollution, impact due to solid & liquid waste, effect on air & water quality, occupational health & safety and socio-economic impacts. SQ Celsius Ltd. is aims to develop Environment Management System according to the global standard. Implementation: SQ group as well as SQ Celsius Limited is committed to establish a environment friendly technologies, e.g.developed and installed ETP for pollution control from sweaters washing, Energy consumption, organic cotton production, use of energy saving lights & CNG converted vehicles, etc. To implement and develop the Environment Management System, a competitive team is going to be structured for SQ Celsius Ltd. as well as the whole Group. Measurement of outcomes: SQ Celsius Ltd. has a dedicated Internal Audit Team under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office, who are monitoring the area of Environmental Principles under the corporate policy as well as the customers requirement in the past reporting periods and current practices. In case of any deficiency, loophole and area of improvements are formally communicated to the Senior Management and the concern employees. A management system is going to be introduced in near future in SQ Celsius and the whole group becoming responsible for the environment of the country and the Globe. AntiCorruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals: SQ Celsius Limited has detail policy on Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery which has been developed under the guideline of local and international standard. SQ Celsius Ltd aims at developing a work environment free from corruption, bribery and extortion. This policy is frequently communicated with the employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. Implementation: SQ group as well as SQ Celsius Limited is committed to establish a work environment free from corruption, bribery and extortion. Necessary communication channel has been developed and responsibility has been delegated to all the employees through all level of managements. Awareness raising communication system is in place to implement the policy. Measurement of outcomes: SQ Celsius Ltd. has a competent Human Resources Team in the Corporate Head Office and Personnel, Admin & Compliance Dept in the factories to implement and ensure the Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery Policy. Moreover, a dedicated Internal Audit Team under the supervision of Compliance & Legal Affairs Dept of Corporate Head office, who are monitoring the corporate policies as well as the customers requirement in the past reporting periods and current practices. In case of any deficiency, loophole and area of improvements are formally communicated to the Senior Management and the concern employees through a proper enquiry procedure.
