Process – Analytics Technology GENPACT United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2012 Vote of Thanks Genpact would like to thank to each and every individual who has helped formulate the report and the effort which has gone behind this report. Special Thanks to Lorela Lyn Estrada – Global CSR Program Leader and Sona Saptarshi – Global EHS Program Leader who have worked boundary-less to make this report come to shape, Thanks to Deepa Kapoor, Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, who with her special expertise and guidance helped formulate this report, Vidya Srinivasan, head of Global Infrastructure and logistics team and also a lawyer under whose guidance this report was structured. Shyamashis Brahma, head of Projects and Environment Health and Safety Team, Diana Boersma, head of Legal team, the Communication Team without which this report would not have formulated, Nandini Kochar for her expertise field in media reporting, as well as the entire Engineering team, Logistics team, travel, IT, Audit team and our employee volunteers without which we could not have received accurate data. Last but not least, thanks to every employee and vendor employee who directly or indirectly contributed to make our sustainability vision and report a success. TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT AND COMMITMENT 4 OUR HISTORY 5 OUR COMPANY AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 5 LOCATIONS OF GENPACT 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 7 GENPACT BOARD 8 RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK 9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICES 10 BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 12 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 27 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES 49 CEO Statement “We at Genpact are proud of adhering to the UNGC principles and are continuously working towards their adherence.” Genpact is committed to the mission and values of the United Nations Global Compact and its agenda on human rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. As an organization, we are constantly striving to build stronger communities in places we live and work through our corporate citizenship programs, environmental health and safety standards and Green Initiatives. And, binding all these initiatives together is a set of values built on unyielding integrity. At the workplace Genpact adheres to the ISO 14001-2004 and OHSAS 18001-2007 -Environmental, Health and Safety norms ensuring Environmental Management and health and safety of more than 56,000 employees in 17 countries around the world. Through our corporate citizenship program “Caring@genpact”, we have initiatives aimed at increasing employability, healthcare, environment and inclusion, applying our distinctive strengths to maximize social and environmental value. Genpact is also a pioneer signatory of the World Economic Forum's Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), which supports a zerotolerance policy towards bribery and the development of a practical and effective implementation program which aims to raise business standards and contribute to the goals of good governance and economic development. We at Genpact are proud of adhering to the UNGC principles and are continuously working towards their adherence. Our History Genpact has a unique heritage, which has contributed to our deep understanding of business processes. We began in 1997 as a business unit within GE, building the company from the ground up. Our charter was to provide business process services to GE’s businesses, with the goal of enabling outstanding efficiencies. During the eight years that followed, we earned the opportunity to manage a wide range of processes from the simple to complex, operating across GE’s financial-services and manufacturing businesses. In January 2005, we became an independent company bringing our process expertise and unique DNA in Lean Six Sigma to clients outside the GE family. Our new name, Genpact, conveys the business impact we generate for our clients. In August 2007, Genpact was listed on the NYSE under the symbol ‘G’. Since then we have grown rapidly, expanding our range of services and diversifying our client base. About Genpact Genpact Limited (NYSE: G), a global leader in business process and technology management services, leverages the power of smarter processes, smarter analytics and smarter technology to help its clients drive intelligence across the enterprise. Genpact’s Smart Enterprise Processes (SEPSM) framework, its unique science of process combined with deep domain expertise in multiple industry verticals, leads to superior business outcomes. Genpact’s Smart Decision Services deliver valuable business insights to its clients through targeted analytics, reengineering expertise, and advanced risk management. Making technology more intelligent by embedding it with process and data insights, Genpact also offers a wide range of technology services. Driven by a passion for process innovation and operational excellence built on its Lean and Six Sigma DNA and the legacy of serving GE for more than 15 years, the company’s 56,000+ professionals around the globe deliver services to its more than 600 clients from a network of 64 delivery centers across 17 countries supporting more than 30 languages. For more information, visit www.genpact.com. Financial Performance Financial performance ($ million, except per share amounts) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CAGR (%) Total Revenues 613 823 1,041 1,120 1,259 1,600 21.2% GE 453 481 490 451 479 484 1.3% Global Clients 160 342 551 669 780 1,117 47.5% Gross Profit 244 340 422 447 470 596 19.6% Margin % 39.8% 41.3% 40.5% 39.9% 37.4% 37.2% Income from Operations 45 89 134 162 178 216 36.8% Adjusted Income from Operations 97 134 178 199 204 265 22.2% Margin % 15.8% 16.3% 17.1% 17.8% 16.2% 16.5% 0.9% Diluted earnings per share -0.15 0.12 0.57 0.58 0.63 0.81 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 0.44 0.50 0.76 0.73 0.74 0.98 17.4% Net cash provided by operating activities 37 150 211 158 163 267 48.8% Capital expenditure 79 66 69 64 49 47 -9.9% As % of revenues 12.9% 8.0% 6.6% 5.7% 3.9% 2.9% Locations of Genpact Corporate Governance We believe that good corporate governance is critical to our success. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices, as embodied by our code of Conduct, which provides guidelines for ethical conduct by our directors, officers and employees Commitment Statement by the President & CEO. “At Genpact, we believe that integrity, compliance and controllership are nonnegotiable. This culture is driven relentlessly across the organization, and is reinforced repeatedly with our employees. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business practices as articulated by our Code of Conduct.” For more detail follow this link: http://media.corporateir.net/media_files/irol/20/209334/Corporate%20Governance%20Guidel ines.pdf Genpact Board Risk Assessment Framework Rigorous Internal Controls We have an internal audit function that reports directly to our Audit Committee. The internal audit team reviews and reports on internal controls within the organization. Process, financial, and compliance risks identified through risk assessments are reviewed by the management followed by adopting an adequate audit plan, with the approval of the Audit Committee, to address potential risks. Members of the internal audit team are rotated every 18-24 months to ensure independence. External auditors are invited to conduct audits involving complex areas. Code of Conduct Genpact is united on a foundation of unyielding integrity. Our customers rely on our integrity when they entrust their business to us. Genpact expects that each and every employee needs to exemplify this essential value every day in everything we do in order to maintain this trust. Genpact communicates our expectations through our Code of Conduct, Integrity@Genpact, through regular training on the policies it outlines, and via communications from every level of leadership that business results are never more important than ethical conduct, compliance with law and compliance with Genpact policies. In order to illustrate the importance Genpact places on compliance, Genpact shares with employees instances where employees or vendors have fallen short of these values, as well as the actions Genpact is taking to ensure that Genpact’s foundation of integrity remains strong. We have an internal audit function that reports directly to our Audit Committee. The internal audit team reviews and reports on internal controls within the organization. Process, financial, and compliance risks identified through risk assessments are reviewed by the management followed by adopting an adequate audit plan, with the approval of the Audit Committee, to address potential risks. Members of the internal audit team are rotated every 18 months to ensure independence. External auditors are invited to conduct audits involving complex areas. Human Rights Practices One of Genpact’s core policies is that we grown when our people grow, and that such growth is ensured through strong Fair Employment Practices. Genpact works hard to provide its employees with a workplace free of harassment, and requires that all decisions relating to employment be made on the basis of merit, which protects the rights of minorities and all protected classes of people. In the event that an employee believes that any of these policies have been violated, the employee has recourse to Genpact’s Human Resources Group and the members of its Legal Group as well as network of independent ombudspersons who report, through Genpact’s Global Compliance Leader, to our Audit Committee. Employees may report concerns anonymously through an email hotline. Genpact’s Fair Employment Practices & Right of Collective Bargaining Genpact is committed to Fair Employment Practices. An essential cornerstone of these practices is the requirement that all employment decisions be made on merit. , Genpact is committed to observing all applicable labor and employment laws wherever it operates. That includes observing those laws that pertain to privacy, the prohibition of forced, compulsory and child labor, and those laws that pertain to the elimination of any improper employment discrimination. Genpact recognizes that employees have freedom of association, and follows the employment laws of all countries in which it does business. In many countries, local law guarantees collective bargaining. In most of the countries however Genpact is not a union based environment. Irrespective of the country, we observe the following globally:  Genpact does not tolerate Nepotism or adverse bias  Merit, qualifications (for example, education, experience, or skill sets) and other job-related criteria are the sole basis for all employment related decisions affecting employees and applicants  No allowances are given to any discriminatory practices regardless of what cultural practices may persist in the wider society  Genpact’s goal is to maintain a congenial a nd productiv e working environment conducive for all Discrimination Genpact’s Fair Employment Practices require that all employment related decisions be based on merit. Genpact prohibits basing any employment decisions on race, color, religion, sex, caste, sexual orientation, national or regional origin, or any other characteristic protected by law. For example, it would violate Genpact policy to deny someone a promotion because of age, or to avoid sharing important work-related information with a co-worker because of religion. Genpact's Policy is to use merit, qualifications and other job-related and HR sanctioned criteria as the sole basis for all employment-related decisions. Gender Diversity Having an environment in which Fair Employment Practices are implemented and executed helps Genpact compete for, attract and retain a high quality, increasingly diverse workforce, and thereby continue to be the employer of choice. Genpact will continue to make efforts in good faith to recruit and retain diversified pools of applicants and employees. Harassment by Third Parties Where harassment occurs as a result of an act or omission by any third party or outsider, Genpact will take all steps that are reasonable and appropriate to prevent the harassment from continuing. Employee Personal Information Genpact respects employee privacy with respect to personal information or communication stored on official systems, with the proviso that Genpact may access such any files/information for business reasons, for example in the course of performing maintenance, when investigating a problem or concern or in response to a legal request for such information. In addition, Genpact gives its employees notice that it (may monitor, investigate, copy and inspect files/information (personal or otherwise) as required to protect its business interest, such as to protect intellectual property, for avoidance of business risk, to safeguard trade secrets including client information, security issues, investigation or prevention of crime and ensuring integrity of information systems and compliance with Genpact Policies. Further, information found on Genpact computer systems will be disclosed to third parties if required by law. Forced Labour As a part of Fair Employment Policy, Genpact strictly prohibits employment of all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour either directly or through contractors. Genpact endeavors to ensure that age criteria as per law are met not only by the company, but also by the contractors we hire. Actions Taken:  Every employee as a mandatory company policy has to undergo background check to ensure date of birth proof is verified.  For vendor employees, date of birth proof taken and audited in areas of high risk,  During the construction stage of new buildings where potential risk of child labour can exist, we have a special team of project and safety committee who audits and ensures no form of forced, compulsory or child labour practices occur.  Vendors are regularly audited and vendor employees are spoken to obtain assurance that conditions of policy to mitigate all forms of compulsory and forced labour including child labour are banned in the organization.  Genpact has zero tolerance of violations of its basic integrity policy which outlines all forms of compliance towards human rights, corruption compulsory and forced labour including child labour. Bribery and Corruption Improper Payments Genpact policy prohibits its employees from offering anything of value to customers, governmental authorities or any person or party in order to obtain any advantage in selling goods and services, conducting financial transactions, or representing Genpact’s interests. Genpact does not authorize, involve itself in, or tolerate any business practice that does not follow this Policy. Any violation of this Policy would result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination, and may also result in severe civil and criminal penalties. Genpact instructs its employees to never give, offer, or authorize the offer of, directly or indirectly, anything of value (such as money, goods or a service) to a customer or government official to obtain any improper advantage. Genpact also prohibits its employees from receiving improper payments. In the past year, one vendor did include an improper gift (an expensive scarf) together with its bid for a project. The employee brought the gift to her supervisor to discuss next steps. The gift, and the bid, were returned to the vendor. Permissible Payments Genpact does permit its employees to provide customers with ordinary and reasonable entertainment and gifts for the purpose of furthering business relationships, but only if such entertainment or gifts are permitted by: • Applicable law of the country concerned • The customer's own policies and procedures • The particular Genpact business component's procedures This Policy does not prohibit lawful reimbursement for reasonable and bona fide expenditures for travel and living expenses incurred by customers and directly related to the promotion of products or services, or to the execution of a contract. However, Genpact employees are instructed to consult their business legal counsel before making these kind of payments as the applicable laws in some jurisdictions may prohibit them. Genpact instructs its employees never to provide gifts or entertainment to government officials and employees without prior consultation with counsel, as these are highly regulated by law. Political Contributions Genpact instructs it employees to obey the laws and regulations of all applicable jurisdictions with respect to political contributions and to never give or offer, directly or indirectly, a payment or anything of value (such as money, goods or services) to any political party, party official, or any candidate for political office of any country to influence or reward any governmental act or decision, or to obtain any improper advantage. Actions Taken  Genpact is among the first few to become a member of Partnering against Corruption Initiative.  Genpact conducts focused training on our policies relating to corruption to key risk groups, such as our business development terms and those handling government contracts. The company entertainment and travel policies have a clear approval matrix to ensure adherence and are audited on a sample basis to ensure compliance against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. How to Raise a Concern Genpact believes that all its employees have a duty to act ethically, and to conduct business in accordance with applicable law and Genpact’s Values, which are based on our foundation of unyielding integrity. Genpact asks its employees to be vigilant for circumstances that may indicate illegal or unethical behavior, and to act appropriately and timely to prevent improper conduct. If an employee observes conduct that may violate Genpact’s policies, including improper payments, they have an obligation to report it. Genpact offers multiple avenues for such reporting – it can be to an employee’s immediate supervisor, a higher level of management, a local compliance person, a member of the Legal Department or a local or global ombudsperson. In addition, there is an ‘Ombuds box’ at most of Genpact’s larger locations where employees can place a concern, either signed or anonymously. Concerns can also be raised via email to ombudsperson@genpact.com anonymously or signed. No Retaliation Policy It is Genpact’s belief that employees who come forward and raise integrity concerns play an important role in maintaining our ethical workplace and protect the entire Genpact community: our company, our colleagues and our stakeholders. Genpact absolutely prohibits retaliation against anyone for raising an integrity concern in good faith or assisting in an investigation of an integrity question. Retaliation is grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal. Employee Responsibility – Raising their Concerns Genpact employees receive regular instruction on how to raise concerns, are informed that they are required to report issues, and are encouraged to do so. These instructions include the following directions:  To ASK – Actively Seek Knowledge, when in doubt about application of any of the Genpact Policies  Raise the concern with your manager, compliance person assigned to your business, the legal counsel, Ombudsperson or the next level of management  Complaints should address Policy breaches  Know the Genpact “No Retaliation Policy” What happens when a concern is raised? Communication Genpact maintains a compliance communications calendar, and following this calendar, every month sends out communications reminding its employees of different policies. For example, every September is ‘Data Privacy Month’ at Genpact, which many activities organized to illustrate the importance of protecting the confidentiality of Genpact, client and employee information. This past year, employees enjoyed various games and puzzles intended to encourage data privacy, in addition to the more conventional methods of conveying our expectations. In October, Genpact sends out a series of communications illustrating different aspects of its Fair Employment Practices, including its policies encouraging diversity and prohibiting discrimination and sexual harassment. Genpact sends out communications on its anti-corruption policies at least twice a year. In the spring, Genpact sends out communications describing its anti-corruption policies in general, with examples targeting those areas that we deem of the greatest risk. Genpact also sends a holiday reminder on Genpact’s policy requiring that entertainment and business courtesies be used only to enhance relationships, and prohibiting improper payments. The holiday reminder is sent at different times at different locations, to coincide with local holiday periods. In addition, Genpact sends out multiple reminders during the year of its Ombudsman process which enables employees to raise concerns outside their normal reporting channels, including the option to raise such concerns anonymously. Genpact also encourages its employees to report any instance where Genpact fails to live up to its high standards of integrity. It is the Company’s belief that employees who come forward and raise integrity concerns play an important role in maintaining Genpact’s ethical workplace and protect the entire Genpact community: our company, our colleagues and our stakeholders. The Company absolutely prohibits retaliation against anyone for raising an integrity concern in good faith or assisting in an investigation of an integrity question. Retaliation is grounds for discipline, up to and including dismissal. Monitor and Review Genpact conducts a Compliance Risk Assessment annually. The CRA is a selfassessment aimed at identifying our business risks, assessing how we are responding to those risks and identifying key areas for improvement. The goal of this periodic assessment is to establish a baseline level of legal and regulatory compliance risks. In addition to gathering information from management, 25% of our employees are asked to participate in a survey intended to measure employee awareness of policies as well as whether employee’s believe that management is implementing the policies. The assessment includes verification of how well our controls are implemented and are working, whether training has been given as scheduled and whether issues have been reported, inter alia. Where shortfalls are found, the business unit is required to formulate an action plan to eliminate the shortfall, and reports on progress towards completion of all such plans. Reports detailing violations of Genpact integrity policies are prepared quarterly, and submitted to the Audit Committee of the Genpact Board of Directors. Any employee who has a question relating to a Genpact policy, is concerned that a policy is being violated or feels that he or she might be a victim of a policy violation such as harassment or unfair employment practices is encouraged to raise that concern, with assurance of privacy / anonymity, if desired, to the maximum extent possible. If such instances are to be reported or cited at any forum, then care is taken to protect the privacy of the individuals concerned especially of the victim, so that employees are not discouraged from bringing up these issues. Corporate Citizenship Genpact cares for the community. Caring@Genpact, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, aims to mesh our social and environmental principles into our operational fabric. We have institutionalized a culture of giving among our employees through a number of global platforms and programs, like payroll giving and volunteerism. We provide our employees with a single community engagement interface to volunteer for community service events, including those related to the elderly, the differently-abled and children. At Genpact, giving is a way of life. Genpact empowers its employees to give back to the communities where they live and work. Key themes are Environmental Conservation, Diversity in Workforce, community impact programs such as Genpact Volunteers, Employee Payroll Donations, Disaster Relief, Social Investments, and Recycling Used IT Equipment. Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment by companies to behave ethically and contribute to the economic development while improving the quality of life of their workforce and their families as well as of the local community and society at large. As we expand our footprint into more cities around the world, we also take on the responsibility to care for the communities from which we draw our talent. Corporate Citizenship has a critical role to play in shaping our company's success. Caring@Genpact is our global Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) initiative. It involves us as an individual as well as a company and has a cross-functional stakeholder involvement. Our guiding principles are:  Embedded social and environmental code of conduct into our core operations and functions  Leverage our differentiating skills and competencies  Design and implement sustainable and scalable solutions We focus on socially-relevant areas that complement our business model and skills/competencies and systematically apply our distinctive strengths to maximize social and environmental value. Towards this goal, we have designed a number of global platforms and programs to make giving a way of life at Genpact and empower us to build stronger communities, where we live and work. While giving has always been a way of life at Genpact, we formally appointed a Global CSR Leader in 2007. We have been successfully able to deliver Global Business Impact and Local Community Impact, with 56,000+ employees applying their unique skills to serve others. Genpact Volunteers ‘Employee Volunteering’ was designed to mobilize community service and unleash the potential of our employees. Our mission is to encourage skill-based volunteering i.e. 'Teach a man to fish versus simply giving a man a fish' and strive for long-term partnerships that deliver sustainable impact. We believe our Volunteer base is the single most important asset we have which far outshines any amount of financial resources we can spend on society. In 2010 we also instituted a guideline which allows for an employee to take a minimum of 3 hours per month from work to devote to a social cause he or she is passionate about. We have partnered with credible non-profit organizations to support causes which are determined by the employees’ preferences and skills. While Europe runs a number of Environment-related volunteering programs, US volunteers for a number of United Way–related causes like Breast Cancer and AIDS. Most of the sites on the east of the globe work primarily on Education-related causes. One such program is the Junior Achievement program which opens up the possibilities of career options for underprivileged students and engages volunteers throughout India. China also helps schools maintain their premises and teach Mathematics and English to the children. We have an Executive Champion and team of Community Champions at each of our sites to catalyze this initiative and design effective community outreach programs, supporting a wide range of causes and non-profit organizations. In 2011 we saw 23% of our global population representing a 28% growth in volunteers from 2010. Diversity in Workforce: Gender Currently, women represent approximately 37% of Genpact’s global headcount. Our VP, Ratnamala Palepu, has been honored with the WILL Recognition Award, under the WILL Women’s Choice Segment in 2011. Moreover, Genpact has also been awarded Nasscom’s Corporate Award for Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion for promoting the cause of women in the same year. To promote gender diversity, we have a global women affinity group called GenWIN (Genpact Women’s International Network). The mission of GenWIN is to foster the professional development of our women force. Some of the key highlights of this program are:  Empowering women with an informal base, support system, and training ground to gain professional and personal skills to build successful careers and strike a fine work-life balance  Providing women a platform to connect with other women colleagues and learn from each other’s experience  Actively promoting ‘Work from Home’ initiative to ensure women have the flexibility to strike a better work – life balance  Permitting extended maternity leave and sabbatical, when required  Actively working towards opening creche/day-care centers in all our large sites  Providing need-based mentoring programs for women in leadership roles  Organizing specialized gender sensitivity trainings  Enforcing policies against sexual harassment  Promoting specialized hiring agreements with our manpower consultants, wherein consultants hiring women employees in leadership positions get a higher sourcing fee Diversity in Workforce: Hiring the Differently-Abled Genpact is proud to engage people with disabilities including the orthopedically challenged, hearing, and visually impaired. These employees are all engaged with different operations and functions, ranging from accounting, insurance, and customer care to hiring and HR shared services. Some of our visually-impaired employees have been with us for more than 3 years and have grown from an associate level to middle management positions, handling different roles and responsibilities and even leading teams. We have also hired candidates with severe to extreme orthopedic and hearing impairment to work in our Insurance vertical. To promote this initiative, Genpact is working on the following measures:  Promoting targeted hiring drives and participating in job fairs for differently-abled  Launching special Employee Referral Programs for employees to refer their differently-abled friends and relatives  Engaging with consultants to carry out a job mapping exercise to identify suitable opportunities for candidates who are differentlyabled  Organizing a sensitization session for representatives from departments like hiring, training, operations, and other teams that comprise differently-abled talent  Conducting facilities access audits to ensure that our differentlyabled employees do not face difficulties in the work environment; we earmark accessibility of our facilities and work towards implementing recommendations  Exploring and leveraging local Government incentives for differently-abled  Ensuring that our disabled workforce is not segregated or treated/tracked separately Employee Payroll Giving Donations Genpact has partnered with leading non-profit organizations to provide flexible and transparent platforms that enable employees to donate a small part of their salary to credible local charities with convenience and confidence. While these programs are voluntary, the employees have the option to change or discontinue their contribution. Today more than 8,000 employees across India, Mexico, Philippines, Guatemala, and Hungary are cumulatively donating more than USD $ 260,000 a year! Disaster Relief and Social Investments Disaster Relief The victims of natural disaster struggle to rebuild their lives and get back to their normal routine. Their immediate priority is food, shelter, clothing, medical assistance, and security. Genpact has always contributed significantly in the recovery process and has extended all the necessary support and resources to the victims. Social Investments We present solutions that leverage our unique competencies and our donations are targeted at sustainable and scalable socioeconomic developments. In 2010, we have spent more than USD$ 300,000 to support the cause of employability, healthcare, environment and inclusion of rural folks and differently-abled folks. In addition, Genpact is currently involved in various other ongoing social investments programs. Two programs which merit mention are Primary Healthcare Dispensary and Industry-Academia Partnership. Public Health – Genpact has adopted and restored a nonfunctional government-run primary health centre in Gurgaon, Haryana. As part of this effort, Genpact has provided the healthcare centre with a team of doctors and nurses to help the many underprivileged citizens who otherwise do not have access to primary medical care. Services at the health centre focus on the preventive aspects of diseases such as basic health check-ups, pathological tests, immunizations, eye examinations and diagnostic tests. Free medicine is also provided at the facility. As an extension of these services we have also sponsored an emergency response ambulance service in Haryana, India where the services were non existent. This has enabled us to save lives of people caught in road accidents or otherwise in a critical condition at an average of 2 cases a day. Industry-Academia Partnership – Genpact is working with colleges to enable more employable graduates. Genpact time-tested curriculum is imparted to the teachers who in turn teach the students. These include lessons to help students improve their pronunciation, grammar and fluency in English, business etiquette classes to help them handle interviews, customer service orientation required for all service areas today, as well as technical skills like accounting and customer service orientation. To date Genpact has conducted training for teachers in numerous colleges throughout India. The teachers in turn train the students and equip them to become better prepared for working in industry. Genpact also trains students through Knowledge Centers established in Rajasthan to impart training directly to students who otherwise would not be able to get employment with us due to lack of certain domain skills, communication skills or other soft skills. We also provide scholarships to students in a few colleges in Rajasthan and sponsor events to encourage the underprivileged kids get a well-rounded education. Last but not least we are also partnering with the Government to train people who want to get into professions with Genpact or other BPO/IT-enabled companies. Recycle of Used IT Equipment Genpact has been in the process of streamlining IT asset donation programs, including End-to-End process from testing to assessing longevity, reloading OS, suggesting affordable Annual Maintenance Costs (AMC), and prescribing vendors for e-Waste disposal. So far, we have disposed over 23,365 systems and laptops through authorized 'e-Waste' vendors. In addition, we have donated over 2,453 systems to educational outfits and non-profit organizations in India. Environmental Performance Environmental Conservation Genpact is committed to achieving excellence in safe and environmentfriendly work practices by keeping in mind employees’ interest as well as those of the planet at large. While Genpact has started its eco transformation journey since 2009. Key highlight for 2011-12 was to move towards sustainable journey. With New CEO In mark, Genpact upgraded its existing Safe Work Environment policy to Global “Environment Health Safety & Sustainability policy” (EHS&S) being signed by our New and dynamic CEO ‘Tiger’ Tyagrajan and displayed & communicated across every location. Some of the key highlights of this program are:  •Genpact has received ISO-14001-2004 & OHSAS 18001-2007 certification by BSI for all its Global operating sites for achieving environmental excellence at par with world-class standards this includes primarily India, China, Mexico, EMEA, Philippines, Genpact has been compliant with all its surveillance audits  We ensure 100% compliance to all established regulatory standards for air pollution, noise pollution, effluent quality, etc.  We have set our own internal objectives and targets on specific environmental standards as per the requirement of ISO-140012004  We control our infrastructure exposures through internal EHS standards relevant to our operation  We have adopted a strategy to go with the Green Buildings designs for all our newly constructed owned sites and leased sites where feasible.  We have invested in latest technologies to improve our power efficiency and minimize environmental releases  We carry out ongoing campaigns to recycle, reduce waste, and conserve energy Mission Statement: Genpact strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees and stakeholders, which benefits communities we live and work in globally. By integrating economic and social progress with environmental conservation and sustainability, we aim to improve the quality of life of all our employees and stakeholders. Our management is committed, and provides considerable resources to meet our Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S goals which are to:  Meet and whenever possible exceed applicable environmental, health and safety (EHS) legal requirements;  Adopt best practices that support conservation, sustenance and rejuvenation of the environment and natural resources;  Minimize our carbon footprint and become carbon neutral in our operations;  Drive active participation of all our stakeholders to promote environmental, occupational health and safety procedures through training and behavioral compliance;  Provide a Safe and Healthy work environment by proactively assessing and reducing risk  To continuously monitor our Company’s involvement in Corporate Social Responsibility projects In addition, we have undertaken specific efforts towards energy conservation and protection of the environment:  Water: For conservation of water as a resource, we are focusing on principles of 3Rs reduce, recycle, and reuse  We have established Sewage treatment plant at our Gurgoan office and Bangaluru office in 2011  All our owned sites have rain water harvesting system also we have adopted at one of our leased site in Bangaluru  Automatic water control sensors for overhead tanks, automatic hand wash sensors etc  Energy Conservation: We have done our equivalent carbon footprint mapping pan India to compare our standards against regional and international benchmarks  Intelligent (with connectM occupancy sensors) LED lighting which saves around 40 to 50% compare to regular lighting at applicable sites  HVAC system consists of VRV system, individual VAV control for every WS bays and VFD for AHUs for better efficiency and energy saving  Completely restricted R22 as per the ISO 14 K guidelines and used only approved refrigerant Climate Conservation: We ensure that we are consistently much below the statutory emission limits under air pollution through generators, and water pollution through effluent – no instances of exceeding limits so far in all our facilities  We monitor our indoor air quality performance every seasonal change to ensure compliance to indoor Air quality standards  Every Year we take a plantation drive across our sites to promote Greener tomorrow.  All our safety equipment like gas flooding , fire extinguishers are clean agents Paper conservation: We aim to reduce paper consumption by at least 10% in our facilities; this has been one of the key focus areas in the ISO-14001 objectives and targets  Programs like – Minus One (Reducing the font size to 1 unit for paper efficiency, online bills, back to back printing, promoting ceramic/reusable cups to disposable, etc are our key drivers for paper reduction. Reuse of Products/Recycling of Waste: The key focus area on waste handling management is the segregation of waste under two broad categories: hazardous and nonhazardous wastes, dry and bio degradable. We would want to establish benchmark to further segregate our waste specially scarp and other products. Environment initiatives also provide scalable events for volunteers to get engaged. Our European operations do biweekly activities to plant more trees or cleaning up parks. Let’s do it Delhi, an organization also provided clean-up opportunities for the north-India based volunteers. Eco-Transformation Roadmap Environmental concerns are real and to mitigate its impact from Genpact’s operations has become its prime motto Genpact hired a third party to analyze its own carbon footprint arising out of its operations. This was poised to be 92,021 tons of Co2. While the project is primarily led by the Environment Health and Safety (EHS) team, it also involves employees and the operations, processes, sourcing, and engineering teams. Genpact’s sustainability journey started in 2006, by developing a BPO/ ITES specific environmental policy. The EHS team followed this up by developing a BPO specific EHS Framework and a maturity based scorecard to evaluate its environmental performance. Over the last few years, Genpact has gone a step further and created an Eco-Transformation Roadmap that, since 2007, has guided its environmental initiatives. Genpact’s eco-transformation journey unfolded in three distinct phases. Phase 1 of the journey was to achieve ISO 14001(Environment management system) certification. By 2009, all of Genpact’s sites – Indian and global – were ISO 14001 certified. Phase 2 was about capturing and analyzing the carbon footprint of its India locations. Genpact hired third party consultants to capture and then verify the results. Phase 3 focused on implementing energy and environment conservation programmes to reduce this carbon footprint. Their major initiatives include water, energy, and climate conservation, reducing paper usage, and recycling waste. These initiatives have yielded clear results by reducing both their carbon footprint and their energy costs. Despite a 29.3% increase in square-footage and a 29% increase in employee strength, electricity consumption has increased just by 9 % from 2008 – A testament to Genpact's energy conservation measures which include, lighting retrofits, smart cool technologies and occupancy sensors, computer hibernation, data centre restructuring, and server and computer virtualization. The company reduced its indirect GHG emissions by using Energy Recovery Ventilators resulting in huge savings on airconditioning and energy bills. Key energy initiatives at Genpact's sites in Uppal, Hyderabad and Phase V Gurgaon have resulted in 16.5 and 14 % savings in electricity consumption in 2010 compared to their 2008 figures. In 2010, Genpact’s direct GHG emissions (almost 8.5 % of their total GHG emissions) fell to 49% of their 2008 levels. This was achieved by moving from diesel generator systems to grid-based electricity, transferring its employee base to bigger and more energy efficient sites, and reducing the use of LPG & Charcoal in its kitchens. The company reduced air travel by investing in audio bridges, video conferencing and web chats. This brought down travel carbon footprint by 75% for domestic and 30% for international travel. Despite increasing employee strength, Genpact has reduced its water consumption by 10 % from 2008 levels in 2011 from 348,228KL in 2008 to 314555 KL by implementing several individual measures: replacing spring loaded taps with normal taps, capping leaking hydrants and plumbing lines and ensuring sewage treatment plants at each leased site (while developing them at owned sites) that recycle between 70 and 80% of all water that is mostly reused for landscaping. Three owned sites have water harvesting systems and its Uppal, Hyderabad site even has a self-sustaining irrigation system. In 2011 Surya park in Bangalore site also developed rain water harvesting system Genpact’s environmental initiatives are embedded within their business processes. It focuses on green sourcing its equipment, and its green IT and virtualization initiatives have already aggregated benefits of more than Rs. 20 Crore. All new building constructions need to meet LEED (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) standards. Genpact’s Sitapura site in Rajasthan has been judged the best energy efficient site for the state in office building category for 2009-2010. Source 1: Direct GHG Emission Direct GHG emission which contributes to almost 8.5 % of our total GHG emission has been drastically brought down to levels of 56 and 65 % from what we started measuring in 2008. Fuel Consumption 7,000 6,398 6,000 CO2 emissions in tons from Diesel 5,000 Consumption 4,000 3,000 2,648 2041.791 2209.515056 2,000 1,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Actions primarily were focused on:  Change of supply of power from diesel generator as primary source to grid based electricity, working with landlord and government smooth supply with less outages helped to bring down our consumption drastically.  Genpact also focused on consolidating its small and old, more footprint generating sites to bigger and more efficient sites. Between 2009 and 2010 at least 4 of our sites in India were released transferring its employee based to new and more energy efficient sites.  Genpact has also been able to reduce the other fuel consumption like LPG to32 % and charcoal to 48 % p r i m a r i l y from one of Genpact owned kitchen for its learning centre by optimizing the occupancy and season. This has primary being increased by around 20 % from last year purely related to more occupancy and trainings conducted in the center during last year. Source 1: In-Direct GHG Emission Electricity contributes to almost 48-53 % of our total GHG emission. While the: squarefeet across sites have increased in capacity by 29 % from 2008 and employee strength to 30 %. Electricity Consumption has increased by 9 % from 2008. In-fact it has reduced by 2 % from 2009 considering the fact that decreased in diesel consumption has directly impacted electricity consumption. Electricity Consumption Some of the energy conservation initiatives taken are:  Lighting retrofits to conserve energy like changing from T5 to T8 and LED lights.  Smart cool technologies, servomax, Installation of occupancy sensors at passages and restrooms  AHU (Air handling Unit) load optimization and improvement in indoor air by installation of ERV (Energy recovering ventilators)  Optimization of the package units in battery rooms and Hub room retrofits.  Installation of ‘pull chords’ at workstation level so that employee can directly switch off their workstation light, installation of occupancy sensor  Computer hibernation  Restructuring of data centre to optimize ventilation  Server and computer virtualization to reduce the requirement of systems. Between 2011 and 2012 Data center consolidation area also planned which would positively impact energy consumption and resource optimization  Genpact also focused on consolidating its small and old, more footprint generating sites to bigger and more efficient sites. Between 2009 and 2010 at least 4 of our sites in India were released transferring its  employee based to new and more energy efficient sites.  Renewable energy source like solar power for heating water requirement is installed at one of the residential building.  Key energy initiatives at Genpact biggest and owned buildings like Uppal, Hyderabad and Phase V Gurgaon has alone reached to 16.5 and 14 % savings in consumptions already. Energy Recovery Ventilators treats fresh air unit with EcoFresh inside, exhausts stale, contaminated, conditioned room air and exchanges it with fresh outdoor air, recovering 75% energy from exhaust air through a next generation EcoFresh enthalpy rotor. Energy Recovery wheel slowly rotates between its two sections as explain in figure given below. In one section, the stale, conditioned air is passed through the wheel, and exhausted in the atmosphere. During, the wheel absorbs sensible and latent energy from the conditioned air, which is used to condition (cool/heat) the incoming fresh air in the other section, during the second half of its rotation cycle. Benefits of ERVs  Reduces the load on AHU’s by 65% latent & sensible heat recovery from conditioned air  Maintain Indoor Air Quality thus reduce IAQ related health risks  Avoid risk of infections from spreading  No need to increase the existing air – conditioning facility capacity  Huge savings on air – conditioning / energy bills  Decrease indoor exposure to mold  Decrease in absenteeism and health – related complaints from staff  Avoid negative publicity and loss of trust Carbon Footprint for Travel Since the time we started monitoring our air carbon footprint in year 2008, Genpact has put forward stringent measures to reduce the air travel Measures like audio bridges, web chats, Video conferencing were primarily driven to educate employees to reduce travel, employee communications and campaigns were run across sites to educate and empower employees to switch to VCs then to travel.  All these initiatives have helped to bring down our travel footprint by 75% for domestic and 30% for international travel.  Ground travel used to commute employees from home to office is primarily driven with the fact considering safety of employees and night time travels, measures like optimum vehicle utilization, optimum travel time and route, frequency, route optimization etc.  4 Greenbelt projects were identified and implemented under this initiative with overall impact of reducing 26% reduction of our carbon footprint since 2008.  As a part of our work life balance initiative, we also encourage employee to avoid traveling and allow them to work from home. This aspect has also helped to reduce commute footprint. Water Footprint Genpact had an increasing trend in its water footprint since 2005 to 2008 with direct increase in employee strength, once Genpact realized the fact, Genpact took several measures since 2008 to reduce its water footprint. Genpact developed several measures like:  Replacing spring loaded taps with normal taps  Capping leaking hydrant and plumbing lines  Developing STP (sewage treatment plant) in each and making sure all leased site has the STP to recycle nearly 80% of it gets recycled and reused mostly for landscaping  2 of its three Genpact owned sites already have water harvesting, including most of its leased site  Uppal Site, at Hyderabad has developed self sustaining irrigation system.  In Year 2011, Genpact site in Gurgaon developed an operational Sewage treatment plant and rain water harvesting system, Site at Bangalore also developed Rain water harvesting system Employee Awareness and Engagement Journey towards sustainable future cannot be attained without employee participation and engagement. Employees form the core strength for Genpact. Genpact firmly believes that conservation starts from each one of us and each employee is ecologically empowered and responsible to contribute towards sustainable future. Genpact Environment Health and Safety team developed an initiative as’ YES’ – You Environment and Sustainability’. Under this initiative, various programs and campaigns like ‘ Personal carbon footprint calculator’ (web based calculator), launch of ; IThink’ link for employees to share their ecofriendly ideas, Blogs like ‘ I am doing My bit’ where every leader posted their story of what they do in their daily life in office and at home towards sustainable future. This has been a great inspirational blog where even some of the leaders learnt from employees on h o w simple steps in daily life can help Environment. ‘one minute video’ showcase for employees to share their bit towards sustainability, carpool programs, clean up drives for premises and society at large, sapling plantation by employees and leaders who visits Genpact, sapling plantation at community at large ‘polyman’ walk across floors to make employees aware of the ill effects of plastics what would it lead to if we do not stop the wastage of it, Eco-friendly product kiosks for employees to explore and buy what’s latest green in the market, a source for them to explore renewable energy sources as well has hand made products. Participation in WWF Initiated ‘Earth hour’, Fashion show’ junk to Funk’, showcasing documentaries and movies related to global warming, Green gift to a fried, Eco-friendly day are also fun ways to make employees aware to contribute towards Environment. Launch of personal carbon calculator Personal carbon calculator initiative was launched with an objective to make employees personally accountable and aware on how our everyday activities like watching TV, using car to commute, using water for everyday use, lights/fans AC, travelling through flights, In-fact many aspects of most of our activities impacts environment and when start calculating, we would realize the real effect of it and thereby create a sense of responsibility that even small things like switching off lights when you enter other room, changing all incandescent bulbs to CFL, carpooling and many simple tasks can help make a positive impact to the environment. We all talk about caring of environment but how much, how often is always a gray area so if we have measurement around it, that makes a real sense that at least if each person takes accountability of reducing their footprint, it eventually leads to environmental benefits. This has been perceived very positively among employees and each day we receive many employees who calculate and pledges to reduce their own footprint not only for office but even at home. Carpool Initiative Many of our employees use their own cars to travel to work and back. We realized early on that getting groups of people to travel together living in one area not only helps employees save on the travel cost but also helps in reducing pollution and conserve natural resources. On top of all of this, employees also get a chance to connect with their peers outside work and at a more personal level – it’s; therefore, a win-win situation at all levels. Till date more than 1000 employees have registered across sites, we also have made special provisions for car-poolers to park in the prime first spots of parking.. We also have launched a website where car-poolers can register them self with the routes and employees can register themselves for the route and time. We continue to drive this among employees to reduce our overall impact on environment. YES! With the ‘ YES’ Program Genpact also launched a link ‘IThink’ where employees can submit ideas on environmental conservation which are evaluated and implemented where practically feasible So far more than 60 ideas have been successfully implemented across sites, some of them are using sippers or reusable glasses instead of disposable for drinking water, reduction of paper towels, double sided printing, reduction in the prints of our transport related log sheets, computer hibernation projects, spring loaded taps to reduce the water wastage. Employee blogs is another medium through which we continually engage and involve employee for best practice sharing and Ecofriendly ideas. One can visit the earth hour blog posted at our homepage. http://home.intranet.genpact.com/portal/page?_pageid=968,6506309&_dad=p ortal&_schema=PORTAL&NID=3137 Sapling Plantation and Offsetting of Footprint Genpact decided to offset it s carbon footprint generated out of its annual customer facing event ‘ Focus 2009. In order to do this Genpact has to plant 350 saplings in order to offset 117 tons of CO2 generated out of the vent in next 30 years. Genpact volunteers planted remarkable 600 samplings at a government owned RTA (Road Transport Authority) which trains and issues driving license to public to serve the community and reduce its carbon footprint. Earth Hour Participation Since 2007 Genpact has been participating to support WWF initiative of Earth Hour globally, 2011 had been a another year where Genpact globally participated for the earth hr drive, across all sites month long events on environmental conservation were events like Polyman walk who explained employees about the growing problem of plastic usage and how adversely it impacts environment. , Events like one minute video to share employee conservation story, slow cycle racing to promote cycling to work if employee stays nearby in fun way eco – products, handmade products and sampling plantations, “Schools kids performing as “ Earth Inspectors” went a long way in making employees aware of this growing need on environmental conservation. Green IT Green IT is the latest buzz word in the industry. Genpact is committed to Green IT initiative and champions it aggressively. Towards this initiative, Genpact Corporate IT team explored various ideas, which could be implemented at low cost with high returns. Under the Leadership of Genpact CTO, SV Ramana, multiple areas of opportunity were identified and teams were assigned, with clear target time lines to achieve results. The Green IT initiative resulted in aggregated benefits of Rs206Mn Productivity in all form has been a key driver of all IT initiatives taken at Genpact. Industry drive towards Greener IT, clubbed with the organizational culture encouraged, the IT team to conceptualize and identify areas of opportunity in this area. Also while studying the benefits, behind this Green IT initiative, reduction in power consumption, paper usage, optimization of resource utilization, contribution to reduction in carbon emission, made it a very compelling proposition to undertake this as a project. Pressure to reduce IT cost during the present crisis was another key driver in identifying new areas of improvement. By enabling the systems to go into sleep mode, during idle time, availability of systems for longer period was enhanced. Achievements made in the areas of concession for work from home, would help companies realize the benefits through lower attrition, employment opportunity for women employees, etc. Green IT initiatives have contributed to the increased working capital and more cash flow for Genpact. In the area of Travel and Living, spend reduction resulted in a saving of Rs 90Mn. Using the data de-duplication 10TB of storage space was freed up. Server virtualization and consolidations have contributed to the tune of Rs 130 Mn. In 2011 we initiated the Teleconference facility for leader interactions. Unique Features:  True replacement for face-to-face meetings, it’s like travelling anywhere without leaving your office  Screen sharing / collaboration with Interactive Smart Board for document creation, annotation etc.  Enable connectivity between Non-Tele Presence / Regular VC rooms in a Tele Presence session, with the limitation being a maximum of 3 sites at any given conference  Ability to add audio-only participants  Enable point to point and multipoint meetings with the following clients: . We have also started Data center consolidation project which will help positively impact on energy and space requirement by 2013. Genpact Over all Carbon Footprints While Genpact has increased nearly 30 % both in per capita and square feet, it has overall reduced 2 % of its green house gas emission from what it started in 2008 , however with increase in employee to more of personal transport has drastically increased our footprint to 7 % from last year. However per capita reduction in carbon footprint has reached to 31 % from 2008 and 24 % reduction per Sqm from 2008 primarily because of space and seat optimization. Achievements in 2011 and Future Plans for Genpact’s Sustainable Strategy  Genpact firmly believes that Productivity runs through optimization, optimizing the utilization not only helps us conserve natural resources, it also helps improving the cost.  Against the target to have new buildings to have LEED certification, Genpact has leased a new building in Banguluru which is a Platinum rated Green building , Genpact is planning to lease a site in hyderabadPocharam which claims to adapt Gold Rated Green Building. Conservation of key resources like paper, water, reduction of pollution , reduction of air travel  Become Carbon neutral and water neutral by 2021  Construct all new Own buildings as LEED certified Green buildings  We have started measuring key environmental performance for global sites and would plan to start reporting from 2012 report onwards.  Focus on close-loop of entire waste management stream by 2011.Increase in the waste generation is also because owned sites have started measuring other scrap  Green sourcing, in next 5 years we would want to focus on green sourcing where possible, buy recycled products or buy products which can be recycled. Example would be furniture’s, papers and other areas.  Genpact is also pioneer BPO into the initiative of cloud computing, virtualization, thin client and would further deep-route its utilization to increase productivity apart from computer hibernation, printing optimization and other initiatives. Other targets for 2012 would be –to kick start sustainability reporting under GRI framework. Awards and Accolades  Global Services 100 – Best Performing BPO, FAO, HRO, Procurement outsourcing and Industry Specific BPO Provider; neo-IT Global Services 100 Survey 2010, 2011  NASSCOM – Ranking of Top 20 BPO Companies (2005-2010); Diversity and Inclusion 2011 (first time!); Process Innovation Award for SEPSM  IQPC (International Quality and Production Council) – Best BPO Provider, Europe (2008)  SSON (Shared Services Outsourcing Network) – Excellence Award, Genpact-Pfizer Excellence in People and Communications  Everest Group – “Star Performer” (2011)  IAOP (international Association of Outsourcing Professionals) – Global Top 20 Outsourcing Provider (2011)  Outsourcing Center – Service Provider Excellence Award for “Most Consistent Business impact” (2011); Outsourcing Excellence Awards for Best F&A/Procurement (2012)  Supply & Demand Chain Executive magazine – 100 Great Supply Chain Projects (2011)  Dataquest – Top 20 List of Indian BPO Providers (2005-2010)  International Forum of China Outsourcing Development and Cooperation – Best Business Model, China (2008)  International ICT Awards, Philippines – Fastest Growing BPO of the Year (2009)  Frost and Sullivan – Business Process Outsourcing Service Provider of the Year, Asia Pacific (2010 & 2012)  The Black Book of Outsourcing – Top 10 Outsourcing Provider (2008 and 2009); #1 BPO Firm and #1 Procurement Outsourcer (2007-2009); #2 in FA) (2009)  SAP Certified Global AMS Provider – Selected and certified as Partner and Provider of Application Management Services  Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) CTO Award – Genpact “Best CTO” SV Ramana in ITES/BPO Category (2009)  American Society for Training and Development (ASTD) – BEST Award for Hiring and Training (2010)  Brandon Hall – 2010 Excellence in Learning Awards – 2 Golds (Best Integration of Learning and Talent Management, Best Use of Performance Support) and one bronze (Best Use of Blended Learning)
