WE ENCOURAGE YOU TO CONSIDER THE ENVIRONMENT BEFORE PRINTING THIS DOCUMENT. NOKIA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 abcdefg ...................... g 2 GREAT SUSTAINABLE MOBILE PRODUCTS GOOD FOR PEOPLE, GOOD FOR PLANET abcdefg ...................... g abcdefg ...................... g 3 About the report 1.0 Contents For Nokia, sustainability means maximizing the Thank you for taking the time to read our report. Integrated reporting and additional 2.0 Nokia & people sources for sustainability information positive, enabling effect of our mobile technology Within these pages, you’ll find a wealth of information 3.0 Nokia & planet Independent assurance about our efforts to create a sustainable business. 4.0 on people and planet, while minimizing the Traditionally, sustainability means balancing economic, As sustainability matters are not separate from other 5.0 Global reporting initiative possible negative impact of our activities. key corporate information, we have also integrated key 6.0 Key data environmental and social priorities so that the needs of sustainability related data into our annual report on the present do not compromise the needs of the future. Form 20-F for 2011. This has been filed with the United For Nokia, this means maximizing the positive, enabling States Securities and Exchange Commission. During effect of our mobile technology on people and planet, 2011, key sustainability issues have also been reported while minimizing the possible negative impact of our in the Operating highlights section of Nokia’s quarterly activities. Responsible environmental and social practices results and in various press releases throughout the are integrated into everything we do. From the devices year. Details on our financial performance are we build and the suppliers we choose, to our mobile published in quarterly results announcement and solutions that enhance people’s education, livelihoods annual financial reports, such as in our Form 20-F, and health. In sum, we strive to create value for people, available on our website. planet and Nokia. Open and transparent reporting of our progress is a key part of our sustainability activities. For quick reference, we have listed below some key sources of Nokia sustainability information: This 2011 report (for the fiscal year 2011) covers the key ethical, socio-economic and environmental areas }} Nokia’s annual report on Form 20-F most relevant to our business and our stakeholders. }} Carbon Disclosure Project website The activities are split into the themes of people and that provides detailed information planet. For both, we first discuss our enabling effect on Nokia’s climate change related and then our own impact. activities and performance }} Nokia Siemens Networks’ Sustainability Report Reporting scope }} Our global website that provides Nokia has published corporate responsibility reports more day-to-day information about annually since 2002 and we’ve reported our environmental our activities activities continually since 1999. Nokia Siemens Networks Nokia also encourages its suppliers to report their (NSN), which is approximately 50% owned by Nokia, sustainability performance, a topic discussed in the publishes its own detailed Sustainability Report on their ‘Nokia and suppliers’ section of this report. website, and is excluded in this report unless otherwise indicated. In addition to the Nokia and NSN reports and PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (PwC) has provided our separate data tables, we have consolidated some assurance on selected Nokia’s sustainability information key data from both companies (Nokia Group) in one included in this report . Please see ‘Independent data table, which can be found in the Key Data section assurance’. For Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index of this report. For the materiality process and analysis, and compliance, please see chapter 5 at the end identifying the most relevant topics included into our of the report. sustainability scope and this report, turn to chapter 1.3.1, ‘Identifying key sustainability topics’. Your feedback We welcome your views on our activities and our performance. If you’d like to share your opinions, please contact the Nokia sustainability team at sustainability.feedback@nokia.com, or respond to the feedback questionnaire available on our website. 4 1.0 CONTENTS 1.0 Contents 1.0 Contents 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 5.0 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 4.0 Independent assurance 1.2 Nokia in 2011 5.0 Global reporting initiative 1.3 Key sustainability topics 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 6.0 KEY DATA 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table 3.1.4 Packaging 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE NOKIA GROUP TABLE 1.5 Sustainability management approach 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 1.5.1 Sustainability governance 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting and management 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management systems and policies 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 3.3.1 Climate strategy 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access 3.3.2 Environmental management to the Internet and information systems (EMS) 2.1.2 Improving education, health and 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 2.2.1 Human rights 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct in our supply chain 2.2.3 Employees 3.4.4 Improving social conditions 2.2.4 Customer Engagement in our supply chain 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 2.2.6 Our Economic impact more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 5 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.0 Contents Hello there, NEW STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY IN FOCUS 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.2 Nokia in 2011 Nokia undertook a monumental shift Nokia’s strategy is based around three From a sustainability point of view, 1.3 Key sustainability topics in 2011, embarking upon a new strategy main areas. First, we are partnering with these three pillars all have a role to play 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table that reflected the sea change in the Microsoft to deliver industry-leading in helping us achieve our goal: to make 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 mobile industry and our intent to both smartphones using the Windows Phone great, sustainable mobile products; 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings stay ahead of, and capitalize on, the operating system. In October we already devices that incorporate the best 1.5 Sustainability management approach challenges facing us. I’m proud to say saw the first fruit of our labors with the environmental and social practices and 1.5.1 Sustainability governance that even in a year of such big change, launch of the Nokia Lumia 800 and 710, enable people to improve their lives. and management 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management Nokia’s commitment to sustainability and we followed this up with further Perhaps the greatest resonance, systems and policies remained firm. In fact, it was further Lumia launches, the Nokia Lumia 900 however, can be found in the work we 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management strengthened by the new strategy, and 610 in early 2012. All our new are doing to connect the next billion. 2.0 Nokia & people where we saw clear evidence of Lumia phones fully meet our strict 3.0 Nokia & planet Nokia strongly believes that access to progress before the year was out. environmental requirements. 4.0 Independent assurance communication and information is a right, 5.0 Global reporting initiative Second, we aim to connect the next not a privilege. Mobile communications 6.0 Key data billion to the Internet and information, technology has the power to strengthen bringing consumers with limited public life and the role of citizens around economic means the full benefits of the globe, and it has proven time and mobile communications. The lines again that it can democratize the spread between a smartphone and a feature of information. This belief, this ethos, phone are blurring, and people, runs deep within all of our employees, regardless of where they are based, and we had numerous examples of this want to do more with their phones. on display in 2011. At Nokia World we launched our Asha In South Africa, we are very proud of range of devices, which offer consumers the achievements of Nokia Mobile the smartphone-like features desired Mathematics, a free-of-charge service in developed markets – touch screens, that turns your mobile device into a text QWERTY keyboards and games – but at and exercise book. Students get access to lower price points. We augmented our theory and a database of thousands of Asha line with further launches in exercises, solutions, and competitions. February, 2012. Nokia has found that students who use Finally, Nokia is focusing on what we call the service show improvement in their future disruptions – technology, business, grades, and teachers get a better and process areas that we have identified understanding of their pupils’ strong as having a profound influence on our and weak points. In 2011, 25,000 Grade industry. We will invest in these areas to 10 students benefited from the solution, ensure we are positioned as a leader in and Nokia plans to double this in 2012 to the next era of computing innovation reach 50,000 Grade 10 and 11 students. and remain ahead of the competition. 6 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.0 Contents Nokia is also active in driving But sustainability means more than this. CHALLENGES REMAIN Like all Nokia employees, I take great pride 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO Following our strategy announcement, in the work we do to improve people’s environmental sustainability, working 1.2 Nokia in 2011 These examples give just a taste of 1.3 Key sustainability topics both with governments as well as we announced a number of planned lives around the world. And yet, in many some of the work that we did during the 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics with other multinational companies. changes to our operations and, areas, we’ve only scratched the surface year, and many more cases can be found 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table According to the United Nations unfortunately, this had an impact on in terms of what we can do. It’s the scale 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 in this report. I’d like to stress that while Environment Programme, about 50 our personnel. We responded with the of this challenge that drives and 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings our change journey started in 2011, it is million tonnes of electronic waste is creation of the Bridge program, which motivates us on a daily basis, and I look 1.5 Sustainability management approach far from over. We entered 2012 in the generated each year, and E-waste is aims to support employees during forward to sharing more of our progress 1.5.1 Sustainability governance heart of our transition, showing clear and management the fastest growing waste stream. tough times by focusing on three and good news with you in the future. progress versus our strategy but 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management areas in particular: systems and policies In Kenya, we commissioned a report in operating in a fiercely competitive Best regards, 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management 2011 that showed only 14% of citizens are • Re-employment of employees affected by Nokia’s change industry that is in constant flux. Stephen Elop 2.0 Nokia & people aware that mobile phones can be recycled, 3.0 Nokia & planet in strategy On the sustainability front, challenges and only 2% actually recycle their old also remain. We are focused on honing 4.0 5.0 Independent assurance Global reporting initiative mobile phones. We followed this up with • The local communities where our operations have changed the direction we give our suppliers and 6.0 Key data a campaign to drive awareness around measuring their performance, ensuring mobile recycling, including advertising, press conferences, and an outreach to • The long-term of Nokia and how we create value for society at large that they closely follow our comprehensive set of Nokia Supplier Requirements for bloggers and citizens. Surveys show Bridge offers a wide range of possibilities, environmental and social performance. that Nokia is seen as the greenest from traditional individual re-employment brand in Kenya. And unfortunately the renewable energy support to investments that encourage market has developed more slowly than This is part of a broader global effort entrepreneurship, re-training and expected. That said, Nokia still showed from us: Nokia operates the world’s innovation which can fuel new growth progress on this front in 2011, installing largest voluntary take-back program for those communities impacted. The fuel cells at our facility in Sunnyvale in for old mobile devices, with more than highest priority is the reemployment of the U.S. and a small biofuel station in 6,000 collection points in almost 100 Nokia employees, either inside or outside Chennai, India. Nokia has increasingly countries. We accept all brands of phones, the company, or by promoting the purchased green electricity since 2006, which are then collected and sent to creation of new businesses by those and altogether, in 2011 our renewable approved Nokia recyclers, where they who are leaving. In Denmark, for example, electricity share was equal to 40%, are recycled in a sustainable manner. thanks to Bridge we have seen the which reduced our CO₂ emissions by Today, all Nokia mobile phones are made creation of over 20 start-ups following 54,500 tonnes. using materials that can be recovered our announcement to close our facilities and reused as materials, or to generate there, and the number is growing. energy in the recycling process. 7 1.2 Nokia in 2011 1.0 Contents Who we are Structure at December 31, 2011 Strategy 2011 at-a-glance 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO (Nokia Group level) 1.2 Nokia in 2011 Nokia is a global leader in mobile We have three businesses: Devices & Nokia’s strategy to generate sustainable 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics communications whose products have become an integral part of the lives of Services (which includes the Smart Devices and Mobile Phones business long-term growth is centered on the creation of great mobile products. • Head office in Finland; R&D, production, sales, marketing 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 people around the world. Every day, units), Location and Commerce and We create products for virtually every activities around the world 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings 1.5 Sustainability management approach more than 1.3 billion people use their Nokia to capture and share experiences, Nokia Siemens Networks. demographic and every geography worldwide. Our strategy has three core • Total number of employees at year-end: 130,050 (Nokia Group) We adopted our current operational 1.5.1 Sustainability governance and management access information, find their way or simply to speak to one another. Nokia’s structure during 2011. Smart Devices elements: i) to win in smartphones; ii) to connect the “next billion” to the • Major R&D and software development sites in China, 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management and Mobile Phones focus on the areas systems and policies technological and design innovations Internet and information; and iii) to Finland, Germany and the of smartphones and mass market 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management have made its brand one of the most continue to invest in future disruptions United States feature phones, respectively, while recognized in the world. Nokia Siemens through long-term exploratory research 2.0 3.0 Nokia & people Nokia & planet Networks, jointly owned by Nokia and Location and Commerce, which was into the future of mobility and • Sales in over 160 countries 4.0 Independent assurance formed by combining NAVTEQ with Siemens, is one of the leading global computing. We outlined this new 5.0 Global reporting initiative our Devices and Services social location 6.0 Key data providers of telecommunications strategy in February 2011 in conjunction services operations, focuses on the infrastructure hardware, software with the announcement of changes to development of location-based and services. our leadership team and operational services and local commerce. structure which are designed to We operate a global network of accelerate our speed of execution. production facilities for mobile products and network infrastructure in eight countries as well as a global network of Figure 2011 2010 sales, customer service and other (millions of (millions operational units. For mobile products, Euros) of Euros) we have sales in more than 160 countries. Nokia has made significant investments Net sales (Group) 38,659 42,446 into research and development and has Net sales: Devices and services 23,943 29,134 been one of the leading innovators in the industry over the past two decades. Net sales: Nokia Siemens Networks 14,041 12,661 For mobile products, we operate several major research and development and Net sales: Location and Commerce 1,091 869 software development facilities, with key Operating profit 1 -1,073 2,070 sites in China, Finland, Germany and the United States. Earnings per share, diluted 1 -0.31 0.50 More Nokia and Nokia Group data is available in the Key Data section of this report. More information about our financials, organization and other key corporate information can be found from Nokia’s annual report on Form 20-F for 2011. 1 Location and Commerce operating loss in 2011 includes a goodwill impairment loss of 1,090 million Euros. 8 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.3.1 Identifying key • Analyzing the global macro trends and sustainability challenges, 1.2 Nokia in 2011 sustainability topics including the UN Millennium 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics This report highlights Nokia’s Development Goals, and how Nokia 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table performance in the areas where can be part of the solution driving 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 business practices most affect society positive change, is a part of Nokia’s 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings and the environment. The identification annual planning process. 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.5.1 Sustainability governance and management of our key sustainability topics – also called the materiality identification • Risk and opportunity assessments that help align our approach with 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management process – as well as the selection of our core business. (See ‘Risk and systems and policies topics to this report is based on a Opportunity management’, 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management combination of factors: chapter 1.5.3) 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet Independent assurance • Our long legacy and experience working on sustainability issues • Participation in the Global 4.0 eSustainability Initiative (GeSI) 5.0 Global reporting initiative gives us guidance on the key topics. materiality analysis, an initiative 6.0 Key data We also take into account public that defines areas where the ICT debate and media and analyst sector can make the greatest interest in issues. contribution, using a combination • Regular engagement with stakeholders and partners, to of stakeholder and company interviews, desk research understand the issues that are and workshops most important to them. In 2011, we also conducted an online • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, which provide a stakeholder survey, to further foundation for reporting and add improve our understanding of our topics most relevant to Nokia and stakeholders’ expectations and to our industry. See the ‘GRI Index’ better align our sustainability at the end of the report. efforts and reporting with their Based on these factors, we have priorities. Stakeholder engagement analyzed the shared value to people, is a key component in identifying planet and Nokia, and this forms a basis sustainability topics, and therefore for our sustainability strategy and we have dedicated an entire related target setting. The results of the chapter 2.2.5 for it. analysis are represented in the following table, which summarizes the key topics of our sustainability work and the high level structure of this report. 9 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.0 Contents MATERIALITY MATRIX 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.2 Nokia in 2011 Key topics and their impact to sustainable IMPACT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics development, stakeholder interest and AND STAKEHOLDER INTEREST 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table Nokia business. 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 The vertical axis represents the 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings stakeholder view and the overall impact on CUSTOMER 1.5 Sustainability management approach SATISFACTION 1.5.1 Sustainability governance sustainable development. The horizontal PRIVACY & SAFETY and management axis portrays the importance to Nokia’s IMPROVING 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management business. The topics most important to PEOPLES LIVES systems and policies our stakeholders and to sustainable WITH MOBILE 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management TECHNOLOGY development, as well to our business, 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet are therefore the ones closest to the 4.0 Independent assurance top right hand corner. However, all the 5.0 Global reporting initiative topics in this picture are very important 6.0 Key data ECONOMIC in our sustainability work. IMPACT SOCIAL AND ETHICAL PERFORMANCE IN SUPPLY CHAIN GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN LABOUR AND AND LOGISTICS SOCIAL ISSUES IN TAKE-BACK AND OWN OPERATIONS RECYCLING ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE GREEN OPERATIONS AND FACILITIES IMPACT TO NOKIA BUSINESS IMPACTING PEOPLE IMPACTING PLANET 10 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.3.2 Our key NOKIA AND People 1.2 Nokia in 2011 sustainability 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics topics table TOPIC IMPORTANCE 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table In this table, we have summarized our IMPROVING PEOPLE’S LIVES Nokia is uniquely placed to support people through its core business. Access to communication and 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY information has huge benefits for people, and by connecting the next billion to the Internet and 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings key topics in 2011, their importance to information, one of our strategic goals, we can bring those benefits to the ever-increasing number of 1.5 Sustainability management approach sustainable development, stakeholder people worldwide. Mobile technology can be harnessed to help in global sustainability challenges, 1.5.1 Sustainability governance interest and Nokia’s business. Also the key having both major sustainability as well as business potential. Nokia already improves people’s lives and management risk and opportunity areas are mentioned through services enabling improved education, health and livelihoods. With our products, we also 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management when relevant. Each subject is discussed positively contribute to accessibility, human rights and safety. systems and policies 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management in more detail in various sections of the See ‘Enabling people with mobile technology’, chapter 2.1 2.0 Nokia & people report as indicated below. LABOR AND SOCIAL ISSUES Our success depends on our employees. The key issues include: employee satisfaction, company 3.0 Nokia & planet IN OWN OPERATIONS values, diversity and inclusion, training and development, performance and rewarding, health, safety 4.0 Independent assurance and well-being, labor conditions, human rights and ethics. Succeeding in these areas offers 5.0 Global reporting initiative opportunities and is crucial in mitigating risks. During 2011, employee satisfaction and motivation 6.0 Key data were especially important due to a high level of operational restructuring. See ‘Human rights’, chapter 2.2.1 and ‘Employees’, chapter 2.2.3 SOCIAL ISSUES AND ETHICS We have thousands of direct and indirect suppliers. This gives us great responsibility and we’re IN SUPPLY CHAIN committed to ensuring that, in addition to environmental requirements, the highest standards of social responsibility is exercised throughout our supply chain. Succeeding in these areas offers opportunities and is crucial in e.g. mitigating reputation risk. Some suppliers are more advanced than others in managing their operations sustainably, which means our approach must meet different needs and build capacity over time. Our challenge is that the supply chain is long and complex – for example there are typically four to eight supplier layers between Nokia and any mining activities – and active work to increase transparency is needed in all these layers. See ‘Nokia and Suppliers’, chapter 3.4 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, CUSTOMER Customer satisfaction, product safety and protecting customer privacy are top priorities for Nokia. PRIVACY AND PRODUCT SAFETY Delivering customer satisfaction is not only about meeting needs, but about creating value for our operator customers and end users by increasing the sustainability of our devices throughout their life cycle. Our products must be safe for people and the environment. Protecting customer privacy has always been important to Nokia. It is even more important as we develop new services and bring more people online. These services enable consumers to use and share their personal information in new contexts. All these areas offer opportunities and are crucial in mitigating risks. See ‘Customer engagement’, chapter 2.2.4 11 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO Nokia AND Planet 1.2 Nokia in 2011 1.3 Key sustainability topics TOPIC IMPORTANCE 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING MOBILE During product creation, we focus on energy efficiency, sustainable use of materials, smart packaging, and creating environmental services which engage 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 PRODUCT RANGE people to adopt more sustainable lifestyles. During the last decade, the greenhouse gas footprint of our phones has been reduced by up to 50%. At the 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings same time, we have also introduced new features and capabilities that allow the mobile device to become a multifunctional product, and thereby reducing 1.5 Sustainability management approach the need to buy multiple devices for different purposes. Another major positive impact comes from providing innovative solutions that enable people to 1.5.1 Sustainability governance reduce their own environmental impact related e.g. to travel and commuting. The implementation of environmental requirements, both legal and and management customer specific, have key importance for our business success and we go far beyond compliance with initiatives such as voluntary substance and 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management materials requirements. systems and policies 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management See ‘Environmentally leading mobile product range’, chapter 3.1 2.0 Nokia & people TAKEBACK As the number of mobile devices in the world increases, so does the concern about ’e-waste’ from old devices. This fact, combined with a finite supply of 3.0 Nokia & planet AND RECYCLING raw materials available for producing new phones, demonstrate that the end-of-life of mobile devices is a major issue that impacts across our industry. 4.0 Independent assurance Nokia has the world’s largest recycling network. At the end of 2011, 5.0 Global reporting initiative we had approximately 6,000 collection points in almost 100 countries. Yet, only about 9% of people say that they recycle their phones. Therefore, we work 6.0 Key data around the globe to raise awareness and to ensure proper and safe recycling and take part in collective recycling schemes. Currently, our challenge is to show people how recycling phones is both easy and beneficial and inspire them to take action. See ‘Take-back and recycling’, chapter 3.1.5 GREEN OPERATIONS Although Nokia is not part of an energy-intensive industry and the CO₂ emissions and water use in our own facilities is relatively small, we still have AND FACILITIES possibilities to control and reduce our own environmental impacts. As the number of devices that can access Internet increases, the energy consumption of our data centers becomes increasingly important. The environmental impact of our own activities is an area where stakeholder interest, with various reporting requirements, has increased during the recent years. In extreme cases non-compliance with various regulations and customer requirements can cause risks to our operations. See ‘Our environmental impact’, chapter 3.3 GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN The vast majority of Nokia device life cycle environmental impact comes from our supply and logistics chain. Therefore, it is important for us to work AND LOGISTICS closely with our suppliers and logistics service providers to reduce this environmental impact. Our main focus is on energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste generation, water use and recycling. We encourage our direct suppliers to set reduction targets and we follow up on their performance. We also require supplier sites to be ISO 14001 certified. The major challenge here is the long supply chain where Nokia or our first-tier suppliers are only part of the impact. See ‘Nokia and Suppliers’, chapter 3.4 and ‘Green logistics’, chapter 3.3.3 12 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 1.0 Contents These achievements and challenges 40 million people have experienced Reaching full traceability of minerals Nokia wants to give the 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.2 Nokia in 2011 highlight our sustainability performance Nokia Life (known as Nokia Life Tools requires time and effort across the possibility to connect 1.3 Key sustainability topics in our key sustainability topics in 2011. in 2011) industries and collaboration from all to the Internet and 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics Nokia Life is a SMS service especially for actors in the supply chain. While we want information for all 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table people in emerging markets. It helps them to ensure that our products are free of people, including those 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings Impacting PEOPLE in their daily lives by providing services conflict minerals, we wish to avoid an with accessibility needs in areas like education, healthcare, embargo on Central Africa and support regarding vision, 1.5 Sustainability management approach Helping our employees affected by legitimate trade. Therefore we joined hearing, speech, mobility 1.5.1 Sustainability governance agriculture, and entertainment. By the and management personnel reductions to re-employ the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible or cognition. end of 2011, 40 million people had 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management To accelerate the company’s speed of experienced the service. Minerals Trade (PPA). To support systems and policies execution in a dynamically competitive development of responsible supply Next generation cooperation with 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management environment, we announced a new Open sourcing of Nokia Data chain management, we participated in non-governmental organizations 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet strategic direction and operational Gathering lead to its rapid expansion the OECD pilot implementation phase of By working together with other 4.0 Independent assurance structure in February, 2011. These After being open-sourced in 2010, the the OECD Due Diligence for Responsible organizations, we can have an even 5.0 Global reporting initiative changes have had an impact on Nokia’s number of organizations using Nokia Supply Chains of Minerals from greater positive impact. Nokia looks 6.0 Key data operations and personnel, including Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Data Gathering (NDG) doubled in 2011. beyond traditional NGO cooperation, announcing painful but necessary plans This free software allows any organization and seeks projects that bring value to reduce personnel and close sites. Making a commitment to ensure our to collect data using mobile phones. There to communities and improves the To minimise the negative impact on our mobile products are more accessible are already numerous examples of NDG environment with mobile technology. employees, we started a comprehensive improving health and the environment. All people, without discrimination, In 2011, we started global partnership social responsibility program called We’ve also seen businesses offering should be able to communicate. with Oxfam GB, part of an international Bridge for employees and communities services based on NDG, contributing Worldwide there are about 600 million federation working on solutions to end affected by the personnel reductions. to their own success, while helping the people with a recognized disability or poverty and related injustice. Our first The program is led locally, with local software reach even more people. need for improved accessibility. Nokia project with Oxfam, striving to improve partners and stakeholders, and Nokia’s wants to give the possibility to connect maternal health, combined mobile senior management support. It is Making progress on the challenge of to the Internet and information for all technologies and online community. tailored for different markets to help tracing the origins of raw materials people, including those with accessibility Our other global partners include IUCN people affected prepare for the future In 2011, Nokia made good progress in needs regarding vision, hearing, speech, (International Union for Conservation in wide variety of ways. improving the traceability of metals in mobility or cognition. To really engage of Nature), UNESCO (United Nations the supply chain. The GeSI Extractives our stakeholders in this discussion, we Educational, Scientific and Cultural Focus on bringing Internet and organized the Nokia Accessibility group, of which we are an active Organization) and WWF (World Wide information to the next billion Summit. Driven by a clear customer member, published its first list of third Fund For Nature) In 2011 we approved a new strategy party validated conflict-free Tantalum need, we also launched the Nokia Screen that focuses on providing the next smelters. At Nokia, we expressed our Reader, for people with visual billion people the benefit of access stance regarding the illegal trade in impairments, and the Accessibility to technology, Internet and the wealth natural resources by publishing Nokia Channel in the Nokia Store for of information. This also means new Policy against Illegal Trade of Natural accessibility applications during 2011. opportunities for a vast number of Resources, which our suppliers need to people to create locally relevant respect. To complement the policy, we apps and content. It also provides a also included requirements regarding due unified platform for developers and diligence to our supplier requirements. operators to create an even more As a forerunning company, Nokia takes compelling offering. seriously the continuous challenge to ensure that metals from conflict areas, such as the Eastern part of Democratic Republic of Congo, do not enter our supply chain. 13 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO Impacting PLANET Increasing focus 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings on supplier performance 1.2 Nokia in 2011 Introducing new eco hero devices 1.3 Key sustainability topics Even though our comprehensive set of 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics While continuously improving the Nokia Supplier Requirements provides Organization Ranking in 2011 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table environmental credentials of all our clear guidance on what we expect from 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 products, we introduced five new eco Dow Jones Among 5 best scoring companies in Communications Technology 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings our suppliers in terms of environmental Sustainability category hero devices, including the Nokia 700, and social performance, we implemented Indexes Review 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.5.1 Sustainability governance an industry leader in the use of bio several improvements to better direct and management materials, recycled plastics and recycled and measure their performance. In 2011, Greenpeace Guide to #3 for leading electronics manufacturers and #1 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management metals. We also launched the Nokia Asha Greener Electronics for mobile device manufacturers. systems and policies we put more emphasis on the 200 and 201, the first eco hero devices Environment, Labor conditions, 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management Carbon Disclosure One of the top IT sector companies in both performance (#5) and available at a lower price point. Occupational Health and Safety, and project disclosure (#8) 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet Ethics in our supplier requirements. Making public transportation Forbes World’s most #4 most sustainable out of 100 publicly traded companies 4.0 Independent assurance To make sure the requirements are 5.0 Global reporting initiative easier to use sustainable companies taken into practice, we trained more 6.0 Key data Nokia Public Transport offers social compliance assessors to monitor Newsweek Green #21 out of 500 largest companies in the world public transportation route planning performance and risk assessed our key Rankings for Nokia device owners in hundreds 1st tier direct supplier facilities. We also of places worldwide. It also highlights Two Tomorrows #2 in Information and Communications have reduction targets for energy, Technology category public transportation as being greenhouse gas emissions, water and the environmentally sound travel waste for those hardware suppliers, which Oekom Industry Oekom Prime Status (absolute best-in-class approach). A report option, and makes using public have the highest environmental impact Report for IT assessing a company’s social, cultural and environmental transportation easier. communications sustainability or are strategically important to us. equipment Adjusting to green energy availability Enough Project Among the top 5 electronics companies for progress on conflict We’ve been increasingly purchasing ranking minerals (12/2010) green electricity since 2006, but are still FTSE4GOOD Index Included since 2001 encountering the challenge of slower than expected renewable energy market development. In 2011, we put in place our first onsite installations for generating renewable energy: fuel cells at our facility in Sunnyvale in the US and a biofuel station at our factory in Chennai, India. Altogether, in 2011 our renewable electricity share was 193 GWh, which is equal to 40% and which reduced our CO₂ emissions by 54,500 tonnes. 14 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.5.1 Sustainability Nokia’s sustainability governance and The highest decision making levels at Highest decision making, management practises are in place with Nokia are the board of directors and strategic direction and 1.2 Nokia in 2011 governance and the aim of ensuring that social and ultimately the general meeting of supervision 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics management environmental matters are duly taken shareholders. The Board provides the 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table into account in everything we do. ultimate supervision of Nokia’s CEO and Nokia Leadership Team 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 Sustainability issues are reviewed sustainability performance, and during Discusses and agrees on strategic issues, 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings regularly at all levels, up to the highest 2011, sustainability and related topics priorities, resourcing, organization, key 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.5.1 Sustainability governance decision making bodies of the company. were reviewed in their meetings. In recent targets and measures for sustainability and management The structure of the managerial years, sustainability related questions initiatives across Nokia. 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management sustainability governance levels can have been discussed also in AGM. systems and policies be seen in the graphic below. Corporate Responsibility Steering 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management Group 2.0 Nokia & people 3.0 Nokia & planet Headed by Nokia Leadership Team 4.0 Independent assurance member, Executive Vice President 5.0 Global reporting initiative Esko Aho, the steering group includes 6.0 Key data management representatives of major functions as members. Responsible for supporting sustainability initiatives Sustainability Organization governance at nokia across the business and encouraging open communication and cooperation, both internally and externally, and Highest decision making, helping integrate sustainability into strategic direction our core business. and supervision CE0 and NOKIA Operative leadership and LEADERSHIP implementation of Nokia’s TEAM sustainability activities. Nokia Sustainability Leadership Team develops the group-wide sustainability framework containing strategy targets CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and priorities. It acts as the Operative STEERING GROUP Leadership team of Nokia’s Sustainability Unit, which drive sustainability initiatives within the business and is responsible for building and implementing processes Operative leadership and to achieve our environmental and implementation of Nokia’s social targets. sustainability activities SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM Finally, sustainability is part of everyone’s SUSTAINABILITY UNIT business at Nokia. It needs to be in everything we do. Finally, sustainability is part of everyone’s business at Nokia. SUSTAINABILITY is part of It’s in everything we do. everything we do 15 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.5.2 Sustainability Our sustainability related policies and management systems include 1.2 Nokia in 2011 targets, management e.g. the following: 1.3 Key sustainability topics systems and policies 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table • Nokia code of conduct 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 Nokia has company level sustainability • Nokia global employment guidelines 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings targets and also each business unit has their more specific targets. The externally • Nokia labor conditions standard 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.5.1 Sustainability governance communicated key targets and our • Occupational health and safety policy and management performance against them are described 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management in the following table. More target and • Environmental policy systems and policies 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management performance information is given in the • Nokia supplier requirements 2.0 Nokia & people relevant sections of the report. The 2011 • Nokia policy against illegal trade of natural resources 3.0 Nokia & planet Key data section at the end of the 4.0 Independent assurance Report also gives detailed information • Nokia human rights approach 5.0 6.0 Global reporting initiative Key data on our sustainability performance. • Nokia privacy policy • Environmental management systems • Risk and opportunity management process 16 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO Key targets and performance 1.2 Nokia in 2011 1.3 Key sustainability topics TOPIC TARGET PERFORMANCE 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table NOKIA CODE OF CONDUCT All Nokia employees are required to take part in the company Code of By the end of 2011, 98% of eligible non-manufacturing-based employees 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 Conduct training. completed their training. 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings 1.5 Sustainability management approach CHARGER POWER CONSUMPTION Continue to reduce the charger no-load power consumption with new Over the last decade, we have reduced the no-load consumption of our 1.5.1 Sustainability governance target that is a 75% reduction by end of 2012 from the 2006 baseline. chargers by over 80% and of our best-in-class chargers by over 95%. We and management continue to reduce the charger no-load power consumption and are heading for 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management systems and policies the new target of 75% reduction by end of 2012 from the 2006 baseline. 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management TAKE-BACK and RECYCLING Strong focus on take-back and recycling. We operate the world’s largest mobile phone and accessory recycling system. 2.0 Nokia & people The number of take-back points – in almost 100 countries – increased to more 3.0 Nokia & planet than 6,000 during 2011. We collected 661 tonnes of used mobile phones, 4.0 Independent assurance batteries and accessories. That is an increase of almost 60% compared to the 5.0 Global reporting initiative previous year. 6.0 Key data GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Reduce CO₂ emissions in our offices, R&D sites and manufacturing In 2011, Nokia facilities’ CO₂ emissions decreased by 17%, compared with the facilities by a minimum of 30% by 2020 (2006 baseline, assuming no 2006 level. major business volume or headcount changes). In 2011, we reduced greenhouse gas emissions from offices and R&D premises by 15% per person, compared to 2006. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per person working in Nokia offices and R&D by a minimum of 15% by the end of 2012 In 2011, Nokia’s CO₂ emissions from air travel have been reduced by 36% from (2006 baseline). 2008 base level – but are 2.8% more than in 2010. Maintain annual air travel-related CO₂ emissions, both total and per employee, clearly below 2008 level. WASTE Reduce all Nokia waste to a minimum and find alternative ways to In 2011, Nokia total waste amount was reduced 23% in comparison to 2010. We reuse it. Halve the landfill waste from our factories each year, starting also managed to continue our trend of sending less waste to landfill. However from 2008. This will lead us close to 100% waste utilization by the end we’re slightly behind our factory target of halving landfill waste each year. of 2012. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT All Nokia direct hardware suppliers to have a code of conduct in place 98% (92.9% in 2010) of our direct hardware suppliers had a code of conduct that meets our requirements. policy in place that met our requirements. Suppliers not meeting our expectations have been requested to take corrective actions. SUPPLIER HEALTH AND SAFETY All strategically important hardware suppliers to report 97% of our strategically important hardware suppliers report on our new health on our health and safety metrics. and safety metrics introduced in the 2011. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL All Nokia direct hardware suppliers’ sites to be In 2011, 91% of our direct hardware suppliers’ sites serving Nokia were certified MANAGEMENT ISO 14001 certified. to ISO14001. Nokia’s direct hardware suppliers have maintained a high level of certification since 2008. 17 1.5 Sustainability management approach 1.0 Contents 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity Key risks are reported to the Group level management to create assurance on business risks as well as to enable 1.2 Nokia in 2011 management prioritization of risk management activities at Nokia. 1.3 Key sustainability topics 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics Nokia has a common and systematic approach to risk In the sustainability area we monitor primarily political, 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table management across business operations and processes. 1.4 Key achievements and challenges in 2011 social, human rights, and environmental risks. We follow Material risks and opportunities are identified, 1.4.1 Nokia in 2011 Sustainability rankings the precautionary principle, especially in the areas analyzed, managed and monitored as part of business 1.5 Sustainability management approach involving environmental risks. The most important risk performance management. Relevant key risks are 1.5.1 Sustainability governance factors as well as the principal factors and trends and management identified against business targets either in business affecting our operations are discussed in our annual 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, management operations or as an integral part of long and short-term systems and policies report on Form 20-F for 2011. These include planning. Nokia’s overall risk management concept is 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management sustainability related risks such as: based on visibility of the key risks preventing Nokia from 2.0 3.0 Nokia & people Nokia & planet reaching its business objectives rather than solely • Risk of non-compliance with regulations or our supplier requirements 4.0 Independent assurance focusing on eliminating risks. 5.0 Global reporting initiative The principles documented in Nokia’s Risk Policy and • Violation of code of conduct and related regulations 6.0 Key data accepted by the Audit Committee of the Board of • Risks related to privacy, product safety, health and security as well as to environment Directors require risk management and its elements to be integrated into business processes. One of the main • Regulations that can increase the total cost of mobile product ownership principles is that the business, function or category owner is also the risk owner, but it is everyone’s responsibility • Labor unrest and strikes. Employee motivation and loss of key personnel at Nokia to identify risks, which prevent Nokia to reach its objectives. Risk management covers strategic, • Purchasing boycotts, public harm to our reputation and Nokia brand operational, financial and hazard risks. Some of the key risks and opportunity areas are also identified in chapter 1.3, ‘Key Sustainability Topics’. Sustainability is part of our business strategy and we systematically analyze sustainability related opportunities. Our innovations hold the potential for changing the way we live, from improving livelihoods to embracing more sustainable lifestyles. More than a billion people use Nokia mobile devices, and we believe that even small changes can make a big difference. Our vision is to further realize the potential of mobility by extending access to mobile communications. Various examples of the sustainability related opportunities are described especially in the sections where we talk about our enabling effect. 18 nokia 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.0 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and AND PEOPLE livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees 2.2.4 Customer Engagement 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact 3.0 Nokia & planet 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data abcdefg ...................... g 19 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Nokia is uniquely placed to support people through our core business. 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY We provide affordable services to both emerging and developed markets. 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information What’s more, we address the fundamental needs of connectivity, 2.1.2 Improving education, health and affordability and relevance for a broad range of consumer groups. livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE In the following chapters, we cover our positive, enabling effect on people 2.2.1 Human rights through mobile technology, as well as our impact on our important 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees stakeholders; our employees, customers, suppliers and others, including 2.2.4 Customer Engagement our economic impact. From the perspective of our employees, 2011 was 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact characterized by the restructuring of the company and our new strategy, 3.0 Nokia & planet covered in detail in chapter 2.2.3, in ‘New strategy and our employees’. 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 20 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY WITH MOBILE 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products TECHNOLOGY 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees 2.2.4 Customer Engagement 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact 3.0 Nokia & planet 4.0 Independent assurance With over 1.3 billion customers using Nokia devices, we have an opportunity 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data to make a real difference to people’s lives. In this section, we talk about the benefits of providing access to Internet and information, harnessing mobile technology to help in global sustainability challenges – namely those of education, health and livelihoods – and accessibility of Nokia products, making them usable and accessible to the greatest possible number of people. For each topic, we first introduce the topic and then discuss our 2011 progress. Our contribution to enabling sustainable lifestyles is covered in chapter 3.2, ‘How we enable sustainable lifestyle’. 21 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1.1 Providing the next Three main kinds of barriers contribute Total cost of ownership These taxes, which are invariably passed to the digital divide: cost, physical on to citizens, exclude the people who 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY billion with access disability and lack of skills and education. Regardless of where you live, the total would benefit most from communication 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information to the Internet These issues are interlinked and often cost of ownership of a mobile device includes not just the device price, but technology. They lead to the introduction 2.1.2 Improving education, health and and information contribute to one another. Overcoming the cost and ease of connecting, too. of environmentally-hazardous, counterfeit livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products Digitalization and increased access to and finding innovative solutions requires We believe that mobile communication products, which deprive the government 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE the Internet and ICT (information and broad collaboration between can be a force for social development. of revenue on devices in the first instance 2.2.1 Human rights communications technologies) have corporations, governments and civil For example, education systems are and ongoing revenue from services later 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct brought tremendous benefits for an society. Nokia participates in solving usually based on delivering children to on. For example the mobile-specific 2.2.3 Employees ever-increasing number of people, these challenges and creating shared education, which tends to discriminate import duty in Kenya was removed in 2.2.4 Customer Engagement 2009. Since then, penetration has risen worldwide. At the same time, however, value and opportunities in societies against people in rural areas, especially 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact people are divided by their access to around the world. girls. With mobile technology, it is feasible from 50% to 70%, industry jobs have 3.0 Nokia & planet technologies and information, and their to deliver education to children. However, increased by 67% and service tax revenue 4.0 Independent assurance ability to use it. Understanding and cost remains a challenge. Regrettably, has risen by 33%. We continue to monitor 5.0 Global reporting initiative resolving issues that prevent equal rather than reducing the cost of delivering and share information on these kinds of 6.0 Key data access to ICT is by far the most information to promote education, cases, while developing technology that important goal in building a truly global health and other public services, we see highlights the direct link between mobile information society. With our new countries increasing mobile-specific taxes. technology and social development. strategy, Nokia aims to provide the next billion with the best access to the Internet and information, with products that offer most compelling experiences. This means new opportunities for a vast number of people to create locally relevant apps and content. It also provides a unified platform for developers and operators to create an even more compelling offering. Nokia aims to provide the next billion with the best access to the Internet and information, with products that offer most compelling experiences 22 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1.2 Improving Education for everyone As a part of our commitment to education for all, we initiated a 5-year partnership 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY education, health We believe everyone should have the with UNESCO in 2010. The partnership 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information and livelihoods with right to learn and develop themselves. harnesses mobile communications to 2.1.2 Improving education, health and mobile technology Yet it is estimated that more than 750 support individuals, organizations and livelihoods with mobile technology million adults around the world are still Nokia focuses its corporate social governments as they strive to achieve 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products illiterate. Literacy, quality of education investments on programs, which utilize the six goals of the global Education for 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE and life-long learning should be the norm, 2.2.1 Human rights mobile technology. We believe that All agreement. Nokia will contribute not the exception. Mobile technology 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct investing in mobile technology can bring expertise relating to technology and has the potential to provide access to 2.2.3 Employees social benefits, which positively impact policies in this area. Concrete initiatives 2.2.4 Customer Engagement quality learning, scale and services that people’s lives on a large scale at a low include the development of policy 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement can be used 24/7. Today, Nokia responds cost. We focus our social investments guidelines that can enable mobile learning, 2.2.6 Our Economic impact to educational needs, with solutions like on education, health, livelihoods and projects to explore the role of mobile 3.0 Nokia & planet Nokia Mobile Mathematics, Nokia 4.0 Independent assurance environmental awareness. technology to support teachers and Education Delivery and Nokia Flashcards. 5.0 Global reporting initiative teacher training in Senegal, Pakistan, 6.0 Key data We believe that investing Mobile phones can offer individualized Mexico and Nigeria, and crowdsourcing in mobile technology learning for anyone, irrespective of their ideas for how mobile phones can support can bring social benefits, gender or which type of phone they use. the achievement of the Education for which positively impact Mobile technology can provide access to All goals. people’s lives on a large quality education materials and support scale at a low cost. to teachers, students and their families. Mobile communications We focus our social Mobile communications allow the allow the delivery of investments on education, delivery of education to people, instead education to people, health, livelihoods and of requiring the delivery of people to instead of requiring environmental awareness. education. In this sense, it can help to the delivery of people improve equality in educational to education. On a program level, we are making many achievement, because girls tend to be of our solutions in this area open source. at a disadvantage when it comes to This approach helps third party attendance. It can sharply reduce the developers all over the world to utilize cost of delivering quality content, as well our technologies, tailor them and make as change the teaching environment, money in their own ways. As a matter of enabling the teachers’ role to evolve scale and sustainability, it ensures local into facilitators of peer-to-peer learning. support and a local cost-base for Concepts such as Nokia Life (known as organizations adopting the solutions. Nokia Life Tools in 2011), our expanding It also helps us to ensure that the subscription-based service, also show solutions can survive a change in the potential of affordable education management or the end of Nokia’s delivery to people. initial funding without compromising the quality of the software or service to clients. 23 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 Progress 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access Education for everyone to the Internet and information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology Nokia Education Delivery The expansion in 2011 built on previously established learners who used Nokia 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products Nokia Education Delivery sends high-quality projects in Chile, Colombia, Philippines and Tanzania, Mobile Mathematics regularly 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE educational material to mobile phones over mobile developed in partnership with the Pearson Foundation. were 7% better than their peers’ 2.2.1 Human rights networks. This can be used in a number of ways. It The concept was also adopted by the International who did not. 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct Reading Association in 2011 for projects in Indonesia can support field personnel in cases where they use 2.2.3 Employees and Bangladesh. These projects will aid teachers of The project continues to work in close cooperation 2.2.4 Customer Engagement multimedia, it can be used for teacher training, and it early childhood literacy. with content partner Maskew Miller Longman and 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement can contribute to more visually stimulating content operators MTN and CellC, who zero-rate the service, 2.2.6 Our Economic impact for public education. This is done by showing the In the Philippines alone, the government has reached so that it is free for the pupils. 3.0 Nokia & planet content to a class on the phone or a TV. more than 900,000 students with this solution. 4.0 Independent assurance In autumn 2011, the South Africa Finland Knowledge 5.0 Global reporting initiative Since its launch in 2003, Nokia Education Delivery has In Tanzania, the attendance level in science and math classes has increased from between 55-70% to 80-90%. Partnership (SAFIPA) rewarded Nokia Mobile 6.0 Key data helped improve the quality of education in a number Mathematics as the Best Social Impact project. of places. During 2011, the Bridgeit program expanded Nokia Education was open sourced during 2011. to Kenya, Nigeria and India. Bridgeit incorporates This means that the concept can now be adopted Nokia Mobile Mathematics was piloted in Finland in Nokia Education Delivery as part of a broader program by organizations looking for innovative ways to train, September 2010 – June 2011. The pilot results showed that includes teacher training, curriculum development educate and inform their personnel. that the same concept can also benefit students and strong leadership from local education authorities. within Finnish schools. Nokia Mobile Mathematics In 2011, we further developed the technology to make it scalable and replicable. We now plan to cascade the This highly innovative solution combines official service to new countries and to develop the concept mathematics curricula with social networking. Nokia to include informal learning areas. Mobile Mathematics offers pupils multifaceted learning experiences through theory, tutoring, peer-to-peer support, competitions, tests and self-assessment. Over “Initially I was very scared of handling 9,000 math exercises can be done with mobile phones. technology and now I have gained not only the skill To date, 20,000 students, 700 teachers and 172 schools of handling it, but I am also proud that I am able to in South Africa have benefited from the scheme, use it in the classroom in a different manner, compared with 30 schools and 4,000 students in 2010. making both teaching and learning effective.” Analysis of shifts in academic results over one year TEACHER from close to 2,000 learners showed that on average, India the final Grade 10 maths marks of learners who used Nokia Mobile Mathematics regularly were 7% better than their peers’ who did not. 2010 results showed that students used Nokia Mobile Mathematics over 80% outside of school hours. This resulted in a 14% better math grade for active users. What’s more, 20% of students who used the service in 2010 continued to use it in 2011 despite moving on to upper grade. 24 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents Building businesses and creating 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE better livelihoods 2011 progress 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access The rapid expansion of Nokia Data Gathering Nokia helps people get better livelihoods in several to the Internet and information ways from professional skills development to the 2.1.2 Improving education, health and In July 2010, we launched Nokia Data Gathering under Updates for 2011 livelihoods with mobile technology creation of software to support local entrepreneurs. 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products We also create software that can be adapted and sold an open source license. Since then we’ve seen a rapid expansion of its use. The open source model allows • More languages – As Nokia Data Gathering has increased in popularity, there have been many 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE to local customers by software developers. In doing so, 2.2.1 Human rights us to affordably offer the software on a large scale, requests for localization. To achieve this on all we’re subsidizing the investment required to help those 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct while providing clients flexibility and supporting the the devices, we created a new component. small businesses to grow, while creating a platform for 2.2.3 Employees creation of livelihoods for systems integrators and This was developed to allow languages to be 2.2.4 Customer Engagement local technology innovation. developers. By replacing traditional data gathering dynamically loaded over the air, based on user 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact methods, such as paper questionnaires, with mobile preferences. The Nokia Data Gathering client 3.0 Nokia & planet phones, the software suite has improved results while now comes with eight language options: English, 4.0 Independent assurance saving time and money. This open source software has Spanish, Portuguese, French, Russian, Swahili, 5.0 Global reporting initiative been adopted by governmental, non-governmental Finnish and Polish. Additionally, Nokia Data 6.0 Key data and corporate clients, ensuring its continued success. Gathering enables people to create surveys To date, over 200 organizations have either used or using languages with different scripts, such as conducted trials of Nokia Data Gathering using our Arabic, Lao and Hindi. test server. There have been many public reference • Better security – Much of the data collected, such as birth registration forms, is sensitive cases. These include the Department of Agriculture in the Philippines who have used it to improve food in nature. Consequently, Nokia Data Gathering security, the UN FAO in Kenya which uses it to map security was further enhanced to ensure data water points for access to clean drinking water and is safe both when saved on mobile phones and irrigation, World Vision in Indonesia which uses it for while it’s being sent to the server. child welfare sponsorship, Plan Kenya which uses it for birth registration, and Syngenta Foundation in Kenya, • Increased accessibility – We’ve also made Nokia Data Gathering more flexible. Now it’s possible which uses it to improve agricultural productivity. to change font sizes, background colors and user interface preferences based on user needs, such as working in bright sunlight. “I’m excited by the new tool and perceive Nokia Data Gathering as a positive program that can speed up the process of taking the child’s data at field level (Child Management Standard) and shorten the admin work in ADP office.” WORLD VISION INDONESIA Field Officer in Pontianak West Kalimantan Indonesia. 25 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents Enhancing health and One of the many uses of Between its commercial launch in 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 Progress wellbeing Nokia Data Gathering mid-2009 and by the end of 2011, 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access Enhancing health software is how it helps over 40 million people have experienced In the last few decades the health of to the Internet and information and wellbeing the world’s population has improved improve the health of the Nokia Life. The service is available 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology dramatically. Nonetheless, according to population. The solution in India, China, Indonesia and Nigeria. 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products Examples of the progress in a variety the World Health Organization, infectious has been used successfully The tools include: 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE of countries: diseases still dominate in developing in contributing to a 93% cut in dengue fever cases in • Education services: Learn English, 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct • In China, the British Council and Nokia Life launched an “English countries. Fortunately, mobile technology the Amazon. Our Nokia Life acquire general knowledge and access exam preparation and has the potential to keep people healthy 2.2.3 Employees Class” campaign, in which users and inspire them to go for healthier service also promotes results, as well as information 2.2.4 Customer Engagement 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement received English learning choices, manage disease outbreaks and health, including providing on higher education and 2.2.6 Our Economic impact content during for two months. expand the reach of health information pregnancy advice, as well career guidance. as information about 3.0 4.0 Nokia & planet Independent assurance • In India, we partnered with and services. parental skills and • Healthcare services: Pregnancy advice, mother and childcare, family Arogya World and other 5.0 Global reporting initiative partners to reach one million We believe mobile technology has a critical childcare, family health health and fitness, and disease 6.0 Key data Indians with preventive Diabetes role to play in preventing outbreaks of and fitness, and diseases. information and actionable tips. diseases and improving human health messages. and wellbeing in general. We make our • Agriculture services: Market prices, • In Indonesia, we worked with Mercy Corps to make maternal contribution by offering applications and Nokia Life – Empowering people e.g. for cocoa and fish, weather forecast information, agriculture services, and working with partners to to make informed decisions and child health information tips and techniques, availability and conduct research. available to mothers in low Nokia Life (known as Nokia Life Tools market prices of seeds, fertilizers, income, urban families of in 2011) delivers information vital to the and pesticides, and news and Jakarta. We also introduced daily lives of millions. Working with 75 advice. The information is tailored religious services in Indonesia. knowledge and content partnerships to the farmer’s location and spanning universities, non-government selection of crops. organizations (NGO’s), local government • Entertainment services: Football results, music, news alerts, agencies and private sector enterprises, the content is personalized, hyperhoroscopes and jokes. localized and delivered in 17 languages supported by 18 operators for billing. Over 40 million people have experienced Nokia Life. Nokia Life helps to bridge the digital divide in emerging markets, delivering reliable and comprehensive information to mobile phones by SMS. The service provides people in these countries with livelihoods and life improvement services, including education, healthcare, agriculture and entertainment services. 26 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1.3 Accessibility 2011 progress 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY of Nokia products Accessibility 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information Accessibility is about making Nokia products and services 2.1.2 Improving education, health and usable and accessible to the greatest possible number A new key application for the visually impaired is the Launched at the Nokia World 2011, the Accessibility livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products of people, including those with disabilities. All people, Nokia Screen Reader that lets the user hear the Channel is a new global service at the Nokia Store. 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE without discrimination, should be able to communicate. contents of the screen. Besides reading text messages In the first phase, it includes more than 50 handy 2.2.1 Human rights Worldwide there are about 600 million people with a and e-mails, the Nokia Screen Reader can, for example, applications, for people with accessibility needs 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct recognized disability or need for improved accessibility. read out the time, the date, the battery level, and regarding vision, hearing, speech, mobility or cognition. 2.2.3 Employees Nokia wants to give the possibility to connect to the volume control. Earlier there have been excellent Some of the applications are free of charge, while for 2.2.4 Customer Engagement Internet and information for all people, including those third-party screen readers available for Nokia’s others there’s a small cost involved. Currently, most 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact with accessibility needs regarding vision, hearing, Symbian smartphones and in October 2011, we apps are available only in English. speech, mobility or cognition. Many of the features and announced Nokia Screen Reader for selected Nokia 3.0 Nokia & planet During 2011, we significantly improved the accessibility 4.0 Independent assurance applications developed to better serve these specific handsets. In this first wave, the Nokia Screen Reader of our in-device user guides. The guides in the latest 5.0 Global reporting initiative groups are now also finding uses in the general became available for the Nokia C5-00, Nokia C5 5MP, Symbian devices now include a text alternative for all 6.0 Key data population, especially amongst older generations. and the Nokia 700 and 701 models. The Nokia C5 5MP, graphics, to be read with a screen reader. with its clear traditional keyboard, has become our Nokia has been working on improving the accessibility most desired handset from an accessibility perspective. features of our devices for over a decade. In the past, We also offer enhanced voice functions on some “The innovations in accessibility that we have brought several accessibility innovations to device models, allowing users to make and receive Nokia has contributed to the marketplace have market, such as caller identification by a photo, video calls, calls, read messages and send audio messages in brought the convenience of mobile devices to and haptic feedback. We have even launched special eyes-free, hands-free mode. many. Their commitment to accessibility and products for those customers that use T-coil-equipped hearing aids: The Nokia Wireless Loopset LPS-5 enables In 2011, we continued to engage our stakeholders – future priorities in this arena prove that Nokia is those with hearing impairments to conveniently use representatives from disability organizations, really in the business of connecting people… a mobile device. regulators, developers and academia – into discussions ALL people.” on new solutions for accessibility. In particular, in We believe accessibility is an integral part of the user OLGA FAURE October 2011 we organized a one-day invitational Handicapzero experience design. In Series 40 and Symbian, we event, the Nokia Accessibility Summit, in connection continued to offer a variety of options to help people with the Nokia World 2011 tradeshow in London. At enjoy mobile services in a way that best matches their the summit representatives from various disability diverse preferences. Our customers with accessibility organizations, such as the Royal National Institute of needs have told us that they want choices regarding A and the Finnish Federation of the Visually Impaired form factors. Therefore, we offer a wide variety of choices from Finland were present. Furthermore, key operators in terms of shape, style and input. These include full and developers participated along with key accessibility touch handsets, touch-and-type handsets, handsets owners from Nokia and our new strategic partner, with traditional keyboard, and handsets with Microsoft. As the outcome of the summit, a list of QWERTY keyboard. future priorities for improving accessibility for Nokia Technological progress, especially in smartphones, was identified. This list serves as the official customer is making handsets ever more accessible. We can now expectations list for Nokia. offer dozens of device features or applications for people with disabilities. Screen magnification, voice dialing, text-to-speech processing and enhanced personalization options are featured in an increasing number of handset models. Nokia has been working on these features that enhance the accessibility of our devices for over a decade. 27 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 1.0 Contents Future priorities for improving The agenda for accessibility 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE accessibility standardization at Nokia continues 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information • Offer the widest range of features and compatibilities for accessibility to be actively promoted in a number of ways. For example, a Nokia employee 2.1.2 Improving education, health and was nominated to be the director livelihoods with mobile technology in smartphones. of the European Telecommunications 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE • Bring screen reader technology also to feature phones. Standards Institute ETSI in accessibility related matters. We also continue to 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct • Provide an accessibility application programming interface (API) to all develop some of our key innovations 2.2.3 Employees such as High Accuracy Indoor Positioning, 2.2.4 Customer Engagement mobile platforms, open to 3rd which uses technology to bring accurate 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement party applications. localization and navigation indoors. 3.0 2.2.6 Our Economic impact Nokia & planet • Continue to provide superior access to mobile technology for This helps people find their destination 4.0 Independent assurance in complex environments such as in 5.0 Global reporting initiative the hard-of hearing. a shopping mall. 6.0 Key data • Ensure accessibility of Nokia’s business and leisure applications, web content and user manuals. • Ensure means for downloading software for blind users. • Communicate progress in accessibility transparently and on a regular basis. • Promote innovations for accessibility solutions in future devices. 28 2.2 OUR IMPACT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY ON PEOPLE 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees 2.2.4 Customer Engagement As a global company operating and delivering to customers around the 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact world, our activities have impact on people and communities. In this 3.0 Nokia & planet chapter, we discuss our social responsibility, as regards to our employees, 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative customers, partners and other stakeholders. Supplier related issues, 6.0 Key data having both social and environmental aspects, are discussed as a whole in the ‘Nokia and suppliers’ section, chapter 3.4. 29 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.1 Human rights Nokia is constantly conducting due 2011 Progress Case diligence to fulfill its responsibility to 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access We believe that our core business – respect human rights and assess any Human Beijing Special to the Internet and information connecting people with mobile human rights risks that may be associated rights Economic Zone pilot 2.1.2 Improving education, health and technology – contributes to the with its operations and products. Human livelihoods with mobile technology promotion of human rights by enabling 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products rights challenges and opportunities are The year 2011 represented an In the spirit of transparency, Nokia and enhancing communication and different at different stages of the Nokia important milestone for us, as it was hosted a Human Rights Summit 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 2.2.1 Human rights facilitating economic development. value chain. For example, in R&D, these the year we had all of the elements concerning the social impact of 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct Improved communications provide may include aspects of accessibility and of Ruggie’s framework in place. multinational companies. The focus 2.2.3 Employees better opportunities for freedom of privacy. In manufacturing, including our was on labor conditions in Special 2.2.4 Customer Engagement expression, and therefore promote civil supply chain, the main human rights We also launched the Nokia Human Economic Zones (SEZ) and the 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement and political rights as well as economic issues are labor rights, and health and Rights Approach, articulating our 2.2.6 Our Economic impact payment of a fair and adequate living and social rights. At the same time, we safety. In sales and marketing, issues such commitment to human rights. 3.0 Nokia & planet wage to workers. The event brought have specific human rights responsibilities as anti-corruption are the most likely The document was developed in 4.0 Independent assurance together various stakeholder groups, toward our employees, customers, the human rights issues to be addressed. cooperation with our key stakeholders 5.0 Global reporting initiative including non-governmental 6.0 Key data communities where we work, and within including NGOs, investors and operator One example of our due diligence organizations (NGOs) and other our supply chain. customers and it draws on the analysis activities in 2011 was the Social Impact businesses operating in similar of the challenges identified in the Nokia has been at the forefront in Assessment conducted in Vietnam where environments to Nokia. due diligence process and our applying UN Human Rights Special we are going to build a new factory. assessment of international best The outcome of the summit was an Representative John Ruggie’s framework A Social Risk Impact Assessment (SRIA) practices. The document is available agreement to launch a multiin its business practices. The framework for Hanoi was conducted by an external on our website. stakeholder initiative, which started consists of 3 pillars, protect-respectrisk consultancy and it consisted of both during 2011 in the Beijing remedy, and is widely welcomed by in-country and desktop research. The full On top of defining our Human Rights Development Area (BDA ) in China. industry and governments. SRIA report provides a summary of key policy we monitor key performance The pilot was kicked off in Beijing findings regarding potential social risks indicators, which demonstrate the Industrial Park, with several that Nokia is likely to face. Based on the effectiveness of John Ruggie’s companies, NGOs and authorities report, the program team created framework including, for example, co-creating the actions for the mitigation strategies to decrease the monitoring the number of times multi-stakeholder project. As a result, negative impact and to increase the people have contacted us via altogether 10 companies including positive impact of the factory. grievance channels. Nokia proposed that the BDA Labor and Social Insurance Bureau and the BDA union work on training in different areas. These included work safety, fire safety, food hygiene, personal behavior, legal rights, and personal development in, for example, computer skills and English. The target audience is people already working in companies in the area and people applying for jobs through our labor agencies. Nokia took the first rotating chairman role of the project in July 2011. 30 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.2 Nokia Code The training programs will continue during In 2011, we created the position of 2011 Progress 2012. The training program has been Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY of Conduct designed to help employees identify and This individual plays a key role in the Code of Conduct 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information We are committed to actively fight solve ethical dilemmas they may face in support and development of the Code, 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology against improper business practices, including corruption, and believe that real-life situations, know who they should oversees corporate investigations as • Attendance percentage of Code of Conduct trainings are 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products ask for support and where to report well as compliance with policies and laws, 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE as a global company we can play an concerns. We also offer classroom training and aims to foster the highest ethical monitored and recorded annually. 2.2.1 Human rights important role in this area. We also for employees who do not have access standards in all the countries where Nokia By the end of 2011, 98% of all 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct believe that our efforts can provide to computers. The training covers topics operates and does business. We have Nokia indirect employees had 2.2.3 Employees us with a competitive advantage with such as bribery and corruption, health established several communications taken the Code of Conduct 2.2.4 Customer Engagement customers who demand high ethical and safety, labor conditions as well as channels for employees and others to training, mostly using the 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact standards in their supply chain. how to report concerns about unethical get help in understanding and applying e-learning platform. In the 3.0 Nokia & planet For these reasons, we have a globally conduct, corruption or any suspected the Code, or to report concerns of factories, with mostly direct 4.0 Independent assurance applicable Code of Conduct in place violations of Nokia’s Code of Conduct. violations. This includes a “Contact the employees, the classroom 5.0 Global reporting initiative across Nokia. Board” channel for contacting the Board training reached 72% completion 6.0 Key data of Directors anonymously. by year end. The Code of Conduct is available in 34 languages and can be found on our • An additional Vietnamese language version was added website. Since 2009, we have conducted a program to train each employee on during 2011 to reflect our our Code of Conduct using an e-learning operations in Vietnam. platform which is offered in 14 languages • On September 1st, 2011 Nokia established a new Ethics and as well as live classroom training. By the end of 2011, 98% of eligible nonCompliance Office and appointed manufacturing-based employees a Chief Ethics and Compliance completed their training, and in our Officer. In order to bring the manufacturing facilities 72% of eligible Ethics and Compliance closer employees completed classroom training. to other activities within Nokia Legal, the areas of Privacy and Competition law are also included under the Ethics and Compliance function. 31 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.3 Employees Nokia Way and values Diversity and inclusion At the end of 2011, 15.2% of senior management positions within Nokia were 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY We have a set of values developed by The best way to understand customer 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access 2011 employee snapshot held by women, and 53.6% of senior our employees around the world which expectations around the world is to have to the Internet and information At the end of 2011, Nokia employed management positions were held by reflects and supports our business and a truly diverse workforce inclusive of 2.1.2 Improving education, health and 56,364 people. people of non-Finnish nationality. Both livelihoods with mobile technology changing environment. The values act as people of different genders, cultural or figures are slightly up compared to 2010. 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products The below figures are from Nokia a foundation for our evolving business ethnic backgrounds, skills and abilities, 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE personnel management data system culture and form the basis of how we lifestyles, generations and perspectives. Having a plan for actively managing 2.2.1 Human rights as at the end of 2011 and include 51,404 operate. ‘Achieving together’ reflects equality and diversity has shown us that 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct Nokia is committed to promoting diversity Nokia employees. It is not identical to how we reach out to others, encouraging employees stay longer in the company, 2.2.3 Employees and inclusion in the workplace and 2.2.4 Customer Engagement the total year end employee number them to work together with us and share have greater company loyalty and providing rewarding career development 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement mainly due to the reason that certain risks, responsibilities and successes. maintain higher levels of satisfaction opportunities for all employees. We strive 2.2.6 Our Economic impact Nokia employees were at year end ‘Very human’ reflects how we do business toward their work in general. to create an inclusive workplace that 3.0 Nokia & planet 2011 in a separate personnel and work with each other. ‘Engaging you’ 4.0 Independent assurance welcomes men and women of different We are constantly developing the management system reflects how we engage our customers, 5.0 Global reporting initiative cultural or ethnic backgrounds, skills and flexibility of our working conditions and our suppliers, and our own employees in 6.0 Key data • At December 31, 2011, Nokia had 25,428 employees working directly in what our company stands for. ‘Passion for abilities, lifestyles, generations and perspectives. This has helped us to build policies, to enable an inclusive work environment. A key element is our focus innovation’ reflects our curiosity about production, including manufacturing, the diverse and robust community that on establishing “inclusive leadership” the world around us and our desire to packaging and shipping Nokia is today. as part of Nokia’s overall leadership improve people’s lives through innovation • At the end of 2011, 15.2% of senior management positions within Nokia in technology. Additionally, Nokia’s change Analyzing the headcount by gender umbrella. We have several initiatives including for example our Asia Talent in strategy has underlined the need for shows that 59% of the workforce are were held by women, while 53.6% Program; Women in Nokia, an active gay, Nokia employees to adopt the mind-set men and 41% are women. of senior management positions lesbian, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) of a challenger, which will be explained were held by people of non-Finnish network and a variety of other initiatives in more details later in this chapter, nationality. to maximize the representation of key in ‘New strategy and our employees’. • In 2011, the rate of voluntary attrition – that is the percentage diversity groups. of the workforce leaving the company voluntarily – was 14.2% • In 2011, we invested nearly 29 million Euros in training, an average of 980 Euros per employee working in areas other than production. • 92% of Nokia employees have a permanent work contract and 8% have a fixed term contract with Nokia. • Most of Nokia’s employees work full time, with less than 1% working part time. 32 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Training and development Our various incentive programs include Achievement Awards are given to 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE cash incentive/bonus plans, R&D individuals and/or teams to recognize 2011 Progress 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Training and development, both personally performance and rewards 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access incentives, sales incentives and outstanding contributions, significant and professionally, are important at Nokia. to the Internet and information short-term bonus plans. Employees achievements or exceptionally good We provide a variety of mandatory and 2.1.2 Improving education, health and in our production are entitled to performance. In 2011, Achievement To highlight the importance of good livelihoods with mobile technology voluntary training opportunities for our a production incentive, which is a Awards were used 6,757 times. quality dialogue between the manager 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products employees to help them develop a broad short-term plan designed to support and employee, and to give greater 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE range of skills for the workplace, as well Kudos is a personal award, and it 2.2.1 Human rights results primarily in areas of production rewards for individual contribution, as the competencies specific to their encourages line managers to instantly 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct where the nature of the work and the we started to develop a new roles. We offer thousands of internal recognize employee achievements with 2.2.3 Employees measurement of results are mainly performance management and 2.2.4 Customer Engagement training options, as well as many external a personal note and a small monetary team-focused. rewarding approach in 2011. This new 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement training opportunities. To match local bonus. In 2011, Kudos was used approach was introduced to employees 2.2.6 Our Economic impact needs, training may be tailored and may We communicate with employees about 11,843 times. at the end of 2011 and it will be taken 3.0 Nokia & planet also be available in local languages. For the effect of business results on their 4.0 Independent assurance Peer to Peer is yet another recognition into use in 2012. Peer to Peer, yet factory workers we arrange on site/ incentives after each quarterly 5.0 Global reporting initiative method, introduced in 2011, for another recognition method, was classroom trainings. announcement through articles and 6.0 Key data demonstrating the new ways of working introduced in 2011. video messages on our internal news In 2011, we invested 29 million Euros in and behaviors we support. It is an instant channel. We encourage managers to training, an average of 980 Euros per recognition of a peer with a personalized coach employees continually and to employee working in areas other than email to the receiver. After six Peer to have at least one formal personal production. We encourage e-learning Peer awards, a small monetary Kudos appraisal every year. Additionally, we opportunities where possible, as these award is earned. communicate through quarterly letters, are more cost-effective and blogs, webcasts and face-to-face environmentally sound. meetings and related information is Employee competition available in our intranet for people to to recognize innovation access any time. Performance and rewards The Nokia Excellence Award is a yearly More information about the reward We use a global framework to set salary competition for our employees, which framework, especially regarding our top bands, which are applied to people recognizes and rewards outstanding management, is covered in our 2011 regardless of gender, age or background. work, persistence and a pioneering Form 20-F Report. Levels of compensation are determined attitude. A sustainability category has by local labor markets and take into A trio of reward programs been included in the award for over ten account both individual contribution and years, with teams being recognized for Positive feedback is a powerful tool company performance. In countries and their great work in, for example, sales for reinforcing behaviors critical to our sites where we have collective agreements package optimization for logistical savings, success. We believe that by focusing on in place, the salaries are set accordingly. work with suppliers to reduce waste, and positive recognition we can create an innovative recycling solutions. A large number of employees are appreciative culture. By this we mean nominated for our equity programs, a culture where positive behaviors are which are based on rewarding recognized daily, not just at the end of a performance and retaining employees. bonus cycle or during an annual review. Our broad-based equity compensation We have three global recognition programs include stock options and programs: the Achievement Award for performance shares. Both are linked to major achievements that go above and the company’s performance over beyond an employee’s typical a number of years. responsibilities, Kudos to reward smaller achievements for a job well done and Peer to Peer, for demonstrating the new ways of working and behaviors we support. 33 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Health, safety and well-being 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE of our employees 2011 Progress Case 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access HEALTH, SAFETY and WELLBEING Moving from a reactive to The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees are to the Internet and information vital to our business. Wellbeing can make a difference in a proactive safety culture 2.1.2 Improving education, health and In 2011, we renewed our Global Occupational Health and Safety livelihoods with mobile technology employee engagement and productivity, e.g. by reducing Injury and Illness Rate (IIR) Reporting Guidelines. One difference from In 2011, we started a project in our 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products absenteeism, and thus saving costs. Our Occupational previous guidance is that earlier we reported only those injuries Chennai, India factory to create an 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE Health and Safety (OHS) Policy sets out our commitment 2.2.1 Human rights and illnesses which caused absenteeism. Now we also report those organizational atmosphere where to provide safe and healthy working conditions for all our 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct cases that require some type of medical treatment or first-aid, safety and health were considered a employees, and to promote wellbeing at work. We work 2.2.3 Employees but do not result in absenteeism. IIR is used as a management tool top priority. This meant creating a 2.2.4 Customer Engagement with our contractors, suppliers and customers to and is reviewed once a month by leadership teams. safety culture where everyone 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement continuously monitor health and safety issues to meet 2.2.6 Our Economic impact our commitments. Health and safety is managed by the In 2011, we changed the disclosure of incident frequency rate to understood their role and the project 3.0 Nokia & planet global OHS unit, which is part of our Human Resources include also non-lost time incidents in addition to lost time incidents. aimed to change the culture from 4.0 Independent assurance department. The unit is responsible for developing our The change was made in order to continuously improve our Factory one that was reactive to one that is 5.0 Global reporting initiative health and safety strategy and the annual action plans. Safety and Health Programs. proactive. We first concentrated on 6.0 Key data The global OHS team coordinates and facilitates health improving workplace conditions with Our global Total Incident Frequency Rate (TIFR) for all our major the help of comprehensive plant and safety arrangements in individual countries, each of manufacturing facilities for 2011 with the renewed reporting was safety audits and machinery risk which have their own health and safety services. The 0.5, meaning that for every 100 employees, 0.5 employees had assessments. To ensure team also develops procedures to ensure the compliance an occupational injury or illness. There is not a global TIFR that is accountability, the factory level with the Occupational Health and Safety Administration comparable, however, compared to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, target was defined and embedded System OHSAS. Our country level OHS teams also run similar industries in the United States reported within the performance management a range of campaigns and training programs to raise an average TIFR of 1.6. system. awareness about locally meaningful health and safety issues. In 2011, we kicked off a project to create a culture supporting safe To change the attitudes of everyone, working practices at Nokia factories. The aim of the project has we made senior leadership teams at As a global company, we have selected the Occupational been to create a sustainable safety culture with strong focus on all levels accountable. This helped Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines for organizational learning and competence renewal. This will be achieved convince each and every individual to accident and illness reporting. OSHA has issued specific in a variety of ways. Firstly, by adopting a robust management take ownership of health and safety guidelines and reporting instructions that we use for all system approach into OHS operations. Secondly, by defining and at the workplace. Training was one of global reporting. If we need to report locally, we refer developing meaningful safety metrics together with relevant the key drivers during this program to the appropriate local standards. reporting systems. Thirdly, by improving the IIR, and building and we spent close to 15,000 stronger OHS competences. employee hours on health and safety training in the workplace. 34 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Encouraging volunteering Assessing labor conditions at our factories 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Volunteering is an important part of employee We carry out in-depth assessments of labor conditions 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access engagement. What’s more, it helps us achieve our at all of our major production facilities every second to the Internet and information year. During the intervening period, we also carry out 2.1.2 Improving education, health and sustainability goals as part of our mission is to make livelihoods with mobile technology meaningful contributions to the communities in which reassessments to ensure any necessary corrective 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products we operate. Through volunteering we are able to learn actions have been made, and we conduct some internal 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE new skills and gain new perspectives. Volunteering also audits based on risk analysis. Assessments are based 2.2.1 Human rights helps to create a balance between our personal beliefs on the Nokia Labor Condition Standard. 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees and professional lives. We began tracking people incidents in our factories in 2.2.4 Customer Engagement Nokia Helping Hands is our global volunteer program, 2010. Incidents such as legal strikes, other labor unrest, 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement work-related fatalities or occupational injuries, serious 2.2.6 Our Economic impact which helps those in need in a variety of ways. It also acts as an umbrella organization for locally relevant security incidents, cases of corruption, discrimination or 3.0 Nokia & planet volunteering activities. What’s more, it’s owned and breaches of Nokia’s Code of Conduct are reported on a 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative operated by our employees. Thousands of our global level and analyzed for further improvements. 6.0 Key data employees contribute their time and effort to worthy Our focus since the last assessment round in 2010 has causes in their communities. For us, it is important to been on workplace safety, discussed earlier in this chapter. encourage and support employees who want to As part of the human rights approach, discussed in contribute. In recognition of this, our employees can chapter 2.2.1, we follow up and take action on take two working days per year as a Nokia Helping operations identified as having risks related to freedom Hands day to go out into the community and of association, child labor, forced and compulsory labor, contribute to a good cause. Ensuring the highest standard for labor conditions and business units at risk from corruption. We monitor It is extremely important to Nokia that labor conditions actions and the number of incidents of discrimination at all our production sites meet recognized international and corruption through our internal grievance Labor conditions standards. We assess our performance as well as our mechanisms and assessment processes. When making suppliers’ performance regularly. The Nokia Labor operational changes, we always follow local legislation. Global employment guidelines Conditions Standard is based on the International In cases of multi-country changes, we always follow the Each of our sites must comply with our global Labor Organization and UN Human Rights conventions local legislation and required processes to inform and employment guidelines. Our global employment and has been benchmarked against other international consult with our employees. guidelines determine how we handle employment labor laws and standards. This standard provides a issues at each site. They cover: framework to monitor and assess labor conditions in a Almost all of our manufacturing • Compensation consistent manner, and addresses the following issues: facilities have collective agreements • Working time and location • Discrimination in place with one or more labor • Employee wellbeing • Forced labor unions. 78.2% of Nokia’s production • Equal opportunities • Child labor employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. • Confidentiality and privacy issues • Freedom of association • Guidance on external assignments • Occupational safety • Conflicts of interest • Occupational health • Efficient communications • Disciplinary practices • Freedom of association, including collective • Working hours bargaining rights • Compensation • Management systems The content of this standard is provided to all factory workers during induction, and information is also provided through factory-specific campaigns. E-learning is provided for employees in other areas. 35 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents In 2010, working conditions in Nokia Direct external labor 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE LABOR CONDITIONS IN 9 NOKIA-OWNED FACTORIES factories were assessed by Intertek The percentage of external temporary 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% (see the chart). Although the overall labor in our factories fluctuates to the Internet and information results were very good, audits identified throughout the year. These workers help 2.1.2 Improving education, health and MANAGEMENT some areas of improvement for example livelihoods with mobile technology SYSTEM us meet demand in peak production 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products within occupational health and safety and periods and provide cover when our 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE working hours. During 2011, we updated permanent employees are absent. Our 2.2.1 Human rights OCCUPATIONAL our labor conditions standard, which global policy on direct external labor in 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct SAFETY include specific guidelines for these areas, factories determines how our sites 2.2.3 Employees with more specific requirements related manage external staff. External 2.2.4 Customer Engagement to occupational health and safety and temporary labor is hired through 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement OCCUPATIONAL 2.2.6 Our Economic impact HEALTH monitoring. Additionally, we kicked off agencies for a maximum time period, 3.0 Nokia & planet a separate project to create a culture normally 12 months. When selecting 4.0 Independent assurance supporting safe working practices at agencies, we ensure they have complied 5.0 Global reporting initiative DISCIPLINARY Nokia factories. with all applicable labor practices. These 6.0 Key data PRACTICES labor agencies are also in the scope of our social audits. CHILD LABOUR FORCED LABOUR FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION DISCRIMINATION COMPENSATION WORKING HOURS 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% FULLY COMPLIANT IMPROVEMENT NEEDED RECOMMENDATIONS GIVEN 36 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents New strategy and our employees We use employee feedback to drive change and support New strategy and operational structure: 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE reductions in our global headcount our transformation. The Listening to You survey is one 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Our success depends on our employees. We consider 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access tool to ask, act on, and monitor progress on how we are To deliver on our new strategy meant that we had to them a vital stakeholder group and value their feedback to the Internet and information doing with our new strategy, new ways of working, and make some painful decisions, including consolidation 2.1.2 Improving education, health and on how we run our business. Already in 2010, we reported employee engagement. Listening to You traditionally of site operations. In February we announced that the livelihoods with mobile technology how we expected critical challenges to our business has a high response rate and in 2011 82% (89% in 2010) new strategy and operational structure are expected 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products and the way we work, and started a fundamental of our employees in more than 50 countries participated. to have significant impact to Nokia operations and 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE transformation. In 2011, we concentrated on addressing 2.2.1 Human rights We measure and monitor inspired people, leaders as role personnel, and which unfortunately meant reductions these challenges. 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct models, and how visible the culture change is for them. in the global headcount. 2.2.3 Employees Changing culture and behaviors Employees are also invited to comment on the one 2.2.4 Customer Engagement thing they would suggest to improve Nokia. In April 2011 the change became more concrete when we 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Nokia’s change in strategy, announced in February 2011, announced that we plan to reduce our global workforce 2.2.6 Our Economic impact underlined the need for Nokia employees to adopt the • 61% thought that we have inspired people by about 4,000 employees by the end of 2012, with the 3.0 Nokia & planet mindset of a challenger. The new ‘challenger’ • 67% felt our leaders act as role models majority of reductions in Denmark, Finland and the UK. 4.0 5.0 Independent assurance Global reporting initiative philosophy places a heavy emphasis on results, speed and accountability and requires all Nokia employees to • 64% felt the culture change is visible The announcement included plans to form a strategic 6.0 Key data These numbers are collected from non-production collaboration with Accenture that would result in the change, to adopt new attitudes and new ways to satisfy transfer of Nokia’s Symbian software activities. As a staff responses. our customers. To accelerate our speed of execution result of the transaction, approximately 2,300 employees we are also developing new ways of working, with a According to the employee satisfaction survey results, were transferred to Accenture by the end of 2011. particular focus on driving faster decision-making, our employees say that there is still too much reducing complexity, and improving our responsiveness bureaucracy, complexity and slowness. Therefore, In September we announced we would close our to customer needs and market trends. correcting how we behave individually and collectively manufacturing facility in Cluj, Romania by the end of the as a company is a prerequisite for future success. year. The closure of the factory combined with Strong leadership is vital in times of change. Leaders adjustments to supply chain operations was estimated must stay connected with employees and provide On top of the yearly Listening to You survey, we follow to impact approximately 2,200 employees. At the same updates on progress. Our new leadership principles our change progress by conducting a similar type of time we announced changes in the Location and were used to enhance our ways of working and employee survey, Pulse, once every quarter. Additionally, Commerce business, which were estimated to impact demonstrate our values. A successful Nokia leader is we believe it’s very important to encourage open approximately 1,300 employees. These anticipated able to demonstrate empathy, show accountability, discussion and debate within our business. Employees personnel reductions were an addition to the measures have a sense of urgency, and engage in continuous can ask questions and comment on our business at any announced in April and were expected to take effect quality dialogue with employees. According to our time through the company intranet or internal social by the end of 2012. yearly employee survey ‘Listening to you’, these network and receive a prompt and openly published behaviors were seen as follows: response. Our internal news is also open for our • 83% of employees felt they are ‘being treated with respect and dignity’ – a strong score, employees to comment on. During times of change stress levels inevitably go up. improved from 73% in previous year To help combat this, we used the wellbeing index tool • 67% felt that in their work environment, ‘it is easy to speak up about any issue without concern’, – a questionnaire for teams to measure their stress and wellbeing and ensure their ability to work effectively. a similarly strong score and above benchmark During the last quarter of 2011, the index was used by • 65% of employees feel they have inspiring managers 1,700 respondents. The index is used by occupational health services for team interventions and periodic health checks related to age. 37 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents How we helped our people find new jobs The program offered a wide range of Bridge has also been adapted to give it 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE “The basic idea was rather Acknowledging the pain and difficulties re-employment possibilities: a local perspective. We’ve established 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY simple. We recognized that Nokia’s 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information caused to our employees and our social responsibility, we established an • A new job within the company – We want to retain as much talent Bridge centers in Finland (capital city area, Salo, Tampere and Oulu), Copenhagen in transformation was going to be a 2.1.2 Improving education, health and tough call for individuals working for extensive support program, Bridge, to as possible, by providing career Denmark, the UK, the USA, Bangalore in livelihoods with mobile technology Nokia, for local communities where 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products provide a wide range of new employment counselling and helping employees India, Cluj in Romania, Germany, Hungary we were operating, and for the 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE opportunities, financial support and identify new job opportunities and Singapore. The Bridge program in the company itself as well. If we are not 2.2.1 Human rights grace period for those who were at risk within Nokia. USA supports the employees both in the handling this well, the company itself North America and in the Latin America. 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees losing their jobs. The program was created to support our employees’ • A new job outside the company – We offer career counselling to help is going to suffer and our brand will 2.2.4 Customer Engagement In addition to these Bridge centers we suffer. That’s why we decided that we 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement finding employment within or outside identify job opportunities. have a virtual Bridge concept, “Bridge had to do this in a different way, in a 2.2.6 Our Economic impact the company. Furthermore, we worked with our Globe”, to support Nokia employees who way which creates opportunities as 3.0 Nokia & planet extensive network to create a are located in countries where Nokia much as possible, and we can 4.0 Independent assurance dedicated job portal, linking doesn’t have a local Bridge team. mitigate all of the risks related with 5.0 Global reporting initiative employees directly with local this transformation. And that whole 6.0 Key data companies and their resourcing By the end of 2011, more than 4,200 thinking was based on shared value. needs. All employees could remain employees had participated in the Bridge The idea that we do things in a way with the company throughout 2011, program. Those employees who lost their that everyone is able to win.” while employees affected in 2012 jobs during 2011 could stay with Nokia will be given a two-month grace until the end of the year 2011, due to the ESKO AHO period. In addition, employees who voluntary grace period offered. The grace Executive Vice President period is a voluntary extra time that Nokia Corporate Relations Responsibility are losing their jobs at Nokia are Nokia entitled to severance packages in offers for those employees that are losing accordance with local practices. their jobs so that they have time to adjust and focus on finding a new employment. • Entrepreneurship – We offer training, funding, and help to identify business Because of the grace period, only few people left Nokia in 2011, and those who opportunities and partnerships for did typically had a job when they left. those interested in starting a new business, which could fuel new growth for impacted communities. • Career renewal – We work with local partners to create new opportunities through co-funded research programs, scholarships, and supported employment in local not-for-profit organizations and other growth companies. 38 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.4 Customer To support our trade customers’ Case 2011 progress sustainability agenda we focus on 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Engagement providing the greenest portfolio of Global survey to measure trade customers 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information mobile devices. We also work together attitudes and behaviors 2.1.2 Improving education, health and to develop initiatives, such as joint In 2011, more than 805 key customer livelihoods with mobile technology Customer satisfaction 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products take-back and recycling campaigns in This year, we conducted a global representatives from 265 customer 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE Delivering customer satisfaction is not which we can support and engage end survey to provide insights about accounts in 83 countries around the 2.2.1 Human rights only about meeting needs, but also about users to live more sustainably. attitudes and behaviors around world participated in our Listening to 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct creating value for our operator customers Sustainability provides a wide array of sustainability and environmentally Trade Customer survey. Overall, 2.2.3 Employees and end users by increasing the opportunities for collaborations, which friendly practices. It also provided trade customer satisfaction with 2.2.4 Customer Engagement sustainability of our devices throughout differentiates Nokia from our competitors. Nokia decreased in 2010, while 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement interesting comparisons with the 2.2.6 Our Economic impact the product life cycle. We continuously Nokia continues to receive inquiries and study on recycling attitudes satisfaction with some of our key 3.0 Nokia & planet research the views of both groups to assessment requests about social and conducted in 2007. According to the competitors increased. According to 4.0 Independent assurance understand where we are succeeding environmental performance from our report, environmental awareness the survey, the main drivers of the 5.0 Global reporting initiative and how we can do better. customers and we respond to those appears well established around the shift were reduced satisfaction with 6.0 Key data requests through our normal customer globe. Claimed concern for green high-end product offerings and with account management interface. We also issues is particularly strong in consumer marketing. Overall Trade customers participate in the joint industry initiative developing countries, while relationship satisfaction improved E-TASC (ElectronicsTools for Accountable developed markets are more routine from last year, and in fact reached an Each year an independent market Supply Chains) which is a sustainability in their green behavior rather than all-time high. Trade customers’ research company helps us to research solution crafted for companies to conscious of their eco-credentials. perceptions of environmental trade customers’ views on Nokia through effectively implement a common Nokia has strong environmental performance in 2010 showed that our Listening to Trade Customer (LTC) approach for assessing and managing brand equity, especially amongst Nokia continued to be the most survey. A sample of executive and supply chain risk. It also aims to drive Nokia owners, suggesting potential highly regarded with almost half of operational contacts from companies performance improvement related to for further initiatives. Energy respondents classifying Nokia’s that make up about 80% of Nokia labor practices, health and safety, ethics efficiency is the most appealing environmental performance as Very revenues are invited to take part. and environmental activity. In addition, environmentally friendly attribute in Good or Excellent. In addition, Feedback from the survey is used to we continue to supply data to operatora mobile phone, followed by being awareness of Nokia’s environmental drive action planning at the local and specific product sustainability rankings, fully recyclable and being made with performance increased significantly global levels. At a local level, Nokia account where Nokia products continue to environmentally friendly materials. whereas awareness of competitors’ managers discuss the survey findings perform well. While claimed mobile phone recycling environmental performance tended with their customers and take relevant has risen from 3% to 9% since 2007, to decline. actions. The consolidated feedback is used to understand where systematic the actual figures are still relatively improvements are needed. Customer low. Keeping a back-up remains the participants receive a response letter main reason not to recycle. from Nokia’s CEO highlighting the survey’s overall findings and the key improvement actions taken. 39 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Customer privacy 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 Progress 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Personal privacy are not just words for us. Privacy initiatives 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access We believe that people have the right to to the Internet and information know what happens to the information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and In 2011, we launched the Privacy Respect for privacy and protection of livelihoods with mobile technology they generate and how to control its use, Challenge as part of our crowd-sourcing user generated content is part of our 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products and we are committed to fulfill the privacy Ideas Project to gather ideas from the commitment to high standards of 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE expectations of our customers. 2.2.1 Human rights public about how we design privacy integrity and ethical conduct in all our 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct Protecting customer privacy has always into our devices. operations. Our target is that 2.2.3 Employees been important to Nokia. It is even more consumers trust Nokia to fulfill their 2.2.4 Customer Engagement We also launched an improved way for important as we develop new services privacy expectations. This should 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement consumers to manage their marketing and bring more people online through the happen through Nokia being open and 2.2.6 Our Economic impact consent with Nokia. With the launch of Internet and mobile technologies. These transparent, and allowing consumers 3.0 Nokia & planet Symbian Anna software, we simplified 4.0 Independent assurance services enable consumers to use and to be in control of their personal consumer’s marketing consent into 5.0 Global reporting initiative share their personal information in new information and the content they one “yes” or “no” approval that is 6.0 Key data contexts. Nokia is a key player in today’s create. Therefore, we do not disclose stored with their Nokia account. connected mobile online world, personal data without consent or a This was a major improvement for committed to bring the next billion people legal obligation to do so. We have in consumers with a Nokia account, online. We recognize our responsibility to place both proactive and reactive giving them a simple way to control address privacy in an effective and processes to ensure that our policies whether Nokia contacted them or not. sustainable manner in all of our activities, are effective, and aim to constantly and are committed to a high and ethical In 2011, Nokia contributed to research improve privacy related matters, privacy standard. on Near Field Communications (NFC) both internally as a company and by capabilities, which investigated privacy the choices we offer in our products and security risks. This resulted in and services. In addition, we are Privacy by Design guidelines on how the actively engaged in privacy matters privacy principles can be manifested in at the industry level, and participate mobile technology to protect privacy, in regulatory discussions with empower consumers, and build trust in key stakeholders. the mobile ecosystem. “Nokia has been Our approach to Privacy by Design committed to the development of NFC means that privacy is engineered and technology standards and products taken into account in all product for many years. Privacy by Design is a considerations. Consumers can find key element of Nokia’s privacy more about our privacy principles on strategy and its commitment in our our website, www.nokia.com/privacy product creation process, said Mikko Niva of Nokia Global Privacy Council. 40 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Understanding more about Nokia has funded research on mobile 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE health effects telephony and health, principally through 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access From time to time, there are reports in the Mobile Manufacturers Forum (MMF), to the Internet and information the media of individual research studies, an international association of 2.1.2 Improving education, health and which suggest that there may be telecommunications equipment livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products adverse effects related to mobile phone manufacturers with an interest in mobile 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE use. Since 1995, expert panels and and wireless communications. These 2.2.1 Human rights government agencies around the world programs and projects, listed on the MMF 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct have performed more than 110 reviews website at www.mmfai.org, are jointly 2.2.3 Employees of the scientific evidence regarding funded with governmental organizations 2.2.4 Customer Engagement and other industry forums. Importantly, 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement health effects from Radio Frequency 2.2.6 Our Economic impact (RF) exposure. neither the MMF nor its individual 3.0 Nokia & planet member companies have any editorial For example, the WHO notes that “A large influence on the publication of the 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative number of studies have been performed research results. Nokia continues to 6.0 Key data over the last two decades to assess be a member of the MMF. whether mobile phones pose a potential health risk. To date, no adverse health effects have been established as being caused by mobile phone use.” This position was confirmed after the International Agency for Research on Cancer, a WHO specialist agency, classified the electromagnetic fields Product safety We are committed to transparency and produced by mobile phones as possibly responding to our customers’ questions carcinogenic to humans in 2011. WHO Product safety is a top priority for Nokia. about mobile phone safety. Our website has identified areas for further research All Nokia products operate below the at www.nokia.com/emf contains and is to conduct a health risk assessment relevant international exposure guidelines information and links to other sources. of Electric and Magnetic Fields (EMF) and limits set by public health authorities For example, since October 2001, Nokia in 2012. and international expert bodies, such has voluntarily made Specific Absorption as the International Commission on Rate (SAR) information available, helping Non-Ionizing Protection (ICNIRP) and our consumers to make informed choices. the US Federal Communications SAR information is included in our product Commission (FCC). user guides and can also be found at www.nokia.com/sar. We support the World Health Organization (WHO) in its efforts to coordinate global regulations on electromagnetic fields. These are based on the widely recognized guidelines issued by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection. 41 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.5 Stakeholder Our main channels for dialogue with Listening to stakeholders and translating Case stakeholders are both internal and public, their expectations into business value is an 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Engagement small and large group engagement, important Nokia process. Our approach Stakeholder survey 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access to the Internet and information Most of our stakeholder dialogue takes campaigns, as well as specific and is to be transparent and stakeholder2.1.2 Improving education, health and place as part of normal business practice. attitudinal surveys and feedback. We focused and apply trusting and To further improve our understanding livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products From a sustainability impact point of cover specific stakeholder activities that collaborative business approaches in of our stakeholders’ expectations 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE view, our most important stakeholders occurred in 2011 in relevant parts of this order to drive progress for us as a and to better align our sustainability 2.2.1 Human rights are our employees, suppliers and report. The regulatory and industry business. What’s more, we are an active efforts and reporting with their 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct customers. We also cherish and rely partners as well as NGOs are discussed and engaged participant in many industry priorities, we conducted an online 2.2.3 Employees upon good relationships with our in this chapter. For employees, please and sector organizations, not only those stakeholder survey. A couple of 2.2.4 Customer Engagement shareholders, governments and other specifically concerned with sustainability. hundred external stakeholders were see chapter 2.2.3, for customers, 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact policy makers, universities, NGOs and chapter 2.2.4, for suppliers, chapter 3.4. This helps us to be better informed on invited to participate. They 3.0 Nokia & planet the wider community. Stakeholders are also discussed in relation issues and trends and to share our represented NGOs, operators, 4.0 Independent assurance to defining our key sustainability topics learning with others for the greater consumers, investors, analysts, 5.0 Global reporting initiative in chapter 1.3. good of all. In playing a positive role we media, developers, retailers and 6.0 Key data regularly contribute to working groups governmental authorities, reflecting and committees of the organizations the whole business scope of Nokia’s listed below. We also participate in a operations. The survey confirmed number of public policy development the importance of the topics covered initiatives across the world in areas that in our 2010 report and that most are close to our business, including people were very satisfied with the telecommunications, trade, technology, information provided. According to industry, education and environment. the results, the most important topics for our stakeholders are our We constantly strive to activate new sustainability approach, our practice channels concerning the ways in which of design for the environment we meet our existing expectations, while including life cycle assessment at the same time we continue to identify and our substance and materials emerging trends. This window into the management. future is an important part of our ongoing success as it allows us to understand where systematic improvements can be made. The key stakeholder concerns in 2011 were related to company restructuring and its impact on employees, as well as economic performance and the sourcing of raw materials. 42 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Collaboration with business, sectorial, and sustainability organizations 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access Organization Specific interest area Nokia’s engagement to the Internet and information 2.1.2 Improving education, health and Business organizations livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products Digital Energy and Sustainability Solutions Promoting the use of ICT to address climate change and energy Member 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE Campaign (DESSC) security 2.2.1 Human rights 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees 2.2.4 Customer Engagement European Digital Media Association (EDiMA) Policy advocacy in Europe Nokia representative is Chairman of the Board 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 2.2.6 Our Economic impact European Roundtable of Industrialists General advocacy for European industries (48 largest European Member companies) 3.0 Nokia & planet 4.0 Independent assurance International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Business sector Member 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data RosettaNet Supply chain trading network Member Confederation of Finnish Industries Environmental Committee, Working Group on Sustainable Business: Member of Environmental Committee, Working Group on Sustainability and business Sustainable Business Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Environmental Committee: Sustainability and business Member of Environmental Committee Sectoral organizations CTIA – The Wireless Association Wireless industry trade body Member Digital Europe Policy advocacy in Europe Member and Chair Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Sustainability in ICT sector Member and board member Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) Policy advocacy in US ICT Member Solving the E-Waste Problem (StEP) Waste issues Member Trust in Digital Life Consortium Setting a vision for trustworthy products Founding Member Sustainability organizations United Nations Educational, Scientific and Sustainable development Signatory and member of Education for All initiative Cultural Organization (UNESCO) United Nations Global Compact Business sustainability guidelines Member of Global Compact Network, One of the founding members of Global Compact Nordic Network, Signatory and member of Caring for Climate initiative, Member of Supply Chain Advisory Group World Business Council for Sustainable Sustainability and business Widespread cooperation, Nokia Chairman is chair Development (WBSCD) PROSuite Prospective Sustainability Assessment of Technologies Member of working group World50 Sustainability and business Sustainability 50 43 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Collaboration with 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE policy makers Case 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access Methodologies for measuring In addition to the activities related to policy issues such as e-waste, energy and to the Internet and information climate, and substance management, Nokia is also, for example, participating in the environmental impact of ICT 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology EU Commission pilot projects. These aim to assess the applicability of the standards 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products and methodologies for telecommunications products and services. As this is a key Nokia participates in many research Because we are committed to improving 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE requirement for better policy making, Nokia has been actively contributing to the projects with the theme of sustainable our performance, we have also been 2.2.1 Human rights development of these standards and methodologies. production and consumption. For participating in the development of 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct example, in a project run by the standardized methodologies for 2.2.3 Employees Our Education Policy team communicates with governments and educational European Commission Directorate greenhouse gas calculations in the ICT 2.2.4 Customer Engagement institutions to help them shape and modernize education systems and syllabi. 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement General of the Environment, we have sector. We are currently piloting the 2.2.6 Our Economic impact Its aim is to ensure they better reflect the needs of global competition and the been testing methodology guidelines suitability of these methodologies 3.0 Nokia & planet ICT revolution. The team also communicates with our business units to identify developed by Joint Research Center together with other leading companies. 4.0 Independent assurance their long-term competence needs. (JRC) for the calculation of the While this may sound very technical 5.0 Global reporting initiative environmental impact of products and and process oriented, the ultimate 6.0 Key data goal is to reduce the environmental organizations. This methodology goes beyond calculating only the greenhouse burden of ICT. When completed, we gas impacts of a product, but the whole hope that these tools can be used as spectrum of environmental impacts the basis for improved impact that products may have. assessments and policy making. During 2011, we contributed by testing You can read more of how we work how the guidelines are suited for to develop environmental legislation assessing the environmental impact in the chapter 3.1.5 in ‘Working with from cradle to grave of a smartphone. waste regulators’. The twelve different impact categories included such topics as climate change, ozone depletion, human toxicity and resource depletion. While it seems the methodology is not suitable for comparing different products, it may be useful for helping to identify where we need improvements in the methodology or the data that can then be used to prepare better information for users. 44 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Collaboration with universities 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Case 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Nokia’s collaboration with academic institutions can be broadly split into two types mLabs – Public Private Partnership program with 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access of activities: Nokia Research Center (NRC) University collaborations and Nokia to the Internet and information Donations Program. Finnish Government and infoDev (World Bank) 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products The NRC focuses on engaging the world’s leading academic institutions in driving Nokia, together with infoDev, continues Nokia collaborates with the mLab 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE global intellectual vision and insight and building global test beds to learn from to implement the ‘Creating Sustainable on the ground by providing in-kind 2.2.1 Human rights broader audiences, thereby multiplying Nokia’s own efforts. In 2011, we had 13 Businesses in the Knowledge Economy’ contributions in the form of technical 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct strategic partners, including Aalto University of Helsinki, University of Tampere and (CSBKE) program, funded by the Finnish assistance, training material, devices 2.2.3 Employees Tampere University of Technology in Finland, University of Cambridge in the United Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in five target and online tools for the testing 2.2.4 Customer Engagement Kingdom, EPFL Lausanne and ETH Zurich in Switzerland, Tsinghua University and 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement countries: Kenya, South Africa, Vietnam, laboratories, and mentoring of mobile 2.2.6 Our Economic impact Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in China, Massachusetts Armenia and Pakistan. The CSBKE entrepreneurs. Nokia is also committed 3.0 Nokia & planet Institute of Technology, University of California Berkeley, University of Southern program aims to strengthen the to organizing developer events and 4.0 Independent assurance California and Stanford University in the United States. productive capacity of small and competitions in collaboration with the 5.0 Global reporting initiative The Nokia Donation Program granted donations to universities in 2011 in Africa, medium enterprises (SMEs) in the mLabs, as well as to purchase services 6.0 Key data from the incubated entrepreneurs in the the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. We have supported a wide range agribusiness and ICT sectors in of projects in a variety of subjects, everything from developing M-Health developing countries. form of locally relevant applications, competences in Russia to 3D scene creation, navigation and sharing in Canada. localized content and potential As part of the program, the first two research projects. mLabs were inaugurated during 2011 in Kenya and South Africa and three further ones will be opened during the first half of 2012 in Pakistan, Vietnam and Armenia. The mLabs focus on supporting innovators and emerging entrepreneurs who develop applications and content with positive socioeconomic impact and which expand the reach of mobile innovations to low-income consumers. The objective is to accelerate the closing of the digital divide, and to ensure that citizens around the world have ubiquitous access to high-quality content and services. 45 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents Partnering with nonThe International Union for United Nations Educational, Scientific Financial support 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE governmental organizations Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to crisis areas 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access By working together with other IUCN helps find and develop workable In October 2010, Nokia initiated a In 2011, we provided financial or in-kind to the Internet and information solutions to the world’s most pressing 5-year partnership with UNESCO. 2.1.2 Improving education, health and organizations, Nokia can make a support to several crisis-afflicted areas, livelihoods with mobile technology difference in the ongoing struggle to environmental and development The partnership harnesses mobile including Japan, Australia, New Zealand, 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products achieve a more sustainable, equitable challenges. In early 2011, Nokia signed communications to support individuals, Thailand and the Horn of Africa. 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE world. Our main objective when an agreement with IUCN, pledging to organizations and governments as they 2.2.1 Human rights cooperating with NGOs is to invest in support their nature conservation work strive to achieve the six goals of the 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct and help them raise awareness on the global Education for All agreement. 2.2.3 Employees projects that are sustainable and Encouraging volunteering preventive rather than reactive. We importance of biodiversity – a key The partnership has been structured 2.2.4 Customer Engagement Nokia Helping Hands is our global 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement believe in projects that bring together emerging issue in environmental to meet the target date for these goals protection. What’s more, we were the by 2015. Nokia will contribute expertise volunteer program, which helps those 2.2.6 Our Economic impact expertise from all sectors – private, first company to join the SOS (Save Our relating to technology and policies in in need in a variety of ways. It also acts 3.0 Nokia & planet public and civil – to help empower 4.0 Independent assurance Species) initiative, which aims to build a this area. as an umbrella organization for locally communities and individuals to help 5.0 Global reporting initiative major global species conservation fund relevant volunteering activities. What’s drive their own development. 6.0 Key data by 2015. We also support IUCN’s World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) more, it’s owned and operated by our The level of co-operation varies from conservation project in the Indian Nokia and WWF have had a Global employees. Thousands of our employees local one-off projects – see for example Himalayas, helping communities in the Partnership Agreement in place since contribute their time and effort to worthy ‘Improving education, health and region learn how water management 2003. By working with WWF we aim to causes in their communities. For us, livelihoods with mobile technology’ can be used to build climate resilience. further strengthen our environmental it is important to encourage and support and ‘Protecting biodiversity’ – to holding performance, support WWF’s employees who want to contribute. In joint events – see ‘Human rights’ and Oxfam conservation work and develop mutually recognition of this, our employees can ‘Ethical sourcing of raw materials’. In 2011, we started global partnership beneficial activities which will promote take two working days per year as a In addition, Nokia has the following four with Oxfam GB. Oxfam is an international sustainable development. We want to Nokia Helping Hands day to go out into global NGO partnerships in place. confederation of 15 organizations working raise environmental awareness and WWF the community and contribute to a together to find lasting solutions to can help us create downloadable content good cause. Nokia looks beyond poverty and injustice. The aim of our to encourage people make sustainable traditional NGO collaboration with them is to help poor choices in their everyday lives. cooperation, and seeks people’s voices be heard within their Awards received for Nokia’s projects that bring value Since 2003, we have not only supported sustainability work communities, countries, and globally. to communities and WWF’s extensive conservation work, We’re also trying to enhance poor During 2011, Nokia received several awards improves the environment including projects such as the Living people’s decision-making ability by for its sustainability work, including the with mobile technology. Himalayas Network Initiative, but also developing tools that address their Justmeans Social Innovation Award for develop mutually beneficial activities to immediate needs. Our partnership with most strategic use of philanthropic help promote sustainable development. Oxfam has inspired a range of projects. Funds for Nokia Data Gathering; SAFIPA For example, WWF has helped us create For example, in April 2011, Nokia and (South Africa – Finland partnership on downloadable content to encourage Oxfam used OpenIDEO to explore how ICT) award for Best Socio-economic people to make sustainable choices in mobile technologies, combined with Impact for Nokia Mobile Mathematics. their everyday lives. WWF also helps us online community, can be used to We also received the Mobile News further strengthen our environmental improve maternal health, especially Environmental Enterprise award for performance, for instance reducing our in pregnancy and childbirth. company initiative that shows the best environmental impact in different areas. Furthermore, WWF share their expertise case of ethical business, innovation and with Nokia personnel and, for example, community values. This was given for helps us organize device take-back the environmentally friendly measures campaigns in different markets. we took in production and packaging. 46 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2.2.6 Our Direct economic impact Indirect economic impact More Nokia and Nokia Group data is available in the Key Data section of this 2.1 ENABLING PEOPLE WITH MOBILE TECHNOLOGY Economic impact Our direct economic impact to different In addition to our direct impact, Nokia report. Details on our financial 2.1.1 Providing the next billion with access stakeholder groups is summarized in the contributes to economic development to the Internet and information As a global company, the Nokia Group performance are published in quarterly following table. indirectly in various ways. For example, 2.1.2 Improving education, health and has a significant economic impact, both results releases, in our Form 20-F, and livelihoods with mobile technology we contribute through our products, directly and indirectly. Nokia’s Annual Accounts, which are 2.1.3 Accessibility of Nokia products used by over one billion customers, available at our website. 2.2 OUR IMPACT ON PEOPLE by making information gathering and 2.2.1 Human rights COMPONENT Comment 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 sharing easy, effective and accessible, 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct 2.2.3 Employees and enhancing the ability to make real 2.2.4 Customer Engagement CUSTOMERS Net sales, 38,659 42,446 40,984 50,710 51,058 time decisions. This is useful for creating 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement EUR million new business opportunities, expanding 2.2.6 Our Economic impact market reach and making better tools SUPPLIERS Total purchases 27,572 30,500 29,100 34,600 36,400 3.0 Nokia & planet of goods and and skills available to more people 4.0 Independent assurance across the world. Various examples services, 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data EUR million how Nokia products help people to improve their livelihoods are described SHAREHOLDERS Dividends paid, 1,536 1,519 1,546 2,048 1,760 throughout this report. EUR million Our indirect economic impact also EMPLOYEES Wages and 7,534 6,995 6,747 6,914 5,938 includes things like creating business benefits, EUR million opportunities and jobs along our supply chain, competence development to our CREDITORS Net financial 102 285 265 2 (239)1 employees, and impact on communities. expenses, EUR million Overall, mobile technology enables positive change on a scale greater than PUBLIC SECTOR Gross taxes, 752 798 736 1,514 2,209 ever before, and at a time when we need EUR million rapid change the most. The links are astonishing. Research shows that GDP increases by 0.6% in emerging markets when ten more mobile phones are added per 100 inhabitants. The impact of increased Internet access almost doubles that. 2 The technology industry has also a major global role in technology transfer and human capital development. 1 Net financial income. 2 Vodafone policy paper: The Impact of Telecoms on Economic Growth in Developing Countries. 47 nokia 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.0 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process AND planet 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 48 3.0 nokia planet 1.0 Contents Nokia aims to be a leading company in environmental performance. 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET We continue to find new ways of reducing our own impact by reducing 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE emissions and managing waste across our factories, facilities and offices. 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) In addition to these minimizing efforts, we drive positive change by 3.1.3 Substance and materials management maximizing the enabling effect our technology can have and developing 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs new partnerships both inside and outside our industry. 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting In the following chapters, we cover our impact on the environment and 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle our environmental strategy. First, we introduce our sustainable devices, 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions and the positive, enabling effect of our products can have on the planet. 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of We also report upon our impact on the environment, as well as our renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT targets and progress regarding climate strategy and energy efficiency. 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 49 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE At Nokia, we think every device should 3.1.1 Design for the be made with the environment in mind, 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET so we continuously improve the environment process 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process environmental credentials of all our We take a proactive approach when 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) products. Our eco hero devices have the considering how our activities might 3.1.3 Substance and materials management widest range of environmental features impact the environment. Our product 3.1.4 Packaging as well as new innovations, which are creation is guided by life cycle thinking 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE gradually implemented across our to minimize the environmental impacts 3.2.1 Merging several products into one product portfolio. Today, we are proud across the life cycle of a product. Life 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting to say we have the environmentally cycle assessments help us identify and 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle leading product range in the industry focus our activities where we can best 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy contribute to environmental efficient solutions and have been recognized by several 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of organizations for our environmental improvements. During the last decade, renewable energy accomplishments. the greenhouse gas footprint of our 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT phones has been reduced by up to 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management We are proud to say we 50%, while introducing new features systems (EMS) have the environmentally and capabilities that allow our devices 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities leading product range in to be used in various new ways. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS the industry In our product creation, all our new 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments During product creation, we focus on products have a dedicated Design for 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Environment specialist who supports in our supply chain energy efficiency, avoiding substances 3.4.4 Improving social conditions of concern and using renewable product development project. They in our supply chain materials, smart packaging and creating verify the implementation of the legal 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become environmental services, which encourage environmental requirements and our more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials people to adopt more sustainable voluntary substance and materials 4.0 Independent assurance lifestyles. Effective end-of-life practices requirements, promote the 5.0 Global reporting initiative close the life cycle loop, putting energy implementation of most sustainable 6.0 Key data and valuable materials back into New eco hero devices • Climate Mission 3D game combines alternatives for material choices and circulation. Our environmental services • The Nokia 700 is our greenest smartphone and the industry leader the fun of gaming with a way of discovering how to reduce your own energy efficiency, and provide sustainability reporting like Eco Profiles. and applications, together with our in the use of bio-materials, recycled ecological footprint and learn about environmentally friendly and energy plastics and recycled metals. The climate change. efficient devices and accessories, can inspire and enable people to live more ecologically themed game, Climate • The Green Channel gathers all the applications for more sustainable sustainably. Various studies imply that Mission 3D, comes preinstalled in for certain people, environmental the device. The Nokia 701 is a lifestyle into one place within the aspects are important and thus they smartphone that also contains an Nokia Store. would be willing to pay more for green increased amount of recycled metals. • Nokia Maps and Nokia Drive help features on their mobile device. • The Nokia Asha 200 and Nokia Asha 201 are QWERTY messengers, you to consider the environment while moving around. introducing eco innovation to the lower price point devices as well. • Nokia Public Transport application offers public transportation route • The Nokia E6, another eco hero device with QWERTY keymat, planning, raising awareness of environmentally sound public targeted at business users transportation as a journey option • Services to support sustainable lifestyles and making it easier to use 50 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 54% 4% 16% 25% 1% 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of of total of total of total of total of total renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT greenhouse greenhouse greenhouse greenhouse greenhouse 3.3.1 Climate strategy gas EMISSIONS gas emissions gas emissions gas emissions gas emissions 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS Raw materials Own operations Transportation Use of phase Recycle, reuse and 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements and component products recovery of materials 3.4.2 Supplier assessments manufacture 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) in our supply chain At Nokia, we use an externally audited life cycle The life cycle assessment of a typical Nokia mobile The biggest impact throughout the life cycle comes 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable assessment methodology to calculate the environmental device was first published in 2009. This assessment from raw materials and component manufacturing, 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials impact of our products and processes. LCAs help us measured the greenhouse gas emissions across the which make up 54% of total emissions. 4.0 Independent assurance identify and focus on the areas where we can make the entire life cycle of the device (pictured above). The On our website, we provide Eco Profiles for all our new 5.0 Global reporting initiative biggest reductions. Our calculations include the entire amount of energy consumed during the entire life cycle 6.0 Key data products containing information on their environmental mobile device life cycle, from raw material acquisition is around 210 mega joules (MJs) and the total greenhouse impact. These profiles also contain basic information to the end of the product’s life. We also assess energy gas emissions are 12kg of CO₂e. This is equal to driving on products’ material use, energy efficiency, packaging, efficiency, sustainable use of materials and small 71km in a typical family car. The biggest climate change disassembly and recycling. For older products, Nokia packaging. The LCA methodology of Nokia’s Eco Profile impact throughout the life cycle comes from raw has provided Eco Declarations since 2001. for products was audited during the spring of 2010. materials and component manufacturing, which make Nokia has a long experience in conducting life cycle up 54% of total greenhouse gas emissions. Our mobile assessments and is continuously participating in device production facilities account for 4% of total research projects and development of standardized greenhouse gas emissions, transportation 16%, device methodologies. See case ‘Methodologies for measuring usage 25%, and recycling 1%. The results of a life cycle the environmental impact of ICT’ in chapter 2.2.5 assessment (LCA) always depend on the calculation in ‘Collaboration with policy makers’. method, scoping and assumptions used and they reflect our understanding at the time of publishing. 51 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.1.3 Substance and Meeting health and environmental Nokia Substance List (NSL) Voluntary phase outs regulatory requirements is a basic 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET materials management requirement. Nokia follows the Nokia publishes, on an annual basis, Since 2006, we have also voluntarily 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE the Nokia Substance List (NSL) in which phased out PVC from all mobile devices 3.1.1 Design for the environment process We’re an industry leader in substance precautionary principle. Where we both legislative and voluntary material and enhancements. Since 2009, all our 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) and materials management and the first have reasonable grounds for concern 3.1.3 Substance and materials management restrictions are shown. Substance new products must be free of BFR mobile phone manufacturer to have a full over the possibility of severe or 3.1.4 Packaging and material phase-outs that are (brominated flame retardants) and RFR material declaration of mobile devices. irreversible damage to health or the 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs implemented in collaboration with (restricted flame retardants), as defined Our main objective is to know all the environment, we believe that lack of 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE our sourcing organization are initiated in the NSL. We have also voluntarily 3.2.1 Merging several products into one substances in our products, not just full scientific certainty should not be regarding the voluntary and legislative banned the use of beryllium oxide since 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting those that raise concerns. This means an obstacle to triggering actions to restrictions defined in NSL. 2004 in all new products. The restriction 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle we can respond swiftly if new concerns gather and assess additional data. 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy for use of all other beryllium compounds arise about the substances we use. This may lead us to take voluntarily efficient solutions has been in force since 2010 for all new 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of steps, e.g. to substitute substances of EU RoHs and products as defined in NSL. The first renewable energy concern with safer alternatives, where 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EU REACH compliance technology area in which we have feasible alternatives are available. 3.3.1 Climate strategy completely phased out beryllium and its All our mobile devices and accessories, 3.3.2 Environmental management We use legal compliance not as a mere compounds is connector technology. systems (EMS) worldwide, are fully compliant with the baseline but as a starting point from Alongside the new products, the 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities EU Directive on the Restriction of the 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS which to grow. Our focus is on connector technology phase-out has Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements continuously reducing substances of also been applied to older products still Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EU 3.4.2 Supplier assessments concern, and exploring and introducing in production. Nokia is actively searching 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact RoHS). Additionally, our products do not new, environmentally friendly materials, for alternative materials to replace in our supply chain contain substances included in the 3.4.4 Improving social conditions discussed in this chapter in ‘Use of eco beryllium also in other technology areas Candidate List of Substances of Very in our supply chain materials’. Take-back and recycling is where technically suitable materials High Concern, by the EU Regulation on 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become also a major part of our solution to the have not been available so far. more sustainable Registration, Evaluation, Authorization issue of limited resources. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials and Restriction of Chemicals (EU REACH), Use of phthalates in our products has 4.0 Independent assurance We operate in a world of limited which the EU REACH regulation requires been restricted since 2005. The ban 5.0 Global reporting initiative resources and escalating pressure on to be reported. includes eight different phthalates of 6.0 Key data the natural environment. Some of the which seven are restricted based on substances and materials, which go into EU regulation. mobile technologies, raise questions about human rights, because they can be sourced from conflict areas. Meeting these challenges requires careful management across our supply chain and throughout the product life cycle. Our minerals management is discussed in chapter 3.4.6, ‘Ethical sourcing of raw materials’. 52 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Nokia’s voluntary phaseouts of substances of concern 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE Material or 2001 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 3.1.1 Design for the environment process substance group 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Restriction EU RoHS 1st EU RoHS All products RoHS recast 3.1.4 Packaging of Hazardous directive compliant RoHS introduced to Substances requirements product, April compliant NSL 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs (RoHS) directive introduced to 2005 globally; 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one NSL EU RoHS 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting directive came 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle into force on 1 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy July 2006 efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy Restricted Flame Sb2O3, BFR, All products retardants (rFR) CFR restricted free of 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT and other bromine for certain bromine, 3.3.1 Climate strategy and chlorine 3.3.2 Environmental management product chlorine and compounds categories Sb2O3 as systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities defined in NSL 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Beryllium Beryllium oxide Beryllium All new 3.4.2 Supplier assessments compounds restricted compounds products free 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact restricted on of beryllium in our supply chain new Nokia compounds as 3.4.4 Improving social conditions products excl. defined in NSL in our supply chain gear products 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable Polyvinyl Chloride PVC restricted All products 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials (PVC) for certain free of PVC 4.0 Independent assurance product 5.0 Global reporting initiative categories 6.0 Key data Phthalates Phthalates restricted Perfluorooctane PFOSs sulfonates (PFOSs) restricted Organic tin Triorganic tin Organic tin compounds compounds compounds (TBT, TBTO and restrictions to TPT) restricted include diorganic DBT, DOT and triorganic tin compounds Perfluorooctanoic PFOAs Acid (PFOA) restricted 53 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Use of eco materials 3.1.4 Packaging In 2011 we saw our first Forest Packaging materials used Stewardship Council (FSC) certified during 2011 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET During the last few years, we have Our focus, in the past, on creating 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE packages with the Nokia N9 and the Retail packages been active in introducing new, more smaller packages has resulted in a real Nokia Lumia 800 packages. This is just 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) sustainable materials like bio plastics, bio paints and recycled metals into chain reaction of benefits. We got smaller, the beginning of what we expect to see • Paper: 23,032 tonnes; on average 60% recycled 3.1.3 Substance and materials management lighter and more efficient chargers. in the coming years. Our vision is that 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs our devices. During 2011, we continued on this path, introducing the use of We also made smaller and shorter user we will use only 100% certified renewable • Plastic: 683 tonnes; up to 90% recycled guides with fewer language variants per or recycled materials for our packages. 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE recycled plastics first in Nokia 700. This 3.2.1 Merging several products into one package, less content in the box, tighter We are making great strides towards Transport packages materials innovation helps us to reduce wrapping of cabled accessories and that vision. 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle our dependency on fossil raw materials fewer and lighter packaging parts. • Paper: 9,948 tonnes; on average 78% recycled 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy and the need for virgin metals, use less This optimization has been going on All our packages are 100% recyclable efficient solutions energy in raw material acquisition, for years and there isn’t much more and each part is individually marked with Retail and transport 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of and introduce more sustainable ISO standard recycle markings in order renewable energy that can be done to reduce the use packages combined industry practices. to harmonize the experience for our 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy of materials in packaging. The current mission of the Packaging Design team customers. We do this on a global level, • Paper: 32,980 tonnes; on average 66% recycled 3.3.2 Environmental management is therefore to retain the levels we have hoping that other companies will follow systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities achieved over the years, now with a our lead. To enable clean recycling, we • Plastic: 683 tonnes; up to 90% recycled 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS much more targeted focus on using choose not to combine plastic and paper 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements sustainable materials. We estimate that materials into single components. 3.4.2 Supplier assessments in 2011, smaller packaging has helped us Nokia’s packaging portfolio is closely 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain to reduce packaging and transportation tied to its product portfolio. Our feature 3.4.4 Improving social conditions costs by tens of millions of Euros. phones are shipped in truly optimized in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become packaging, both in terms of choice of more sustainable material and the minimized size. On the 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials other hand, our smart devices represent 4.0 Independent assurance a totally different price range demanding 5.0 Global reporting initiative more premium packaging. Despite that, 6.0 Key data we have succeeded in reducing the average size of a smart device package and the material usage substantially. In addition, we use much less fresh forest fibres (virgin fibres) and much more post-consumer recycled material than in previous years. 54 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.1.5 Take-back Our recycling programs target the We work to make sure consumers are Working with removal of unusable products from aware of the channels open to them for waste regulators 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET and recycling domestic waste. The benefit is two-fold take-back and recycling and support all 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE Since 2005, under the Waste Electrical 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Nokia aims to connect “the next billion” as recycling lessens the environmental safe and effective methods of mobile and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) people to the Internet and information burden of end-of-life mobile devices, phone recycling. 3.1.3 Substance and materials management directive, EU member states have been through our mobile devices. This is a and also harvests valuable materials 3.1.4 Packaging We measure our success on take-back and required to set up collection systems for critical opportunity for Nokia, but an that can be used for new products. 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs recycling in three ways: the number of waste from household electrical and increase in the amount of products sold 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE We build our recycling programs by countries covered, the number of people electronic equipment. The various 3.2.1 Merging several products into one is also a key concern as electronic waste identifying safe and reliable recyclers, reached with our recycling message in schemes managing this collection and 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting from old devices continues to increase. developing the infrastructure for reverse dedicated campaigns, and the weight of recycling are operated and financed by 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle We take this responsibility seriously, and 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy logistics, offering a variety of our own mobile devices, and accessories, recycled. the equipment producers, while therefore operate the world’s largest efficient solutions take-back options, and partnering with municipal collections, specified waste 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of mobile phone and accessory recycling others to increase our capacity to take management sites and shops selling renewable energy system, with more than 6,000 take-back 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT back old mobile devices that might Raising awareness and equipment are the main collection sites. points in almost 100 countries at the 3.3.1 Climate strategy otherwise be headed for landfill. Of creating a recycling culture An ongoing challenge for reaching even end of 2011. 3.3.2 Environmental management course, Nokia branded collection isn’t higher collection targets is ‘leakage’, systems (EMS) Our aim continues to be to help create the only channel for people to recycle meaning waste equipment that isn’t 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 6,000 take-back points in a recycling culture in every country we monitored by existing national collection their devices. We have seen people 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS almost 100 countries at operate in. We want to achieve this not channels. Leakage occurs because much 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements returning products through EU collective the end of 2011. just by raising awareness with our own of household electronic waste still has 3.4.2 Supplier assessments schemes, through refurbishment and 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact customers, but by equipping all Although Nokia adheres to strict second-hand sales, through televalue at the time of disposal and is sold in our supply chain consumers with the know-how and the 3.4.4 Improving social conditions management of materials and substances operators and through other common for second-hand use (often abroad) or ability to, recycle their phones. We know in our supply chain (see chapter 3.1.3) mobile phones can collection schemes. for recovery of its components after from experience that developing a solid 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become contain potentially hazardous materials collection. In addition, consumer more sustainable foundation, which supports a wider set if improperly disposed of at their awareness and the scale of public 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials of recycling behaviors, will result in more end-of-life. Improper disposal of mobile campaigns about recycling vary widely 4.0 Independent assurance mobile phone recycling. That is, when 5.0 Global reporting initiative phones includes dumping to landfill, or across the EU, and the current EU target recycling is part of people’s daily routine, 6.0 Key data hazardous recycling methods such as of collecting four kilos of electronic recycling old mobile phones also becomes open air burning or so-called “backyard waste per inhabitant per year is resulting routine and we conducted a survey during recycling”. Proper recycling, however, in very different success rates being 2011 which provided additional insight is safe for people and the planet. achieved between countries. into consumer recycling attitudes and behaviors (see case ‘Global survey to Steady progress has been made to measure attitudes and behaviors’ in establish and develop the existing chapter 2.2.4). We’re continuously national collection networks in every studying the most effective ways for country and these networks collect consumers to recycle their phones. and treat all electronic waste from Our focus is on learning how we can households, and are a big step forward motivate people to act in more to making e-waste recycling the rule, sustainable ways, so that we can put not the exception. Nokia has actively those practices to into use, globally. participated in the recast of the WEEE initiative in the EU. In addition, we have participated in the development of legislation concerning e-waste in countries around the world, including in India, China, Kenya, Mexico and Thailand during 2011 just to name a few. 55 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents Working with partners 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE “Nokia has been a founding member of the “Solving the E-waste 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET We use different types of incentives to Problem (StEP) Initiative” since 2007. Through this Nokia pro-actively contributes Take-back and recycling 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE introduce recycling and make it desirable, to StEP science based but nevertheless applied work to optimize the life cycle of 3.1.1 Design for the environment process including partnering with NGOs, making electrical and electronic equipment by (i) Improving supply chains, (ii) Closing 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) During 2011, Nokia ran recycling 3.1.3 Substance and materials management donations and giveaways, and offering material loops and (iii) Reducing contamination, increase utilization of resources campaigns in 26 countries. We had 3.1.4 Packaging access to events. Expanding our NGO and promote re-use of equipment, exercising concern about disparities such as cooperation with tele-operators or 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs partnerships and working together to the digital divide between the industrializing and (post-)industrialized countries, 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE retailers in 13 countries and with increase recycling rates has been a key and increase public, scientific and business knowledge and capacity/capability to 3.2.1 Merging several products into one universities and schools in 10 activity during 2011, as recycling in general properly treat e-waste.” 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting countries. We offered mail recycling is either a new and unfamiliar concept in 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle RUEDINGER KUEHR programs in five countries, and 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy many parts of the world, or the Executive Secretary of the participated in national recycling efficient solutions infrastructure is not readily available for Solving the E-Waste Problem (StEP) 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of programs in 30 countries. Most consumers. Our successful campaigns in Initiative of the United Nations renewable energy importantly, we were able to increase 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT India, the Middle East and across Africa our permanent take-back service for 3.3.1 Climate strategy are proving great examples. By rolling obsolete devices to more than 6,000 3.3.2 Environmental management out phone recycling programs in these systems (EMS) collection points in close to 100 countries, we’ve opened doors to other 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities countries. During the year we collected 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS forms of recycling for communities that 661 tonnes of used mobile phones, 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements are new to the idea. In these cases, batteries and accessories through our 3.4.2 Supplier assessments Nokia has played a key role by going 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact own campaigns and Care recycling beyond managing the impact of our own in our supply chain channels. That is an increase of almost 3.4.4 Improving social conditions products. Our activities have helped to 60% compared to the previous year. in our supply chain create local recycling culture. 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become A combination of increased awareness, more sustainable better infrastructure, and convenience 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials for the consumer is leading to gradual 4.0 Independent assurance increases in collection volumes. 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data We take part in collective recycling schemes with other equipment manufacturers in Europe, Canada and Australia. We also engage in local recycling awareness with retailers, operators, other manufacturers and authorities around the world. Our take-back and recycling programs continue to expand into new markets, assuring that mobile devices end up in environmentally safe recycling processes. 56 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE Take-back and recycling highlights from around the world 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) India We also started working with schools China consumer received a national post 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging In India we have taken an ecosystem and colleges in July 2010 and are in the In China we continued the Green Box envelope to return his or her old device 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs approach and partnered with process of partnering with over 3,000 program, in effect by Nokia and its for recycling in return for discounts and 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE organizations such as NGOs, schools, schools and have already engaged over partners since 2005, to invite product donations from Nokia and Ponto Frio 3.2.1 Merging several products into one colleges, government bodies and 100,000 students and over 2,000 school chain partners, employees and to al local NGO. 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting teachers with our partners Toxicslink corporations, which have a wide variety consumers alike to join in the e-waste 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle and iDream to educate about the Southeast Asia 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy of competences and societal reach. We recycling effort. During 2011, we efficient solutions continue to build our recycling network importance of recycling. expanded the Green Box program During 2011, we expanded our 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of by improving and expanding the with the “Phones to Trees” campaign. partnership programs in Southeast Asia renewable energy Nokia’s corporate engagement program infrastructure and logistics for collection, For every phone or accessory that a by organizing innovative new ways to 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT expanded to reach over 400 offices in 3.3.1 Climate strategy training retail personnel, collaborating participant returned, a certificate was engage youth and raise awareness several cities. In addition, as low 3.3.2 Environmental management with a responsible recycling vendor, awarded for with a tree to be planted about the importance of recycling. We awareness and lack of information is a systems (EMS) and engaging consumers. in partnership with the China Green organized recycling campaigns in eight 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities key barrier in developing an effective Foundation, resulting in 50,000 countries with stakeholders, including 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS During 2011, we managed to collect system for e-waste management, 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements samplings planted. For the “Recycle retailers, universities and schools, almost 1.2 million phones and accessories Nokia along with our partner Humana 3.4.2 Supplier assessments a phone, Spread the love” campaign operators, business partners and (weighing over 60 tonnes) for responsible People to People ran a program to raise 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Nokia partnered with the Beijing Post NGO partners. in our supply chain recycling. In addition, we planted awareness amongst small mobile 3.4.4 Improving social conditions phone retailers and repair shops in India to collect old phones at any of the 44 “Recyclimpics”, piloted in Malaysia during approximately 36,000 trees during 2011 in our supply chain about recycling of e-waste and to Beijing post office locations. 2011, has been a fun way to recycle 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become in cooperation with Humana People to more sustainable People India (HPPI), World Alliance for initiate on-site collection of old devices. The idea was to offer people a recycling your phone. Old phones became 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials Youth Empowerment, Rotary Midtown Since the start of this program in June drop off point at a convenient and projectiles in a series of games– Javelin, 4.0 Independent assurance Bangalore and GrowTrees.com as part 2011, 11,000 phones and accessories regularly visited location, the post office, Basketball, and Lawn bowling – complete 5.0 Global reporting initiative of an incentive campaign for recycling have been collected. Nokia also started so that there was no need for a separate with scoreboards, prizes and the like. In 6.0 Key data a viral campaign in December 2011 to addition to winning prizes in the old mobile phones and accessories. trip to recycle. In return for each device create mass awareness to help people recycled, education materials were sent Recyclimpics games, every participant understand the concept of recycling, to in need primary school students. was given a ‘Planting Certificate’ of a see a video. tree being named after them in the To date, the Green Box program has Nokia NEWTrees Program with WWF collected over 170 tonnes of electronics Indonesia. The tree can also be viewed waste for proper treatment. in Nokia Maps with co-ordinates given in the ‘Planting Certificate’. See a video Brazil about Recyclimpics. In 2011, we expanded our recycling program in partnership with Pão de Açúcar Group, the largest retailer in the country, and increased the number of recycling points in Brazil and brought recycling a step closer to the daily lives of our customers. We also ran the “Troca do Bem” (Goodwill exchange) program with Pinto Frio, a major online retailer. By purchasing any Nokia device with the “Troca do Ben” label, the 57 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Case Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE Take-back and recycling highlights from around the world I #recycling 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Twitter campaign 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Egypt In Pakistan, a campaign promoted by Africa 3.1.3 Substance and materials management During 2011, Nokia initiated the first national celebrities, three media The Eco-school program, started in The challenge 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs campaign in Egypt to highlight the companies and Nokia Care has helped 2011 in cooperation with WWF in South To find a way to get people 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE importance of recycling mobile phones raise awareness about recycling, in Africa, raises awareness for teachers interested in phone recycling. 3.2.1 Merging several products into one in collaboration with the Resala particular e-waste recycling. For this and educators about the importance 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting The idea Foundation – an organization with over campaign, Nokia partnered with FMCG, of e-waste recycling. In Nigeria, Nokia 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle Luckily, people love their old Nokia 100,000 volunteers involved in the second largest operator in works in partnership with Youth for 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy phones, and still love talking about efficient solutions education and support for local the country. Technology Foundation (YTF). The them. This was our chance to talk 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of communities across the countries – to purpose of the project, called renewable energy In the United Arab Emirates, Oman about recycling in a whole new way. 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT link Nokia’s solution for recycling mobile and Qatar, Nokia and Emirates Wildlife “TakeItBack” is to increase education Five historic Nokia phone personalities 3.3.1 Climate strategy devices to Resala’s education project. Society (EWS-WWF) joined forces to and awareness for take-back and were brought to life online and struck 3.3.2 Environmental management spearhead a month-long campaign to recycling mobile phones in Nigeria, up conversations with Nokia fans on systems (EMS) Middle East and to increase the amount of 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities raise awareness about the importance Twitter. Each phone encouraged 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS In Dubai, Nokia exhibited its innovative of e-waste recycling and the region’s collected mobile phones by YTF and recycling… as long as it wasn’t them. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements environmental initiatives at the EPIC Marine Turtle Conservation Project. Nokia in Nigeria. The phones were recycled in order of 3.4.2 Supplier assessments Sustainable Living Expo in the world’s Those who donated their old mobile Twitter popularity. All activity linked 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact An in-depth survey was conducted largest shopping mall. The event was phones for recycling received adoption back to Nokia’s recycling network, in our supply chain in Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa to 3.4.4 Improving social conditions the first of its kind in the Middle East, certificates for the Hawksbill turtles explaining the ins and outs of where gauge consumers’ awareness of and in our supply chain and Nokia played a visible role in the endangered in Gulf waters. and how to recycle. We used Nokia concern for environmental issues, as 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become event by exhibiting the latest eco hero blogs and Facebook to fuel Nokia more sustainable well as attitudes towards recycling. devices, engaging visitors to charge nostalgia and get people recycling. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials The results show that, while Africans their mobile phone with a Nokia bike 4.0 Independent assurance show high concern for the The outcome 5.0 Global reporting initiative charger, inviting them to recycle their environment, awareness of recycling We reached over 170,000 people in 6.0 Key data obsolete devices and even to race the is still quite low. Responses also showed 44 countries via social media channels. bikes to win a brand new phone. Nokia showing strong brand equity in Local markets loved the campaign the environmental space. enough to make a Chinese version. This quirky and fun approach was an North America effective way to generate excitement During 2011, Nokia participated in around phone recycling. America Recycles Day and Earth Day in the U.S. to engage consumers, environmental stakeholders and industry partners about the importance of E-Waste recycling. Recycling events spanned the U.S. and included several showings of the Nokia-sponsored film Wild Ocean, which highlights the importance of conserving Earth’s ecosystems. 58 3.2 ENABLING 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET SUSTAINABLE 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging LIFESTYLE 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Traditionally, environmental activities have focused on minimizing the 3.3.1 Climate strategy environmental impact in operations. Today, we are looking at how using 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) Nokia devices can have a net positive impact by offering our customers 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities products and services that promote sustainable lifestyle and enable 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements people to reduce their environmental footprint. In this section, we talk 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact about Nokia’s contribution to enabling sustainable lifestyles by: in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions • Developing solutions that enable mobile phones to replace several in our supply chain other products (convergence) 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable • Developing services that reduce the need for unnecessary travel and 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials commuting (such as navigation, virtual meetings and remote work) 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative • Developing other applications for sustainable lifestyle and services 6.0 Key data that replace physical products • Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions and by utilizing renewable energy For each topic, we have a case study to illustrate how Nokia products and services can help people to reduce their CO₂ emissions. The enabling effect of mobile technology is also discussed in chapter 2.1, ‘Enabling people with mobile technology’. 59 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.2.1 Merging several Case 3.2.2 Reduced travel Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET products into one Examples on how to and commuting Examples on how to 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Our devices are equipped with multiple reduce CO₂ emissions We provide innovative solutions that reduce CO₂ emissions 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) functionalities, for instance many include with Nokia devices1 enable people to cut the impact of their with Nokia devices1 3.1.3 Substance and materials management a digital camera, music player, navigation, daily activities and choices. Mobile 3.1.4 Packaging web browser and several other features devices can be used for attending 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs – all in one product. Merging several Converged devices meetings and working remotely, Use your mobile to avoid 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one products into one, also known as If only 10% of the over 1 billion people reducing the need for carbon-intensive unnecessary business travel 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting convergence, helps consumers reduce using Nokia devices would use their business travel and commuting. If only 1% of the over 1 billion people 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle their own environmental footprint and mobile device instead of buying a using Nokia devices would use their 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy avoid buying, using and charging several separate music player, camera, video efficient solutions mobile device for attending a 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of separate devices, when one device can camera, PC, fixed-line telephone and meeting instead of travelling there renewable energy be used for many different purposes. a car navigator, we would avoid around by plane even once a year, we would 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 73 million tonnes of CO₂ emissions avoid around 8.8 million tonnes of 3.3.1 Climate strategy during a year. CO₂ emissions. 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) That’s equal to the emissions of This roughly equals to the average 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS flying 15 million people around the fossil fuel-based emissions of 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements world once. 2 million people in one year. 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Have it all in one device Use mobile devices to work remotely in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions A study from 20112 shows that many Let’s assume that just 10% of people in our supply chain people have already replaced their using Nokia devices would use their 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become separate devices with a smartphone: mobile device to work remotely once more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials • 17% have replaced their car navigator a week instead of driving to work. 4.0 Independent assurance This could reduce global CO₂ emissions 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data • 12% have replaced their music player by some 62 million tonnes a year. This is more than the annual fossil • 7% have replaced their camera fuel based emissions of countries like Portugal, Colombia or Nigeria. • 6% have replaced their video camera • 3% have replaced their game console This means that the 1,454 people who participated in the study have saved over 43,000 kg of CO₂e. 1 These case studies illustrate how Nokia products and services can help people to reduce their CO₂ emissions. For assurance, please see the third party assurance statement by PwC. 2 A Study by teleporter DNA and Nokia: Finns and smartphones, Feb 2011. 60 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents We offer smart applications and digital 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE services that show consumers how to Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE reduce their environmental footprint. Examples on how to 3.1.1 Design for the environment process From Nokia’s Climate Mission 3D game reduce CO₂ emissions with 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) and other applications in Nokia Store’s Nokia devices1 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Green Channel to our People and Planet 3.1.4 Packaging website, we help raise awareness about 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs sustainable lifestyles, health and Car navigation – 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE use navigation on your mobile 3.2.1 Merging several products into one well-being and social responsibility 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting Several studies show that using car 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle The Green Channel is a collection of eco navigation services can result in 5% 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy applications in the Nokia Store. Today, to 15% fuel savings. NAVTEQ efficient solutions Green Channel contains around 50 Navigation Benefits Study (2009) 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of applications from around the world, renewable energy shows that with regular use people 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT created with developers and partners actually drive shorter distances and 3.3.1 Climate strategy and powered by Nokia. spend less time on driving: 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities Nokia’s People and Planet website has information about applications and • Fuel efficiency increased by 12% and saved about 375 liters 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS services related to the environment, 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.2.3 Apps for Launched in 2011, the Nokia Public health and wellbeing, education, social of fuel that equals close to one Transport is expanding in 2012, being tonne of CO₂ emissions per year. 3.4.2 Supplier assessments sustainable lifestyle 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain To enable sustainable lifestyle, we design pushed to many Nokia smartphones via bundling and software update. If you responsibility and accessibility. • People also drove nearly 2,500 km less, which would save 1.19 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain apps that raise awareness about need to drive, Nokia Drive and the use of million tires in Germany alone. 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become environmental issues, help reduce carbon navigation and Nokia Maps help you to If 10% of the over 1 billion people more sustainable footprint and help protect the planet in find the quickest, shortest route, allowing 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials using Nokia devices would save 5% an engaging and informative way. Nokia you to save time and fuel. Studies show 4.0 Independent assurance of their driving-related CO₂ emissions Maps, Nokia Public Transport and Nokia that with regular use, using car navigation 5.0 Global reporting initiative with the help of car navigation we 6.0 Key data Drive help consider saving the people drive less and increase fuel could avoid over 22 million tonnes of environment while moving around. The efficiency by 12%. 2 CO₂ emissions per year. This equals Nokia Public Transport application offers the annual CO₂ emissions of around public transportation route planning in 6.5 million cars. hundreds of cities all over the world. This app aims to raise awareness of What’s more, you don’t need a environmentally sound public separate navigation device, just a transportation as a journey option, and Nokia smartphone that has Nokia makes using public transportation easier, Maps Navigation for free. wherever users go. In addition, with the Nokia Public Transport service, you no longer need to carry around travel cards, timetables or city maps—it’s all on your device, wherever you are. 1 These case studies illustrate how Nokia products and services can help people to reduce their CO₂ emissions. For assurance, please see the third party assurance statement by PwC. 2 Source: Real-World CO₂ Impacts of Traffic Congestion study, 2008 61 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.2.4 Helping to save Case Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET energy with energy Examples on how to Helping consumer 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process efficient solutions reduce CO₂ emissions with reduce their CO₂ 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) We are also continuously improving the Nokia devices1 emissions 3.1.3 Substance and materials management energy-saving features throughout our 3.1.4 Packaging product portfolio, including energy One of the key ways Nokia can make 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs Browse the Internet using your 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE efficient chargers, to enable our a positive impact through our core mobile device 3.2.1 Merging several products into one customers to save energy. With over a technologies is by helping consumers 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting billion people using Nokia phones around With the same amount of energy used to reduce their own carbon footprints. 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle the world, small steps like these make a for one Facebook status update with 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy Assume, for example, that just 10% really big difference. Already in 2007, a desktop computer, you can post efficient solutions of the people using Nokia devices Nokia was the first mobile manufacturer over 100 updates with your mobile. 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of would do the following with Nokia renewable energy to put alerts into mobile devices to remind 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT If 10% of the over 1 billion people devices and services for one year: people to unplug their chargers once they 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management are fully charged. We’ve also introduced using Nokia devices used their mobile instead of their desktop computer • Use their mobile device for attending a meeting once systems (EMS) features to reduce the energy use of our for Internet surfing half an hour a 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities instead of travelling to the devices. All our devices come with power day, we could avoid over 1.9 million 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS meeting by plane saving standby settings, and Symbian tonnes of CO₂ emissions per year. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments devices feature a Power Save mode. • Use their mobile device to work remotely once a week 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Browsing the Internet and making video This equals the annual greenhouse in our supply chain calls is more energy efficient with a gas emissions of around 574,000 cars. instead of driving to work 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain mobile device, compared with a laptop Use mobile device for video calls • Use their mobile device instead of buying a separate music 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become or desktop computer. more sustainable With the same amount of energy player, camera, video camera, 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials used for a ten minutes webcam talk PC, fixed line telephone and a 4.0 Independent assurance with a desktop computer and large car navigator 5.0 Global reporting initiative LCD screen, you can have a mobile 6.0 Key data The combined impact of these video call for over 18 hours. actions could reduce global CO₂ And with a mobile, you can have your emissions by over 220 million tonnes. video call wherever you want. That represents nearly the same amount as the annual fossil fuel-based CO₂ emissions of the countries of Sweden, Chile, and Vietnam combined. 1 These case studies illustrate how Nokia products and services can help people to reduce their CO₂ emissions. For assurance, please see the third party assurance statement by PwC. 62 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE How to reduce the energy your handset uses 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Some simple tips to reduce the energy your handset uses 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management sAves up to 15% sAves up to 30% 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one REDUCE SWITCH 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting BACKLIGHT OFF 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy BRIGHTNESS UNUSED efficient solutions APPS 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements sAves up to 30% sAves up to 15% 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions REDUCE REDUCE in our supply chain BROWSER EMAIL 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable UPDATE UPDATE 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials INTERVAL INTERVAL 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data sAves up to 10% sAves up to 10% TURN OFF TURN OFF WI-FI WHEN BLUETOOTH IT’S NOT USED WHEN IT’S NOT USED 63 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents Energy efficient chargers 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ON TRACK TOWARDS OUR END OF 2012 TARGET OF 75% REDUCTION FROM BASE YEAR 2006 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET At the end of 2008, Nokia, together with The volume weighted average no-load power consumption of nokia's charger 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE other manufacturers, created and began 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 0.400 using a Mobile Device Charger Energy 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Rating. The rating is based on the 3.1.4 Packaging charger’s no-load energy consumption. 0.350 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs This is the amount of energy a charger 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE will continue to consume if you forget to 3.2.1 Merging several products into one unplug it from the outlet after the phone 0.300 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle is fully charged. The rating is displayed 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy on a unique label, which is featured in efficient solutions the product Eco Profiles and on the 0.250 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of packaging of our accessory products. renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Over the last decade, we have reduced 0.200 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management the no-load consumption of our chargers systems (EMS) by over 80%, and in our best-in-class 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities chargers by over 95%. During 2011, 0.150 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS we have introduced two new energy 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments efficient chargers, the AC-11 and AC-16, 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact replacing our older, less energy efficient 0.100 in our supply chain chargers. Today, all new Nokia devices 3.4.4 Improving social conditions are being shipped with four star or five in our supply chain 0.050 star chargers. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials The charger no-load power consumption 4.0 Independent assurance values are calculated as volume weighted 5.0 Global reporting initiative average charger no-load power WATT 6.0 Key data consumption for phone products per year. In 2011, we experienced big changes in WATT the market and this caused us to make TARGET 2010 changes in our product portfolio, too. TARGET 2012 Due to this the decreasing trend of our average charger, no-load consumption was flattened out. Changes in the charger portfolio will help us to reduce the charger no-load power consumption and are heading for the new target of 75% reduction by end of 2012 from the 2006 baseline. 64 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.2.5 Innovating in The public journey of our project Our testers used a specially created started with the launch of the Nokia mobile phones prototype, nicknamed 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET the use of renewable Solar Charging blog in June 2011 at Lokki. The small solar charging panels 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process energy www.nokia.com/solarcharging. The blog’s developed for this project were integrated 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) As part of our continuous search for mission was to share online and real-time into Nokia C1-02 devices, with a data 3.1.3 Substance and materials management the adventures and experiences of our logger for reporting the harvested solar energy efficiency and sustainable 3.1.4 Packaging alternatives, we initiated the Nokia Solar test team, while reporting on the success energy. The key findings of the pilot 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE Charging Project at the start of the of solar energy harvesting. We also wanted project include the following. our readers to join us on our journey and 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting summer of 2011. The project’s goal was to answer fundamental questions about to educate them by publishing a number • A basic phone, with the solar panel integrated in the back cover, 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle of articles explaining the technology. how we can charge mobile phones just succeeded in harvesting enough 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy using the renewable energy of solar The blog also published test reports and efficient solutions energy to keep the phone on 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of power, and to find solutions that help news from our test team. renewable energy standby mode and even provide people who live in parts of the world The project test team consisted of group some talk time, when carefully 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy where you can’t just plug in and load of people living and traveling in a diverse positioned to capture the 3.3.2 Environmental management up on electricity. range of locations. We explored how solar available sunlight systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities charging works in different scenarios, from sailing across the Baltic Sea to • In order to support mobility and ensure carefree communications 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements camping in a Swedish forest. What’s more, capability on a daily basis, be it sun 3.4.2 Supplier assessments we gained an insight into how solar or rain, even a basic phone would 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact charging works in different parts of the in our supply chain benefit from a larger solar charging 3.4.4 Improving social conditions globe. From above the Arctic Circle, where surface than what’s available on the in our supply chain the sun doesn’t set for three months, to back cover. 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable Kenya, where access to electricity can be a daily challenge. • Smartphones are typically loaded with applications and hardware that 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance drain the battery in a day or two. 5.0 Global reporting initiative Thus, to power a smartphone a solar 6.0 Key data panel would need to be much larger than the space available on a smartphone back panel. 65 3.3 OUR 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging IMPACT 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT In this section, we report upon our impact on the environment, starting 3.3.1 Climate strategy with our climate strategy. Next, we go through our environmental 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) management systems, moving on to our factories, our offices, our data 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities centers, use of green energy, logistics, business travel, employee 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements commuting and car fleet, reducing waste and water, and finally protecting 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact biodiversity. For each, we first introduce the topic and then discuss our in our supply chain 2011 progress. 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 66 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.3.1 Climate strategy Our climate targets Manufacturing and our facilities 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET We created our first climate strategy in Devices and accessories • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our offices, R&D 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 2006 and revised it in 2010. In 2011, we Our aspirational target is to reduce the 3.1.1 Design for the environment process sites and manufacturing facilities 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) began updating the strategy, and our greenhouse gas emissions caused during by a minimum of 30% by 2020 3.1.3 Substance and materials management climate strategy with new, longer term the whole device life cycle by over 60% (2006 baseline, assuming no 3.1.4 Packaging targets, which will be finalized during by the year 2020 compared to the level 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs major business volume or 2012. The strategy addresses the in 20001. To reach this, we have set 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE headcount changes) energy consumption and greenhouse ourselves targets for specific areas of 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting gas emissions of our products and the device life cycle: • Reduce energy used in production by 10% per unit produced by the 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle operations, and sets energy and 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy greenhouse gas emission reduction Product use end of 2012 (2010 baseline)2 efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of targets for our most important activities • Reduce the average charger’s • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per person working in Nokia offices renewable energy in areas that contribute to our direct no-load power consumption by 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. and R&D by a minimum of 15% by 75% by the end of 2012 (2006 3.3.1 Climate strategy the end of 2012 (2006 baseline)3 baseline) 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) Nokia is not an energy intensive company. Most of the greenhouse gas • Continue to study new technologies • Continue the development of our Green Data Center strategy, 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities which will use renewable energy, such emissions related to our products come which is already implemented in 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS from component manufacturing by our as solar panels and kinetic energy 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Finland, delivering targeted cooling, 3.4.2 Supplier assessments suppliers or from the actual use of the • Develop solutions that enhance the energy efficiency in our products environmentally friendly backup 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact products while in their owners’ hands. power and power-efficient in our supply chain Regardless, we aim to show leadership server racks 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain by reducing our own energy consumption 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become and greenhouse gas emissions, raising more sustainable consumer awareness on measures they 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials can take to reduce their own footprints 4.0 Independent assurance and driving best practices in our value 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data chain and industry. Our current focus areas in greenhouse gas emissions reduction are: 1 Our overall target is based on our life cycle Assessment (LCA) • Products methodology and actual data (when available). We take into account all the life cycle phases through this methodology: raw materials and components, inbound and outbound logistics, • Manufacturing, facilities and way of working • Nokia operations (manufacturing and facilities, business travel and commuting), use phase (the impact of charging and Logistics and supply chain “no-load” time, or when a charger is plugged into the mains without a device attached) and end of life phase which focuses on recycling the device. There is currently no standard for • Helping our customers to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions LCAs, databases or data accuracy, nor for devices or their functionalities, but standards are likely to develop over the next decade. This makes the direct year on year device comparison challenging when measuring our progress. We will aim to use comparable techniques and compare devices with similar functionalities to address this challenge. 2 We had to significantly change our calculation for energy used in production per unit produced during 2011 due to major changes in production, and thus had to change the base year from 2008 (as in previous targets) to 2010 (to be exact 2H 2010 – 1H 2011) in order to keep the target meaningful. 3 Our original ambitious target was 23% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per person working in Nokia offices and R&D for 2012, but this had to be revised due to the new Nokia strategy, which significantly changed the number of sites and employees during 2012. This prevents us from implementing all the original plans and unfortunately results in some temporary inefficiencies. The longer term targets however remain unchanged. 67 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents FACILITY CO₂e EMISSIONS AND TARGETS 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE ON TRACK TOWARDS OUR FACILITIES' 2020 GHG REDUCTION TARGET 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 350,000 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 300,000 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of 250,000 renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 200,000 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact 150,000 in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 100,000 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 50,000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2020 TONNES CO₂e CO₂e EMISSIONS, NET CO₂e EMISSIONS, GROSS TARGET 2010, NET (-18%) TARGET 2020, NET (-30%) 68 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents OFFICE AND R&D CO₂ EMISSIONS PER PERSON 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE YEAR 2011 OFFICES GHG EMISSIONS TARGET WAS REACHED 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 5.00 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 4.00 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of 3.00 renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) 2.50 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact 2.00 in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 1.50 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 1.00 0.50 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 TONNES/PERSON/YEAR CO₂/OFFICE PERSONS, GROSS TARGET FOR GROSS EMISSIONS, BY END 2015 TARGET FOR GROSS EMISSIONS, BY END 2012 69 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Logistics Helping customers reduce their own 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per sales package produced by 20% greenhouse gas emissions We aim to enable people who use Nokia 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process by the end of 2012 (2008 baseline) phones to reduce their greenhouse gas 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) emissions several times more than caused 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Supply chain during the life cycle of their devices. The 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs • Aim that all our key suppliers set energy efficiency and greenhouse main activity areas, discussed in chapter 3.2, ‘Enabling sustainable lifestyle’, are: 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting gas emission reduction targets by the end of 2012 • Developing solutions that enable mobile phones to replace several 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy other products (convergence) Travel and commuting efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of • Maintain annual air travel-related • Developing services that reduce the need for unnecessary travel and renewable energy greenhouse gas emissions, both commuting (such as navigation, 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy total and per employee, clearly below virtual meetings and remote work) 2008 levels by the end of 2012 3.3.2 Environmental management systems (EMS) • Renew the Nokia remote working • Developing other applications for sustainable lifestyle and services 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS framework and increase the that replace physical products number of countries where 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments employee public transport options • Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact are offered and car lease policies in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions are tied to lower emissions limits in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 70 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.3.2 Environmental Our EMS consists of: Measuring to improve our Auditing the EMS 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET management • Nokia’s Environmental Policy and environmental performance To ensure we continuously improve and 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE systems (EMS) Code of Conduct The goal of the Nokia EMS is to improve maintain our EMS, we run ISO 14001 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Our EMS is an integral part of our • Clearly identified environmental issues and evaluations of their our environmental performance, audits through external auditing 3.1.3 Substance and materials management focusing on: organizations, such as Det Norske common global management structure. significance 3.1.4 Packaging • Energy consumption (increase the Veritas. Research and Development (R&D) 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE The international ISO14001 standard has been the foundation for our certified • Objectives and programs for achieving global and local energy efficiency of our production is audited against ISO 9001, and factories are audited against the ISO 9001:2008 processes as well as of site 3.2.1 Merging several products into one EMS for more than 15 years and it covers environmental targets and ISO 14001:2004. About 50% of our 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting infrastructure) all of our manufacturing facilities. 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle • Compliance mechanisms for meeting legal and other • Waste management (avoid factories are audited each year. 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy Its goal is to improve our environmental generating waste, increase The following factories were audited efficient solutions performance, focusing on energy regulatory requirements 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of waste utilization) during 2011: Salo, Beijing, Dongguan, renewable energy consumption, waste management, water management and air emissions. • Audits, assessments, management reviews and other mechanisms for • Water management Chennai and Vertu. The global demand3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy We require a certified EMS according continuous improvement • Air emissions (reduce emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds) supply network management process is audited every year. Nokia Corporation • 3.3.2 Environmental management to ISO 14001 from our contract systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities manufacturers, and a certified EMS Operational management (data and processes) for key indicators such • Ozone-depleting substances ISO 14001 certificate was renewed October 24th 2011 for the next 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS from all our direct suppliers. as energy, waste and water use three-year period. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments The EMS is integrated with the quality 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact management system, and we use the in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions overall management processes to address in our supply chain both issues in our production. We have 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become set global guidance and reporting to more sustainable follow up these agreed activities. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 71 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Setting targets in our Our global factory targets are to: Supplier requirements EMS Continuing to manage our 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET factories • Reduce energy consumption per manufactured unit by 5% annually In regards to environmental impact, office sites 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE We are working to reduce our Nokia requires its suppliers to have an We have combined all Nokia’s large 3.1.1 Design for the environment process environmental impact by setting global between 2008 and 2012, compared EMS in place. In 2011, 91% of our direct office sites under one internally verified 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) to a 2010 base year1 3.1.3 Substance and materials management and local targets in our factories. We verify hardware suppliers’ sites serving Nokia environmental management system, 3.1.4 Packaging improvements to our processes through • Reduce waste sent to landfill from our factories by half annually were certified to ISO14001. Nokia’s which follows the rules of ISO 14001. 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs internal assessments and external direct hardware suppliers have In offices we concentrate on workplace 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE verifications. Any deviations are followed between 2008 and 2012, compared maintained a high level of certification solutions and building infrastructure. 3.2.1 Merging several products into one to a 2008 base year. This will lead up, corrected and monitored until they since 2008. Read more about our In 2011, the system covered more than 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle are resolved. us close to 100% waste utilization. progress on ‘Nokia Supplier 75% of our total office and R&D area. 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy Please see information on our requirements’ in chapter 3.4.1. efficient solutions Our main environmental focus areas 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of in factories are: performance against these targets in chapter 3.3.3 in ‘Energy efficiency and renewable energy 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT • Increasing the energy efficiency of our production processes and emissions’ and ‘Reducing waste’. 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management factory premises systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities • Reducing CO₂ emissions 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS • Increasing waste utilization, targeting zero landfill 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact • Improving material management, meaning less waste in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain • Decreasing water usage, monitoring proper waste water treatment, and 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable optimizing the use of production 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials and optimizing the use of 4.0 Independent assurance production and maintenance 5.0 Global reporting initiative chemicals with respect to 6.0 Key data emissions, such as VOCs (volatile organic compounds) 1 We had to significantly change our calculation for energy used in production per unit produced during 2011 due to major changes in production, and thus had to change the base year from 2008 (as in previous targets) to 2010 (to be exact 2H 2010 – 1H 2011) in order to keep the target meaningful. 72 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.3.3 Green Operations ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN FACILITIES 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET and facilities 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process TOTAL FACILITIES ENERGY CONSUMPTION DECREASED BY 10% 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 800 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Energy efficiency and emissions 600 3.1.4 Packaging Although Nokia is not part of an 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE energy-intensive industry, our operations 3.2.1 Merging several products into one do have an environmental impact through 700 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting energy consumption and the resulting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle emissions. As we aim to connect the next 500 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions billion, we need to decouple the growth 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of of our business from the many ways we 600 renewable energy consume energy in our operations. 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy In 2011, we occupied more than 550 3.3.2 Environmental management facilities around the world, including 400 systems (EMS) 10 production sites and 43 Nokia and 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 500 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS Vertu retail stores. As about 20% of 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements these buildings result in 90% of the 3.4.2 Supplier assessments total environmental impact, these sites 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact are where we focus on improving in our supply chain 400 300 3.4.4 Improving social conditions our performance. in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become Our approach to greener buildings more sustainable involves a combination of standards, 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials local energy efficiency initiatives and 300 4.0 Independent assurance new ways of thinking about how we 5.0 Global reporting initiative can use space effectively. 200 6.0 Key data 200 100 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GWh KWH/m² DIRECT ENERGY, GWh INDIRECT ENERGY, GWh TOTAL ENERGY kWh/m² In 2011, total energy consumption in Nokia facilities decreased by 10% compared with 2010. We consumed 72 GWh of direct and 530 GWh of indirect energy. Energy consumption per m² increased slightly. 73 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents FACILITIES GREENHOUSE 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE FACILITIES' TOTAL AND PER DEVICE GROSS GREEN HOUSE GAS 2011 progress GAS EMISSIONS 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET EMISSIONS DECREASED FACILITIES ENERGY 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE In 2011, energy used in Nokia facilities 3.1.1 Design for the environment process caused 13,200 tonnes of direct and 350,000 800 CONSUMPTION and EMISSIONS 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 251,800 tonnes of indirect greenhouse gas (CO₂e ) gross emissions. Direct energy In 2011, our new facility energy savings 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs means our use of gas and oil while indirect were around 15,000 MWh, which has 700 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE energy refers to our use of electricity, 300,000 helped us to save, to our estimate, 3.2.1 Merging several products into one district heating and district cooling. Our around 1.5 million Euros. This brings 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting our 2007-2011 cumulative savings 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle purchase of certified green energy reduced the (above mentioned) indirect 600 to more than 65,000 MWh. 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions emissions by 54,100 tonnes, meaning 250,000 In 2011, Nokia facilities’ CO₂ emissions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of that Nokia’s net emissions were 210,900. renewable energy decreased by 17 % compared with the 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Nokia’s CO₂ calculation methodology for 500 base year 2006 level. This reduction 3.3.1 Climate strategy our own operations was validated in 2008 was achieved through the energy 3.3.2 Environmental management 200,000 efficiency measures in our buildings systems (EMS) and since then the annual results have 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities been verified by a third party. and renewable energy purchases, and 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 400 due to lower production volumes and 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements headcount reduction e.g. from the new 3.4.2 Supplier assessments collaboration model with Accenture. 150,000 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions 300 in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 100,000 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 200 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 50,000 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TONNES CO₂e CO₂e/DEVICE DIRECT CO₂e , TONNES INDIRECT CO2E EMISSIONS AVOIDED DUE TO PURCHASED GREEN ENERGY INDIRECT CO₂e (NET), TONNES (AND OFFSETS IN 2010), TONNES FACILITIES TOTAL CO₂e /DEVICE (GROSS) 74 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Our factories 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET We have set energy reduction targets OUR FACTORIES 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE for our factories since 2008 and take 3.1.1 Design for the environment process a holistic approach to optimize not 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Last year, the total energy consumption In 2011, we continued our Manufacturing To ensure we continue our energy saving only energy consumption, but also 3.1.3 Substance and materials management of Nokia factories was reduced by Improvement Project, which started in performance in the years to come, and to 3.1.4 Packaging maintenance costs and risks. 30,600 MWh, which is 10% lower than 2007-2008 with energy audits of our identify additional energy management 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE in 2010. In addition to total energy factories and has since covered eight possibilities, we implemented a new 3.2.1 Merging several products into one consumption, we track energy factories in all regions: APAC-China, computer managed maintenance 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting consumption in relation to production Europe and the Americas. By making system (CMMS) tool and are piloting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle volumes and completed energy energy efficient investments, such as schemes on detailed energy metering 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy energy-saving lighting in Salo and in 2012. Once these tools are fully efficient solutions efficiency investments, in order to 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of better assess the impact of our actions. humidifiers in Dongguan, and by implemented, we expect to see higher renewable energy optimizing building management energy savings levels once more. 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT systems to take advantage of favorable 3.3.1 Climate strategy Despite these energy saving measures, weather conditions, these factories 3.3.2 Environmental management we did not meet our target of reducing systems (EMS) saved around 11,800 MWh of energy, factory energy 5% per unit in 2011, 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities reducing CO₂ emissions by 4,900 tonnes. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS but had instead a 3% increase. While 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements production volumes were decreasing, 3.4.2 Supplier assessments the factory buildings’ share of the 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact consumption remained almost in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions unchanged and therefore we were in our supply chain not able to repeat our progress as seen 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become in previous years. As some of Nokia’s more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials factories perform at the target level, 4.0 Independent assurance we have now shifted focus to those 5.0 Global reporting initiative factories not reaching the target. We also 6.0 Key data need to work on defining intelligent indicators extending beyond the current 2012 timeline. 75 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Our offices Some examples of how we progressed 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE in 2011 include installing a capacitor 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Since 2007, we have implemented a OUR OFFICES 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE bank at our Irving, Texas office, which global property strategy, which includes 3.1.1 Design for the environment process recycles the surplus energy generated Leadership in Energy and Environmental 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) by the older large motors of, e.g. the We reduced CO₂ emissions from Office hardware 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Design (LEED) certification. LEED is an air-conditioning equipment. We also offices and R&D premises by 15% We take the energy efficiency of IT 3.1.4 Packaging internationally recognized green building continued replacing fluorescent lamps in CO₂ /person, compared to 2006. hardware equipment into account 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs certification system which provides with LED-lights in our Beijing site. In during procurement. All laptops, 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE third-party verification that a building We continued work on our 3-year 3.2.1 Merging several products into one Finland, we optimized free cooling and desktop computers, workstations and or community was designed and built emissions reduction roadmaps for our 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting heat recovery systems in several monitors purchased by Nokia must 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle using strategies aimed at improving office and R&D premises. Our intent locations and continued our project to have Energy Star or Electronic Product 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy performance. was to find effective combinations modify lighting controls on sites, which Environmental Assessment Tool efficient solutions of actions for our different sites, 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of Since then, we have included LEED Gold were not yet covered during 2010. The (EPEAT) Gold or Silver rating. concentrating on the greenhouse gas renewable energy certification in the specification of our fuel cell installation for our Sunnyvale 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT emissions arising from energy We are working to adopt energy key real estate projects for both new R&D site is covered later in this chapter 3.3.1 Climate strategy consumption. On our existing owned efficient LED monitors as a standard. constructions and major renovations. in section ‘Green energy’. 3.3.2 Environmental management sites or those having long lease LED monitors have zero consumption systems (EMS) This helps us to avoid emissions by having In the UK, Nokia is a participant in the contracts, we will continue our energy in standby mode, which would lead to 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities energy-efficient solutions in place from 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) efficiency investments and search for significant electricity savings during the beginning of the project. For smaller 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements which is the first national mandatory on-site renewable energy options. the hours that employees are not in leased sites our options are more 3.4.2 Supplier assessments carbon reporting scheme in the world, office. In 2011 we have introduced a 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact limited, but we aim to apply green lease We achieved a LEED Gold certification aimed at improving energy efficiency number of LED monitors, which use in our supply chain contracts and select buildings, which for our office refurbishments projects 3.4.4 Improving social conditions and cutting carbon emissions within less power. perform better than average. Also, by in San Diego, USA and Bangalore, India. in our supply chain large organizations. The scheme implementing the mobile office concept, Altogether 11% of our total space was 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become requires Nokia to report its UK based more sustainable we can also utilize office space more LEED Gold certified by the end of 2011. carbon emissions on an annual basis 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials effectively, such that the per capita and purchase allowances for the carbon 4.0 Independent assurance energy usage is lowered. 5.0 Global reporting initiative we produce. 6.0 Key data 76 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Our data centers Nokia will continue to make strategic Green energy 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE data center investments to support new 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET As we deliver more applications and In addition to studying possibilities to OUR Data centers 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE business and markets as responsibly as services to our consumers around the increase our onsite renewable energy 3.1.1 Design for the environment process we can. We believe that the concept of world, we are increasing our Internet production, our intention is to maintain 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Sustainable IT can be a real business In 2011, we refurbished the main data 3.1.3 Substance and materials management presence and thus need to expand our our purchase of renewable energy via goal and we use this principle to drive center for our corporate IT in Salo, 3.1.4 Packaging data center infrastructure. We recognize grid and renewable energy certificates. our data center portfolio forward while Finland to deliver a power usage 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs that this expansion represents an We aim to buy approximately 35-40% actively managing our greenhouse gas effectiveness (PUE) of 1.2, which is 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE increasing share of our total energy of our energy this way. However, the 3.2.1 Merging several products into one emissions. We also strive to bring all of industry leading. At the same time consumption across Nokia, and we are slow development of renewable energy 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting the data center stakeholders together we eliminated battery-powered focused on being as efficient as possible. markets in some of the countries 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle to root out energy waste in the facilities, backup systems as an important 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy It will be an ongoing challenge to balance where we operate continues to be the technical infrastructure and step to reduce the use of hazardous efficient solutions our business performance with the a challenge for us. 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of the applications. materials in the operation of this resulting carbon impact. renewable energy data center. We also make use of the 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our approach to reducing the carbon “free cooling” in Finland, available 3.3.1 Climate strategy impact of our global datacenter during more than 60% of the year 3.3.2 Environmental management operations focuses on active consumption systems (EMS) due to the northern location. 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities measurement. We challenge our third3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS party facility suppliers to be best in class We will continue to work on 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements for energy consumption and optimizing our IT infrastructure to 3.4.2 Supplier assessments management, and optimize the design deliver reduced energy consumption, 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact of our own facilities to demonstrate while maintaining our service levels. in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions leadership in energy efficiency. By the end of 2011, more than 50% in our supply chain of our servers are virtualized, thus 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become considerably increasing our more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials infrastructure efficiency. Continuing 4.0 Independent assurance on this path, increased usage of 5.0 Global reporting initiative virtualization technology and more 6.0 Key data real-time capacity management allows us to deliver more resources to our business while simultaneously decreasing the physical and carbon footprint of our IT. 77 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE On-site green energy 3.1.1 Design for the environment process NOKIA USED 40% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY IN 2011 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 250 45 The fuel cells at Nokia’s Sunnyvale 3.1.3 Substance and materials management office in Silicon Valley, California are 3.1.4 Packaging a state-of-the-art onsite energy 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE solution. Currently we use 75-80% 40 3.2.1 Merging several products into one biogas, more specifically, landfill gas. 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting Total CO₂ emissions from the site 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 200 have dropped by 87%. This is a 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy 35 efficient solutions monthly reduction of around 80 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of tonnes of CO₂, which represents 6% renewable energy of Nokia’s gross emissions from all 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 30 office and R&D sites in the Americas 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management region. Annually, the saving is 150 systems (EMS) equivalent to taking 280 cars off 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 25 the road. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Our factory in the Chennai Business 3.4.2 Supplier assessments Park started to use biogas in July 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact 20 2011. Bio waste and food waste from in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions 100 companies in the park is collected in our supply chain and used for biogas generation. 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 15 This is used to heat water in the main more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials kitchen and replaces around 5% of 4.0 Independent assurance fossil-based LPG (liquefied petroleum 5.0 Global reporting initiative 10 gas). This investment was made initially 50 6.0 Key data as a solution for treating bio waste, as it generates only limited amount 5 of energy, however it also supports 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 our goal to introduce renewable energy production to the site. GWh % RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY PURCHASED RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY, GWh RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY, % ON-SITE RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY, GWh Nokia has purchased renewable electricity via certificates and from grid since 2006 and now our first onsite installations for the generation of renewable energy are in place. Altogether in 2011, our share of renewable electricity was 193 GWh, which is equal to 40% and which reduced our CO₂ emissions by 54,500 tonnes. 78 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Green electricity purchasing Green logistics 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET In 2011, we bought renewable electricity We define logistics to include transport GREEN LOGISTICS 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE certificates for 100% of our consumption from component manufacturers to Nokia 3.1.1 Design for the environment process in the United States (Green-e wind), sites (inbound), transportation of finished 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) During 2011, we have focused on We have also continued implementing a 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Canada (EcoLogo certified biomass), products from the Nokia manufacturing improving logistics data quality. Much global program into all Nokia factories to 3.1.4 Packaging Finland and Denmark (RES-E Guarantee sites to the customers (outbound), and work has been done with our logistics increase the awareness of, and track, 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs of Origin hydro power). We did the same care logistics for repair, reuse and service providers to refine our data the transportation packaging efficiency 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE for our Paris office in France and Komarom recycling. Logistics is estimated at 16% 3.2.1 Merging several products into one collection process and internally for each factory in a consistent way, factory in Hungary (RECS) and for the of the total energy consumption of one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting integrate emissions into existing globally. Simply put, it reduced the size big offices and R&D sites in Germany, of our mobile devices during its life cycle. 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle logistics processes. This will fully align of the palletized packaging, measured 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy using hydropower. What’s more, we As logistics operations are conducted by with the anticipated greenhouse gas the improvement and then showed efficient solutions covered a quarter of our consumption third-party operators, the greenhouse 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of protocol for Scope 3 emissions. how much less the freight cost was per in Sydney, Australia with GreenPower. gas emissions from logistics belong to renewable energy Logistic service providers provide us delivery. This was then summarized per 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We focus on deploying these purchases Greenhouse Gas scope 3, i.e. indirect with CO₂ figures per shipment on a factory per month as an operational 3.3.1 Climate strategy in Nokia operating countries where using impact for Nokia. monthly basis and this has required target. The program is still being 3.3.2 Environmental management renewable energy can make the biggest systems (EMS) Our approach to green logistics has system development not only at fine-tuned for reporting purposes, impact on carbon savings. This impact 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities two parts: measuring and minimizing. Nokia’s end but also for service but we have already seen benefits of 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS depends on how carbon-intensive the Data is collected from our logistics providers. The CO₂ figures are now this initiative are a major reduction in 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements local power generation industry is and, providers and is a challenge due to the embedded into existing logistics packaging materials costs, cargo space 3.4.2 Supplier assessments to a large extent, where green energy 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact lack of standardization for measuring processes and reporting, which is a needed on planes and trucks and is available. It should be noted that our in our supply chain greenhouse gas emissions in the significant step towards more reliable subsequently a major reduction in 3.4.4 Improving social conditions Location and Commerce unit (previous logistics industry. The interconnected, data and full traceability of figures. For Nokia’s global CO₂ footprint and in our supply chain NAVTEQ) premises have not yet been extensive reach of the logistics network this kind of extensive network, data emissions. Data on Nokia logistics 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become included in our green energy more sustainable also complicates efforts by individual quality is a challenge and we are still related CO₂ emissions can be found purchasing strategy. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials service providers to measure their working on it. in the Nokia Key Data table at the end 4.0 Independent assurance own emissions. of this Report. 5.0 Global reporting initiative We are also working on ways to 6.0 Key data streamline logistics and reduce our impact through packaging efficiency, in-transport packaging efficiency, alternative transportation modes and engagement with our operator customers. We aim to use ocean transport instead of air whenever possible, taking into account the need to protect quality and ensure availability. We achieved an estimated 80% reduction in CO₂ emissions when shifting transportation from air to ocean. The share of ocean transportation out of total component transportation was about 16% (in volumes) in 2011. 79 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Business travel, employee As a result, Nokia’s annual carbon CO₂ emissions from air travel reduced 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE commuting and car fleet by 36% from 2008 base level emissions from air travel have been 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE reduced by 36% from 2008 base level. 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Business air travel CO₂ emissions from air travel were 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Since 2008, Nokia has taken a stricter 84,192 tonnes in 2011, which is 2.8% CO EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL REDUCED BY 36% FROM 2008 BASE LEVEL 3.1.3 Substance and materials management approach to business travelling. Travel more than in 2010. The increase in travel slight increase of 2.8% from previous year 3.1.4 Packaging reduction efforts have included a new resulted from negotiations related to 140,000 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE travel policy, travel awareness campaigns, organizational changes and our 3.2.1 Merging several products into one improved availability of videoconferencing partnership with Microsoft. The emissions 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting facilities globally, and direct travel figure covers 99% of Nokia’s air travel and 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle consultancy to Nokia business units has been calculated with a conservative 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy 120,000 efficient solutions on better ways of working, with the aim interpretation of greenhouse gas 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of of reducing both costs and emissions. Protocol emission factors. renewable energy In 2011, Nokia continued direct travel 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Nokia also continued a voluntary carbon consultancy to Nokia business units and 3.3.1 Climate strategy offset scheme for business flights. After 100,000 further tightened its travel policy. A new 3.3.2 Environmental management a trip, the traveler can pay to offset the systems (EMS) rail policy was also attached to the global associated CO₂ emissions and Nokia will 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities travel policy, encouraging the use of 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS reimburse the cost. The payments will trains and shuttle services. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements help to fund projects around the world 80,000 3.4.2 Supplier assessments that focus on renewable energy and 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact energy efficiency. Nokia prefers in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions organizations, which are able to provide in our supply chain Gold Standard certified offsets. 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 60,000 more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 40,000 20,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 CO₂e TONNES OF CO₂ Nokia’s and NAVTEQ’s air travel reporting has been consolidated in 2011, and 2008-2010 emissions have been updated based on historical travel data. 80 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Location and Commerce car fleet Commuting Reducing waste 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET To ensure the accuracy of its map Nokia promotes remote working and Non-hazardous packaging waste from 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE database, Nokia’s Location and arranges shuttle services for employees, our factories makes up the biggest 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Commerce business (L&C) has about which reduces emissions from commuting. percentage of our total waste. We monitor 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 1,100 geographic analysts strategically In Finland, Nokia has a car leasing policy 3.1.3 Substance and materials management with detailed reporting the amounts of 3.1.4 Packaging located around the world. L&C’s car which promotes cars with lower CO₂ both hazardous and non-hazardous 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs fleet is used by these geographic emissions and the average CO₂ emissions waste from our factories. Our goal is to 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE analysts who actually drive the roads, of cars leased during 2011 was 140 g/km. reduce all waste to a minimum and find 3.2.1 Merging several products into one collecting, verifying and updating Additionally, to support public alternative ways to reuse it, especially 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting information in our map database. transportation, Nokia directly reimburses 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle waste destined for landfills. This goal employees for a portion of their public extends to waste produced in Nokia 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy Nokia’s CO₂ emissions from map efficient solutions transportation costs. In 2011, almost workplaces, including offices, factories building driving activities were 3,989 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of 1,000 employees in Finland were using and R&D facilities. renewable energy tonnes in 2011, a decrease of 2.6% the benefit. 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT compared to 2010. Emissions were We have set a target of halving the 3.3.1 Climate strategy essentially flat because the increase in Data on Nokia employee commuting 3.3.2 Environmental management landfill waste from our factories each systems (EMS) driving required to build and maintain related CO₂ emissions can be found year, starting from 2008. This will lead 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities digital maps in Asia and the Americas from Nokia Key Data table at the end us close to 100% waste utilization by the 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS was offset by less driving in EMEA. of this Report. end of 2012. Most of the waste sent to 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Calculation of the emissions from cars 3.4.2 Supplier assessments landfill is from our support functions, is based on the distance driven and such as staff cafeterias, in countries 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain vehicle-specific conversion factors. where there is no infrastructure for 3.4.4 Improving social conditions Where exact car models were not bio-waste handling or energy recovery in our supply chain available, an average of vehicle fleet 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become for mixed municipal waste. more sustainable emissions has been used. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials Since the onset of tracking activities 4.0 Independent assurance in 2002, Nokia Location and Commerce 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data has taken the step of using fuel efficient vehicles like hybrid vehicles in North America as well as directly offsetting its driving related carbon emissions by contributing to the conservation of rainforest and biodiversity in Madagascar and reforestation in China’s Yunnan province, carried out by Conservation International. 81 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents FACTORY WASTE SPLIT 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE Reducing waste 3.1.1 Design for the environment process MOST FACTORY WASTE IS WOOD BASED 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) AND PLASTICS BASED COMPONENT PACKAGING MATERIAL In our office and R&D sites we have In 2011, our total waste was reduced 3.1.3 Substance and materials management REST OF WASTE TYPES a project to reduce waste going to by 23% in comparison to 2010. We also 3.1.4 Packaging landfills and we managed to decrease managed to continue our trend of 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE BIOWASTE the amount by around 200 tonnes, sending less waste to landfill. In total, 3.2.1 Merging several products into one approximately 33%, between 2010 and we produced 45,900 tonnes of waste ELECTRONIC WASTE 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 2011. Each region has created a waste and out of this, 91% was reused or 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle METAL reduction roadmap and we have good recycled, energy was recovered from 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy 5%, and only 4% went to landfill or to efficient solutions examples on waste management. 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of MIXED WASTE For example, we are focusing on the be incinerated without energy being renewable energy reduction of food waste from our recovered. If we remove the reused 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT canteens together with our catering waste from the equation, such as 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management service providers. Even if the amounts packages reused several times PLASTICS systems (EMS) of wasted food per lunch customer between us and suppliers, and the 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities are relatively low, it is worth raising recyclable material for which we were 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS awareness, globally, about this paid a positive price our total waste 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments extremely important issue. drops to approximately 8,700 tonnes.1 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Although our production volumes CARDBOARD AND PAPER We have also managed to increase the in our supply chain were lower this year, we made 3.4.4 Improving social conditions waste utilization in our factories year WOOD progress in waste reduction as the in our supply chain by year. Currently, we’re slightly behind metric of waste per mobile device 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become our target of halving landfill waste more sustainable decrease by 17%. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials each year. However seven out of ten 4.0 Independent assurance factories have met, or are within 1% of 5.0 Global reporting initiative meeting this target and now our focus 6.0 Key data is on reducing waste in factories not Our factories segregate waste into over 20 categories. Three-quarters of factory achieving their targets. Globally, when waste comes from cardboard, plastics and wood from packaging. The majority of looking at our 10 factories we have the remaining 25% comes from mixed waste, paper, bio-waste and electronic waste. reached a 97% utilization rate in 2011, Less than 1% of the total mass is hazardous waste, which includes solvent waste meaning that only 3% of the factory and cleaning rags contaminated with chemicals, batteries and maintenance-related waste is landfilled or incinerated waste, like oil and fluorescent lamps. without energy recovery. Utilization Future challenges to reducing waste are finding the needed utilization routes for includes reuse, recycling and the various waste fractions, and possible investment costs in cases where local incineration with energy recovery, infrastructure does not support our goal. in this order of priority. 1 As defined in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 82 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents WASTE UTILIZATION 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process TOTAL AND PER DEVICE WASTE AMOUNTS DECREASED 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 70,000 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 160 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 60,000 140 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of 120 renewable energy 50,000 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management 100 systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 40,000 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments 80 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 30,000 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 60 more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 20,000 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 40 6.0 Key data 10,000 20 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 TONNES G/DEVICE NON-UTILISED WASTE UTILISED WASTE NOKIA TOTAL WASTE/DEVICE In 2011, we produced 45,900 tonnes of waste and out of this 91% was reused or recycled, energy was recovered from 5%, and only 4% went to landfill or to be incinerated without energy being recovered. 83 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 96% OF WASTE WAS UTILIZED Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4% STILL TO BE REDIRECTED FROM LANDFILLS Factory highlights 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process REUSED (17%) 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) In Chennai Business Park, from the 3.1.3 Substance and materials management FINAL DISPOSAL (4%) summer of 2011 onwards, bio waste 3.1.4 Packaging and food waste from companies 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE was collected and used for biogas 3.2.1 Merging several products into one ENERGY RECOVERY (5%) generation. This benefits both waste 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting and CO₂ emission management. 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy As most of our factory waste is efficient solutions incoming packaging material, we 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of piloted a project in Salo factory to renewable energy RECYCLED (74%) 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT reduce this waste. We focused on 3.3.1 Climate strategy the component packaging, such as 3.3.2 Environmental management pallets, cartons and plastic wrapping, systems (EMS) and together with suppliers sought 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS ways to minimize the packaging, 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements yet not risk the quality of the 3.4.2 Supplier assessments components. 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 84 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Volatile organic Water usage In 2011, Nokia withdrew 1,309,000 m³ 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE compounds and Ozonewater for use in our facilities, out of which 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Water is critical and valuable resource, WATER USAGE 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE depleting substances 95% was withdrawn from municipal, and and its availability to future generations 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 5% from ground water sources. Of this, Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) has to be assured. Even though Nokia’s 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 10% was recycled. 92% of waste water As most of our water use relates to 3.1.3 Substance and materials management operations are not considered as water During our assembly process, some went for municipal off-site water people, not to processes or building 3.1.4 Packaging intensive, water has strategic importance Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) are treatment and the rest was treated area, our key performance indicator 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs in our supply chain and it is a necessity released. VOC emissions arise from the on-site. is water use per person. Our target 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE for communities around us. Therefore, 3.2.1 Merging several products into one use of solvents in the soldering and was to continue the decreasing trend we have taken action to ensure Nokia’s We work with expert organizations on 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting cleaning processes. In 2011, our emissions we had from 2008-2010. With the operations cause a minimal amount of how to best utilize mobile technology 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle were 38 tonnes, which mean 42% result of 14 m³/ person / year, we 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy additional burden for the environment, in issues such as water efficiency, reduction compared to 2010. were 12% below the 2008 value efficient solutions and also support various water raising awareness and improved water 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of but were not able to reduce the use conservation projects especially in water management. We have for instance renewable energy 42% reduction scarce areas. We also collaborate with helped FAO to use Nokia Data Gathering compared with 2010. People in this 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT compared to 2010 our suppliers to increase awareness, set to tag water points. indicator include both Nokia 3.3.1 Climate strategy employees and other people working 3.3.2 Environmental management water reduction targets and support systems (EMS) Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Nokia also participates in the WBCSD’s within Nokia premises, like service best practices in water management. 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities Ozone depleting substances are not Water group through which we follow providers’ personnel. One reason for 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS In Nokia’s own operations, most of our relevant water related initiatives. Nokia the increase was an exceptionally hot 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements used in our products or production. 3.4.2 Supplier assessments Nokia facilities only use HCFC and HFC water usage occurs for sanitary and also supports China Water Platform via summer in North America, which 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact types of refrigerants in cooling and air catering purposes, and to a smaller WWF International. increased our water use in cooling in our supply chain conditioning systems. These systems extent in gardening and facilities and grounds maintenance. We are 3.4.4 Improving social conditions management, such as cooling towers. working in 2012 to further improve in our supply chain are sealed and care is taken to prevent 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become leaks during operations and maintenance, Our production manufacturing processes our data measurement techniques. more sustainable but some trace amounts do evaporate use relatively small amounts of water, 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials from all the systems and the amount of less than 1000 liters of water per year in 4.0 Independent assurance annual emissions vary due to changing each factory, typically in equipment such 5.0 Global reporting initiative as stencil washers or reflow ovens that 6.0 Key data refill needs. HFC refrigerants are not dangerous for the ozone layer, but they require small amounts of water in are greenhouse gases. Legislation around self-contained tanks. refrigerants is followed and as with other companies, we would like to see market development of refrigerants friendly for both the ozone layer and climate. 85 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents WATER WITHDRAWAL 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE TOTAL WATER USE DECREASED 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET In 2011, Nokia withdrew 1,309,000 m³ 1,600 18 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE water for use in our facilities. Our target 3.1.1 Design for the environment process was to continue the decreasing water 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management per person trend we had from 20083.1.4 Packaging 2010. With the result of 14 m³/ person / 16 1,400 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs year we were 12% below the 2008 value 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE but were not able to reduce the use 3.2.1 Merging several products into one compared with 2010. 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 14 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle In 2011, we completed the creation of 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy 1,200 efficient solutions a water strategy and internal guidelines 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of for facilities in water scarce areas, focusing renewable energy on water efficient solutions in all stages of 12 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT the building life cycle. We also prepared 3.3.1 Climate strategy 1,000 3.3.2 Environmental management a water workshop for our Beijing factory systems (EMS) and office and for the other Xingwang 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities business park companies, as Beijing is 10 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS located in the high-risk Hai He water 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments basin. The outcome was increased overall 800 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact awareness, sharing of best practices and in our supply chain the initiation of a local water action plan. 8 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 600 more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 6 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 400 4 200 2 2008 2009 2010 2011 THOUSANDS m³ m³/PERSON/YEAR WATER WITHDRAWAL WATER WITHDRAWAL/PERSON 86 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents BEIJING FACTORY WATER USE 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE PRODUCTION PROCESSES USE HARDLY ANY WATER 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Our Beijing factory’s water use split is SANITARY AND LANDSCAPING (44%) 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE quite typical for Nokia: in general most 3.1.1 Design for the environment process of water usage occurs for sanitary and PRODUCTION PROCESS (<0.001%) 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management catering purposes, and to a smaller 3.1.4 Packaging extent in gardening and facilities CANTEENS (27%) 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs management, such as cooling towers. 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE Production manufacturing processes 3.2.1 Merging several products into one use less than 1,000 liters of water per 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle year in each factory, which is much less 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy than a percentage in Beijing and hence efficient solutions not visible in the graph. 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy Our Dongguan factory provides an 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT example of a water efficiency scheme, 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management completed in 2011. In this case, the flush systems (EMS) time for toilets was adjusted from 15 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities seconds to 10 seconds, decreasing the 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS water use from 10 liters to 6 liters per 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments flush, and saving 4,012 cubic meters COOLING AND AIR CONDITIONING (29%) 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact of water per year. in our supply chain 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become more sustainable 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 87 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1.0 Contents Protecting biodiversity Our factory in Manaus, Brazil is near a 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE non-protected, albeit highly bio-diverse 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Protecting our ecosystem is crucial for 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE area. We follow local requirements life on Earth, while scarcity of natural 3.1.1 Design for the environment process closely and take voluntary action to resources poses risk to business. 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) avoid any negative impact. Our leased 3.1.3 Substance and materials management Safeguarding biodiversity then provides R&D site in Vancouver, British Columbia 3.1.4 Packaging an opportunity to both create new is located in an area protected by the 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs value and contributes to sustainable 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE Federal provincial government under a development. Nokia believes that halting 3.2.1 Merging several products into one “land, wetlands, and animals” – program. biodiversity loss requires a multi3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle stakeholder effort, and we want to Nokia cooperates with NGOs on 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy ensure we do our part. biodiversity issues, and supports different efficient solutions nature conservation programs. These 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of Our main impact upon biodiversity takes include water management projects in renewable energy place in our supply chain. During raw 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Nepal, India, China and Kenya, tiger material extraction and component 3.3.1 Climate strategy protection in India as well as Baltic Sea manufacturing, for example, some 3.3.2 Environmental management and Saimaa seal protection in Finland. systems (EMS) activities can cause hydrological changes We were also the first company to support 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities and pollution if not handled properly. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS the Save Our Species (SOS) initiative, We aim to reduce our environmental 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements covered in chapter 2.2.5 in ‘Partnering impact in all product life cycle phases 3.4.2 Supplier assessments with non-governmental organizations’. 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact through different activities described in in our supply chain other parts of this report. In 2011, we 3.4.4 Improving social conditions have worked for instance to identify the in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become water and forest related impacts in our more sustainable value chain, and to prepare action plans 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials for reducing them. 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data 88 3.4 NOKIA AND 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET SUPPLIERS 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle Our supply chain is long with thousands of direct and indirect suppliers. Snapshot of our supply chain 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy This gives us a great responsibility and we’re committed to ensuring that efficient solutions • Our supply chain consists of around a hundred direct suppliers for 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy the highest standards of environmental and social responsibility are hardware, components and parts, and hundreds of software 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT exercised. Some suppliers are more advanced than others in managing suppliers. We also work with thousands of indirect suppliers 3.3.1 Climate strategy 3.3.2 Environmental management their operations sustainably, which means our approach needs to meet providing services and equipment needed for our operations. different needs and build capacity over time. It’s a challenge that requires • Our global supply chain begins with raw material extraction and systems (EMS) 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS continuous improvements and cannot be achieved alone. processing, ending in the manufacturing of components and final 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments product assembly. To achieve our commitment, we promote environmental, ethical and 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain social principles across the supply chain. For us, sustainable practices are • There are typically four to eight supplier layers between Nokia and 3.4.4 Improving social conditions any mining activities. Our supply chain is spread around the world in our supply chain not separate add-on features, but they are embedded in everything we as it needs to deliver to our own production sites as well as to our 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become do, including supplier selection and relationship development. We believe more sustainable offices worldwide. 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials that open communication, good relationships and transparency are 4.0 Independent assurance among the key success factors, and therefore work closely with not only • As we operate our own global manufacturing network, most 5.0 Global reporting initiative our suppliers, but also industry peers and other stakeholders. In the manufacturing is done in-house complying with our strict social 6.0 Key data coming years, we will take an even more active role to ensure progress and environmental requirements. This also means that our first towards sustainability. tier supplier line starts only after production. 89 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier As part of our continuous improvement 2011 progress Case of the supplier management system, 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Requirements Nokia Supplier Requirements are updated supplier requirements Working with IPE for 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Our comprehensive set of Nokia on a regular basis. In 2011, we updated a greener supply chain 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Supplier Requirements provides clear the requirements and put some more Nokia’s new supplier requirements, 3.1.3 Substance and materials management guidance on what we expect from our emphasis on the environment, labor which put some more emphasis on The Institute of Public and 3.1.4 Packaging suppliers. These requirements include conditions, occupational health and the environment, labor conditions, Environmental Affairs (IPE) is a Chinese 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE environmental and social expectations, safety, and ethics. We also included new occupational health and safety, were non-profit organization promoting 3.2.1 Merging several products into one which are based on international requirements, such as our conflict mineral approved and will apply as of 2012. a global green supply chain. It does 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting standards such as ISO 14001, SA 8000, policy and conflict mineral due diligence, this by expanding environmental 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle OHSAS18001, as well as PCMM, ILO and We added conflict mineral policy and which suppliers must comply with as of information disclosure to allow 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy UN conventions. conflict mineral due diligence to our efficient solutions January 2012. When training our hardware communities to fully understand the supplier requirements, which our 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of suppliers on these new requirements, hazards and risks in the surrounding The Nokia Supplier Requirements are suppliers must comply with as of renewable energy they were also asked to make a Nokia environment. In 2011, we started 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT part of the contractual agreement, January 2012. Supplier Requirements compliance utilizing their publicly available 3.3.1 Climate strategy which our suppliers must follow regardless declaration by the end of 2011, to ensure database to find out about possible 3.3.2 Environmental management of location or size. Our aim is to ensure systems (EMS) they can meet the new requirements. environmental violations of our that our suppliers provide safe working 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities In case any gaps are found, these suppliers. Whenever there’s feedback 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS conditions, exercise good labor practices, suppliers will need to describe and put about any of our suppliers within the 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements use environmentally friendly in place concrete corrective action plans IPE database, we’ll follow through 3.4.2 Supplier assessments manufacturing processes, and that 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact that Nokia will follow up on. with our suppliers. They will also be they aim to reduce the environmental in our supply chain required to contact IPE to make sure 3.4.4 Improving social conditions impact of their own operations. We believe that remaining engaged in our supply chain with suppliers and providing support the case will be updated accordingly 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become We updated the is the best way to help them improve in the database. For a new supplier more sustainable requirements and put their long-term performance. To drive qualification, we’ll have a pre-check 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials in the IPE database to see whether 4.0 Independent assurance some more emphasis sustainable change, we combine on the environment, different approaches including face-tothere is any record of issues. 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data labor conditions, face meetings, development programs, occupational health training, performance metrics and targets, and safety, and ethics. as well as supplier-focused events. We also included new requirements, such as our conflict mineral policy and conflict mineral due diligence 90 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.4.2 Supplier During 2011, altogether 292 hardware supplier facilities were risk self-assessed 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET assessments in relation to labor, ethics, health and 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process Supplier self-assessments safety and environmental topics (26 in 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 2010). The average results showed the 3.1.3 Substance and materials management At Nokia, we have used a risk assessment following risks for four different areas 3.1.4 Packaging tool for our own factories called E-TASC assessed in E-TASC. A lower percentage 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs for some years now and we’ve also score indicates a higher risk that the 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE asked strategically important suppliers 3.2.1 Merging several products into one supplier is falling short of expectations to assess their factories. However, in 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting and standards. 2011 we expanded this practice to 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy include all direct hardware suppliers’ • Environment – low risk (89%) efficient solutions factories. E-TASC is a web-based risk • Labor –low risk (89%) 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy tool, which helps companies throughout • Health and Safety –low risk (92%) 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 3.3.1 Climate strategy the supply chain manage and analyze social and environmental responsibility • Ethics –low risk (86%) 3.3.2 Environmental management data. It was developed as a joint effort We have also put a process in place on systems (EMS) of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative how to handle high or medium risk areas 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities identified by the tool and how to drive 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS (GeSi) and is used across our industry. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements improvements. During 2012, we aim to 3.4.2 Supplier assessments get suppliers to complete the missing 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact assessments and to start reviewing in our supply chain the results and drive improvements. 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become During 2011, altogether more sustainable 292 hardware supplier 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials facilities were risk 4.0 Independent assurance self-assessed in relation 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data to labor, ethics, health and safety and environmental topics (26 in 2010). 91 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents Our on-site assessments One of the most common findings 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE to supplier sites in our on-site assessments has been Progress 2011 Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE To monitor supplier performance related to the way our suppliers manage Supplier assessments Chemicals management 3.1.1 Design for the environment process against our requirements and to the overtime hours of their employees. pilot project in China 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) promote sustainability improvements, We have discovered that finding a real In 2011, we conducted 35 Nokia 3.1.3 Substance and materials management solution often requires long-term Supplier Requirements assessments we conduct supplier self-assessments In line with Nokia’s approach to drive 3.1.4 Packaging and on-site assessments. The aim of our development. We support our suppliers and 8 Environmental and Ethical continuous improvement in the 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE regular on-site system assessments is in striving towards such lasting in-depth assessments. In areas where sourcing sustainability issues and to 3.2.1 Merging several products into one to monitor compliance with the Nokia improvements by helping them analyze risks were identified, suppliers have raise standards in our supply chain 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting Supplier Requirements. These involve the adequacy of their corrective actions, been requested to take corrective during 2011, we designed an 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle offering benchmarking with our internal actions and we’ll follow up on their a review of the supplier’s complete Occupational Health and Safety pilot 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions processes and management system human resources practices and improvements. To increase the visibility project focusing on chemicals 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of against the Nokia Supplier Requirements. consultancy with our in-house subject and in-depth understanding on management in our supply base based renewable energy All new suppliers must undergo a matter experts as necessary. It is an environmental and social performance, in China. The project will involve 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT approach that requires a strong we plan to increase the number 3.3.1 Climate strategy system assessment, together with conducting a series of 3rd party audits 3.3.2 Environmental management suppliers who have undergone commitment on both sides, but we of assessments. focusing on Health and Safety and systems (EMS) significant organizational changes and believe it is the best way to create environmental issues in detail. We have 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities lasting change for the better. Altogether 292 hardware supplier suppliers considered at highest risk of facilities were risk self-assessed in selected a number of supplier sites to 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements non-compliance or with the greatest Typical challenges that arise in our relation to labor, ethics, health and undergo initial assessments followed 3.4.2 Supplier assessments need of development. Key suppliers are supplier assessments safety and environmental topics by development actions to close any generally assessed every two years. detected gaps. This builds on our own • 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact in our supply chain Disciplinary practices (26 in 2010). internal assessment practices and 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain The second type of on-site assessment is called an in-depth assessment. This • Freedom of association (where it is legally restricted) complements them by offering an 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become independent expert view to chemicals more sustainable provides an opportunity for more insight into how a supplier is managing • Health and safety requirements management issues. We will also get 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials and performing against the ethics, • Overtime hours the opportunity to mitigate potential 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative environment, labor and health and • Pay structure risks early. 6.0 Key data safety requirements defined in the • Sub-supplier monitoring system Nokia Supplier Requirements. Suppliers • Waste management undergo in-depth assessments for a variety of reasons, including identified risk, non-conformance or strategic importance. 92 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.4.3 Reducing Nokia’s water action plan Reporting on greenhouse 2011 progress for the supply chain gas emissions 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET environmental impact reducing the 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process in our supply chain During 2011, Nokia prepared a water strategy for the entire company. In regards To quantify our upstream indirect emissions taking place in Nokia’s supply environmental impact 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) Over 50% of the energy consumption to the supply chain, we identified chain, we have been using life cycle 3.1.3 Substance and materials management and greenhouse gas emissions a Nokia components and parts that require more assessment calculations for many years. In 2011, 91% of our direct hardware 3.1.4 Packaging 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs product generates during its life cycle water usage during production as well as This has helped us to identify hot spots suppliers’ sites serving Nokia were 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE occur in the supply chain before the areas and locations that are water scarce. and drive improvements throughout the certified to ISO14001. Nokia’s direct 3.2.1 Merging several products into one components reach our factories. Based on these findings we will take the product life cycle. Since 2007, our direct hardware suppliers have maintained 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting Therefore, it is important for us to work following actions in the years to come. suppliers have been asked to measure a high level of certification since 2008. 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy efficient solutions closely with our suppliers to reduce this environmental impact. • Raising awareness on water scarcity in the Nokia supply chain by arranging and set reduction targets on their greenhouse gas emissions. The scope Nokia prepared a water strategy for the entire company. In regards 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of workshops and training. of suppliers reporting on their emissions renewable energy We encourage all of our suppliers to to the supply chain we identified has expanded during the years. We have 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT measure, monitor and set reduction • Improving the water efficiency in the Nokia supply chain by closer been using training sessions to improve components and parts that require 3.3.1 Climate strategy targets. Nokia follows up on whether the more water usage during production 3.3.2 Environmental management co-operation with suppliers the data quality and accuracy. systems (EMS) suppliers have reduction targets in place as well as areas and locations that 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities and have been able to meet the targets. operating in water scarce areas. are water scarce. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS All of our strategically important suppliers, During the next few years, we will 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements or suppliers which have the highest 3.4.2 Supplier assessments encourage our suppliers operating in environmental impact, are required to 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact water scarce areas to have the required in our supply chain report to us about their impact. The main practices, policies etc. in place to manage 3.4.4 Improving social conditions focus areas, largely the same as with our in our supply chain water scarcity. Additionally, we’d like all own factories, are: energy consumption, 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become relevant Nokia suppliers to have water greenhouse gas emissions, waste more sustainable reduction targets in place, monitor water 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials generation, and water use and recycling. use and recycle water. 4.0 Independent assurance In 2011, 66% of our hardware suppliers 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data that account for the highest environmental impact or are strategically important to us, had company-level reduction targets for energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste in place and monitored. The figure has slightly decreased since last reporting period and in coming years we will thus put even more efforts on getting suppliers to commit to reduce their environmental impact. 93 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.4.4 Improving social 2011 progress 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET conditions in our social conditions 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process supply chain 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) 3.1.3 Substance and materials management As well as focusing on the environmental • 98% (92.9% in 2010) of our direct hardware suppliers had a code of In 2011, the average results of our new health, safety and labor metrics were impact, we also work to improve the 3.1.4 Packaging ethical, labor and health and safety conduct policy in place that met the following: 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs our requirements. A Code of 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE 3.2.1 Merging several products into one conditions of our supply chain through performance metrics and target setting. Conduct policy covers key • The rate of occupational illnesses and injuries was 0.34, meaning 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting These metrics help us to follow up sustainability topics including that for every 100 employees, 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle on how our suppliers are managing, corruption, general business 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy there were 0.34 incidence of while providing them support to routines, health and safety, efficient solutions occupational injury or illness. improve further. human rights, working conditions, 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of renewable energy social rights and environmental • Employee attrition at supplier sites was 21%. Employee 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT A year ago, in 2010, Nokia introduced standards and is a part of the Nokia 3.3.1 Climate strategy four new metrics related to health, Supplier Requirements. Suppliers attrition represents staff 3.3.2 Environmental management safety and labor issues. With these turnover; employees that leave systems (EMS) not meeting our expectations 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities metrics, we want to get a deeper have been requested to take the organization divided by the 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS understanding of the labor conditions corrective actions. total number of employees. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements 3.4.2 Supplier assessments of our suppliers. These metrics concern occupational injuries and illnesses, • 97% of our strategically • The average response regarding employee satisfaction survey 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact important hardware suppliers employee attrition and overall employee practices at our supplier sites was in our supply chain report on our new health and 3.4.4 Improving social conditions satisfaction surveys. We started with a 2.80 on a scale from 1 to 4, which in our supply chain safety metrics introduced in the pilot scheme in 2010 and during 2011 all indicates that at supplier sites, 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become 2011. The number of remaining of our strategically important suppliers in general, nearly or over 60% more sustainable hardware suppliers that voluntarily 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials were asked to report these metrics. of total employees are covered reported was 52% 4.0 Independent assurance by an annual employee 5.0 Global reporting initiative satisfaction survey. 6.0 Key data 94 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.4.5 Helping every 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing Case 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET supplier become of raw materials Driving sustainability 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE 3.1.1 Design for the environment process more sustainable We take continuous action to ensure performance across 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) To build trust and stronger relations with that our products are manufactured ICT sector 3.1.3 Substance and materials management from ethically sourced materials. our suppliers, we decided to move beyond 3.1.4 Packaging only auditing and focus also on supplier During 2011 we focused on the further We also work to promote good 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE capacity building initiatives. We have development of an industry-wide conduct and to develop and deploy 3.2.1 Merging several products into one delivered a number of supplier training approach. Our aim was to ensure that a consistent set of tools and 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting info-sessions on environmental our supply chain was fully accountable processes to measure, monitor and 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle requirements such as the Nokia Substance and easier to trace. Traceability is an improve sustainability performance 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy issue that concerns the entire electronics efficient solutions List and Material Data Collection. The aim across the ICT sector. As part of our 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of of this training is to provide suppliers industry, and any other industry using membership of the Global renewable energy with a clear understanding and guidance metals and minerals derived from e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT conflict areas. This is why we think it’s 3.3.1 Climate strategy on Nokia requirements. It will also enable Supply Chain Working Group (SCWG), 3.3.2 Environmental management their internal environmental organization very important to participate in industry we actively participate in the Learning systems (EMS) to promote learning within their own initiatives aimed at improving overall and Capability Building, Validated 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities supply eco-system. As active members traceability, even though we don’t mine Audit Program and Extractives 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS or even buy metals directly. 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements of EICC/GeSI Learning and Capability working groups’ collaboration with 3.4.2 Supplier assessments Building Work Group, we promoted the There are typically four to eight supplier Electronic Industry Citizenship 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact Worker Management Communication layers between Nokia and any mining Coalition (EICC). in our supply chain training course among our suppliers. 3.4.4 Improving social conditions activities. In all these layers active work on Many of the supply chain challenges in our supply chain The objective of the course was to increasing transparency, to improve the support our suppliers in implementing we face, such as the traceability 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become overall traceability of metals and minerals, of metals, are similar across the more sustainable effective worker-management is required. We aim to understand the 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials communication systems and in raising electronics industry. Collaborating 4.0 Independent assurance commitments of each tier of the supply with other companies and industry worker awareness of their rights chain through dialogue both at an industry 5.0 Global reporting initiative groups to help develop solutions is 6.0 Key data and responsibilities. level and with stakeholders. We believe essential. We have been a full member that an effective and sustainable solution of GeSI since 2007 and a member of requires that all companies, using metals, the GeSI SCWG since 2004. We are follow the same rules and apply the very pleased to be part of the industry same practices. that has taken a proactive approach to the matter and worked out a validation process that will provide a third-party assurance that smelters do not source minerals from conflict areas. 95 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS 1.0 Contents The Enough Project has 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 2011 Progress ranked Nokia among the 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 3.1 AN ENVIRONMENTALLY LEADING PRODUCT RANGE ETHICAL SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS top 5 electronics 3.1.1 Design for the environment process companies for progress 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment (LCA) As of June 2011, we have included OECD Guidelines In late 2011, Nokia joined the Publicon conflict minerals. 3.1.3 Substance and materials management requirements regarding conflict Private Alliance for Responsible 3.1.4 Packaging 1. Establish strong company minerals policy and due diligence Minerals Trade (PPA). This is a joint 3.1.5 Take-back and recycling programs management systems 3.2 ENABLING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE into Nokia Supplier Requirements. initiative between governments, 3.2.1 Merging several products into one 2. Identify and assess risk in the companies, and civil society to support Also in June 2011, we signed up to 3.2.2 Reduced travel and commuting supply chain supply chain solutions to conflict participate in the pilot implementation 3.2.3 Apps for sustainable lifestyle minerals challenges in the Democratic 3.2.4 Helping to save energy with energy of OECD (Organization for Economic 3. Design and implement a strategy to Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Great efficient solutions Cooperation and Development) Due respond to identified risks 3.2.5 Innovating in the use of Lakes Region (GLR) of Central Africa. Diligence Guidelines for Responsible renewable energy 4. Carry out an independent While we want to ensure that our 3.3 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Supply Chains of Minerals from third-party audit of the products are free of conflict minerals, 3.3.1 Climate strategy Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. supply chain we wish to avoid an embargo on 3.3.2 Environmental management The aim of the pilot scheme is to apply systems (EMS) Central Africa and support legitimate the guidance, share experiences and 5. Report on supply chain 3.3.3 Green Operations and facilities trade. 3.4 NOKIA AND SUPPLIERS discern best practices with companies due diligence 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements from other sectors and large In December 2011, in order to provide The OECD guidance was the first 3.4.2 Supplier assessments conglomerates. further clarification on our stance 3.4.3 Reducing environmental impact inter-governmental agreement on how regarding the illegal trade in natural in our supply chain A key factor in the guidelines is a to undertake supply chain due diligence resources, we published a public policy 3.4.4 Improving social conditions progressive approach to conducting – and clarify how all the parties involved, in our supply chain to complement our strict supplier due diligence and seeking to avoid from mines and mineral processors to 3.4.5 Helping every supplier become requirements and other guidelines. more sustainable boycotting of mining in countries like the manufacturers, can identify and We require the parties in our supply 3.4.6 Ethical sourcing of raw materials the Democratic Republic of Congo, manage risks throughout the supply chain to agree to follow the same 4.0 Independent assurance where there is also legitimate mining chain. The pilot scheme will run until 5.0 Global reporting initiative principles. In the policy we publicly activities, employing thousands. By June 2012. 6.0 Key data state that we prohibit human rights incorporating the flexibility to allow In addition to OECD pilot scheme, Nokia abuses associated with the extraction, trade to continue, the guidelines also supports the smelter audit validation transport or trade of minerals. We also promote responsible sourcing. processes by Electronic Industry prohibit any direct or indirect support The guidelines resulted from a multiCitizenship Coalition (EICC) and Global to non-state armed groups or security stakeholder consultation process, e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) for tin, forces that illegally control or tax mine where Nokia was an active participant. tantalum, tungsten and gold, as well sites, transport routes, trade points, They outline a five-step risk-based as the recently introduced Minerals or any upstream actors in the supply process for companies to develop Reporting Template tool, a standardized chain. And finally, we have no tolerance responsible supply chain management template for assessing due diligence. with respect to corruption, money for tin, tantalum and tungsten. The tool was developed to facilitate laundering or bribery. disclosure and communication of More information about our progress information regarding smelters that in traceability of minerals can be found provide material to a company’s on our website. supply chain. 96 independent Contents 4.0 1.0 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative assurance 6.0 Key data 97 4.1 INDEPENDENT 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET ASSURANCE 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 Key data Selected key corporate responsibility indicators in this report have been assured by an independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (Nokia’s statutory auditor). their assurance report can be found below: 98 4.1 Independent Assurance Report 1.0 2.0 Contents NOKIA AND PEOPLE To the Management Environment HR (The boundary has been indicated in (The boundary is “Nokia excluding NAVTEQ”, 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET of Nokia Corporation parenthesis) unless otherwise stated below in 4.0 Independent assurance We have been engaged by the Management of Nokia parenthesis) 5.0 Global reporting initiative Key data Corporation (hereinafter also “Nokia”) to perform • Facility related direct and indirect energy • 6.0 consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions Employees in production. a limited assurance engagement on selected Nokia Corporation’s sustainability information for the reporting (Nokia and Nokia Group) and comparison of year • Total training cost and Training cost/employee. period of 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 included 2011 GHG emissions to base year 2006 emissions (Nokia). CO₂ emissions in base year 2006 have • Total incident frequency rate (TIFR) in production. in Nokia Corporation’s Sustainability Report 2011, originally been assured by Ecofys Germany GmbH, • Women in senior management. as disclosed on Nokia’s website (hereinafter the and for that part PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has • Non-Finnish nationalities in senior management. “Selected sustainability information”). relied on their assurance work. • Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and gender. Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered the nature and extent of Nokia Corporation’s adherence to • Energy used in production per unit produced in 2011 compared to year 2010 (Nokia) and greenhouse • Rate of employee turnover (Voluntary attrition). the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles as presented in the gas emissions per person working in Nokia offices • Number of monetary employee recognition given (number of Achievement Awards and Kudos given). AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 and R&D in 2011 compared to year 2006 (Nokia (inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness). excluding NAVTEQ). • Percentage of production employees covered by • Water usage in facilities (withdrawal amount and collective bargaining agreements. Selected sustainability source, recycling, discharge destination) (Nokia and • LtY (Listening to You) results on strategic goals for Nokia’s transformation (Nokia). Nokia Group) and water withdrawal per person in information in the assurance scope 2008 and 2011 (Nokia). The Selected sustainability information consists of • Green electrical energy portion of total electricity consumption (Nokia and Nokia Group). Supply Chain performance indicators in the areas of Environment, (The boundary is Nokia, and the indicators HR and Supply Chain as listed below. “Nokia” means Nokia Group excluding Nokia Siemens Networks, and • VOC (Volatile Organic Compound) emissions from factories (Nokia). cover Nokia’s direct hardware supply chain) unless otherwise stated, Nokia includes NAVTEQ. • Waste amounts, treatment and recycling • Percentage of direct hardware suppliers having certified ISO14001 system in place for sites Beginning 1 October 2011, NAVTEQ has been part refunds (Nokia). serving Nokia 2011, 2010 and 2009. of Nokia’s Location and Commerce business. • ROHS and REACH compliance of products (Nokia). • Percentage of suppliers having reduction • Charger no-load power consumption (average sold p.a.) (Nokia). targets for energy, GHG, water, and waste in place and monitored. • Air travel emissions (Nokia). • Risk assessment E-TASC: • GHG reduction impact of Nokia Devices and Services (cases) (Nokia). -N umber of direct suppliers that have completed a risk self-assessment in 2011. -A verage supplier risk assessment score for Environment, Labour, Health and safety, Ethics. • NSR (Nokia Supplier Requirements) and E&E (Environmental and Ethical) in-depth assessments: -N umber of NSR assessments and E&E in-depth assessments during 2011. • Supplier Code of Conduct implementation percentage in 2011, 2010 and 2009. • Percentage of priority suppliers reporting on Nokia’s new health, safety and labour metrics. Average results. 99 4.1 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 1.0 Contents Management’s Responsibility Practitioner’s Responsibility In a limited assurance engagement the evidence2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE gathering procedures are more limited than for a 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET The Management of Nokia is responsible for preparing Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Independent assurance reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less 4.0 the Selected sustainability information in accordance Selected sustainability information based on our work 5.0 Global reporting initiative assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance with the reporting criteria as set out in Nokia’s performed. Our assurance report has been made in 6.0 Key data engagement. An assurance engagement involves documented standards, GHG Protocol, and ISO 14001 accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do performing procedures to obtain evidence about the certifications for suppliers’ ISO 14001 system not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, amounts and other disclosures in the Selected (hereinafter the “Reporting criteria”). Also, adherence except to Nokia for our work, for this report, or for the sustainability information. The procedures selected to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 conclusions that we have reached. depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an and the three principles of inclusivity, materiality and Within Nokia Group, Nokia Siemens Networks assessment of the risks of material misstatement of responsiveness is the responsibility of the Management. sustainability information for 2011 has been assured the Selected sustainability information. Our work by another service provider. For those performance consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: indicators in our assurance scope, which include Nokia Siemens Networks data, we have relied on the other • Interviewing relevant management of Nokia. service provider’s assurance work, and hence we have • Interviewing relevant employees from various organisational levels of Nokia with regards to not performed any assurance work separately stakeholder expectations, meeting of those on Nokia Siemens Networks data. expectations, as well as stakeholder engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements • Assessing stakeholder engagement and responsiveness based on Nokia’s documentation (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than and internal communication. Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. • Performing a media analysis on Nokia. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance • Assessing how Nokia employees apply Nokia’s reporting guidelines and procedures. engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe • Visiting Nokia’s Head Office as well as two other sites in Germany and South Korea. that the Selected sustainability information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance • Interviewing employees responsible for collection and reporting of the Selected sustainability with the Reporting criteria. information at Nokia, as well as at the sites where In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance our visits took place. with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. For conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed • Inspecting relevant documents and systems for gathering, analysing and aggregating the Selected with Nokia, the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 sustainability information as well as performing requires planning and performing of the assurance tests on a sample basis. engagement to obtain limited assurance on whether any matters come to our attention that cause us • Assessing the data consolidation process of the Selected sustainability information at Nokia. to believe that Nokia does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 Accountability Principles and that the Selected sustainability information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. 100 4.1 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 1.0 Contents Conclusion Observations and recommendations Practitioner’s independence and 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE qualifications 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing Based on our limited assurance engagement, we provide 4.0 Independent assurance has come to our attention that causes us to believe the following observations and recommendations in PricewaterhouseCoopers’ own Global Independence 5.0 Global reporting initiative that Nokia Corporation does not adhere, in all material relation to Nokia Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 Policy is applicable to PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, its 6.0 Key data respects, to the AA1000 Accountability Principles. AccountAbility Principles. These observations and partners and professional staff, including all members recommendations do not affect the conclusions of the assurance engagement team. Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that presented earlier. causes us to believe that Nokia Corporation’s Selected Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility sustainability information has not been prepared, in all • Regarding Inclusivity: Nokia Corporation has a strong commitment to stakeholder engagement. and assurance specialists possesses the requisite material respects, in accordance with the Reporting skills and experience within financial and non-financial criteria, or that the Selected sustainability information The company has an ongoing and extensive assurance, corporate responsibility strategy and is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the stakeholder engagement process in place to management, social and environmental issues reporting criteria. ensure a continuous identification of relevant as well as industry knowledge to undertake this stakeholders as well as their concerns and assurance engagement. Our assurance report should be read in conjunction expectations. We recommend that Nokia with the inherent limitations of accuracy and Corporation especially utilises its wide-ranging Helsinki, X Month 2012 completeness for sustainability information. stakeholder engagement to confirm or refute the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy This independent assurance report should not be used company’s assumptions regarding the materiality Authorised Public Accountants for interpreting Nokia Corporation’s performance of key sustainability issues. in relation to its principles of sustainability. • Regarding Materiality: Nokia Corporation has processes in place to discuss, evaluate and determine the materiality of sustainability topics. These processes are aligned with the processes Merja Lindh for organisational decision making and strategy Authorised Public Accountant development. We recommend that Nokia Corporation continues to update its materiality analysis regularly, and also takes proactively into account emerging sustainability trends. • Regarding Responsiveness: Nokia Corporation is committed to being responsive to its stakeholders, which is evident from the ongoing, Sirpa Juutinen wide-ranging and thematically balanced Partner, Sustainability and Climate Change communication on sustainability issues via various communication channels. We recommend that Nokia Corporation ensures that its responsiveness across the organisation continues to be sufficient taking into account the rapidly changing markets. 101 GLOBAL 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 5.0 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative REPORTING 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data INITIATIVE 102 5.0 GLOBAL 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET REPORTING 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data INITIATIVE In compiling the 2011 sustainability report, Nokia used the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.0). We have disclosed all core indicators as well as additional indicators relevant to Nokia. A third-party GRI Application Level check conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has confirmed Nokia’s self-declaration that this report meets the requirements for GRI Application Level A+. 103 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior Fully 1.1 Greetings from Nokia’s CEO decision-maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability 3D. Risk Factors (p. 13 -); opportunities. topics; 1.4 Key achievements and Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) challenges in 2011; 3.3.1 Climate strategy (Our climate targets); 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management; 2.2.4 Customer engagement (Customer privacy); 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement (Partnering with non-governmental organizations) 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully First page Title page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011 4B. Business overview (p. 50-) services. 2.3 Operational structure of the Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011 4. Information on the company / organization, including main divisions, Organizational Structure and operating companies, subsidiaries, Reportable Segments (p. 49-50) 4C. and joint ventures. Organizational structure (p. 85-86) 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011 Title page 2.5 Number of countries where the Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011 4D. Property, Plants and Equipment organization operates, and names of (p. 85-86) countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Introduction and use of certain terms (p. 4); 7A. Major shareholders (p. 184) 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011 5A. Operating results (p. 87-), breakdown, sectors served, and types Net sales p. 115 of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 1.2 Nokia in 2011; 3A. Selected Financial Data (p. 9); 2.2.6 Our Economic impact Results of operations (p. 114-); 5A. Operating Results (p. 118); 6D. Employees (p. 173) 2.9 Significant changes during the Fully 5A. Operating results (p. 87-); reporting period regarding size, 8B. Significant changes (p. 190) structure, or ownership. 104 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement (Awards received for Nokia’s sustainability work) 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar Fully About the report year) for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully About the report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully About the report (Integrated reporting and additional sources for sustainability information) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Fully About the report the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement; 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Fully About the report (Reporting scope) divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the Fully About the report scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully About the report (Reporting scope; subsidiaries, leased facilities, Integrated reporting and additional outsourced operations, and other sources for sustainability information) entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and Fully 6. Key Data This is reported in connection with the bases of calculations, including each indicator as relevant. assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 105 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any Fully 6. Key Data 5A. Operating Results (p. 87) This is reported in connection with re-statements of information each indicator as relevant. provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous Fully 6. Key Data 5A. Operating results (p. 87-); reporting periods in the scope, 8B. Significant changes (p. 190) boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Fully 5. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); Standard Disclosures in the report. This index 3.13 Policy and current practice with Fully 4. Independent assurance regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully 6A. Directors and Senior Management organization, including committees (p. 142-); 6C. Board Practices (p. 168-) under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully 6C. Board Practices (p. 170) highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary Fully 6C. Board Practices (p. 170) board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 106 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Fully All shareholders have the right to and employees to provide submit agenda items or proposals to recommendations or direction the agenda of our Annual General to the highest governance body. Meeting (AGM) provided that the item or proposal belongs to the scope of the general meeting of the shareholders, and the request is made to the Board in writing well in advance to be included in the notice of the meeting. The Finnish Corporate Governance Code recommends attendance by the Board Chairman and a sufficient number of directors to allow the shareholders to exercise their right to present questions to the Board and management. All the directors attended Nokia’s Annual General Meeting held on May 3, 2011. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Fully 6B. Compensation (p. 152-) Nokia has group level sustainability members of the highest governance targets and also each business unit body, senior managers, and executives has their more specific targets. (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Fully 6C. Board practices (p. 168-) governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the Fully 6A. Directors and senior management qualifications and expertise of the (p. 142-) members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of Fully 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct; 2.2.3 4B. Business overview mission or values, codes of conduct, Employees (Nokia Way and values; (Corporate responsibility) (p. 72-) and principles relevant to economic, Labor conditions) environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 107 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Fully 1.5.1 Sustainability governance and Corporate Responsibility: body for overseeing the organization’s management Nokia (p. 72-) identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Fully 6C. Board Practices (p. 169) governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Fully 1.3.1 Identifying key sustainability topics; engagement, including frequency 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement; of engagement by type and by 2.2.3 Employees (New strategy and stakeholder group. our employees) 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 108 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Fully 1.4 Key achievements and challenges Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed in 2011; 1.5.1 Sustainability governance in conjunction with information on and management; 1.5.2 Sustainability each aspect targets, management systems and policies; 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management; 2.1 Enabling people with mobile technology; 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement; 2.2.6 Our economic impact; 3.3.1 Climate strategy; 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Fully 1.4 Key achievements and challenges Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed in 2011; 1.5.1 Sustainability governance in conjunction with information on and management; 1.5.2 Sustainability each aspect targets, management systems and policies; 3.1 An environmentally leading product range; 3.3.1 Climate strategy Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Fully 2.2.3 Employees; Diversity and inclusion; Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed Labor conditions; Health, safety in conjunction with information on and well-being of our employees; each aspect Training and development; Performance and rewards; New strategy and our employees Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Fully 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed management systems and policies; in conjunction with information on 2.2.1 Human rights; 2.2.2 Nokia Code each aspect of Conduct; 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions); 3.4.2 Supplier assessments; 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in our supply chain 109 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Fully 1.4 Key achievements and challenges Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed in 2011; 1.5.2 Sustainability targets, in conjunction with information on management systems and policies; each aspect 2.1 Enabling people with mobile technology; 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct; 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions, New strategy and our employees); 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 2.2.4 Customer engagement Corporate Responsibility: Nokia (p. 72-) Management approach disclosed (Product safety); in conjunction with information on 3.1.3 Substance and materials each aspect management 110 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ECONOMIC 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated Partially 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement; F-2 Data disclosed for other parts, not for and distributed, including revenues, 2.2.6 Our economic impact Community Investments. Amounts operating costs, employee (Direct economic impact) are not material in relation to Nokia’s compensation, donations and other overall business volumes. Our social community investments, retained investment projects are explained earnings, and payments to capital in chapters 2.1.1 Providing the next providers and governments. billion with access to the Internet and information and 2.1.2 Improving education, health and livelihoods with mobile technology. EC2 Financial implications and other risks Partially 3.3.1 Climate strategy; Not expected to cause material and opportunities for the organization’s 1.5.3 Risk and opportunity management financial implications in the near term. activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Partially P. 160, F-13, F-30-33 As we have disclosed the financials defined benefit plan obligations. of defined benefit schemes and country headcount we did not consider the actual participation numbers to be material but these can be supplied upon request. EC4 Significant financial assistance Fully Nokia has received some funding received from government. from governmental organizations such as research and development financing from Tekes, the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation. During 2011, Nokia received around 10 million EUR which was mainly used for co-operation projects with universities and Finnish business partners. 111 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ECONOMIC 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Partially 3.4.1 Nokia Supplier Requirements Proportion of spending on spending on locally-based suppliers locally-based suppliers not disclosed. at significant locations of operation. As Nokia is a global company and to ensure material availability, we mainly use global suppliers. Many of these suppliers often operate near our locations of operations. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Partially 2.2.3 Employees Our policy is to employ local people proportion of senior management (Diversity and inclusion) wherever we work. Proportion of local hired from the local community at senior management not reported. significant locations of operation. Data not available. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of Fully 2.1 Enabling people with During the reporting period Nokia infrastructure investments and mobile technology itself has not invested in public services provided primarily for public infrastructure investments those benefit through commercial, in-kind, meant by GRI, but has participated or pro bono engagement. in to the public good activities through donations and through partners. EC9 (add) Understanding and describing Fully 2.1 Enabling people with significant indirect economic impacts, mobile technology including the extent of impacts. 112 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Environmental 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Partially 3.1.3 Substance and materials Packaging materials disclosed. management; 3.1.4 Packaging Nokia collects full material declaration of all parts and components used in manufacturing and thus we are able to provide full material declaration for our mobile devices. Due to very detailed level of information of materials we publish used materials in “material pie” level for consumers. http://www.nokia.com/global/ about-nokia/people-and-planet/ sustainable-devices/eco/eco-profiles/ This substance list is the requirement specification of materials used in parts and components delivered to Nokia by suppliers: http://www.nokia. com/global/about-nokia/people-andplanet/strategy/management/ substance-management/. Part of the material information is Nokia suppliers trade secret and thus total materials used is not reported in GRI terms. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Partially 3.1.4 Packaging Nokia does not calculate percentage recycled input materials. of materials used in products that are recycled input materials as these are not material to our operations, only the amount used in packaging materials is calculated. 113 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Environmental 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities energy source. (Energy efficiency and emissions); 6. Key data EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities primary source. (Energy efficiency and emissions); 6. Key data EN5 (add) Energy saved due to conservation and Partially 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities efficiency improvements. (Energy efficiency and emissions) EN6 (add) Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Partially 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities or renewable energy based products (Energy efficiency and emissions) and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 (add) Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Partially 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities consumption and reductions achieved. (Energy efficiency and emissions) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities (Water usage); 6. Key data EN10 (add) Percentage and total volume of water Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities recycled and reused. (Water usage); 6. Key data Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities Size of land is altogether around managed in, or adjacent to, protected (Protecting biodiversity) 100.000 m². areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of Fully 1.3.2 Our key sustainability topics table activities, products, and services on (Green supply chain and logistics); biodiversity in protected areas and 3.1.2 Product life cycle assessment areas of high biodiversity value (LCA); 3.3.3 Green operations and outside protected areas. facilities (Protecting biodiversity) 114 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Environmental 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities 216.300 tonnes (CO₂e) net emissions. gas emissions by weight. (Energy efficiency and emissions); 6. Key data EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities gas emissions by weight. (Energy efficiency and emissions); 6. Key data EN18 (add) Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities emissions and reductions achieved. (Energy efficiency and emissions); 6. Key data EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Fully 6. Key data substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Fully 6. Key data emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully 6. Key data destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Fully 6. Key data; disposal method. 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities (Reducing waste) EN23 Total number and volume of Fully There were no significant spills significant spills. from Nokia facilities in 2011 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully 2.1 Enabling people with mobile impacts of products and services, and technology; extent of impact mitigation. 3.3.1 Climate strategy (Our climate targets) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Partially 3.1.4 Packaging Recycling volumes described. packaging materials that are Other required data in GRI format reclaimed by category. not available. 115 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Environmental 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Profile Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Disclosure 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Fully There were no significant fines and total number of non-monetary or non-monetary sanctions for sanctions for non-compliance with noncompliance with laws and environmental laws and regulations. regulations during 2011. Transport EN29 (add) Significant environmental impacts of Fully 3.3.3 Green operations and facilities transporting products and other (Green logistics; Business travel, goods and materials used for the employee commuting and car fleet); organization’s operations, and 6. Key data transporting members of the workforce. 116 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully 2.2.3 Employees (Diversity and inclusion) 6D. Employees (p. 173) employment contract, and region broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of employee Partially 2.2.3 Employees Voluntary attrition rate of permanent turnover by age group, gender, employees disclosed. Nokia does not and region. follow employee turnover by age group, gender or region and due that the data for this disclosure is not reported. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Partially 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) Nokia recognizes the right of collective bargaining agreements. employees to join unions and enter collective bargaining agreements. However, practicalities vary according to country laws and practices. Percentage not available. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) Nokia always follows the local legislation. significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Partially 2.2.3 Employees (Health, safety and The metrics are not available from the lost days, and absenteeism, and well-being of our employees) whole 2011 due to structural changes in number of work-related fatalities the organization. 1H figure of aggregate by region. people incidents was 10. In 2012 we will introduce new incident log and aim to have not only aggregate figure but specific number. Aggregate people incidents contain all people incidents like strikes, occupational hazards, discrimination etc. The categorization/ reporting does not go in reporting each type of people on indicents separately but is covered by aggregate figure because many times one incident can represent many categories same time (discrimination leads to strike etc.). LA8 Education, training, counseling, Fully 2.2.3 Employees (Health, safety and prevention, and risk-control programs well-being of our employees) in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 117 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year Partially 2.2.3 Employees Nokia does not track training hours, per employee by employee category. (Training and development); only the cost of training. 6. Key data LA11 (add) Programs for skills management Fully 2.2.3 Employees (Training and and lifelong learning that support development; New strategy and our the continued employability of employees) employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 (add) Percentage of employees receiving Partially 2.2.3 Employees regular performance and career (Performance and rewards) development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies Partially 2.2.3 Employees 4B. Business Overview (p. 75); Nokia does not track breakdown of and breakdown of employees per (Diversity and inclusion); 6A. Directors and Senior Management employees by minority group category according to gender, age 6. Key data (p. 142 – 151) memberships. Data for employees by group, minority group membership, age group not available for 2011, but and other indicators of diversity. will be reported in future. Number of women (2) / men (9) in board, and total number (11) of board members. Number of women (4) / men (10) in leadership team, and total number (14) of leadership team members. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Partially 2.2.3 Employees Gender demographics vary greatly by employee category. (Performance and rewards) both between the many countries where we operate and employee categories. For our indirect (non-production staff) we use a global framework to set salary bands which are applied to people regardless of gender/age, etc. We also regularly benchmark with other companies in the industry to ensure we are paying competitively. For our production staff, we have agreements which specify the salary for each role and experience level. These are applied consistently irrespective of gender. 118 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Human Rights 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of Partially 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) Nokia conducts human rights/social significant investment agreements impact assessment for all major new that include human rights clauses investments e.g. new factories. or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers Partially 3.4.2 Supplier assessments; All new suppliers must undergo a and contractors that have undergone 3.4.4 Improving social conditions in system assessment, together with screening on human rights and our supply chain suppliers who have undergone actions taken. significant organizational changes and suppliers considered at highest risk of non-compliance or with the greatest need of development. Key suppliers are generally assessed every two years. HR3 (add) Total hours of employee training on Partially 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct Nokia does not track training hours. policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Partially 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) The metrics are not available from discrimination and actions taken. the whole 2011 due to structural changes in the organization. 1H figure of aggregate people incidents was 10. In 2012 we will introduce new incident log and aim to have not only aggregate figure but specific number. Data for disclosing more detailed this is not available. 119 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Human Rights 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the Partially 2.2.1 Human rights; The risks have been regocnized right to exercise freedom of 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) but they are not significant in our association and collective bargaining operations. Mitigation activities for may be at significant risk, and actions these risks are implemented. taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having Partially 2.2.1 Human rights; The risks have been recognized significant risk for incidents of child 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) but they are not significant in our labor, and measures taken to contribute operations. Mitigation activities for to the elimination of child labor. these risks are implemented. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having Partially 2.2.1 Human rights; The risks have been recognized significant risk for incidents of forced 2.2.3 Employees (Labor conditions) but they are not significant in our or compulsory labor, and measures to operations. Mitigation activities for contribute to the elimination of forced these risks are implemented. or compulsory labor. 120 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Society 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Local communities SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of Fully 2.1 Enabling people with any programs and practices that mobile technology; assess and manage the impacts of 2.2.3 Employees (New strategy and operations on communities, including our employees) entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Partially 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct We audit our business units on a business units analyzed for risks periodic and risk adjusted basis to related to corruption. examine risks related to corruption as well as general financial integrity. The number of units we audit in any given year vary due, but in general we cover all own factories i.e. our 1st tier supply every second year. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully 2.2.2 Nokia Code of Conduct organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents Partially 2.2.3. Employees (Labor conditions) Nokia has no governmental of corruption. investigations or litigation involving corruption. However, from time to time we find that our internal standards have not be followed. In those situations we take corrective action, including disciplinary action, as appropriate. 121 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Society 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and Fully 2.2.5 Stakeholder Engagement We are in active dialogue with different participation in public policy kinds of stakeholder groups presented development and lobbying. in report (in chapter 2.2.5 Stakeholder engagement) through which we often operate. SO6 (add) Total value of financial and in-kind Fully Nokia does not contribute to political contributions to political parties, parties or politicians. politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 (add) Total number of legal actions for Fully There were no legal actions against anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Nokia for anti-competitive behavior, and monopoly practices and their anti-trust or monopoly practices outcomes. in 2011. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Fully There were no significant fines or and total number of non-monetary non-monetary sanctions for sanctions for non-compliance with noncompliance with laws and laws and regulations. regulations during 2011. 122 5.1 GRI INDEX TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE Social: Product Responsibility 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Performance Description Reported 2011: 2011: Additional 5.0 Global reporting initiative Indicator 2011 Sustainability report 20-F information 5.1 GRI index table 6.0 Key data Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and Fully 2.2.4 Customer engagement Health and safety are essential part of safety impacts of products and (Product safety); our products and services life cycle services are assessed for 3.1.3 Substance and materials management, from manufacturing to improvement, and percentage of management end of life. http://www.nokia.com/ significant products and services global/about-nokia/people-andcategories subject to such planet/emf-health/emf-and-health/; procedures. http://www.nokia.com/global/ about-nokia/people-and-planet/ strategy/management/substancemanagement/; http://www.nokia. com/global/about-nokia/people-andplanet/strategy/ems/ems-and-policy/ Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service Fully 2.2.4 Customer engagement Applicable to all Nokia products. information required by procedures, (Product safety) and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR5 (add) Practices related to customer Fully 2.2.4 Customer engagement satisfaction, including results of (Customer satisfaction) surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communication PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Fully 3.1.3 Substance and materials Nokia wants to ensure that it complies standards, and voluntary codes management with the laws and regulations set related to marketing communications, by each market’s individual regulatory including advertising, promotion, bodies. Typically, our requirements and sponsorship. meet or go beyond the strictest stipulations set by any regulations in the world and are rooted in our global standards and requirements. E.g. RoHS and REACH compliance. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Fully There were no significant fines for non-compliance with laws and or non-monetary sanctions for regulations concerning the provision noncompliance with laws and and use of products and services. regulations during 2011. 123 KEY DATA 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 6.0 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE 124 6.0 NOKIA 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET KEY DATA 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE These figures cover Nokia sustainability data and exclude Nokia Siemens Network (NSN) a company approximately 50% owned by Nokia, which publishes its own sustainability report and figures. In addition to separate data tables of Nokia and NSN we have consolidated some key figures in a Nokia group key figure table which can be found after the notes part of this table. See footnotes for more information about the reporting scope and boundaries. This report covers last 5 years – if interested in longer term historical development please see Nokia’s older reports. 125 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL KEY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tonnes) 1,2 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA GHG Scope 1 (direct facility and car fleet) 18,600 20,100 19,100 17,400 15,900 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Direct CO₂ emissions from facilities total 13,200 14,200 14,400 13,600 13,100 Hydro-Fluoro-Carbon (HFC) 1,400 1,800 1,600 1,700 1,100 CH₄ 26 28 29 27 26 N₂O 11 11 12 11 10 CO₂ emissions from car fleet 3 4,000 4,100 3,100 2,100 1,700 GHG Scope 2 (Purchased electricity and heat), net amount 4 197,700 193,800 211,100 229,400 214,900 Indirect CO₂ from facilities, gross amount 251,800 286,400 280,600 276,000 241,600 CO₂ avoided due to purchased renewable energy (tonnes) -54,100 -60,100 -69,500 -46,700 -26,700 CO₂ avoided due to Gold Standard offsets (tonnes) 0 -32,500 0 0 0 GHG Scope 3 (see below) CO₂ emissions from air travel (tonnes)5 84,200 81,865 77,524 131,080 n/a CO₂ emissions from employee commuting (tonnes) 6 72,100 74,600 CO₂e emissions from the use of devices (tonnes)7 1,200,000 1,470,000 CO₂e emissions from supply chain (tonnes)7 1,870,000 6,880,000 CO₂ emissions from logistics (tonnes)8 500,200 CO₂ Key Performance Indicators Logistics: CO₂ /sales package, kg8 1.68 3.50 3.06 2.23 Offices: CO₂/office headcount, net, (tonnes) 9 1.51 1.66 1.39 1.93 3.06 Offices: CO₂/office headcount, gross, (tonnes)10 2.68 2.83 3.02 3.13 3.82 Factories: CO₂/device, net, (grams)11 342 276 377 358 345 126 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL KEY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Other air emissions 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Emissions to air total (tonnes)12 38 66 65 47 43 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), as ODP (tonnes)13 0.16 0.16 0.17 0.04 0.09 Energy consumption (1 GWh = 3 600 GJ) Nokia facilities14 Electricity, total (GWh) 485 538 537 560 527 District heating, total (GWh) 43 57 56 50 51 District cooling, total (GWh) 2 2 2 2 2 Fossil gas, total (GWh) 66 68 72 66 66 Biogas, total (GWh) 2 0 0 0 0 Oil, total (GWh) 4 7 5 6 3 Energy, total (GWh) 602 672 672 684 649 Direct energy, total (GWh) 72 75 77 72 69 Indirect energy, total (GWh) 530 597 595 612 580 Renewable energy (GWh)15 193 196 189 147 116 Renewable electricity share of total electricity 15 40% 36% 35% 26% 22% Energy, total kWh/m² 489 485 486 450 462 Nokia device chargers’ no-load power consumption 0.112 0.114 0.145 0.185 0.250 (average sold per annum in W) 127 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL KEY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Water (Nokia facilities) 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Water withdrawal total (thousands m³) 1,309 1,422 1,340 1,434 1,282 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Water withdrawal by source (%)16 Municipal water supply 95% 95% 94% 94% 94% Ground water 5% 5% 6% 6% 6% Discharges to Water, Total (tonnes) 17 BOD5 549 619 548 526 369 TSS 724 817 723 695 487 N 88 99 88 84 59 P 22 25 22 21 15 Water discharge destination (%)18 Municipal treatment facility, % 92% 87% 86% 87% 89% Piped to surface water after treatment, % 3% 4% 5% 4% 4% Used for irrigation after treatment, % 5% 9% 9% 9% 7% Recycled/reused water (thousands m³)19 133 178 141 130 90 Recyling/reuse % of total withdrawal 10% 12% 11% 9% 7% Waste from Nokia facilities20 (tonnes) Total 45,900 59,800 53,200 49,100 53,600 Reuse 7,500 10,300 8,000 2,000 2,100 Recycle 34,100 43,900 38,700 39,000 43,400 Energy recovery 2,500 2,200 1,900 2,200 1,600 Incineration without energy recovery 100 200 200 400 200 Landfill 1,700 3,200 4,400 5,500 6,300 Utilisation rate % 21 96% 94% 91% 88% 88% Non-hazardous waste 22 45,700 59,400 52,900 48,800 53,300 Hazardous waste 240 420 300 270 340 E-waste collected outside own facilities (tonnes)23 661 415 373 316 128 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE EMPLOYEES and ETHICS24 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Average number of employees 56,714 58,642 56,462 57,443 49,887 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Employees in production 25,428 29,234 22,935 25,576 28,096 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Total employee training cost for non production staff, EUR million 29 28 25 55 70 Average cost of training per employee, EUR 980 850 748 1,721 Injury/illness rate within production, TIFR 25 0.53 0.32 0.49 0.6 0.73 Women in senior management, % 26 15.2 14.5 13.8 13.7 14.3 Non-Finnish nationalities in senior management, % 26 53.6 53.2 50.7 47.4 44.1 Voluntary attrition, % 14.2 12 12.8 9.3 8.5 Countries with community involvement programs 33 42 40 57 45 Employee Code of Conduct awareness, % 98 98 85 86 98 Languages of the Code of Conduct 34 34 34 34 32 129 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE SUPPLY CHAIN 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Number of assessments 27 43 37 63 70 90 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Supplier ISO14001 certification, %28 91 92 92 91 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Supplier satisfaction survey, % n/a 80 79 78 Supplier’s Code of Conduct implementation %29 98 93 92 Supplier’s environmental performance %30 66 72 93 82 ECONOMIC31 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 note: more financial figures can be found in Nokia Group level data table Net sales, EUR million 24,618 29,785 28,410 35,401 37,665 Operating profit, EUR million32 -773 2,756 2,836 5,267 9,293 Research and development, EUR million 3,399 3,707 3,638 3,468 2,890 130 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE NOTES 1 Our GHG measurements have been Indirect CO₂-emissions (Scope 2 Our approach to measuring greenhouse assured by third party since 2003 and emissions) include emissions from 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Following scope has been used for 4.0 Independent assurance gas emissions follows the Greenhouse assurance will continue on an annual purchased electricity and district facility related data (energy, emissions basis. Read our assurance statement. heating and cooling. Emissions are 5.0 Global reporting initiative Gas (GHG) Protocol 6.0 KEY DATA from facilities, other air emissions, waste calculated by principles of a WRI/WBCSD (www.ghgprotocol.org) developed by the Direct CO₂e emissions from Nokia 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE and water) in the above table: NAVTEQ GHG Protocol Initiative calculation tool: 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE World Resources Institute (WRI) and the facilities include emissions from gas figures have been included for years “Indirect CO₂ Emissions from the World Business Council for Sustainable and oil usage in Nokia facilities and HFC 2006-2011. Although NAVTEQ has been Consumption of Purchased Electricity, Development (WBCSD). The GHG Protocol emissions. Emissions are calculated by part of Nokia Group only from mid 2008 Heat, and/ or Steam”, which takes values defines three scopes of CO₂ emissions: using the values embedded in WRI/ onwards, NAVTEQ data has been from IEA. Despite delay on IEA country included also for 2007 and 2006 • Scope 1 – direct emissions, from sources owned or controlled by the WBCSD GHG Protocol Initiative calculation tool: “Calculation Tool for statistics, data from previous years has according to WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse not been updated with new factors. The Gas Protocol requirements to recalculate company Direct Emissions from Stationary year 2006 emissions are calculated with acquisition’s effect until base year, which • Scope 2 – indirect emissions, from the consumption of purchased Combustion, version 4.0”, by using Higher heating values. The effect of tool worksheet version 1.2 and 2007 and is 2006 in case of Nokia. NAVTEQ 2008 with version 2.0 and 2009 with increased Nokia consumption values electricity, heat, and/or steam greenhouse gases CH₄ and N₂O version “GHG emissions from purchased with around 5%. Nokia’s former • Scope 3 – indirect emissions, as a consequence of the activities of the produced during burning process have been included in CO₂e emissions (CH4 energy, version 21”. Year 2010 emission Networks business group and functions factors are IEA country statistics from supporting Networks have been company, but from sources not and N2O effect being 0.3% of direct CO₂ year 2007 (published in October 2009) excluded from year 2006 and 2007 owned or controlled by the emissions). HFCs are refrigerants and and 2011 factors from year 2008. For figures. Data covers 100 % of square company. emissions are minor fugitive emissions USA latest EPA eGrid factors are used, meters managed by Nokia in 2006-2011; from facilities’ cooling systems. Nokia e.g. 2007 statistics for 2011 calculations. data collection coverage has been Organisational boundaries uses also some HCFCs as refrigerants, As an exception to get more specific 90-93% of all square meters, including We use the “operational control” but they are not included in the district heating emission factor for all production sites and other sites approach (instead of equity share inventory because the are not covered Finland, which uses around 90% of greater than 3000 sqm. Data from approach), which means we include by the Kyoto Protocol. These Nokia total district heating, Finland year smaller than 3000 sqm sites has been entities based on whether we can refrigerants are anyhow included in the 2008 emission factor is based on energy estimated based on Nokia averages. introduce and implement operating published Ozone Depleting Potential production data from year 2007 Due above explained scope definitions policies rather than on the basis of -figure. Out of Kyoto protocol (Statistics Finland, Environment and year 2006-2011 data in the above table financial control or economic interest. greenhouse gases Perfluorocarbons Energy), calculation method being are comparable between each other but As Nokia Siemens Networks’ (NSN) (PFCs) and Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) “benefit sharing” (in stead of alternative in some cases differ from figures operations are separate, detailed data are not applicable for Nokia. “energy method”) and the year 2007 published in previous reports. management and reporting are done factor is based on Finnish Environmental separately. Thus, NSN energy Institute publication. As no update for consumption and emissions are not “benefit sharing” value was available for included in this Nokia Key Data table 2009 calculation and for simplicity, but are reported separately by NSN Finland figure was calculated since 2009 and are also consolidated in Nokia with the GHG-tool value for purchased Group’s summary tables which can be energy. As CO₂ typically represents over found after the notes part of this table. 99 percent of the GHG emissions in NSN Sustainability Report electricity and heat production, indirect emission factors in GHG-tool are for CO₂ only, not for CO₂e. 131 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 2 7 10 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Total net CO₂ emissions in Nokia facilities by regions ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 standards have Gross CO₂ emissions from Nokia office and 4.0 Independent assurance been used as a framework in Life Cycle R&D buildings (excluding NAVTEQ) in metric 5.0 Global reporting initiative Assessments (LCAs) that are the basis of tonnes, per Nokia employees and externals 6.0 KEY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 the greenhouse gas emissions figures. working in Nokia Offices and R&D. 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) These calculations take into account the 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE raw materials acquisition, component 11 Total 210,900 208,000 225,500 243,000 228,000 manufacturing, Nokia’s own factory Net CO₂ emissions (i.e. green energy and Americas 19,000 34,200 14,200 26,400 57,500 processes, inbound and outbound logistics, offsets taken into account) from Nokia usage (3 years) and recycling of the mobile factory sites (including emissions from Asia157,700 127,500 157,400 151,900 121,500 devices. The results of an LCA always all energy use in the sites) in grams, per Pacific depend on the calculation method, Nokia device volume as published in Europe 34,200 46,300 53,900 64,700 49,000 scoping, assumptions and Life Cycle Nokia annual report. and Africa Inventory (LCI) data used. The changes in calculation methodology and LCI database 12 3 5 and to smaller extent reduction in volumes Volatile organic compounds (VOC’s) are cause the reduction in CO₂e emissions released during the soldering process The figure represents CO₂ emissions Nokia’s and NAVTEQ’s air travel reporting from supply chain. GHG emissions from the and when using solvents in the cleaning from digital mapping operations by has been consolidated in 2011, and use of devices reflect the annual product process. Until 2009 consumption has Nokia’s Location and Commerce division. 2008-2010 emissions have been volumes and portfolio. Impact from Nokia increased due to more accurate Calculation of the emissions from cars updated based on historical travel data. Gear & Vertu is excluded from both supply reporting and changes in the production is based on the distance driven and The emissions figure covers over 99% chain and use of devices GHG figures. process. At Nokia, we monitor and vehicle-specific conversion factors. of Nokia’s air travel. The figure includes control the use of solvents with the aim Where exact car models were not travel by externals in cases where travel 8 to reduce the consumption. In general, available, an average of vehicle fleet cost is covered by Nokia and bookings This covers component and customer the consumption is on a low level and no emissions has been used. made through Nokia’s designated travel shipments. The year 2010 and 2011 has environmental VOC permits or agencies. Emissions have been calculated 4 been a transition period when we have declarations are required by authorities. with a conservative interpretation of moved onto a second development phase Net and gross indirect CO₂ emissions: GHG Protocol 2006 emission factors. 13 of CO₂ calculation and data gathering from Gross emissions are emissions from 6 logistics service providers system wise, Nokia uses no Ozone Depleting purchased electricity and heat which means that the basis for our Substances (ODS) in its products or calculated with IEA (Internal Energy In 2010 Nokia conducted an employee calculations has changed from previous production. The reported ODS figures Agency) country emission factors. Net commuting survey in order to calculate years. We still have challenges with the are due to minor leakage of ODS emissions are gross emissions reduced the corresponding CO₂ emissions. The quality of data but the estimated CO₂ contained in cooling systems in facilities. with CO₂ avoided due to purchase of following information was required: per sales package in year 2011 is about Annual emissions vary due to changing renewable energy (certificates) and country, how many days one works at 1.68 kg CO₂. annual maintenance needs. ODP (Ozone carbon offsets. Onsite renewable the office/home, commuting distance, Depleting Potential) = emission in kg of energy reduces also gross emissions. time and means of transport. 3455 9 CFC-11 equivalent. employees participated in the survey Net CO₂ emissions (i.e. green energy and from 58 different countries. The emissions offsets taken into account) from Nokia were then extrapolated to correspond office and R&D buildings (excluding with all Nokia employees for years NAVTEQ) in metric tonnes, per Nokia 2010 and 2011. employees and externals working in Nokia Offices and R&D. 132 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 14 15 19 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Energy consumption in Nokia facilities by regions. Direct energy means fuel (gas and Over years, major part of the renewable Recycled/reused water amount includes 4.0 Independent assurance oil) used on site and indirect energy purchased electricity and heat, in case of Nokia (“green”) electricity has been from the water recycled both for sanitary 5.0 Global reporting initiative district heating and district cooling. purchase of RES-E Guarantee of Origin purposes (water recycled many times) 6.0 KEY DATA certificates in Nordic countries and and for irrigation. 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Green-e wind certificates in USA. In (1 GWh = 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 addition smaller amount of other 20 3,600 GJ) GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh certificates (RECS, GreenContract, Accuracy of waste data is not as high as Electricity, total 485 538 537 560 527 Greenpower, EcoLogo) have been with energy and water, as waste vendors purchased in Europe, Australia and often report amounts based on number Americas 91 114 110 118 119 Americas. Green certificates have been of waste bins emptied and average bought also in United Kingdom in weight for waste type, instead of Asia-Pacific 197 202 196 196 154 2006-2008: the amounts are included as weighing each container. In factories and Europe and Africa 197 222 231 246 254 renewable energy in the table, but due to biggest offices most of the reporting is new UK governmental guidance in 2008, based on actual weighed amounts. District heating, total 43 57 56 50 51 no CO₂ reduction has been calculated to result from the purchase in 2008. 21 Americas 0 0 0 0 0 Utilised waste includes waste that has 16 been either reused, recycled or energy Asia-Pacific 0 1 0 0 0 Water withdrawal is reported according to of it has been utilised. Remaining waste Europe and Africa 43 56 56 50 51 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) definitions. has been either sent to landfill or incinerated without energy recovery. District cooling, total 2 2 2 2 2 17 Composting of biowaste is recorded Americas 0 0 0 0 0 Discharges to water are coming from under recycling. sanitary waste water and are calculated Asia-Pacific 0 0 0 0 0 based on the headcount. BOD5 (Biological 22 Oxygen Demand for 5 days) measures The definitions for what is reported Europe and Africa 2 2 2 2 2 the amount of oxygen required or under hazardous and non-hazardous Fossil gas, total 66 68 72 66 66 consumed for the microbiological waste have been done on global level to decomposition (oxidation) of organic keep simplicity in corporate reporting. Americas 14 13 13 11 16 material in water. TSS means Total E.g. all discarded batteries are reported Suspended Solids, N stands for Nitrogen globally under hazardous waste, Asia-Pacific 22 27 26 23 19 and P for Phosphorus. In 2011 report although several battery types are not Europe and Africa 30 28 33 32 31 headcount definition changed to include defined hazardous in many countries. for this calculation also external persons On the other hand all electronical waste Oil, total 4 7 5 6 3 working in Nokia premises and all years is reported under non-hazardous , were recalculated. Also, more detailed although different sub-categories Americas 1 2 2 3 1.5 information on water discharge of it are defined hazardous in different Asia-Pacific 3 5 3 3 1.5 destinations caused recalculation for countries. The actual waste treatment past years destination percentages. is always done according to local Europe and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 legal requirements. 18 Energy, total 602 672 672 684 649 More detailed information on water 23 Americas 108 129 125 132 137 discharge destinations caused E-waste figure includes electronics waste recalculation for past years collected by Nokia outside of own offices, Asia-Pacific 222 235 225 222 175 destination percentages. R&D and production, for example as part of phone and accessories take-back Europe and Africa 272 308 322 330 337 campaigns. 133 6.1 NOKIA KEY DATA TABLE 1.0 Contents 24 27 30 32 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET These figures do not include employees 2008 figure is including Nokia direct Supplier’s environmental performance %: The decrease in operating profit is a 4.0 Independent assurance in Nokia Location and Commerce who sourcing supplier system assessments Suppliers’ environmental performance consequence of the year-on-year decline 5.0 Global reporting initiative were previously employed by NAVTEQ. and in-depth assessments. 2009 onwards and target setting status, concentrating in Devices and Services net sales in 2011 6.0 KEY DATA figures are including Nokia direct and on four key areas: energy consumption, resulted from lower volumes and ASPs 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 25 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE indirect sourcing system assessments carbon dioxide (equivalent) emissions, in both Smart Devices and Mobile TIFR = Total Incident Frequency Rate including in-depth assessments. water consumption and waste generation. Phones, partially offset by higher which includes also non-lost time incidents IPR royalty income. in addition to lost time incidents. Previous 28 31 to 2011 Nokia reported IIR = injuries Supplier ISO14001 certification %; As of April 1, 2011, our Devices and and illnesses rate, without non loss Hardware supplier environmental Services business has two operating and time incidents. management system ISO14001 reportable segments – Smart Devices, certification status at Supplier sites which focuses on smartphones, and 26 serving Nokia. Mobile Phones, which focuses on mass The calculation rule was changed for the market mobile devices – as well as 2009 report from an average for the year 29 Devices and Services Other. Prior period to be year end figure. This was done to Supplier’s Code of Conduct results for each quarter and the full year enable a direct comparison with NSN data. implementation %: One expectation for 2010 and Q1 2011 have been regrouped suppliers is that they have a company(on an unaudited basis) for comparability level Code of Conduct in place. Codes of purposes according to the new reporting conduct set out requirements in several format that became effective on April 1, areas, such as corruption, general 2011. Devices and Services prior period business routines, health and safety, results for each quarter and the full year human rights, working conditions, social 2010 and Q1, Q2 and Q3 2011 have also rights and environmental standards. been recasted (on an unaudited basis) The indicator measures percentage for comparability purposes according to of suppliers that have such a Code the new reporting format that became of Conduct policy in place that meets effective on October 1, 2011. Nokia’s requirements concerning it. 134 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET DATA – NOKIA GROUP 4.0 Independent assurance 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE This data table consolidates some key Sustainability performance related figures of Nokia and Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN – a company approximately 50% owned by Nokia). More detailed company specific data can be found from Nokia data table (above) and from NSN own CR Report. This report covers last 5 years – if interested in longer term historical development please see Nokia’s older reports. 135 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ECONOMIC KEY DATA1 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Net sales, EUR million 38,659 42,446 40,984 50,710 51,058 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Operating profit, EUR million2 -1,073 2,070 1,197 4,966 7,985 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Earnings/share diluted, EUR -0.31 0.50 0.24 1.05 1.83 Market capitalization at year-end, EUR million 13,987 28,709 33,078 41,046 101,995 Research & development, EUR million 5,612 5,863 5,909 5,968 5,636 Gross taxes, EUR million 752 798 736 1,514 2,209 Interests paid, EUR million 283 235 256 155 59 Dividents paid, EUR million 1,536 1,519 1,546 2,048 1,760 Total purchases of goods and services, EUR million 27,572 30,500 29,100 34,600 36,400 Liquid assets at year-end, EUR million 10,902 12,275 8,873 6,820 11,753 Total liabilities at year-end, EUR million 22,289 22,892 20 989 23,072 20,261 Retained earnings at year-end, EUR million 7,836 10,500 10,132 11,692 13,870 136 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL KEY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET 4.0 Independent assurance Energy consumption, GWh 1,143 1,190 1,223 1,285 1,223 5.0 Global reporting initiative 6.0 KEY DATA Direct CO₂e from facilities energy, tonnes 17,000 20,400 20,100 23,000 18,500 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Indirect CO₂e from facilities energy consumption, tonnes, net 3 404,300 363,500 413,500 434,500 418,900 Indirect CO₂e from facilities energy consumption, tonnes, gross 518,700 523,000 520,800 496,700 457,900 CO₂ avoided due to renewable energy, tonnes -114,400 -127,000 -107,300 -62,200 -39,000 CO₂ avoided due to Gold Standard offsets, tonnes 0 -32,500 0 0 0 Water use, thousand m³ 2019 2,197 2,167 2,293 2,091 Total waste, tonnes 58,500 69,100 58,930 55,200 60,810 Total waste utilisation, % 94% 93% 91% 88% 88% Emissions of ODS, kg of CFC-11 equivalent4 200 187 186 42 108 Data reported from Facility area, 1000 m² 5 2,445 2,489 2,641 2,743 2,996 EMPLOYEES 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total number of employees at year-end 130,050 132,427 123,553 125,829 112,262 Wages & benefits, EUR million6 7,534 6,995 6,747 6,914 5,938 Pension expenses net, EUR million 445 431 427 478 420 137 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE 1.0 Contents 2.0 NOKIA AND PEOPLE NOTES 2 3.0 NOKIA AND PLANET Location & Commerce operating loss 4.0 Independent assurance 1 in 2011 includes a goodwill impairment 5.0 Global reporting initiative Figures are consolidated Nokia group loss of EUR 1 090 million. Nokia Siemens 6.0 KEY DATA data that include Nokia Siemens Networks operating loss in 2009 6.1 KEY DATA TABLE 6.2 KEY SUSTAINABILITY DATA – NOKIA GROUP TABLE Networks and NAVTEQ. The years are includes a goodwill impairment loss not directly compatible largely because of EUR 908 million. of following reasons: 3 • Year 2007 Nokia Siemens Networks data was consolidated in Nokia group Net and gross indirect CO₂ emissions: Gross emissions are emissions from data for 9 months. Our consolidated purchased electricity and heat calculated financial data for the periods prior with IEA (Internal Energy Agency) country to April 1, 2007 included our former emission factors. Net emissions are gross Networks business group only. emissions reduced with CO₂ avoided due • Year 2008 Nokia Siemens Networks data was consolidated in Nokia Group to purchase of renewable energy (certificates) and carbon offsets. data for 12 months and NAVTEQ for less than 6 months 4 • Year 2009 and 2010 Nokia Siemens Networks and NAVTEQ data were Nokia uses no ODS (Ozone Depleting Substances) in its products or production. both consolidated in Nokia Group The reported ODS figures are due to ODS data for 12 months contained cooling systems in facilities. • In April 2011, Nokia Siemens Networks acquired the majority of the wireless ODP (Ozone Depleting Potential) = emission in kg of CFC-11 equivalent. network assets of Motorola Solutions. From April 30, 2011, certain of 5 Motorola Solutions' products and For NSN share of Group data, services and approximately 6,900 environmental data only covers employees were transferred to buildings that are larger than 3,000 m², Nokia Siemens Networks. and these sites represent around 80% of NSN’s overall real estate portfolio. In 2007-2009 waste data is covering only 71-83% of over 3000 m² buildings. 6 The figures consist of Personnel expenses as per income statement. During the previous years the payroll figure consisted of Wages and salaries figure.
