Our responsibility ArlA fOOds’ cOrpOrAte sOciAl respOnsibility repOrt 2011 A larger comp greater respo Arla is a company that is changing rapidly. and constantly seeking to optimise and rati development means that our impact on the constantly. Therefore it is good to know tha when it comes to sustainability and corpora One of the highlights of this year’s sustainability development is the new environmental strategy we launched in early summer. The 2020 environmental strategy considers the overall production chain from cow to consumer, and involves both dairy farmers and consumers in our eﬀ efforts to reduce Arla’s total environmental and climate impact. It is also worth noting that the number of workplace accidents at Arla has continued to decrease and that the results of this year’s employee survey are very positive. One result of the survey is that employees’ commitment and pride in working for Arla is still at a very high level. Sound leadership and committed employees are the basis for good results and taking a high level of responsibility. During the next year, we will continue our work to further improve our tools and routines for responsible purchasing. As part of our environmental strategy, we will be working closely with our dairy farmers to set new standards for sustainable milk production. We will also continue to focus on health issues, inspiring consumers to lead a healthy lifestyle that improves their well-being. we support the Global We global Compact compact Four years ago, Arla signed up for the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s ten fundamental principles in our strategy and corporate culture, and to sharing this commitment with our employees, owners, suppliers, partners, customers and other stakeholders. Contents Foreword About Arla 2 Business principles 4 Case study 6 Operational principles 8 Food safety 10 Food and health 12 Environment and climate 14 Agriculture 16 Procurement 18 Workplace 20 Case study 22 Market conduct 24 Case study 26 Community relations 28 Human rights 30 Case study 32 Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2011. Some examples from fully owned subsidiaries and joint venture dairy companies are also included. The structure of the report follows Arla Foods̕ Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008. More information is available at www.arla.com. ©Arla Foods amba, 2012 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Intellecta Corporate Graphic production: Formalix Translations: Amesto Translations Photography: Thomas Carlgren and Arla’s archive Printing: Scanprint A/S, 2012 Email: csr@arlafoods.com A larger company imposes greater responsibility Arla is a company that is changing rapidly. We are growing, launching new products, and constantly seeking to optimise and rationalise our business. This continuous development means that our impact on the surrounding world is also changing constantly. Therefore it is good to know that Arla has a sound foundation to build on when it comes to sustainability and corporate responsibility. One of the highlights of this year’s sustainability This report is part of this work, as a presentation development is the new environmental strategy we of a selection of the year’s initiatives. The report is launched in early summer. The 2020 environmental also part of Arla’s annual report for 2011 that can be strategy considers the overall production chain from downloaded from www.arla.com. cow to consumer, and involves both dairy farmers and consumers in our efforts to reduce Arla’s total Continued responsibility environmental and climate impact. It is also worth The major changes at Arla during the past year noting that the number of workplace accidents at are as a consequence of our growth strategy. All Arla has continued to decrease and that the results of our major mergers and acquisitions have been of this year’s employee survey are very positive. One approved by the competition authorities. In addition, result of the survey is that employees’ commitment consumers’ perception of Arla has improved and pride in working for Arla is still at a very high considerably in the measurements performed in level. Sound leadership and committed employees Denmark, Sweden and Finland. We interpret this are the basis for good results and taking a high level to mean that our corporate social responsibility of responsibility. strategy is recognised and ensures our credibility in During the next year, we will continue our the market. These positive signals give us new energy work to further improve our tools and routines for to continue to work hard to become an even more responsible purchasing. As part of our environmental sustainable company. you are welcome to join our strategy, we will be working closely with our dairy journey – in this report and on our website! farmers to set new standards for sustainable milk production. We will also continue to focus on health issues, inspiring consumers to lead a healthy lifestyle that improves their well-being. we support the global compact Aarhus, February 2012 Four years ago, Arla signed up for the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s ten fundamental principles in our strategy and corporate culture, and to sharing this commitment with our employees, owners, suppliers, partners, customers and other stakeholders. Peder Tuborgh, CEO ARL A Our responsibility 2011 1 Why is responsibility important to us? All consumers should be able to feel confident about our food. This is why safe products are a fundamental requirement for Arla. Our owners, the dairy farmers, should have the ability to build Responsibility and plan for the future. This work in Arla requires Arla to have a profitable Arla’s principles for ethics and and competitive business. sustainable development are formulated in our Code of Conduct – “Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct”, that can be downloaded from www.arla.com. The Code gives us a tool and We want to use the resources a compass that shows how we of the world in a sustainable are expected to act and take way. By having a long term responsibility for our business. The environmental strategy we can areas that the Code describes are the same as the ones covered in this help to make this happen. report. The report describes how our work with responsibility succeeds in the different areas, and it also gives us the opportunity to follow up on, and clarify, the areas we need to We want to influence the focus on in the future. development of society To ensure this internal follow up, and set an example. As a we have established a committee large player, we have the group with CEO Peder Tuborgh as opportunity to do so. Chairman and with representatives from senior management. The task of the committee is also to prioritise the areas that need special attention to ensure the company’s long term responsibility. We want to attract colleagues that are our responsibility engaged, and we want to have good ARLA FOODS’ CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CODE OF CONDUCT relations with everyone around us. We can achieve this by taking responsibility. Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct. 2 abo u t A rla About Arla Arla Foods is a global dairy company and a cooperative owned Arla in brief 2011 by Swedish, Danish and German dairy farmers. Our products are sold under well-known brands in more than 100 countries. We have production facilities in 12 countries and sales offices in 18 Owners more. Arla is also the world’s largest supplier of organic dairy Arla Foods is an agricultural cooperative owned by 8,024 dairy farmers – 3,514 in Denmark, 3,865 in products. Sweden and 645 in Germany. number of colleagues The milk price is affected by market conditions Denmark  7,641 Arla’s objective is to ensure that the owners receive the highest payment possible Sweden3,490 for their raw milk. During the year 2011, the milk price changed repeatedly, in UK2,695 both directions, due to changes in demand on the global market. At the end of the Germany544 Finland  449 year, Arla’s performance price (payment to owners plus consolidation) totalled Netherlands 367 DKK 2.80 per kilogram of milk, which amounted to an increase of DKK 0.28 during Other countries 2,231 the year. Total 17,417 More Arla owners net Revenue Arla continues to work in accordance with the company’s growth strategy and DKK 54.9 billion, of which 78 per cent comes from during the year several mergers and acquisitions were made. In the spring, the our core markets of UK, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, owners and the EU competition authorities approved the merger of Arla and Finland and the Netherlands. the German dairy cooperative company, Hansa-Milch, which brought 645 new German farmers into Arla. In July, Arla acquired a dairy in Sundsvall from the profit for the year Swedish dairy cooperative, Milko, and during the autumn, Arla completed a DKK 1.3 billion. merger with Milko, resulting in 554 new Swedish dairy farmers becoming Arla r aw milk in million of kilos owners. As a consequence of the mergers, the Arla Board has been expanded with Denmark  4,320 one representative from Germany and one from northern Sweden. Towards the UK2,011 end of the year, another business deal was approved – the acquisition of the South Sweden1,820 German dairy, Allgäuland-Käsereien. Germany 417 A joint venture between Arla and the German dairy company, DMK, was also Finland 257 realised. The new company will be producing whey proteins for the food industry Netherlands202 and whey protein production is an important part of the Arla growth strategy. Other countries 214 Total  9,241 Major reorganisations Management During the year, significant reorganisations were completed as new dairies Chairman: Åke Hantoft were included in the group and others were closed down. Due to the rapidly Vice-chairman: Jan Toft Nørgaard changing dairy market, we have also identified a need to focus more closely CEO: Peder Tuborgh on our core markets. For this reason, during the autumn, a decision was made Vice CEO: Povl Krogsgaard to create three new, independent business areas in the company: Sweden, Denmark and Germany/The Netherlands, which are now represented in executive management. The former Nordic organisation has been dissolved and the new M i l k p r i c e, DKK per kilo organisation for Germany and the Netherlands, which came into existence on DKK 1 January 2012, is based in Düsseldorf in Germany. 3.0 Organisational and structural changes meant that we were forced to 2.5 make some employees redundant, but the total number of Arla employees has 2.0 increased due to acquisitions and mergers. We do our utmost to offer employees who have been made redundant alternative employment elsewhere in the group. 1.5 1.0 New environmental strategy – from cow to consumer In May, Arla introduced a new environment strategy, which, in addition to 0.5 production, transportation and packaging, also includes the dairy farms. In 0 partnership with the dairy farmers, we will set new standards for sustainable 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 dairy production. The diagram shows the average price per kilo of milk paid to owners during the year, including Financing growth supplementary payments. Arla’s ambitious growth strategy requires capital. Just like the Swedish and Danish owners’ decision in 2010 to increase their investment in the company, Arla’s British dairy farmers decided to increase their investment in Arla in the UK. Their investment, amounting to DKK 600 million, will be made over a period of 8–10 years. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 3 O r g a n i s at i o n o f t h e A r l a G r o u p r e v e n u e b y ma r k e t Value markets 13.4% UK 23.8% Executive Board Growth markets 8.7% Corporate Supply Chain Corporate Affairs Finland 4.2% Netherlands 4.3% Corporate Human Resources Corporate Finance & IT Germany 9.8% Sweden 20.4% Denmark 15.4% Arla’s total revenue has increased by 12 per cent since 2010. Global Categories Consumer Consumer Subsidiaries & Operations International UK Consumer revenue by product group Consumer Consumer Germany & Denmark Sweden Other products 7.4% Netherlands Powder products 13.3% C o r p o r a t e C e nt r e a n d g l o b a l b u s i n e s s s e r v i c e s ( GBS ) Fresh Butter and products Corporate Supply Chain handles contact Corporate Human Resources handles spreads 13.9% 41.3% with owners, technical issues, quality, colleague training and organisational environment, global procurement and development issues for the whole group investment under the management of under the management of Ola Arvidsson. Cheese 24.1% Povl Krogsgaard. Corporate Finance & IT handles finance, IT Corporate Affairs comprises group and legal affairs under the management of The share of Arla’s total revenue by product group has not development and communication under Frederik Lotz. changed much since 2010. the management of Peder Tuborgh. BUSINESS GR O UPS arl a colleagues Global Categories & Operations (GCO) has Consumer Sweden, also including Finland, Other countries 12.8% Denmark 43.9% general responsibility for Arla’s three global under the management of Christer Åberg. Netherlands 2.1% brands – Arla®, Lurpak® and Castello® – and Consumer UK, under the management of Finland 2.6% responsibility for innovation. This business Peter Lauritzen. area also handles milk planning, industrial Germany 3.1% sales, production of cheese, butter and Consumer Germany & Netherlands, under the management of Tim Ørting UK 15.5% spreads and milk powder in Scandinavia, under the management of Jais Valeur. Jørgensen (took office on 1 January 2012). Consumer International, including other Sweden 20.0% Consumer Business Groups are responsible countries, under the management of for the production of fresh produce, Finn S Hansen (took office on 1 January The total number of colleagues, approximately 17,400, has logistics, marketing and sales of Arla 2012). increased by approximately 1,200 compared to last year. products in the different geographic areas. Consumer Denmark, under the Subsidiaries wholly owned by Arla: management of Peter Giörtz-Carlsen. Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods, Cocio and Dairy Fruit. owners in arla o w n e r d e mo c r a c y 5,000 4,000 The Board of Representatives 8,024 owners 3,865 Swedish, 3,514 Danish and 645 German is Arla’s top decision-making 3,000 body. Arla’s Board of Directors is elected by the regions and 2,000 54 district councils 29 in Sweden and 25 in Denmark the Board of Representatives. All elections and polls are held 1,000 8 regions according to the ‘one member, 0 4 in Denmark and 4 in Sweden one vote’ principle. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ■ Denmark ■ Sweden ■ Germany The Board of Representatives 150 members and 10 employee representatives During the year, the number of owners has increased by 12 per cent, mainly because of the mergers with the dairy The Board of Directors cooperatives Hansa-Milch, Germany, and Milko, Sweden. 16 members and 4 employee representatives Arla’s 645 German owners are still members in Hansa-Milch. 4 B u siness principles Fair business and good citizenship We act credibly and with integrity in all of our operations. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Arla is an international business as well Improved reporting possibilities as a dairy cooperative owned by Danish, Arla has developed a global whistleblowing policy Swedish and German farmers. We comply which will be implemented in 2012. with local legislation in all the countries Re viewed mergers in which we operate and we are also committed to the principles contained The mergers between Arla and the dairy cooperatives, the German Hansa-Milch and Swedish Milko, have within our Code of Conduct. This enables been approved by the competition authorities. us to act credibly and with integrity and sets a good example of responsible Support for Global Compac t business conduct. For the last four years, Arla has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative and since 2009, has participated in the organisation’s Nordic Network. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 5 business principles Continued competition law compliance The policy will be implemented in 2012 and The management of Arla is continually committed to will provide an additional opportunity to report the Group’s compliance with the competition laws information about possible irregularities over and in force at any time. In 2011, as in previous years, above the traditional methods. It will be available to Arla conducted training seminars throughout the Arla colleagues, who will have the option to report organisation to ensure that managers and staff were on issues covered by our Code of Conduct “Our fully informed of the requirements of competition Responsibility”, either through a web link or a hotline law and to assist them in complying with those rules. provided by an external system provider. Reports Arla is well aware of the challenges of integrating may be made anonymously and will be reviewed by a new companies into the Group following mergers and small number of case handlers within Arla. acquisitions, and in 2011, integration processes have also focused on compliance training. Competition in the Danish retail sector In June 2011, the Danish Competition Authority Merger between Arla and Milko published its report on the state of competition and On October 5, 2011, Arla’s owners approved the other market conditions, specifically in the Danish proposed merger of Arla and the Swedish dairy retail sector. The report concludes that the retail cooperative Milko ekonomisk förening, allowing chains have the upper hand when negotiating with Milko’s dairy farmers to become members of Arla suppliers due to the size of their business, which Foods amba. Following investigations by the Swedish reduces the risk of large suppliers abusing their competition authority, the merger was approved on position in the market. The Danish Competition October 26, 2011, subject to Arla selling Milko’s plant Authority also stated in the report that it has found situated at Grådö, Sweden, to a third party approved no indications that large suppliers are in a position to by the competition authority and also selling some of abuse their dominant position in the market to cut off the Milko brands. competitors. Whistleblowing policy to be implemented Standardised financial reporting In 2009 Arla considered the potential benefits of From 2012, Arla’s annual report will be prepared implementing a whistleblowing policy throughout in accordance with the International Financial the Group, as a complement to the existing line Reporting Standards (IFRS). Read more about the organisation reporting. In 2010 the issue was changes towards further transparency on the debated within Arla Foods’ CSR Committee and following pages. the Committee made the decision to have a global policy. Accordingly, in 2011, Arla developed a global whistleblowing policy. G l o b a l Com p a c t s u p p o r t eliminating any such payments and addressing cooperative has its own representatives on the Arla is a participant in Global Compact and our ethical matters in a responsible manner. boards and committees of Arla Foods amba. Code of Conduct complements the 10 basic principles of Global Compact. We undertake UK B r i b e r y A c t A l l g ä u l a n d K ä s e r e i e n Ac q u i s i t i o n to incorporate this initiative and its principles On 1 July 2011, the Bribery Act came into force in In the beginning of November 2011, the European in our strategy and company culture – and to the UK. Although Arla’s global policies have, for Commission approved Arla’s acquisition of communicate this commitment to colleagues, a number of years, clearly prohibited the making Allgäuland-Käsereien. owners, suppliers, partners, customers and the of and receipt of bribes, the UK business has With the acquisition of Allgäulandworld around us. put in place an additional senior management Käsereien, Arla now runs operations in both The commitment to Global Compact also statement and policy, and will be undertaking a northern and southern Germany. means that every year Arla has to report in an training programme to ensure that all relevant open and honest way, on how the company is staff are trained in the requirements of the Act. Disputes adhering to its Code of Conduct. This report To support the zero tolerance policy in Arla is very rarely involved in legal disputes. It is describes the progress Arla has made over relation to bribery and corruption, individuals the policy of Arla to seek to resolve all disputes the year and where it sees opportunities for must not only avoid active involvement in acts in an amicable fashion, with due account improvement. of bribery (giving or taking) but must also ensure being taken to the rights and obligations of the that there is no passive acceptance, for example, company. P r o t e c t i o n o f A r l a’s b r a n d s turning a blind eye. The policy and its practical Arla has a well established global Intellectual application will be reviewed on a regular basis. L e g a l S t r u c t u r e Comm i t t e e property policy outlining our general and global To strengthen our focus on compliance with view on how we make use of intellectual property H a n s a M i l ch M e r g e r national company laws in force and local in the course of business. The policy ensures that In April 2011, the European Commission corporate governance principles, and to reduce intellectual property aspects are considered, if approved the merger between Arla and Hansacomplexity, Arla has formed a Legal Structure relevant, from merger and acquisition activities Milch. The dairy business of Hansa-Milch has Committee. The committee’s role is to prepare to look-a-like products. been transferred to Arla, whereas Hansa Arla for the execution of Arla’s growth strategy, which Milch eG remains a cooperative with its own will involve the incorporation of further legal B r i b e r y a n d f a c i l i tat i o n pay m e n t s members, and joins Arla Foods amba in that entities in the group. In 2011, no incidents of either bribery or capacity. This means that the democratic facilitation payments were reported. Arla sees structures of Hansa Arla Milch eG are preserved. this as the result of the Group’s dedication to In addition, the northern German dairy 6 ARL A Our responsibility 2011 Case study [business principles] In search of the optimal business management system Increasingly tough competition and fast-changing market conditions is the reality for many multinational companies today. The question is how do you best manage operations in a world that is so difficult to predict? Arla has decided to dispose of traditional budgets and is taking a fresh look at many business management principles. In place of the usual methods, Arla is looking to the future, working to meet ambitious targets and comparing themselves only with the very best. During the past couple of years, the Arla company raises funding for growth to how it attracts management team has adopted a number of new staff. measures regarding new internal business The third, equally important factor is increasing management systems and the same business competition at the global level. planning tool will be applied throughout the group. “Any company that cannot compete, simply A budget has become a thing of the past and, with disappears. Demands are ever more challenging and effect from 2012, Arla’s financial reporting will Arla has recognised this fact and is determined to be made in accordance with the International grow. We do not intend to stand and watch,” says Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These changes Frederik Lotz. are regarded as indispensible for Arla to fulfil the company strategy – to pay the highest possible milk Abolished budgets price to the owners, to be a responsible company and One of the first initiatives in the internal change to continue to grow. process was to break with the traditional kind “In daring to introduce such significant changes, of budgets, against which business groups’ I believe that Arla management has demonstrated performance was measured in the past. Instead Arla a great deal of courage,” says Frederik Lotz, who is has decided to fundamentally redefine what success executive vice president corporate finance and IT, means. Having last year launched entirely new and initiated these changes. internal financial reporting systems, the company now compares current performance with the same Difficult to predict the future period of the previous year and asks the simple Before starting to discuss the internal changes, question – are we doing better? Frederik Lotz thinks that you have to study the “We have realised what many large corporations conditions facing major international companies around the world are already sensing: that traditional today. He identifies three determining trends in our budget methods have become a dinosaur. The rapidly surroundings. Firstly, he believes that it has become changing world around us is making the budget much more difficult to predict the future and make irrelevant as it is being produced,” explains Frederik prognoses, since the markets are increasingly Lotz. integrated and dynamic. In the new system, Arla aims to compare itself “In the past, we were better able to with the most successful companies (not only those estimate by what percentage we would in the dairy and food products sector) and strives grow and the milk price was more consistently to perform better and close in on these stable,” says Frederik Lotz. “Anyone benchmarks. Arla sets itself very ambitious goals, who tries to predict anything today called stretched targets. According to Frederik Lotz, will always have a tough task as although the business groups may not always be things do not always turn out as we able to deliver these targets, the mere fact of aiming thought.” high is releasing energies and structural changes that It has also become more would otherwise not materialise. important that companies behave “This represents a deep cultural change,” says responsibly. It is no longer enough Frederik Lotz. “Succeeding in business is a daily contest.” merely to offer good products to the consumers and a good A new kind of dialogue milk price to owners. Today Frederik Lotz believes that the changes have already companies also have to play an resulted in a dialogue with more substance, ambition active part in the world, maintain and energy. Focus is now on action oriented plans a socially responsible profile, rather than spending time on explaining why the and demonstrate a clear bottom line does not agree with the budget. Four commitment to social issues. times a year, representatives from each business Frederik Lotz sees this as group meet with a group representing senior being important to Arla at management in a forum called Business Boards. all levels, from how the Many issues are debated: Are we performing better b u siness principles 7 Faster decision-making and an ability to adapt than last year? How far have we faster to new conditions. This will Common business IFRS come towards achieving our be indispensible for our survival planning tool IFRS stands for International stretched targets and what is The third major part Financial Reporting Standards. needed to achieve them? and profitability.” in Arla’s internal The standards are principles used by most major companies According to Frederik business systems is across the world. Lotz, what is important is focusing on continuous that the company in its entirety is using a common improvements and working with value drivers that business planning tool. The Lots® tool is a clear and Lo t s ® may catapult Arla towards its stretched targets. In the structured process led by trained process facilitators, Lots® is a business planning management world this approach is often referred to encouraging a team to reflect on the business from process model which, as a performance culture and this is exactly what Arla both an outside and an internal perspective. The supported by a trained is seeking to achieve. method leads to a well anchored business plan facilitator, results in a business “In a performance culture, you insist on getting plan specifying mission, and has been applied in the organisation for a vision, values, goals, activities, results and you are never satisfied. You strive to be the number of years, but will be even more important resources and competencies. best and you are always adjusting your plans to adapt to with the abolished budget process. In August, the The result of a Lots® process the changes around you,” says Frederik Lotz. “This may Arla management team carried out a business is a concrete business plan of be tough, but, on the other hand, you receive immediate planning process built on the model, which resulted actions that is easy to follow feedback on what you did well and what you did poorly. in a number of prioritisations as well as financial up on. There is no room for ambiguity. Transparency is the and structural goals. During the autumn, these mother of any performance culture.” essential announcements were disseminated to the Frederik Lotz expects the performance culture business groups and right through to all units of the to have major consequences for the group. Everyone organisation. at Arla will be looking to find new solutions for Kristian Eriknauer is a director and assistant to products, structures, working methods, etc. He is executive management. He is also responsible for convinced that the new approach will have a positive the administration and support of the Lots® process effect on the financial results and that it will help throughout Arla and is very positive about the attract and retain talented colleagues. results. “This year we carried out the best planning More transparency process ever,” says Kristian. “The advantage of using From accounting year 2012, Arla will depart from Lots® is that we have a common mission, vision and Danish financial reporting principles and introduce prioritisation, and the same vocabulary for targets, financial reporting in accordance with the IFRS. The activities and consequences, so it will be easy to see switch is motivated, among others, by a desire to that we are working towards the same objectives, compare Arla’s performance with other successful regardless of where we are in the company. companies, although the IFRS also means that In the performance culture there will also be the company will deliver more information on its a more evident connection between the business financial situation and therefore become more plan and the follow-up in the individual colleague’s transparent than before. This in turn means that in dialogue interview.” future it will be easier to make acquisitions and to Frederik Lotz concludes, “Overall these changes finance these from international banking institutions. will lead to faster decision-making and an ability “We have to behave as if we were a company on to better adapt to new conditions. This will be the Stock Exchange,” says Frederik Lotz. “The IFRS indispensible for our survival and profitability in the will help us to become an even more professional long term.” company, which will strengthen our corporate image. Without an excellent corporate reputation, we will not succeed, so this is a step in the right direction.” Frederik Lotz, executive vice Kristian Eriknauer, director president corporate finance and assistant to executive and IT. management. 8 O perational principles Dairy farmers as owners and suppliers We manage our business in a good cooperative spirit that promotes the financial interests of our owners. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Arla is a democratically governed farmer Arl a widens circle of ownership cooperative that creates value for its A large number of new cooperative members have cooperative members – Danish, Swedish joined Arla during the year and the total volume of and German dairy farmers. All cooperative milk intake has increased by five per cent. members have an opportunity to influence New me thod de termining milk price significant decisions, and members The Board of Directors decided to introduce a elect representatives to the company’s new model for a monthly-adjusted milk price. governing body. The Board of Directors Responsibility for adjustments is now delegated to is responsible for making decisions about top management. the company’s general strategies and for Milk price r aised ensuring that the company is managed with the cooperative members’ best During the year, Arla’s performing price (payment to owners plus consolidation) has been raised by DKK interests in mind. 0.28 to DKK 2.80 per kilo of milk. Photo: Members voting at a Board of Representatives meeting. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 9 operational principles Many new cooperative owners increase their share in Arla’s British subsidiary, Arla Two mergers with dairy cooperatives, the first with Foods UK. This investment will accrue over a period the German Hansa-Milch, and the second with of 8–10 years, from January 2012, and will amount Swedish Milko, have brought a total of approximately to approximately DKK 600 million. Through a joint 1,200 new dairy farmers into Arla. This is in line with venture, British supplying farmers currently own a Arla’s growth strategy and need for extra supplies of 3.2 per cent share of the UK business. The investment raw milk. will bring the British milk producers more closely to The 554 dairy farmers in northern Sweden, Arla and their insight into the company will naturally who supplied milk to Milko, now constitute the increase. fourth region of the Arla organisation in Sweden. Region North has its own representative on the New working methods for the Board Board of Directors and five members on the Board of With a view to maintaining business and strategic Representatives, and all the Swedish Arla farmers are focus, during the year, the Arla Board has subjected equal cooperative members. itself to a review of its responsibilities, obligations, The German dairy farmers are still members workload and structure. The most significant of the Hansa-Milch cooperative, which is counted result of the review is that the Board has decided as one cooperative member in Arla. Integrating the to introduce a new model with fixed routines for a German dairy farmers into Arla’s operations presents monthly-adjusted milk price (Current Price) and that a number of challenges relating to communication, responsibility for determining the milk price is now training and coordination of, for example, quality delegated to top management. The Current Price is programmes (see page 16). The German farmers have published on the first day of each month on Arla’s a representative on the Board of Directors and five websites. members on the Board of Representatives. These Another result of the governing body’s review is German representatives are taking part in Arla’s that issues linked to the owners’ role as Arla suppliers training and mentor scheme, where Danish and will, in future, be handled by overall working groups Swedish members of the Board of Representatives within the Board of Directors. There will be a joint act as mentors. working group for Denmark and Sweden, and a All material produced for members of the Board separate working group for Germany. These working of Directors and Board of Representatives is now groups, that will include one Board member from also distributed in German. We will also gradually each region, will address issues such as the new improve the information we provide to the German environmental strategy and quality programmes. farmers, and this is expected to be fully integrated Another important task for the working groups will by the beginning of 2012. The German farmers, be to ensure that Board decisions get support from as a group, are paid the same milk price as their the owners. Danish and Swedish counterparts, although we will continue to use the established payment model at Training representatives the individual level. We are currently reviewing the Elections to the Arla Board of Representatives and issue of which model to use in calculating the German district councils took place in 2011. Newly-elected milk price in future. Where investments in the group representatives have taken part in an introductory are concerned, all cooperative members and German programme, specially adapted to cover different tasks. farmers are treated equally. The representative’s role, a knowledge of the company Arla’s British milk producers in Arla Foods Milk and meetings between representatives from all three Partnership (AFMP) have made the decision to countries, are included in the training programme. Owner and supplier fac ts The milk price 2009 2010 2011 During the summer of 2011, the milk price Owners 7,625 7,178 8,024 to owners was significantly increased, but in based in Sweden 3,787 3,529 3,865 September it was lowered again. The increased based in Denmark 3,838 3,649 3,514 prices for milk powder on the world market for based in Germany (members of Hansa-Milch) 645 the first six months increased the amount of raw AFMP members in the UK 1,400 1,362 1,330 material available, which caused a price drop. Suppliers in Finland 1,113 1,060 1,000 The financial uncertainty in the U.S. and Europe of which are contracted 283 260 243 also affected consumers’ purchasing behavior Suppliers in Allgäuland-Käsereien 1,338 negatively. Also, demand for organic products Motions to the Board of Representatives meeting 14 5 1 declined in 2011, particularly in Sweden, which Participants in owner seminars 927 380 200 led to a lowering of the Swedish price supplement Appeals to the appeals group in Denmark and Sweden 41 43 13 for organic milk. At the end of 2011 the number of owners totalled T h e A F M P Roa d ma p N e w A r l a C h a i r ma n 8,024, which is a 12 per cent increase compared To ease planning of the many challenges facing In May, Åke Hantoft, the former Vice-Chairman, with the previous year. During the year, the milk the British dairy farmers who supply Arla, we succeeded Ove Møberg as Arla Chairman. volume supplied by owners has increased by five have introduced the AFMP Roadmap. The Jan Toft Nørgaard is the new Vice-Chairman. per cent compared with 2010. Roadmap identifies the key initiatives and pieces About 60 per cent of Arla’s 370 elected of work that will be carried out over the next T h e ARLA Q u i z representatives take part in our training 12–15 months. Owners and employees in Arla in Sweden took programmes each year. In the period 2010/2011, part in the Arla Quiz, which tested their knowledge there was a total of 342 training days. about Arla. Twelve teams reached the final. Each team comprised one owner and one employee. 10 F ood S afet y Safe products are our highest priority We meet consumer demand for safe dairy products. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct As a responsible food manufacturer we Improved analysis me thods are dedicated to ensuring that eating This year we have developed several new analysis and drinking our products does not methods to help further ensure the quality of our cause illness or injury. We make every products. effort to ensure that our processes are Reduced volume of raw milk discarded safe and that high quality standards Work on reducing the quantity of raw milk discarded, are maintained throughout the entire due to residual antibiotics, continues to produce supply chain, from the raw material to satisfactory results. the finished product. In the event of an Higher customer requirements issue we have full traceability of our raw materials, ingredients and end products Our customers show an increasing interest in issues enabling us to take immediate action. related to food safety. Together with our customers we develop and improve our analysis methods and risk assessments. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 11 Customers’ stricter food safety requirements development has been improved, which also means food safety Our customers continue to show a strong interest that we can introduce new and unique products in food safety issues. They are keen to learn more, faster. One example of this is the lactose-free for example, about packaging traceability, foreign products produced at Linköping Dairy in Sweden. bodies in products and hygiene procedures. In In the UK we are using some new ingredients tandem with customer requirements, the ongoing (fruit and mixed herbs) and new packaging for cottage upgrades of, and adjustments to, quality and food cheese. Both issues require a detailed risk assessment safety standards stimulate us to further refine our including monitoring suppliers and procedures for methods. In addition, we face a continual challenge handling allergens. in monitoring that our suppliers, both in-house and external, meet our stringent requirements for food Food safety certificates safety and quality. Support in the form of our global Arla has 70 sites of which 51 are now food safety procurement department’s assessments is a valuable certified in accordance with ISO 22000. The facilities contribution, see page 19. yet to be certified for ISO 22000 after 2011, already meet national food safety standards. Furthermore, Continually improving risk assessments Arla has a total of 40 BRC (British Retail Consortium) Arla has well-developed procedures and strong and IFS (International Food Standard) certificates, methods to guarantee the quality of our products. which our customers often require us to have. However, we continue to work on developing our We see advantages in converting the current risk assessments. For example, our predictive certificates into the new common FSSC 22000 microbiology method, which is used to calculate food safety system, and other major European microbiological shelf-life, makes it easier and food producers are doing just this. Arla has invited faster to develop new products while maintaining customers to take part in a dialogue as we would like food safety. Coordination between our in-house their support for a more uniform certification system. departments working with food safety and product Milk qualit y on farm discarded milk with antibiotics, N e w a n a ly s i s m e t h o d s The drivers who collect milk from the farms tonnes/year in Denmark and Sweden We strive continually to improve and renew perform an important task as they are the first to 3,000 our analysis methods. For example, we have assess the quality of the milk before it is pumped recently developed a new qualitative method for into the tanker. In Denmark, Sweden and the 2,500 immediate identification of mould in soups and UK, drivers receive training in hygiene, milk 2,000 another similar method of identifying yeast and quality and the correct way to take samples for mould in productions involving fruit. laboratory testing. The drivers’ role is important 1,500 In partnership with the Swedish Dairy as they have frequent direct contact with the 1,000 Association, Svensk Mjölk, we have developed dairy farmers and can therefore give a sign if a method to identify gram-negative bacteria there is something amiss on the farm. 500 (indicators of inadequate hygiene in the 0 production process). In 2011 this method u n p a s t e u r i s e d c h e e s e i n D e n ma r k 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 was approved by the Nordic Committee on Tistrup Dairy in Denmark has been given the Food Analysis (Nordisk Metodikkommitté för go-ahead from the Danish authorities to produce Sick animals are sometimes treated with Livsmedel, NMKL). cheese from unpasteurised milk. The production antibiotics. Milk from the cow is discarded In addition, we are working with Fonterra, of unpasteurised cheese demands extremely during the period of treatment and for a period another major dairy company, and a leading high food quality standards as there is a greater of time afterwards. To ensure that no antibiotics supplier of analysis equipment, to develop a bacteriological risk when the milk is not heat remain in the milk, we take samples and any milk new method, by which to investigate whether treated as normal. Some of the factors that are containing antibiotics is discarded. The volume raw milk has been deliberately contaminated. crucial for food safety when making cheese of discarded milk fell in 2011. During the year, Our work shows that the method provides rapid from unpasteurised milk are: the use of the milk was discarded in 27 cases, which is the same results even for unidentified substances. The predictive microbiology method, adaptation of figure as last year. method is currently the subject of a realistic test, the risk factor analysis, and the use of milk from In 2011 we have made an active effort to with the aim of further verifying it before it can specially selected farms, which produce milk of reduce the quantity of milk discarded and the be used commercially. Our goal is to create a a particularly high standard. The cheese will be volume in 2011 was around 30 per cent lower method that can be used by the dairy industry sold to restaurants and to some parts of the retail than 2010. across the globe. trade from early 2012. F o l l o w u p o n i nc i d e nt s Product recalls When an accident or incident occurs, it is carefully If we have to recall a product from consumers followed up on and, in the event of a serious or stop a product that has been delivered to accident, a special investigation is instigated. We our customers, we have procedures in place to improve procedures and the lessons learned are ensure that we can act without delay. disseminated to the other facilities in the group. During the year, there has been four In the UK, we ran an incident management course recalls in Denmark. The reasons have been in which participants attended from head office, risk of fermentation in product, microbiologic dairies and distribution depots. The training has contamination of product and incorrect best further improved our procedures and has also before date. assisted us in preventing incidents from becoming 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 major issues. Recalls 7 2 4 0 4 12 F ood and health Dairy products for every consumer We meet consumer demands for healthy products and nutritional information about products. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Arla is committed to meeting consumer Reliable nutritional decl ar ation demand for healthy products and reliable We have high ambitions for the information we nutritional information. We inform our give to consumers about the nutritional content consumers about the ingredients in all our of our products. We have set up several research projects in order to study opportunities for making products so they can choose those that improvements in this field. best suit their tastes and fulfil their needs. Through research, we aim to increase L actose-free products incre a se our understanding of the role of dairy During the year, the number of lactose-free articles products in a balanced diet. has increased and we now provide more information about lactose intolerance and our products. Fat is a topic al issue A special tax on fats has been introduced in Denmark. Arla does not agree with the idea, and we believe that a healthy diet contains a balance of many different foods. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 13 food and health Keyhole symbol on more articles demand is high. Finland is the country in which we The keyhole symbol is used in Scandinavia to show supply most lactose-free products. See table below. which products are a good health choice in a certain As awareness of lactose intolerance is generally category. The symbol was introduced in Denmark low, we provide consumer information about what relatively recently and the number of products lactose intolerance means on several of our websites. labelled with the keyhole symbol has tripled since During the year, we have had a dialogue with the the scheme was introduced. See table below. Danish and Swedish authorities to get our lactoseHowever, from 1 January 2012, the keyhole symbol free milk labelled with the keyhole symbol. This was a will disappear from 25 of Arla’s Danish hard cheeses, major challenge due to the fact that lactose-free milk as we have not succeeded in reducing the quantity of is not legally categorised as milk but as a ‘milk drink’. salt without changing taste and consistency. During The talks were successful and the keyhole symbol 2011, these 25 cheeses were granted dispensation now indicates that the lactose-free milk is a healthy from the requirement of a maximum salt content of choice within its product category, as is ordinary milk. 1.25 per cent. Fruit yoghurt often contains relatively high Different views on fats amounts of sugar. However, during the year we Based on an ambition to encourage the population launched a raspberry yoghurt in Denmark that to eat a more healthy diet, the Danish government contains so little sugar that it qualifies to carry the introduced a new tax on saturated fats in October. keyhole symbol. This is the first Danish fruit yoghurt The result was a consumer price increase on cheese, able to carry the keyhole symbol. butter and meat, and an extra administrative burden In Sweden, the number of articles with the on food manufacturers. keyhole symbol has been reduced due to lower In Sweden, Arla has noted an increase in demand demand. for butter and other fat products partly because of various food trends. Combined with lower milk Lactose-free products are popular production in Sweden, the result was a late-summer Arla is committed to making dairy products available shortage of butter on the Swedish market. By to everyone, including those with lactose intolerance. reorganising production, we ultimately succeeded in At present we supply lactose-free products in resolving the shortage. Denmark, Sweden, Finland, the UK and Germany, and Da i r y p r o d u c t s f o r I n d i a n c u i s i n e Current research projects N e w, n a t u r a l s w e e t e n e r In August, we launched a new range of dairy Arla both supports and actively participates in As part of our efforts to make our products products for use in making Indian food in the a number of different research projects. The as natural as possible, we strive to replace UK, where there is a large Indian population. The over-arching aim of our research is to improve artificial sweeteners, which are often chemically range comprises paneer (soft, white Indian-style opportunities for developing good, high-quality synthesised, with more natural products, which cheese), dahi (a kind of yoghurt used in curries), and healthy foods. have a low calorie content. In early 2012, we will lassi (yoghurt drink) and raita (yoghurt sauce). It Some studies aim to substantiate how launch a new yoghurt drink in the Netherlands, has taken three years to develop these products, nutritional declarations and health claims which is sweetened using a new natural which have been co-created in conjunction with affect how consumers evaluate the products. sweetener. The sweet taste comes from a plant, consumers and a professional Indian chef. In one study the general conclusion is that most Stevia Rebaudiana, commonly known as sweet consumers neither concern themselves with the leaf, which is three hundred times sweeter than La b e l l i n g o n s w e e t e n e d d r i n k s nutritional declaration at the time of purchase sugar. Following an objection from the Danish food nor allow the nutritional information label to authorities, Rynkeby Foods has added the text affect their impression of how healthy they keyhole labelling ‘sweet’ and ‘made from concentrate’ to a fruit believe a product to be. Certain health claims No. of keyhole labelled articles drink that has been sweetened with sugar. can in fact be counter-productive. The consumer 2009 2010 2011 Rynkeby Foods has also added new details to the group that reacted most positively to health Sweden 72* 68 62 labelling on a blackcurrant fruit drink so that it claims was the one which was already most Denmark 21 45 61 states that the drink also contains apples. This interested in healthy products. change was made after a Danish newspaper drew Another study has shown that saturated fat (*) In the CSR report 2009, the figure stated was public attention to the labelling error. in cheese does not affect the level of cholesterol for the number of products (45), rather than the in the blood as much as the same quantity of number of articles (products in different pack new nutrition research centre saturated fat in butter. It would appear that the sizes). Producing infant food requires special knowledge protein and/or calcium in cheese counteracts and expertise. During the year we set up a the effects of the saturated fat and lowers the L a ct o s e f r e e p r o d u ct s European-Chinese nutrition research centre, cholesterol level. No. of lactose-free articles which will focus on clinical research on infant We are also researching into dairy 2009 2010 2011 nutrition. The R&D manager is located at our technology and food safety issues. Finland 87 92 103 office in Shanghai in China. Sweden 15 19 32 UK 8 9 11 Denmark 1 3 Germany 2 14 environment and climate New ambitious environmental strategy We continually improve our environmental performance by applying sound and sustainable principles – from cow to consumer. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Food production and transportation New environmental str ategy of products invariably affect the We have presented a new environmental strategy, environment by discharging substances which includes a holistic approach to the production into the air, the fields and the water. Our chain from cow to consumer. ambition is therefore to minimise this Bioga s incre a se discharge and continually reduce our As one step on the road to minimising our carbon environmental impact within the entire footprint, one of our facilities is now using biogas and supply chain in order to contribute to we are working to increase the use of biogas. sustainable development. Paper from certified forests We are beginning to implement a general switch to FSC-certified paper, produced from timber from responsibly stewarded forests, for our liquid packaging. Photo: Yoghurt cup with cardboard outer case decreases the use of plastic. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 15 environment and climate Environmental strategy 2020 includes farms example is Danmark Protein in Denmark, where, This summer we launched the Arla Environmental during the last three years, we have achieved 20 per Strategy 2020. The new environmental strategy cent savings on water consumption, mainly due to is a continuation of previous environmental and increased water recycling. One example is using a UV climate strategies with one major difference: the new water purifier system so that water can be reused in strategy includes our products’ complete life cycle, production. from milk production on farm to how the consumers Another goal in the environmental strategy is to dispose of packaging and food waste. With this succeed in completely reducing packaging and food holistic approach, we aim to reduce our carbon waste. By 2020 we will use 100 per cent recyclable footprint throughout the entire production chain, packaging material and we will do our utmost to help not restricted, as previously, to dairy production, consumers reduce food waste from dairy products transport and packaging. by 50 per cent, for example by offering a range of One of the biggest changes is the new packaging sizes and encouraging them to cook using partnership with farmers with a view to setting new leftover food. We are also working to minimise the standards for milk production in the period to 2013. waste produced during our own dairy production. Read more about this on page 17. By the end of 2011, all of our UK sites had achieved Arla’s former climate strategy is now included zero waste to landfil. At Stourton dairy, we are using in the environmental strategy, and Arla’s climate pipe cleaning devices, which are sent through the goal is still to reduce direct and indirect emissions pipelines to minimise waste and the volume of water of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent in production, used in cottage cheese production. transportation and packaging by 2020 (compared to the 2005 level). At Hobro dairy in Denmark, Biogas replaces fossil fuels for example, we have begun to use heat from the One way in which to increase the share of sustainable cooling water system, using heating pumps, resulting energy is to increase the use of biogas. At the end of in reduced energy consumption for heating and the year, the milk powder plant in Visby in Sweden simultaneously an approximate 10 per cent reduction had replaced half its energy consumption needs in greenhouse gas emissions at the dairy. A similar with biogas produced from a unit fed mainly with system has been installed at Sipoo dairy in Finland. manure from farms. We are also currently planning Arla’s new environmental strategy also for a biogas plant to supply our facilities in Videbæk comprises goals related to reducing the group’s in Denmark, which are heavy users of energy. In consumption of water and energy by three per cent the future the energy consumed at the plant will be each year until 2020, at which time half the energy produced from farm manure and waste products we use must come from sustainable sources. An from Arla production. e n e r g y c o n s u m p t i o n , TWh c a r b o n f oo t p r i n t, Million tonnes CO2­e e n v i r o n m e n ta l s t r at e g y w o r k Work on the new environmental strategy has been 3.0 1.5 underway for quite some time. Early in the year, 2.5 1.2 we invited a number of interest organisations, NGOs and universities to a roundtable discussion 2.0 with a view to obtaining their thoughts on our 0.9 1.5 Oil strategic initiatives. This meeting was very Gas 0.6 beneficial and shed light on a number of important 1.0 Renewable issues, resulting in our holistic approach. sources 0.3 Packaging During the summer and autumn, the 0.5 District heating Transport environmental strategy has been presented to a 0 2007 Electricity 0 Operations 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 number of interested groups and politicians. We believe that this has laid firm foundations for The energy data covers all Arla sites at the end of The carbon footprint data covers all Arla sites a constructive dialogue of benefit to all parties. 2011. Data for previous years has been updated. at the end of 2011. Despite higher production We aim to continue working together, sharing During 2011, improved production and energy volumes, Arla’s total carbon footprint was know-how and experience. efficiency has resulted in a decreased energy 1.4 million tonnes CO2-equivalents in 2011, use, despite higher production volumes. In total, compared to 1.5 million tonnes in 2005. including electricity and district heating, 17 per cent of the energy was renewable. F S C c e r t i f i e d p a ck a g i n g In Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden, we i n s i g h t i n t o c l i ma t e i s s u e s have begun to use Forest Stewardship Council In connection with the launch of our new (FSC) certified liquid packaging board and in the environmental strategy, we provided detailed Netherlands we also use FSC-certified corrugated information about emissions, and water and cardboard. Paper products that are labelled energy consumption from all our facilities, FSC are produced from timber from responsibly making the data available on an online stewarded forests. Our aim is, gradually, to environmental database. The database provides replace all liquid packaging board with FSCemissions and consumption data at group level, labelled materials. per country and per site. 16 A gric u lt u re Towards more sustainable dairy farming We support sustainable agriculture. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct We want to ensure that farms supplying New environmental str ategy includes the farms milk to Arla operate in a way that shows respect for milk quality, animal We work to achieve a more environmental and welfare and the environment. Our milk climate-friendly dairy production, and from 2020 we aim to buy milk exclusively from sustainable farms. suppliers must therefore adhere to our high standards when it comes to milk The importance of quality programmes production, animal health and feed When we integrate new dairy farmers into Arla, we quality. In Denmark, Sweden, Germany, also review the various quality programmes. the UK and Finland, milk producers are organic production facing challenge inspected to ensure that they follow the applicable quality programmes. We In Sweden and Denmark, the demand for organic also ensure compliance with national milk has fallen, which means that we now produce a surplus of organic milk. regulations for milk quality in the other countries where we purchase milk. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 17 agriculture Sustainable farming in 2020 in the milk chamber as well as records of use of In June, Arla introduced its new environmental medicine and storage of medicine. At the March strategy, which now also includes Arla dairy farmers meeting of the Board of Representatives, the Board in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, the UK and Germany. took the decision to expel a Danish member on Until 2013, we will work with the farmers to develop grounds of serious and repeated deviations from the a new standard for sustainable dairy production, and quality programme. Expulsion is the final step, taken thereafter work to fulfil the standard. The standard only when all other measures are exhausted. will focus mainly on soil fertility and nutritional balance, feed production, measures to protect Support helps improve milk quality and encourage biological diversity, efficient use of Arla supports targeted visits to the Danish and resources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Swedish farmers. In recent months, we have Arla has already held a series of workshops with intensified our efforts at farms that have reported British farmers to discuss how to reduce farming’s high levels of bacteria in their milk. Analysis, in carbon footprint. Similar meetings will be conducted combination with support, has had a very positive in the other four countries where Arla has dairy effect. In Denmark and Sweden we aim to minimise farmers. We will also be working with demonstration heat-resistant (thermoduric) bacteria in milk. The farms to develop, test and implement new methods. average per millilitre last year was reduced by approximately 30 per cent. In Denmark, 86 per cent Quality programmes remain important of the farms which received support, have improved Reliable quality programmes for dairy production their results. High milk quality results in a higher milk on farm and for raw milk remain important for Arla price per litre and therefore affects farm profitability. and for our customers, who continue to show a great interest in these initiatives. The quality programmes Organic milk surplus are updated on an ongoing basis. For example, a Arla is the world’s biggest supplier of organic milk number of minor adjustments have been made and our broad range of products has long been during the year to the Arlagården quality programme, instrumental to growing consumer interest in which is applied in Denmark and Sweden. organic foods. During the year, organic milk has When we get new milk suppliers, one important been launched in Finland. In the past year however, task is to ensure that their quality programmes interest in organic dairy products in Denmark and meet the standards of the Arlagården programme. Sweden has fallen significantly, which means that During 2012 we will conduct a detailed comparison we now produce a surplus of organic milk. We view between the quality programmes used by our organic production as a long-term strategy and German farmers and the Arlagården programme. The seek to resolve the current situation, for example aim is to formulate the future quality programme for by means of stronger marketing efforts. It is also Germany. possible to increase organic sales in Germany, Finland The most frequent deviations from the and the Netherlands where consumer interest in Arlagården quality program in Sweden and Denmark organic products continues to grow. are shortcomings related to hygiene and tidiness A r l a’s m i l k i n ta k e Av er ag e n u m b er o f c ows per fa r m 2012, Arla will buy RTRS certificates for 30 per The number of cows per farm is a calculated cent of the total volume of soy used by Arla’s Other countries 2% average, which includes all milk producers in each cooperative members in Denmark and Sweden. country. Read more on page 31. Netherlands 2% 2009 2010 2011 Denmark 129 134 141 f a s t f oo d c h a i n p a r t n e r s h i p Finland 3% Denmark UK 113 118 120 A number of Arla farmers have worked with a Germany 4% 47% Sweden 59 62 66 multinational fast food chain in Sweden, with Sweden 20% Germany 43 45 47 the objective of introducing consumers to life on UK 22% Finland 23 24 25 dairy and beef farms. The fast food chain buys organic milk from Arla and we see great potential Source: National industry organisations. in increasing the sale of milk here, especially to Approximately 10,000 farms supply milk to younger consumers. Arla in Denmark, Sweden, Germany, the UK and Co n t r o v e r s i a l f e e d s t u f f Finland. This amounts to about 96 per cent of the In January 2012, Arla decided to accelerate its Po p u l a r f a r m v i s i t s group’s total volume. In these and other markets, transition to responsibly produced soy. No later Arla is keen to help enhance dairy farmers’ where we buy milk from local suppliers, we also than 2015 all soy in feed for cows belonging relationship with consumers by emphasising the ensure that the milk meets our quality standards. to Arla’s milk producers must be grown in many positive values that are linked to milk, cows The total inflow of milk increased by five per cent accordance with the principles and criteria of and the dairy farm. Read more about different during the year. RTRS (Round Table on Responsible Soy). During ways to visit a farm on page 29. 18 P roc u rement Improved programme for sustainable sourcing We challenge and encourage our suppliers to support us in our commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Arla sources goods and services across Improved communic ation the world. Our ambition is for our With the purpose of improving the cooperation with suppliers to meet our code of conduct external suppliers and minimising risks to Arla, a lot for suppliers, which governs ethical, of work has been put into making purchasing related information accessible to Arla colleagues. social and ­­environmental responsibilities. We encourage them to help us meet our Sustainable sourcing aim of procuring goods and services Our guidelines for the purchase of palm oil have in a sustainable way. been reflected in the significantly improved score on WWF’s list of responsible palm oil buyers. Supplier a ssessments improved This year’s assessments of suppliers of ingredients and packaging materials have been made according to the new programme for sustainable sourcing. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 19 procurement Reduction of suppliers and a new version, with a significantly elaborated The global procurement department is responsible ethical section, is to be implemented during 2012. for overall procurement in Arla. The purchases made The new version has been developed to fulfil the by the department represent around 69 per cent demands of international and national CSR guidelines of our total spend in 2011, compared to 58 per cent and standards. This was initiated by the Arla Nijkerk the previous year. The efforts by the department to organisation in the Netherlands and supports the pool orders with fewer suppliers and to reduce the organisation in issuing their self declaration of the creation of new suppliers are beginning to pay off. guideline ISO 26000. Further more it supports the During 2011, we made a cross-company review of all organisation in getting certified for the Dutch method active suppliers, which resulted in a reduction of one “CSR Performance Ladder” during early 2012. out of four suppliers. Based on the reply in the questionnaire and Arla now has approximately 950 preferred internally collected information about the suppliers, suppliers that are approved by the global we make a judgement of the suppliers’ performance procurement department, meaning that signed and the suppliers are given written feedback. The contracts govern the relationship between Arla and assessment is also used to define our supplier the suppliers and that these suppliers are first choice evaluation frequency. suppliers. We are continuously working towards our During the year, the global procurement target of 100 per cent of all preferred suppliers to department has conducted assessments of suppliers have signed our code of conduct for suppliers. Of of ingredients and packaging materials that are all the suppliers handled globally, a total of 83 per rated as high risk suppliers from a product quality cent have signed the code, which corresponds to an and ethical point of view. The assessments were improvement of 18 per cent compared to last year. made as part of the new programme for sustainable sourcing, and in case of non-conformance, a Improved programme for sustainable sourcing follow-up assessment or an audit was performed. Development of tools and processes for sustainable The programme also initiated training of colleagues sourcing has been ongoing since 2009, and during in auditing and follow-up on social concerns. 2011, implementation and tests have been carried out. The global procurement department Supplier audits in 2011 is working towards a global supplier assessment We carry out a number of detailed audits every programme that applies to all regions where we year, during which we visit suppliers and carry operate. This is done by requesting that suppliers out a thorough inspection. In 2011 we conducted complete a comprehensive supplier assessment 60 audits globally, which is more than in 2010 when questionnaire regarding ethical and social we conducted 40. The increase is primarily due to accountability, environment, food safety and product the implementation of the new supplier assessment quality. Adjustments to the supplier assessment programme at our subsidiary, Dairy Fruit. questionnaire have been carried out during 2011 Global contracts UTZ certified cocoa Fo l l o w u p o n p a l m o i l Following the audit in 2009, we planned a follow The use of palm oil has been strongly criticised Maintenance Packaging 31% repair, up visit to our cocoa supplier on the Ivory Coast. because it can contribute to the destruction of operations 8% Due to political unrest, the visit was postponed the rainforests and endangered habitats. Arla in both 2010 and 2011. The purpose of the visit only purchases palm oil from companies that are Energy 11% is primarily to establish contacts with NGOs and members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Business to study UTZ certification in practice. UTZ is an Oil (RSPO) which has produced guidelines for the services organisation which provides certification for certification of sustainable palm oil. 14% cocoa production consistent with a set of criteria Arla is working towards the target that all Logistics 17% Ingredients 20% including production, environment and social products in our European core markets will only standards. contain certified palm oil by the end of 2012 at During 2011, all Cocio branded products the latest, and that the target date for all other The diagram shows the external spend handled were made from UTZ certified cocoa. These markets is the end of 2015. During 2011, Arla by Arla’s global procurement department, products represent approximately 19 per cent bought palm oil with GreenPalm certificate which distributed across product and service of the group’s total purchase of cocoa. From corresponds to the entire use of palm oil within categories. Compared to 2010 the share for the beginning of 2012, all Arla branded cocoa the company. ingredients has increased while the share for products will be produced with UTZ certified Every second year the World Wildlife Fund business services is reduced. cocoa as well. (WWF) makes a list of responsible palm oil Our 10 largest suppliers account for 19 buyers. Because our guidelines are in place, Arla per cent (compared to 20 per cent in 2010) of S u s ta i n a b l e p u r c h a s i n g o f f r u i t this year scored seven out of nine on WWF’s our total external spend. In 2011, the following Our subsidiary, Dairy Fruit, has implemented Arla’s list of responsible palm oil buyers, which is a companies were our five largest suppliers in programme for supplier assessment and increased significant improvement. In order to score higher, order of size: Tetra Pak (packaging materials the amount of supplier audits to 25 this year, we would require membership of the RSPO. So and processing and packaging machinery), compared to four in 2010. By 2014, all suppliers of far, Arla has decided not to become a member IBM (IT services), Elopak (packaging materials fruit will be assessed using the new system. because it assumes active participation in the and machinery), Carat (media) and Logoplaste In cooperation with Danida (the Danish organisation and Arla’s palm oil consumption has (packaging materials). international development assistance), Dairy been too low to justify it. Fruit is also supporting a project for development of an agricultural area for fruit growing in Bolivia. The objective is to train the farmers in sustainable optimal utilisation of the land. 20 W orkplace With concern of colleagues’ safety and well being We have competent and committed employees, and provide safe and healthy working conditions. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct Arla has 17,400 colleagues in 30 countries Focus on the work environment throughout the world. We strive to We continually strive to improve both the physical continually improve our work environment work environment and the well being of colleagues. and organisation. We also work to Consistent skill s de velopment strengthen our corporate culture, Our Character, which describes what Arla Qualified workforce is essential to the success of the Arla business. During the last year we have prioritised is and what we stand for in our efforts leadership development and training of dairy to achieve common targets, uniting us colleagues. across differences in historical and cultural Ple a sed and proud colle agues backgrounds. If all colleagues enjoy good working conditions, and are committed to This year’s colleague survey shows continuous their work, together we can do the best improvements of colleagues’ satisfaction and commitment at work. job possible. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 21 workplace Systematic work environment the company’s ambitious strategy for growth and We seek to maintain a safe and healthy work managers’ individual areas of responsibility. environment and we consistently make improvements A tailor-made ALP course took place in Dubai for to prevent injury and illness. For example, at Nijkerk 55 managers from the Middle East and North Africa. dairy in the Netherlands, in recognition of the need The course entailed a meeting of many different to take extra care of manual workers whose duties cultures, and primary focus was on the Arla values include heavy lifting, the dairy is offering physical and the company’s approach to leadership. During training several times a week. The initiative is the year, we have also strived to develop the generic producing good results, including a reduction in skills of our employees in the Middle East and North absence due to illness. In the UK, efforts to reduce Africa, which should make it easier for them to move accidents have been in place since 2009 and have, between the different markets. so far, resulted in a 20 per cent reduction. In Canada, a similar health and safety at work programme has Barometer – the annual colleague survey reduced absence due to injury by 89 per cent since The Arla colleague survey, known as Barometer, 2009. If a colleague in Denmark is absent for more was completed in November and December by than 30 days, as the result of an accident, a senior 12,246 colleagues in 26 countries and in a total of 16 management representative will visit the operating different languages. This annual survey measures facility to follow up on the introduction of preventive colleagues’ commitment and how they see the measures. At Götene in Sweden, a project to reduce company’s goals, focus and leadership. The results absence due to illness resulted in a 20 per cent of the 2011 survey show an overall improvement in reduction in short-term absences. In cooperation nearly every area and in all business groups. with the occupational health services, problems can The index for general engagement among be identified at an early stage, the sick colleague can colleagues is 78 out of a possible 100 (2010: 77), get advice, and, if necessary, rehabilitation can be as opposed to the global trend for employee arranged without delay. Furthermore, a new system commitment, that has fallen since 2008. The high for reporting accidents, near misses, and observed level of engagement from Arla colleagues is also risks has been introduced in Sweden. reflected in the high response rate of 87 per cent (2010: 86 per cent). Leadership training The survey also shows that Arla can do even About three quarters of the target group in Denmark, more to clarify the connection between colleagues’ Sweden and the UK has now taken part in the Arla work and Arla’s goals and results. Other areas of Leadership Program (ALP) for middle managers and improvement are to clarify roles and have less team leaders. The programme was introduced in bureaucracy, which is expected to help reduce the 2010 and has also been run in Canada. The aim of the number of colleagues’ experiencing stress, which has training is to make evident the connection between not improved since last year. A c c i d e n t s a t w o r k , Number of work C h a n g e s t o t h e o r g a n i s at i o n D i e t a n d e x e r c i s e i n i t i at i v e accidents involving more than one day’s absence per Following reorganisations, company acquisitions In Denmark, weight control activities have been one million working hours. and rationalisation measures, the total number conducted at five different sites. Consultants of people employed at Arla has increased by and physiotherapists were brought in to advise 30 approximately 1,200 full time positions. groups and individuals how to change diet and exercise habits, e.g. introducing changes to the 25 B r e a t h a ly s e r d e v i c e o n v e h i c l e s menu in the colleague canteen, or leaving the 20 In 2010, an alcohol-sensitive lock system was car at home and walking instead. The outlook is fitted to the delivery vehicles at the Årsta long term, as habits do not simply change from 15 Terminal in Sweden. During 2011, a similar one day to the next. Even so, several colleagues 10 system was introduced at the Kalhäll Terminal, have already said that they have more energy and also in Sweden. Before the driver receives the key enjoy everyday life more, which is encouraging 5 to a vehicle, he or she must take a breathalyser others to join these activities. 0 test. The system has many positive effects, for A similar initiative, although on a smaller 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 both traffic safety and Arla’s corporate image. scale, was conducted in Canada. The number of accidents at work has decreased by nearly one third since 2008. in-house experts Skills development In Sweden we have improved learning within Examples of training courses in 2011: Wo r k e n v i r o n m e n t s t r a t e g y the organisation by utilising in-house specialists • In Denmark we reviewed literacy among In 2010, Arla introduced a new work environment as tutors at some of our dairies. Colleagues 4,000 colleagues who work under collective strategy, which includes a holistic approach to who have special skills, e.g. in hygiene, quality agreements. The objective of the review was to our colleagues’ wellbeing, health and safety. The and work environment, are offered basic and offer reading and writing classes for colleagues vision of the strategy is 100 per cent engagement advanced teaching courses. The in-house with a low-level of literacy. and wellbeing, zero accidents and no harassment tutors’ know-how about applicable legislation, • In Canada we ran courses aimed at developing of any kind in the workplace. During the year, standards, internal routines, and our products our colleagues’ capacity to tackle their roles the following focus areas were decided for and regulations ensures that their teaching is effectively. global actions: stress management, diminishing closely connected to colleagues’ daily tasks, • In the UK, 75 students have embarked on a new harassment, continuing dissemination of the resulting in effective training results. In addition, two-year course of training, tailor-made by the safety culture (behaviour-based safety, BBS) and planning the training is more flexible and of dairy industry. reduction of the physical strains of manual work. course improving the in-house specialists’ skills also benefits the company. More than • Arla Foods Ingredients has set up a training 100 in-house specialists now work as instructors, programme, which is intended to increase tutors or internal auditors at Arla workplaces. awareness of Arla products and work flows. 22 ARL A Our responsibility 2011 Case study [workplace] Faster integration means better performance Since Arla launched its growth strategy three years ago, the company has grown, mainly due to a number of mergers and acquisitions in its core markets. Arla is working with a firm goal to incorporate the new companies as fast as possible into the group so they are aligned with Arla’s corporate culture. However, from experience, Arla knows that the best place to start is by getting to know the company incorporated. During the last decade, Arla has formulated an entity in another context and with a different guidelines and models to describe the company’s perspective – and all of that changes in a post merger values, its corporate culture and what is expected of process. Accepting this, you then need to start by its colleagues. The group is united under the heading understanding how their business operates at all ONE, which explains the common strategy, mission, levels. vision and corporate culture. When new companies “To be understood, you have to understand,” are integrated into Arla, interest is not restricted to says Per Kracht. “We have to understand, in some their products and their contribution to the bottom detail, the history and the characteristics of the line. Arla is also keen to ensure that the colleagues company as a whole and how it has progressed to feel that they belong to Arla as soon as possible and its current status before we can begin to introduce that they understand how Arla operates. our concepts and ways of working. We have to ask “We are in business to make money. The ourselves what we can learn from them. Otherwise, faster we win hearts and minds for the Arla Vision, there is a risk that people in the newly incorporated Mission and Strategy, and the faster the organisation company feel that everything they did in the past was becomes efficient, the sooner we achieve the useless. In fact, the opposite is true – we believe that benefits of integration that motivated the merger or together we can achieve great things.” acquisition. At the end of the day it’s all about speed In the past Arla has been good at understanding and quality” explains Per Kracht, Vice President HR the practical, technological and financial aspects for Consumer Germany & Netherlands. of the businesses, but integration of Nijkerk in the The newly formed business group is currently Netherlands has not been without pain. working with the integration of Hansa-Milch and “We took a strong line from the start. We Allgäuland-Käsereien dairy business into Arla. switched the logo and applied the new logo to work “The alternative would be merely to say wear, but we have still not succeeded in giving the ‘You now belong to Arla’ and carry colleagues access to our My Workplace intranet on as usual. I cannot imagine that and mail system, which hasn’t helped the Dutch this would result in any integrationcolleagues feel included. It’s just not enough to related benefits. Our new colleagues change logos if the colleagues don’t have access to need to feel connected to Arla very practical information or to a common mail system. quickly” says Per Kracht. In this case we underestimated the importance of solving a number of practical issues and we have to Start by understanding do better in the future,” says Per Kracht. Per Kracht has worked at Arla for a long time and Change starts at management level was also involved in Over the years, Arla has become better at identifying the acquisition the cultural differences, which Per Kracht believes of the Friesland can be considerable even between countries as close Foods as Denmark and the Netherlands, or Denmark and company at Germany. The way in which colleagues address one Nijkerk in the another at work or the extent to which people dare Netherlands express an opinion at their workplace are examples in 2009. of this. Where The new integration model currently being integration is adopted is thorough in its approach. The initial concerned, he objective is to enter into a dialogue with management believes that at the new company, in which Arla starts by asking you have to about the new company’s corporate values. This start by considering often makes it relatively easy to identify similarities the company that with Arla’s corporate culture – Our Character – is to be integrated. and thus to pinpoint things the companies have in It has existed as common, on which to start building. workplace 23 You cannot merge with another company by email “We cannot execute or via PowerPoint presentations. Say what you do – definitions everything at once – Our Character, You have to be on the spot, you and do what you say ONE – The headline connects Our Leadership, Our Dialogue, Our Per Kracht believes the Arla group across the world Responsibility, Closer to Nature™, have to be accessible.” that the reactions and manifests the group’s common strategy, mission, etc. We have to take a step-by-step received from vision, corporate culture and approach allowing people to reflect and navigate in colleagues depend on the quality of the dialogue resources. the Arla context.” in question. In his work, he applies a simple communication model, Intention – Behaviour – Our Character – Arla’s Resistance to change is a natural reaction Experience, to explain how well any given message is corporate culture is Per Kracht emphasises the importance of Arla received. characterised by the words: showing respect for new colleagues and appreciating “The listener has to understand the connection Lead, Sense, Create. Colleagues that they have to be given time to understand how between what I intend to say, how I behave and are expected to have a desire to Arla operates. When they do, their everyday working lead, an open-minded approach how this is experienced. If I fail to pay attention and a creative culture. lives become easier. He believes that resistance to to the reaction I get, then I have no idea of the change is a normal human reaction. This is why, for recipient’s experience. And if the recipient’s reaction Our Leadership – The Arla example, the management team at Hansa-Milch has does not correlate with what it was I intended to leadership is based on the been trained to understand why it will encounter communicate, then maybe I as a leader should keywords: Envision, Engage and employees’ resistance and that this is to be expected. consider how I can do things differently. Was I too Deliver. Resistance is described in three phases. The vague? Why did they see me as incoherent?” initial reaction is not understanding the change, Another factor that helps generate integration Our Dialogue – The Arla which creates resistance to it. In the second phase, is ensuring that the new organisation receives help programme for reviewing the colleagues understand the change but don’t like individual performance and to make contacts with individuals within Arla. It is development. it because it will affect their work as they know it. not enough to know which department to contact The final phase of resistance is when the employees in connection with any kind of issue. From the Our Responsibility – Ethical have accepted the change and maybe even like the beginning the new company has to have help to find values and the collective term idea, but do not believe that it is possible or that the right person to talk to in an organisation the size for the Arla Code of Conduct management can carry it out successfully. of Arla. and the report on how well the At each phase, colleagues must receive group lives up to this code. pertinent explanations, and for these to be accepted, Being there – with body and mind, there must be efficient communication between is very important Closer to Nature™ – A colleagues and their leaders. Per Kracht believes commitment, which permeates How well and how fast the integration is achieved the group in its entirety. therefore that the best solution is for line managers is measured annually in the Arla colleague to communicate with their colleagues, informing survey, Barometer, and through interviews with mergers and them of the changes in their own words. management on progress made in connection with Ac q u i s i t i o n s “There is nothing gained from having someone various activities, although Per Kracht admits that 2008: Arla acquires the travel from Head Office to explain Arla’s values and this does not always provide an accurate picture. remaining 70 per cent share in then fly out again some hours later. The leaders of “You cannot merge with another company by Arla Ingman in Finland. the new company must be helped to make them their email or via PowerPoint presentations. You have to own. We must avoid people feeling that their boss is 2009: Arla acquires the fresh be on the spot, you have to be accessible and you products dairy Friesland just standing there reading aloud from a PowerPoint have to make sure that there is a functional dialogue. Foods Fresh Nijkerk in the presentation prepared and delivered from Head Only then can you gain a real sense of how integration Netherlands. Office.” is progressing.” 2010: Arla buys a share in the British Westbury Dairies. 2011: Arla merges with the north German dairy, HansaMilch and with Swedish Milko. The south German dairy company, Allgäuland, and two minor dairies in Denmark are acquired. Per Kracht, Vice President HR for Consumer Germany & Netherlands. 24 M arket C ond u ct Continued growth in competitive markets We have good, honest relationships with all of our stakeholders. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct It is essential that consumers trust us if we Responsible marke t le ader are to sell them our products. By acting In 2011, Arla has grown via mergers and acquisitions, responsibly, communicating openly and primarily in Sweden and Germany. maintaining an ongoing dialogue with Be t ter corpor ate image customers and consumers, we create the right conditions for trust. At the same In the annual survey, consumer perception of Arla has significantly improved in Denmark, Sweden and time we must constantly adapt to the Finland. increasingly competitive, fast-moving and international market. In the markets in Conscious marke t positioning which we are a major player, we have the We are beginning to reap the rewards of our Closer added responsibility of not abusing our to Nature™ commitment and our three global brands position. strategy. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 25 market conduct Arla continues to grow Tough competition on the dairy market Arla is on track to deliver its ambitious 2015 growth Competition continues to be tough in our core strategy and during the year the group has been markets. Our competitors are both local, regional and involved in several mergers and acquisitions. Early in international players. The market has grown slightly, the year, Arla merged with the north German dairy there has been product volume growth on low-price company, Hansa-Milch, and, during the autumn, with products and customers’ own labels. This trend Swedish Milko. In November, the acquisition of the represents a challenge for us as our strategy is to be south German Allgäuland-Käsereien was completed. well-known in the market for our own Arla brands, The incorporation of the German companies and we have not really succeeded in matching the required approval from the EU Competition level of growth. In Denmark and Sweden, customers’ Authority and the merger with Milko required the own brands are growing particularly rapidly and we approval of the Swedish Competition Authority, endeavour to find ways to encourage consumers to Konkurrensverket. The Swedish Competition appreciate and choose Arla branded products. Authority stipulated that Arla must sell a number In Finland, competition has been particularly of the Milko brands and the Milko dairy at Grådö in tough in the market for milk, and, in both Sweden and Sweden. The Swedish Competition Authority feared Finland, domestic cheeses are under pressure from that, without these stipulations, the merger would cheaper, imported cheeses. have significantly limited competition in the markets for milk, sour milk products, yoghurt and several House of Castello® building Arla’s third brand other products. Before the merger, Arla was market Arla Strategy 2015 includes gathering all our products leader in Sweden, and after the merger, Arla has under three global brands, Arla®, Lurpak® and approximately 50 per cent of sales of dairy products Castello®. Arla® and Lurpak® are performing well in Sweden. and both now have strong brand positions. While, Early in the year, Arla also acquired two small previously, Castello® was known for its blue cheese, Danish dairies, one of which produces a Danish the brand will become more encompassing, with speciality smoked cheese, and the second produces more cheeses being promoted under the new House crème fraîche and cottage cheese. of Castello® name, which was launched during the As market leader in some markets, we year. The goal is to become the world’s leading make sure that we never contravene applicable premium cheese brand, signalling high quality, luxury competition rules in any way. This also applies to and indulgence. our subsidiary, Rynkeby Foods, which is a major producer of juice and fruit drinks in both Denmark Closer to Nature™ filters through Arla and Sweden. Rynkeby cooperates with the national Three years ago, Arla decided that the over-arching industry organisations to ensure that competition Closer to Nature™ committment would be applied between minor and major players in their market is to both the company and its products. The article fair. on page 26 describes the changes and how far the company has fared on its journey towards getting Closer to Nature™. In dialogue with the consumer Co n s u m e r p e r c e p t i o n This year in the UK, we are No. 2. Our customer Arla Forum answers questions from consumers In Denmark, Sweden and Finland we measure survey in Finland gave us fine results for service, via phone, email and letter. This year we offered consumer perception of Arla annually. In general, innovation, reliability and reliability of supply. bilingual customer services in Canada. In the UK, our products get top scores. In Denmark our We have improved from last year’s No. 20 to this Arla’s quest towards becoming a household name reputation continues to improve, particularly year’s No. 16. In Sweden, we ranked No. 1 in 2010 is making progress and the number of enquiries on the ethical parameter. In Sweden, consumer but fell to No. 24 this year, mainly due to supply from British consumers has increased. perception has improved on all parameters and problems. In a survey in Denmark, Rynkeby Foods For example, Arla Forum receives enquiries we now have the best image since the survey ranked No. 1 this and last year, in the cold and about everything from nutritional content to commenced. Our image has improved in Finland frozen foods category, and No. 4 in the grocery requests for more lactose-free products. In too with around 79 per cent of consumers saying category. Arla Foods Ingredients generally scores general, different kinds of questions are asked that they are willing to buy Arla products. In well in customer surveys and customer loyalty in different countries. However, the enquiries Finland this year we achieved the highest score is at the same high level as in the last survey two we receive often reflect current debates in the since 2007. years ago. media. And therefore it is important that we are able to meet different national needs. 2009 2010 2011 Arla wins Arla in Denmark 58.6 61.0 64.9 Every year Arla receives accolades in a variety No of enquiries 2009 2010 2011 Arla in Sweden 74.3 71.3 77.7 of areas, including quality, ethics, work Denmark 22,000 20,500 20,300 Arla in Finland 71.7 69.5 73.1 environment, etc. Awards range from very Sweden 26,000 28,000 26,500 local prizes to those awarded to the group in its Sweden (Internet) 46,000 40,000 45,000 The table shows the total score (on a scale of entirety. To mention one among the many, this UK 26,000 24,000 25,000 0–100, where 100 is best) consumers gave Arla year, for example, Swedish consumers nominated Finland 13,000 16,000 15,000 in comparison with many other companies, in a Arla the best food company where environmental Germany 8,000 survey carried out by the Reputation Institute. issues and social responsibility were concerned. The Netherlands 5,800 6,100 The Sustainable Brand 2011 award is built on China 5,000 31,000 19,000 C u s t om e r p e r c e p t i o n o f A r l a a survey based on the 10 principles of the UN USA 250 1,400 160 In our core markets, Arla and its subsidiary Global Compact. To celebrate all these awards Canada 800 company, Rynkeby Foods, conduct an annual and to encourage more entries, we have survey to understand how our customers see us launched a new intranet page, called the Trophy in our role as supplier. In Denmark we rank as the Room, publishing all our awards. best of the 20 largest suppliers to the retail trade. 26 ARL A Our responsibility 2011 Case study [market conduct] Closer to Nature™ – from idea to reality Three years ago Arla decided that the Closer to Nature™ commitment was to filter into every corner of the company. This was the start of a massive venture. As Arla’s raw material is milk, nature has always been close to the company’s heart. So what does Closer to Nature™ really mean to Arla? The new Corporate Strategy, which was introduced company which had more to do before they could in 2008, also described changes to the Arla brands: accurately be described as closer to nature. Arla®, Lurpak® and Castello®. In connection with Even though the content of Closer to Nature™ these changes, Closer to Nature™ was presented as was not new, what was new was that Arla had begun the new platform for the global Arla® brand and for to communicate a clear message about getting Closer the company itself. Marianne Bach, Senior Brand to Nature™, and that, step-by-step, the company Manager, is working on putting the Closer to Nature™ would be making changes for the better. To reach concept into practice. She describes the overarching the overarching goal, a large number of activities goal: were initiated. Danny Micklethwaite, responsible for “When people see the Swedish car brand Volvo, the global Arla® brand strategy, is in no doubt as to the vast majority automatically associate the brand what is most important in Arla’s work with Closer to with the word ‘safety’. In the same way, we believe Nature™: that our consumers should automatically associate “Consistently delivering the promise. If we Arla with Closer to Nature™.” don’t make Closer to Nature™ more than just an advertising slogan, then we will fail. Great brands are Closer to Nature™ – step-by-step built on fundamental, unshakeable beliefs and we In the Arla Annual Report 2008, the company want to make Arla a great brand.” explained how Closer to Nature™ was intended to govern the company’s priorities in the years to come, Working with ingredients and that it is Arla’s promise to consumers that the One of the first projects launched was a review of company will produce inspiring and healthy products the entire product assortment, which was to ensure that carry Mother Nature’s characteristic signature. that Arla’s products contain only the minimum of From the very beginning, it was clear that Closer to additives and are therefore as natural as possible. Nature™ is primarily concerned with three key areas: Additives are used to give products a specific taste, Arla’s products should be as natural as possible; prolong shelf-life or functionality, and some additives milk production on Arla farms should be achieved are chemically produced and artificial. Where in harmony with nature; and Arla’s own production possible, artificial additives have now been removed should have as little impact on the environment or replaced by natural variants. This is a long-term and climate as possible. None of this was new to and ongoing initiative. Arla has also launched a series Arla but the new activity was more about finding a of new products that are additive-free, for example, way in which to distinguish the company from its Arla Yoggi® Fri yoghurt. competitors by more clearly defining the company’s position. Closer to Nature™ in practice In some of Arla’s markets, a great deal had One very obvious way in which Arla demonstrates already been achieved in line with Closer to Nature™. the company’s commitment to the environment, and For example, some parts of the company had to the cows on the farm, is by providing the general already made important progress into working with public with an opportunity, particularly in Denmark environmentally friendly initiatives and here and Sweden, to visit Arla milk producers’ farms. The there was a good foundation on which first farm visits took place long before the launch of to build. At the same time, Closer to Nature™. there were other “Arla is a company that is owned by farmers areas of the so showing off the farms and livestock is a natural thing to do. Closer to Nature™ becomes meaningful when people can come and see the concept in action,” says Danny Micklethwaite. market cond u ct 27 If we don’t make Closer to Nature™ more than just In Denmark and Sweden, a an advertising slogan, then we The Get Closer to large number of Arla farms invite will fail. Great brands are built on Nature™ game schoolchildren to visit the farms to In 2011 Arla began learn about the interplay between fundamental, unshakeable beliefs.” to involve all the people, animals and nature. The company’s colleagues children meet the farmer, they have a good look at in work with Closer to Nature™. This was achieved the cows and they learn where food actually comes by using a board game, the aim of which is for the from. Through farm and dairy visits, Arla aims to participants to share good initiatives already existing activities demonstrate the connection between nature and Arla and to come up with specific activities for their own products, and to give schoolchildren an impression of Examples of Closer to Nature™ Arla department to get even closer to nature. activities for children the food chain, all the way from cow to consumer. In “There is a huge pool of creativity among our Sweden, the company has offered farm visits since the colleagues and involving everyone in the work is UK: In the UK more than 3,000 early 1990s and to date about one third of Swedish a great way to get Closer to Nature™ integrated in children have subscribed to the 6–9 year-olds have visited an Arla dairy farm. every corner of the company,” says Marianne Bach. Arla Nature Adventure Club, Other opportunities for consumers to visit Arla “The game has helped produce a large number of which offers a range of ways to farms include nature festivals and seeing the cows good ideas, and many small improvements together explore nature. The children released onto pasture in the spring, an event which can make a big difference in an organisation the size are encouraged to engage has become a tradition in Denmark and Sweden. of Arla.” in outdoor activities which can be adapted to suit the Public interest in such events has grown over the Surveys to measure Arla’s image among child’s surroundings (garden, years and in 2011 the company also introduced them consumers in Denmark, Sweden and Finland clearly play area, woods or school in Finland. In all Arla’s core markets, the company demonstrate that Closer to Nature™ is now beginning playground). The children are runs different activities which aim to encourage to penetrate. Consumers increasingly associate the also encouraged to share their children and adults to get Closer to Nature™. term “natural products” with Arla. pictures of things they see “For the first time, during 2011 I heard new in nature or things they have Support in the new environmental strategy colleagues say that they had been motivated to apply made using natural materials. The third cornerstone of the Closer to Nature™ for a position in Arla because of Closer to Nature™ initiative is Arla’s commitment to the environment. and our commitment to sustainable agriculture. They Germany: In Germany, Arla works in partnership with For several years, the corporate environmental want to work for a company that acts responsibly. NABU (Nature and Biodiversity strategy has covered dairy production, This tells me that our work with Closer to Nature™ Conservation Union). The transportation to and from the dairies, and inside Arla is now bearing fruit and we are moving in partnership’s many activities product packaging. To ensure that Arla can set new the right direction,” says Marianne Bach. aim to encourage children to standards for sustainable dairy production, the new During the coming year, Arla will take further get out and experience nature. environmental strategy, presented by Arla in 2011, steps to discover what Closer to Nature™ means to also includes dairy farms. consumers in several different countries. Marianne During 2011, the multitude of initiatives and Bach explains that there may be considerable activities carried out since the launch of Closer to national differences. For example, in Scandinavia, Nature™ were collected in an internal database. There people are very aware of the environment and are more than 600 activities, ranging from specific sustainability issues, while in Asia people are energy-saving measures, such as installing heat pumps very interested in information about where the to recover heat from wastewater and cooling, to the ingredients in the products come from. By learning requirements cocoa producers have to meet before more about how Closer to Nature™ is perceived Arla will consider buying their cocoa. With this vast in different cultures, Arla expects to improve the collection of information, it is not difficult to see that information provided to consumers. Closer to Nature™ has made a considerable impact on the company over the last three years. Marianne Bach, Danny Micklethwaite, senior brand manager. vice president. 28 C omm u nit y relations Building long-term relationships with local communities We maintain good, respectful and constructive community relations. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct We accept extensive responsibility Reducing food wa ste for community relations within the We strive to reduce the volume of food discarded framework of our core business. In during production and by the consumer. addition, we endeavour to involve Open farm e vents ourselves in wider social issues which are relevant to our business activities. We Consumers’ interest in visiting our farms has increased in both Denmark and Sweden. want to contribute to the development of communities and do so by building Aid project ex tended long-term relationships with people, As part of our project to provide aid for children in businesses and organisations. the third world, we started working in Honduras this year. Photo: Hansa-Milch provides timetables for school children. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 29 community relations Children for Life Project Consumer visits to farms Arla has run the Children for Life Project since As part of Arla’s Closer to Nature™ initiative, we invite 2008. This is a long-term aid project, which aims the general public to visit our farms, especially those in to give underprivileged children a better future by Denmark and Sweden. In this way we hope to increase providing food and sponsoring their education. From public awareness of natural products and of the ties day one, we worked with SOS Children’s Villages between people, animals and the natural environment. in the Dominican Republic and, from this year, we One very popular event is when we invite the public to are also working in Honduras, where we now help join us when the cows are turned out to pasture in the provide one glass of milk each day to 150 children spring. In Sweden, we welcomed more than 100,000 at a children’s home. We have, however, ended visitors this year (2010: 80,000), while in Denmark the our partnership with SOS Children’s Villages in number of visitors increased by more than 50 per cent. Vietnam because we no longer have a local office The event was organised at farms in Finland for the first there. In Bangladesh, our commitment continues in time this year and was a great success. In the UK, some partnership with a local charity organisation. farmers take part in Open Farm Sunday, an annual The Children for Life Project is intended to industry initiative which encourages farmers to open involve colleagues in the local areas in which we their farms to the public. operate and to contribute to development there. We We also invite school children to visit our farms aim to find ways of providing aid that are connected in Sweden and Denmark. Since 1993, almost 800,000 with our products and that really do make a Swedish school children have visited a farm. This difference. We are currently investigating into which extremely popular activity has expanded this year with countries we could extend the programme. a new website, and the teaching materials have been updated and adapted to the new Swedish curriculum. Social commitment at the local level School visits have also been introduced in Finland. In Arla’s primary contribution to social development is Denmark, school children are invited to visit farms to create jobs and economic growth in the areas in and dairies. In addition, open farm events and nature which we operate. Local anchorage is important to festivals attracted around 145,000 visitors. us and therefore we allow companies in the group to contribute to their local community in the way they Reducing food waste feel is most appropriate and fosters most employee For quite some time, Arla has focused on reducing involvement. the volume of food wasted at production sites and In Russia, for example, we have chosen to by consumers. This issue is now included in our new support a children’s home in Pavlovsk, while in environmental policy. In Canada, for example, we Finland we support local sports clubs, and in the UK work with Second Harvest, an organisation that our employees take part in Community Challenge and distributes our high quality cheese products to hostels work in partnership with the communities in which and schools that serve breakfast, when the product’s we operate. In 2011 Arla contributed to 46 (2010: 32) residual shelf-life is too short for sale to retail stores. different Community Challenge projects to a total We have similar partnerships distributing food to the value of DKK 140,000 (2010: DKK 105,000). needy with Tafeln in Germany, St George’s crypt in the UK and with Manna Pankki in Finland. Arl a farm visits the consumer. The Swedish back panels often No. of visitors 2009 2010 2011 feature the work of the farmer, the farm and the Cows out to pasture, Denmark 35,000 40,000 63,000 environment but we also print funny stories or Cows out to pasture, Sweden 68,000 80,000 100,000 useful tips on our milk cartons. Farm visits for schoolchildren, Denmark 7,500 10,000 15,000 Farm visits for schoolchildren, Sweden 45,000 42,000 43,000 H e a lt h y l i f e s t y l e Diet and exercise are part and parcel of a healthy S u p p o r t f o r s c o u t j am b o r e e The big Team Rynkeby cycling event broke lifestyle, so Arla sponsors a large number of Arla took part in the big international World all previous records this year. There were more activities, e.g: Scout Jamboree held at Kristianstad in Sweden participants than ever before and the event • Breakfasts in Saudi Arabia Arla has contributed this summer. There were 80,000 visitors from raised DKK 9.6 million for the Children’s Cancer products to a project aimed at educating 150 countries. We saw the jamboree as a great Foundation in Denmark and Sweden. Other schoolchildren on the importance of eating opportunity to inform people about organic examples of activities for charity include: breakfast, with more than 360,000 participating production and to offer organic dairy products for • Saudi Arabia In partnership with the charity children. the scouts to use in their own cooking. We also ran organisation SANAD, we have made donations • Sponsored run in Poland Arla is the main a series of activities, which aimed to demonstrate to help children suffering from cancer. sponsor of a running and training event in the the importance of recycling packaging. • USA Through a charity project, we have city of Kolobrzeg. contributed to a children’s hospital in Seattle. • Football schools in Denmark Almost 35,000 C h a r i t y f o r c a n c e r pat i e n t s children and teenagers took part in a variety of • Canada We took part in a number of events, Arla contributes to charity work in many countries football schools. including a volleyball tournament, the proceeds to help people with cancer and others in need of which go to cancer research. • Active children in Denmark About 140,000 of care. We see an increasing number of charity • Sweden We made a donation to the Sachsska children took part in a project, which aimed projects directly linked to product sales. One Barnsjukhuset (a children’s hospital) in Stockholm. to encourage children to engage in physical example in Arla is a Swedish campaign where activity. DKK 0.8 was donated to breast cancer research for each pack of Keso® cottage cheese with raspberry M i l k pa n e l s i n S w e d e n a n d D e n ma r k • Healthy messages in the UK Arla has sponsored sold in the campaign period. In Sweden and Denmark, we use the back panel Leeds Rhinos rugby club to visit 30 schools of milk cartons to communicate with and educate delivering healthy living messages. 30 H u man R ights Standing up for a firm conviction We respect and support internationally recognised human rights. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct We have production facilities in many Focus on human rights countries and our products are sold In our audits in the third world, we are particularly throughout the world. We also operate meticulous in ensuring that human rights are in countries that do not yet have fully respected. recognised human rights or that do not yet Ex tended focus on diversit y live up to them. Regardless of the country We continue to undertake a number of initiatives in which we have operations, we maintain towards increasing diversity within Arla. We have a firm conviction that the human rights of introduced a strategy to build an inclusive and every individual should be respected and diversified company culture. upheld. Fewer female senior managers Despite Arla’s endeavour to have a balance between men and women, the amount of female senior managers has decreased. ARL A Our responsibility 2011 31 Initiatives to encourage diversity In 2010 we launched initiatives to increase diversity Dialogue with suppliers in the third world When we visit and audit third world suppliers, we human rights within Arla. We aim to ensure that everyone is focus in particular on human rights, e.g. child labour treated equally, regardless of gender, ethnic, social or and work environment issues. It is important that our national origins, race, colour, religion or beliefs, sexual suppliers understand our point of view and respect orientation, political views, age, disability or marital our Code of Conduct as it applies not only to the status. In 2011 we produced a strategy for how we will aforementioned issues but also to other areas. build a culture that is both inclusive and diversified. We work with a packing plant and a number Read more in the article on the following pages. of packaging suppliers in Nigeria. In the past we In this year’s colleague survey, Barometer, observed that the packaging suppliers’ commitment the statement ”In my department we benefit from to our Code of Conduct was variable. Together with diversity within the team (e.g. ethnic origin, gender, our local partner, we visited four suppliers this age and education)” achieved a score of 64 compared year and reviewed the Code of Conduct with them. to last year’s 63. Although all four claimed they met our requirements, Despite good intentions to appoint a balanced we have confidence only to trade with three of them. ratio of men and women, 15 per cent of the members The fourth supplier’s conditions were substandard of the management teams in the business groups are and we were unable to approve continued women. Among the company’s 300 senior managers 17 collaboration until conditions significantly improved. per cent are women, compared to 22 per cent in 2010. In future, suppliers will receive two visits a year, one Of all colleagues, the share of women is 27 per cent. from our partner alone and one in which an Arla representative will be accompanied by our partner. Differences affect the workplace experience In Bangladesh our in-house auditor visits our In the 2010 colleague survey, five questions covered packaging supplier every six months and, in the issues relating to how well colleagues felt they were interim, local Arla colleagues are responsible for treated in the workplace. For example, did they think monitoring conditions. At each audit, we check that that allowances were made for personal crises? the supplier meets our quality requirements and Was there a reasonable balance between work we review focus areas in some detail. In October and private life? Were they aware of anyone being we audited a potential sub-supplier in Bangladesh. bullied? In 2011 we analysed the results from 2010 Due to the poor work environment, we were unable in more detail to find out if the age and gender of to enter into collaboration. The ventilation in a the respondent has any effect. It has transpired that hall, in which organic solvents are used, was totally women are slightly more positive to their situation inadequate. than men, and older people are more positive than younger people. Em p l o y e e s b y g e n d e r , % Em p l o y e e s b y a g e , % More than 100 companies and stakeholders 2010 2011 from both private and public sectors took part 100 30 in the conference, which aimed to illustrate how ■ Men ■ Women 25 various organisations have adopted the principles 80 of gender equality and achieved extra profits 20 in the process. Inspiration and good examples 60 from the conference will be used in formulating 15 measures for improvement within Arla. 40 10 i l l n e s s a n d So y p r o d u c t i o n 20 5 New scientific studies have reported that, in areas close to soy fields in Argentina, children 0 0 All Top 300 All Top 300 <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60had been born with deformities and developed cancer as a result of crop-spraying. We take the The ratio of males and females varies in different Currently the overall age distribution at Arla is reports very seriously as soy is an ingredient parts of the organisation. There are significantly satisfactory. Age is not, and should never be, a in the compound feed given to the cows which fewer women than men in senior management. determining factor in recruitment. Arla sees an produce milk for Arla. The soy used on Arla farms However, at the lower management levels, advantage in having employees of different ages. must never cause damage or injury of any kind. the share of women is higher. A focus area is We will act responsibly concerning soy in our therefore to recruit more women to senior C o o p e r at i o n o n e q ua l i t y supply chain, as indeed we do in connection with management positions. As the recruitment base Within Arla, work on equality between the any purchase we make. See page 17. is excellent, it ought in time to be possible to genders is an important part of our diversity Arla’s aim is to ensure that all soy used to achieve a more equal distribution of men and and inclusion strategy. In August 2010, Arla’s feed cows must be cultivated more responsibly women in senior management positions in Arla. CEO Peder Tuborgh signed the CEO Statement by 2015 at the latest. As Arla is a small player of Support for the Women’s Empowerment in this context, we want to work with other Principles, a UNIFEM (UN Development Fund organisations within the industry in Europe to for Women) and Global Compact initiative. In resolve this problem. Together we hope to work March 2011 Arla took part in the UN conference, to replace the controversial soy with soy that is “Equality Means Business: Putting Principles into produced more responsibly or with an alternative Practice. Women’s Empowerment Principles One compound feed. For several years now, Arla has Year Later”. supported Nordic research in this field. 32 ARL A Our responsibility 2011 Case study [human rights] Using diversity creates growth An international company can create growth in many different ways. One good way is to ensure that there is diversity among colleagues – to ensure there is a good mix of different views amongst teams. The purpose for this is to benefit from the different perspectives brought to the company by colleagues with different backgrounds, age, education and gender. By leveraging diversity the company can be developed and has the potential for growth. This is why Arla now has strategic focus on diversity. Several international surveys have shown that “Unconscious assumptions and preferences are diversity in teams is an asset when the differences decisive for about 80 per cent of the decisions we are applied in task solving and decision making. make in connection with recruitment, promotion, In many organisations differences are still an networking and task solving, for example. Unless we unexploited resource, even though more and more acknowledge and try to change this we cannot access are now beginning to recognise the benefits. At our colleagues’ full potential. Changing mindset the same time, there are companies that deliver and behaviour is not an easy thing to do, because it excellent results that are determined to reap the involves challenging habits and existing practices,” full benefit of diversity by systematically ensuring says Tinna Nielsen. inclusive structures and processes that engage all Arla has an internal team of consultants, who colleagues. are training leaders how to use the diversity among According to the international surveys, colleagues as a means to create better performance companies whose corporate culture and business and new solutions. The main message is that model ensure that the organisation is inclusive, synergies in diversity are generated when different can improve their performance by up to 35 per perspectives, expertise and skills come together. cent. When teams and project groups are set This training is offered to leaders as part of ALP (Arla up, representatives of different genders, ages, leadership programme) and to leadership groups at nationalities, personality types and educational all levels of the company. and disciplinary backgrounds are included. At the “It is crucial that we benefit from every single same time, these companies promote an inclusive colleague’s potential to the fullest. Most of us are culture and make sure that all employees and leaders probably more comfortable working in a team where acquire the skills needed to manage and work in team members have many similarities. For example, diverse groups. where people approach the tasks in the same way Diversity and Inclusion is now a strategic focus and use the same language. But it is when different area within Arla. The company formulated a ten-year perspectives meet that good ideas are born and wise strategy for how the organisation can become more decisions made. In the long term, the winners are the inclusive. companies that dare to challenge themselves – even though it can also be a hassle” says Tinna Nielsen. New ways of working Tinna Nielsen is leading the work with Diversity Composing high performing teams and Inclusion in Arla. She believes that a change of Tinna Nielsen is in no doubt that a long journey lies mindset and way of working is required before the ahead, before Arla integrates the new approach into company will see any results from the new strategy: everyday working life and into existing processes, for example, recruitment and talent management. However, in the recruitment process, some steps have already been taken in the right direction. In Denmark and Sweden Arla has seen a slight increase in the number of female applicants for management positions. During the last year, more people with an ethnic background other than Danish have been recruited to jobs at the Head Office in Denmark than in previous years. During 2012, the implementation of Arla’s corporate language policy will continue, which determines that the company language is English. This supports cooperation internationally, includes colleagues regardless of their native language and makes it easier to share knowledge. Tinna Nielsen believes that the recruitment process is critical: h u man rights 33 It is when different perspectives meet that “During 2011 and 2012, we good ideas are born and wise improvements based Examples of have prioritised the activities which on the colleagues’ D i v e r s i t y & Inc l u s i o n have greatest strategic importance decisions made.” contributions. At the organisational level: and which can be integrated into Tinna Nielsen Current internal involvement the global Arla recruitment processes. At present, we emphasises that there are many ways to be inclusive: in Closer to Nature™ is one are working to strengthen the employee and leader “Everyone at Arla will be affected by our work example of how the entire recruitment process. We also have strong focus on with Diversity and Inclusion because it will be Arla organisation is included strengthening leaders’ skills and helping them with integrated into all existing processes, but there is also in change and in the creation methods to understand how the new approach can a lot that you can do yourself. The Rødkærsbro dairy of a new corporate identity. benefit their individual business areas. “ is a shining example of this. Additionally, Diversity All colleagues have been Also, Arla’s consumers are mirroring a broad and Inclusion is a natural part of Our Character: Lead, encouraged to contribute with ideas as to how Arla can get diversity. Adapting products for consumers with Sense, Create. When we understand and appreciate even closer to nature. different ethnic backgrounds or demographic (Sense) our colleagues and their individual points differences demands insight and understanding. In of view, we can exploit each others’ full potential to At group and process level: his monthly communication to top management in make improvements (Create), and lead in our specific Lean is built on including Arla in November 2011, Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh business areas (Lead),” explains Tinna Nielsen. everyone’s input. When the made it clear that Diversity and Inclusion is an dairies use Lean as a tool, important focus for Arla’s future. He highlighted More than social responsibility colleagues are included in finding opportunities for that Arla has a vision to put teams together, in which For many years, diversity and equal treatment of improving efficiency. However, a maximum of 70 per cent of team members are of all people, regardless of gender, ethnic origin and Diversity and Inclusion can also the same gender, nationality/ethnicity, professional/ age etc., have most often been linked to social take place outside a controlled educational background or generation. By reducing responsibility. Tinna Nielsen, however, is keen to process. When colleagues have the dominance, the team will have better access point out that there is more business potential in a task to resolve, it should be to the perspectives, knowledge and skills that diversity if we broaden the approach: natural for them to seek out colleagues and leaders with different backgrounds “It is always important that we treat people knowledge within their own bring into the team. equally. Equality is all about breaking down barriers team, in other departments or and providing equal opportunities for every in Arla-sites in other countries. An obligation to speak individual and group in their work life, but it is also At the individual level: The Rødkærsbro dairy in Denmark is a good the prerequisite for gaining access to colleagues’ Individuals can be inclusive example of an inclusive workplace culture with full potential and the different skills they possess. of diversity simply by asking a inclusive leadership. The dairy has developed Business opportunities do not arise directly from colleague for input and using a method to include all colleagues. The dairy equality, but they arise in an inclusive culture, where it to learn something new. This manager has introduced an ‘obligation to speak’, it is natural to include all colleagues and deliberately also includes asking for input which means that every employee can and must make use of the diversity between them. Then you from a colleague, whom you would not normally ask for contribute to the development of the workplace. will generate new ideas, more efficiency and higher advice. Leaders and colleagues expect everyone to explain engagement. And that’s what makes diversity an what works and what does not work in their daily asset for both the individual and the company.” working life. Leaders are thus obliged to make active use of all their colleagues’ input and to make Tinna Nielsen is leading the work with Diversity and Inclusion in Arla. Arla foods amba Sønderhøj 14 DK-8260 Viby J. Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Email arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com
