UN Global Compact 2012 Communication on Progress kpmg.com/citizenship Table of contents 02 04 08 12 Letter from the Chairman, About this report Leading change Advancing broader KPMG International in society UN goals and issues 20 24 28 32 34 Human rights Labor Environment Global Anti-bribery and KPMG reporting: Green Initiative corruption transparency and assurance 2 Communication on Progress report Letter from the Chairman, KPMG International Business can play a central role in responding to many of the world’s most pressing social, environmental and political challenges. It is business that can fulfill a crucial role in eliminating child labor; in driving the green energy agenda; and in helping bring economic growth to emerging and established markets. I t is encouraging, especially in a difficult galvanize business leaders into action economy, to see business taking a with a series of recommendations to greater leadership role in society over take to the Rio+20 UN Conference on the past 12 months. More businesses Sustainable Development. are changing their view of citizenship We optimistically saw what amounted programs, with the understanding that to a new front being opened in the the very survival of their organizations fight for sustainability. Indeed, the depends on the private sector’s ability to conference signaled a turning point contribute practical solutions that address where businesses put their hands on the many challenges facing global society. the reins of the sustainability agenda I was especially proud this year of without having been forced by set KPMG’s ‘Business Perspective on targets, taxes or political will. Sustainable Growth: Preparing for At KPMG, we believe that this leadership Rio+20’ conference that was held in is embodied through the ethical practices New York City in February. It brought and good corporate citizenship which leading CEOs together with politicians are at the foundation of our business. and diplomats to debate the key From our support of the UN-Business issues on sustainability, to jump-start partnerships services and the impact the agenda for business, and to help Communication on Progress report 3 of our Global Development Initiative in which our network of member firms and Global Green Initiative, through to has encouraged positive change in the progress on the Millennium Village and world. And while we are extremely the expansion of Enactus (formerly, proud of our accomplishments, we Students in Free Enterprise), KPMG’s believe that the true measure of our member firms use their skills and insight success will be in encouraging other to encourage positive change. businesses to take a stand alongside us by assuming a more central role KPMG member firms are also focused in responding to the world’s most on using their skills to help build trust pressing challenges. in the marketplace. Indeed, when we look at the range of public crises that I would like to take this opportunity have emerged across the globe, the role to express my congratulations and that responsible Audit, Tax and Advisory appreciation to the 152,000 people services can play in creating a more across the KPMG global network transparent and accountable business who work tirelessly to make a environment seems more important sustainable and valuable difference than ever. in the world around us. I look forward to collaborating with you over the Looking ahead, we will build on our coming year to create lasting change success in helping achieve the principles in our communities and advance the of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) by principles of the UNGC. developing programs and partnerships that support the UN’s mission and objectives. Moreover, we will continue to further the goals of the Global Compact through our firms’ vision, strategy and wider citizenship programs. Michael Andrew Within the pages of this report, we Chairman, have outlined some of the many ways KPMG International 4 Communication on Progress report About this report KPMG International has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2002. The Compact is a voluntary framework for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. As a signatory KPMG International is committed to submitting a Communication on Progress (COP) to the UNGC on an annual basis. The reporting period for this COP is from 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012 and covers the activities of KPMG in relation to the 10 principles. We also aim to report on our wider sustainability and citizenship activities and how our business operations enhance our commitment to our communities. Throughout this report, ’we’, ’KPMG’, ’us’, and ’our’ refer to the network of independent member firms operating under the KPMG name and affiliated with KPMG International, or to one or more of these firms. KPMG International provides no client services. Communication on Progress report 5 6 Communication on Progress report How KPMG implements the Ten Global Compact Principles Principle Commitment 1. Businesses should support and respect KPMG International and KPMG member firms the protection of internationally recognize that human rights are an integral proclaimed human rights; part of corporate citizenship and we respect 2. and make sure that they are not complicit and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ‘Guiding Principles on Human in human rights abuses. Business and Human Rights: Implementing the Rights United Nations Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework’. KPMG International has developed a Human Rights Statement, in line with international best practice. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of KPMG International and KPMG member firms do association and the effective recognition not use forced, compulsory or child labor. of the right to collective bargaining; KPMG International and KPMG member firms 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and support freedom of association and, where compulsory labor; applicable, recognize the right to collective Labor 5. the effective abolition of child labor; bargaining. Standards 6. and the elimination of discrimination in Our people want to work for an organization that respect of employment and occupation. encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our values across the KPMG network. Our drive to create a global culture of diversity and inclusion is fundamental to who we are, and critical to retaining our best people. 7. Businesses should support a KPMG International and KPMG member firms precautionary approach to environmental are dedicated to managing our environmental challenges; impacts proactively and we are committed to 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater working together across borders to make an Environment environmental responsibility; even bigger difference. 9. and encourage the development and KPMG International is an active and engaged diffusion of environmentally friendly member of the World Business Council for technologies. Sustainable Development on climate change issues. 10. Businesses should work against KPMG International and KPMG member firms corruption in all its forms, including are committed to achieving a high standard of extortion and bribery. ethical behavior in everything that we do. ‘We act with integrity’ is one of our values and Antiis reflected in the Global Code of Conduct. corruption Communication on Progress report 7 Member Firms Systems, Procedures Professional and Values Services • Global Human Rights Statement • International Development Advisory • KPMG values Services • Global Code of Conduct • Climate Change & Sustainability • Global Quality & Risk Management manual • Risk Consulting • People, Performance and Culture manual • Global Code of Conduct • Climate Change & Sustainability • Global People, Performance and • Risk Consulting Culture team • People and Change • Global Diversity Network • Supply Chain and Operations • Global Green Initiative • Climate Change & Sustainability • Global Code of Conduct • Financial and non-financial Audit and • Anti-bribery Policy Assurance • KPMG values • Forensics • Ethics and Compliance • Risk Consulting • Acceptance and Continuance of Clients and Engagements • KPMG International Hotline • Global Quality & Risk Management manual 8 Communication on Progress report 01 Leading change in society About KPMG Our vision: Our business The Global Board is the principal “We will build and governance and oversight body of KPMG is a global network of professional KPMG International. Responsibilities sustain our reputation firms providing Audit, Tax and Advisory services. We operate in 156 countries of the Board include approving as the best firm to work and have 152,000 people working in strategy, protecting and enhancing with by ensuring that our the KPMG brand, overseeing member firms around the world. We management of KPMG International, people, our clients and work closely with our clients, helping them to mitigate risks and grasp and approving policies and regulations. our communities achieve opportunities. The Global Executive Team (GET) their full potential.” In the last fiscal year (to 30 September is the principal management body of KPMG International. The GET drives • shifts in power, wealth and population 2012), the combined revenues of our from the West to the East member firms totaled USD23.03 billion. the execution of the strategy approved by the Global Board and establishes • food and energy crises impacting Our structure processes to monitor and enforce communities around the world policy compliance. Our structure is designed to support • the impacts of global warming and consistency of service and a high level Global Steering Groups support the climate change of ethical conduct from all our people GET and are responsible for executing the approved strategy and business • the rapid rise of China as a global around the world. Our Global Code plan in their respective areas including economic force of Conduct and values reinforce our commitment to the UNGC and the the Global People, Performance and • a shift of political balance in the importance of our communities. Culture Steering Group (PPC) and the Middle East & North Africa Global Quality and Risk Management Steering Group. • the emergence of new competitors Our governance KPMG International’s key governance • a huge government debt burden in The KPMG strategy the West. and management bodies are the Global Council, the Global Board, and the We understand that we live in a At KPMG, we need to adapt to meet the Global Executive Team. changing world with an increasingly challenges of this changing landscape. complex business landscape. Our firms’ This will allow us to both maintain our The Global Council focuses on clients are demanding more from us high-level governance tasks and reputation and achieve our vision and and also recognize the important role strategy. However, central to this is provides a forum for open discussion that we play in helping shape business and communication among member corporate citizenship. And, as such, and societal agendas. Over the past we are committed to investing in our firms. It performs functions equivalent few years, we have seen: to a shareholders’ meeting. people, their skills and expertise, not Communication on Progress report 9 only to stay ahead of the market, but to also meet the rigors of responsible capitalism and to make a difference in our communities. To help achieve our vision, we have adopted a growth strategy which prioritizes eight areas of greatest opportunity for our global network. Around the world, we will focus on continuing to build upon our knowledge and strengthening our capabilities in these areas, while simultaneously working with clients in our national markets to address their business needs and support their strategic objectives. We also recognize that the success of our growth priorities and our ability to surpass our firms’ client expectations requires us to act responsibly, demonstrating leadership based on strong citizenship principles founded, in part, upon the objectives of the UN and its Global Compact. 10 Communication on Progress report Stakeholder engagement stakeholder perceptions related to areas initiatives and our focus on minimizing of responsible business practice and our environmental footprint. Stakeholder engagement plays a corporate citizenship. The outcomes critical role at KPMG. For example, Our stakeholder engagement approach of this project are outlined below and stakeholder engagement helps us to is also helping shape the future of demonstrate that, in many instances, drive our business, evolve our strategy, reporting for KPMG International. the expectations of our stakeholders focus our citizenship initiatives and In 2011, KPMG International joined are aligned to the 10 principles of the develop our people. It also informs our the pilot program of the International UNGC. Moreover, the results reinforce reporting practices as it helps determine Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). the importance of the role that we play the materiality of our sustainability As part of the pilot we are exploring in the marketplace. issues, including what needs to be opportunities to integrate and improve communicated and disclosed. Over the past 12 months, we have our reporting both internally and looked to the outcomes of this project externally. Part of this work includes a Stakeholder engagement occurs to help our global network shape our broad evaluation of our stakeholders and throughout the year through a citizenship programs and drive our the various ways in which we engage variety of channels, such as client work with the World Economic Forum’s with them. satisfaction reviews, KPMG Professional Services community and people surveys, consultations with For more information on our efforts its responsible capitalism principles. regulators, community dialogues, to establish Integrated Reporting This stakeholder engagement project and supplier workshops. In keeping within our network of member firms, has also provided us with confidence to with our commitment to stakeholder please refer to the section titled KPMG build upon existing programs such as engagement, KPMG International reporting: transparency and assurance. our people agenda, our high-performing carried out a specific project which culture, our community engagement concluded in 2011, designed to help our member firms better understand Servicing our clients Developing a high-performance culture Investing in our communities What our stakeholders Advancing our profession/principles most commonly cited as key Ensuring financial sustainability citizenship Doing business ethically concerns for KPMG: Influencing our supply chain Instilling governance & transparency Promoting environmental sustainability Communication on Progress report 11 Citizenship At the heart of KPMG’s values is a commitment to the communities in which we operate, and the issues that affect them. That commitment is one of Our Global Citizenship programs focus on the enduring qualities of our people and coordinating KPMG International’s approach our brand. It’s a core part of our Employer of Choice strategy. And the way we to sustainability with those of our local express this commitment defines what citizenship leaders working within KPMG it means to be part of KPMG. member firms. Global Citizenship gives this commitment focus and is a function of the International Chairman’s office and facilitated through our Global People, Performance and Culture (PPC) team. World Economic Forum’s responsible capitalism principles In 2010, the World Economic Forum’s Professional Services community drafted its responsible capitalism principles which were endorsed in 2011 by KPMG’s Global Board. We believe these principles reflect good practice. Principle 1 Principle 4 Choosing responsible clients Supporting systemic risk management Principle 2 Principle 5 Encouraging responsible behavior Engaging with policy-makers among clients Principle 3 Principle 6 Fulfilling our professional duties to Developing a new generation of leaders our firms’ clients and professionals 12 Communication on Progress report 02 Advancing broader UN goals and issues Over and above our aspirations to meet the 10 Principles of the UNGC, KPMG supports the UN in achieving its broader goals and issues. T he integration of citizenship into In 2012, KPMG also supported the time and resources to support the our vision and strategy means we UNGC in developing a new platform for response to disasters across the globe have a larger sense of purpose; strategic, impactful and value-adding • KPMG people from 14 countries serving the public trust and playing a partnerships between business and have come together to support the critical role in helping to solve some of the UN through the UN-Business Millennium Villages project in Africa the world’s toughest, most complex partnerships services. The objectives of problems. Our people are committed this program are to create shared values • KPMG in Canada is working with Free to this cause and our activities within between the UN and business; to build the Children to give families in the our communities have consistently partnering capacity to help UN agencies developing world the skills they need scored highly in our people survey, establish effective collaboration models; to build sustainable sources of income demonstrating the importance this has and to foster stronger coherence and • KPMG in Australia is helping to close in attracting and retaining the most integrity. the 17-year gap in life expectancy talented people. Over the next 12 months, we will between indigenous and nonThis year, KPMG has continued its continue to support the UN in developing indigenous Australians support for the UNGC and its LEAD its UN-Business partnerships services, • ‘BRIGHT minds helping to create a pilot. Launched in 2011 for businesses as well as numerous other initiatives BRIGHTer world’ is KPMG Europe with a history of engagement with including our support of the World LLP’s first cross-border citizenship the UNGC, LEAD enables our global Economic Forum’s Future Role of Civil program. BRIGHT has seen 96 network of member firms to deepen Society Project. This project will see participants from 15 KPMG member our commitment to the UNGC through KPMG working with the World Economic firms deliver 7,738 hours of pro bono the implementation of the Blueprint for Forum to engage a wide range of civil time for three international charities Corporate Sustainability Leadership. The society actors in dialogue to understand to support the UN Millennium Blueprint is designed to help businesses the role and impact civil society will have Development Goals (MDGs) demonstrate leadership in three areas: over the next 20 years. (i) integrating the 10 principles into • KPMG firms in the Middle East and Member firms have also been furthering strategies and operations; (ii) taking South Asia have continued their work our other citizenship strategies. For action in support of broader UN goals with the Pearl Initiative, a private example: and issues; and (iii) engaging with the sector-led, not-for-profit organization UN Global Compact. • over the last 12 months, many of our set-up to improve transparency, member firms donated significant accountability and business practices in the Arab world. Communication on Progress report 13 KPMG supports Enactus (formerly, Students in Free Enterprise) Enactus is one of the largest university-based organizations in the world outreach efforts to a panel of judges who evaluate those efforts and with programs in more than 39 countries involving 57,000 students across determine which teams had the most impact in improving the quality of 1,600 universities. Through Enactus, students are encouraged to make a life and standard of living for members of their community. difference in their communities while developing their skills to become Since 1990, KPMG has actively participated in Enactus and has played socially responsible business leaders. a pivotal role in helping the organization expand globally. Today, KPMG Every country that operates an Enactus program, at a minimum, organizes firms support Enactus in more than 30 countries and KPMG International a national competition, from which one institution will be named national is the World Cup Presenting Sponsor through to 2015. In 2012, some 38 of champion and advance to compete at the Enactus World Cup. This KPMG’s global clients will have engaged with Enactus world-wide. process provides teams with the opportunity to present their educational UN-Business partnership KPMG supports the World Economic Forum: the Future Role services of Civil Society Project The objective of UN-Business partnership The world is changing in ways that create The goals of the project are to: services is to enhance existing and new both challenges and opportunities for partnerships between the UN and business • identify the main drivers and trends civil society – and is changing the way to increase scale and impact. shaping the environment for civil society communities, businesses and governments KPMG, along with a number of other leading work together. Challenges include the • understand the implications for roles, businesses, worked with the UN to define rise of social networking; geopolitical responsibilities, and relationships the mission, objectives and overall design of shifts and emerging economy growth; the between civil society, business, UN-Business partnership services and the global financial crisis; and the increasing government and international need for support related to due diligence, involvement of the private sector in organizations partnerships lifecycle management, addressing global development challenges. • explore new and emerging opportunities knowledge management, and capacity KPMG is working with the World Economic for civil society and outline a framework building. Forum to define the future role of civil society. for engagement looking forward to 2030. The mission of UN-Business partnership Through dialogue across a range of civil The outcome of this project will be a report services is to build on the UN’s unifying role society actors including non-governmental delivered at Davos in January 2013 which to strengthen, scale, and accelerate impact organizations (NGOs), faith organizations, will provide insights into the future of civil that the UN and business can create by labor leaders, business, government and society as well as how NGOs, faith and working together. Supporting this mission, international organizations, the engagement labor leaders interact with government and the three high level objectives of UN aims to understand emerging trends affecting business to create a resilient and dynamic Business partnership services are to create civil society and their implications at the 2030 economy. shared value, build partnering capacity, and global and regional level. strengthen coherence and integrity. 14 Communication on Progress report Providing professional services As trusted advisors to the public, private accountability and driving economic While our services address a wide range and non-governmental sectors, KPMG development including (but by no means of critical business needs, our global people play a leading role in helping limited to) enhancing transparency network has elected to put a particular organizations to meet many of the UN’s and building capability in government focus on a number of key service areas wider goals and objectives. Our people through to auditing environmental where – we believe – we can make provide a range of valuable services that sustainability and developing antian additional impact on the world in are central to improving the quality of bribery policies in the private sector. which we live and work. These priorities human life, enhancing organizational include activities in the following areas. Climate Change & Sustainability Education KPMG’s Climate Change & Sustainability (CC&S) Through our Education practice, KPMG professionals professionals help enterprises to develop a better harness the network’s extensive capabilities to support understanding of the complex and evolving policy, regulatory, the development and delivery of education and training and business environment related to climate change and services. sustainability. We are proud of our contribution towards helping We work closely with our clients to develop strategies and the world’s populations lead more productive lives implement programs to help them identify and respond to the through greater access to education and the impact risks and opportunities of climate change and sustainability, so that has on creating a more sustainable global they can capitalize on the resultant commercial opportunities. community. International Development Assistance Human and Social Services Services KPMG’s Human and Social Services practice focuses Our International Development Assistance Services (IDAS) on those client programs and initiatives that serve the practice strengthens capacity and enhances transparency most vulnerable. Our highly-experienced teams help the and accountability in all areas of international development. public and not-for-profit sectors to enhance the efficiency, Our network of experienced global professionals work with performance and cost-effectiveness of their human and governments to develop and improve public service delivery, social services delivery by leveraging technology and and support the efforts of donors and recipients in attaining applying global leading practices. the MDGs. Global Citizenship Global Citizenship is a key area which Our approach is to apply our professional of NGOs, companies, governments demonstrates our commitment to the skills to responding to issues in each and local groups to address some of wider UN goals and issues. of these areas. Contributing to our the most important and pressing issues communities is, after all, a central tenet facing their communities. Our Global Citizenship strategy is of our values. founded on three pillars: ending extreme For more information on Global poverty through skills-based partnerships For example, at a global level, we Citizenship, please visit our website, with global NGOs; tackling climate contribute our knowledge and global Leading Change in our Society. change by cutting our emissions and experience to developing countries supporting environmental innovation; to help them tackle global issues, while and helping create a culture of leadership simultaneously developing supportive that sees societal problems through the governance and policy. At the local level, lens of opportunity and solution. member firms work with a wide range Communication on Progress report 15 Global Development Initiative Overview KPMG’s Global Development Initiative the UN family, and large charitable accountability, and NGO-private (GDI) works to apply our skills to the foundations. For example, our sector partnerships. achievement of the UN MDGs. Working IDAS supports the recently formed 4. Combined our industry expertise alongside governments, civil society Independent Commission for Aid in areas such as financial services groups, international agencies and other Impact within the UK, working with and healthcare with our functional private sector organizations, we strive to donors and recipients to evaluate the expertise in key areas such as risk become involved in finding effective and effectiveness and value for money of modeling, supply chain management sustainable solutions to global and local UK spending on overseas aid. and taxation to deliver valuable poverty issues. Our commitment to the 2. Developed enabling thought support to NGOs through the Global MDGs was first endorsed by our Global leadership such as the Change Development Initiative. Board in 2007. In 2011, the Global Board Readiness Index, which – in committed to “enrich the GDI as a global collaboration with researchers Impact employee engagement program that from the Overseas Development We strongly believe that the greatest underpins and embeds the KPMG brand Institute – gauges how a country’s contribution of our GDI toward achieving attributes (Expert, Global Mindset, change readiness influences their the MDGs is realized through our Forward Thinking, Value Adding and ability to achieve sustained growth. efforts to help increase the operational Passionate)”. We are also widely recognized for efficiency and effectiveness of our In line with that commitment, KPMG our insightful thought leadership NGO and UN partner organizations. has now extended and deepened its on topics such as food security and By providing professional skills-based contribution to the MDGs. Since our last potable water challenges. services to NGOs, we know we are Communication on Progress, our global indirectly helping all of the beneficiaries 3. Convened and led a number of member firm network has: who receive support from those NGOs multi-stakeholder debates on topical 1. Expanded its IDAS business which development issues including and UN partner organization programs. provides assurance, tax and advisory value for money, good governance, services to governments, NGOs, 16 Communication on Progress report Here are just a few examples of how our member firms’ ‘work’ has had a positive indirect global impact and a direct national impact on six of the MDGs: MDG Indirect global impact on social issues Direct national impact on targeted communities and countries MDG 1: Working with VisionFund International, we facilitated the Our member firms across Europe helped improve the Eradicate extreme introduction of more cost effective hedging and risk management profitability of Fairtrade farmers by developing business poverty and hunger strategies by modelling the organization’s foreign exchange and management toolkits and providing direct training to credit risk exposures, while also building their in-house capacity farmers in Ghana, Kenya, Malawi and South Africa. for future analysis. MDG 2: Our teams increased the efficiency of three international By funding classroom construction and solar energy Achieve universal child-focused organizations by delivering operational installation, and by providing reading support, KPMG primary education effectiveness projects that facilitated the harmonization in India has improved the literacy of children from of core processes, knowledge management and cash underprivileged backgrounds in partnership with Literacy transfer systems. India and the Hope Foundation. MDG 3: KPMG’s Women Networks are providing leadership training and KPMG in Kenya sponsors and provides one-on-one Promote gender mentoring to help female leaders of microfinance institutions mentoring support to empower female orphans as part of equality and improve their operations through a global partnership with the Global Give Back Circle. empower women Women’s World Banking and VisionFund International. MDG 4: Working with a leading child-focused organization, KPMG The people at KPMG in Kenya enhance children’s health Reduce child people helped increase revenues by helping transform the knowledge, attitudes and practices through the provision mortality organization’s retail value chain. of management support to Alive & Kicking. The social enterprise, which manufactures 60,000 sports balls per year painted with health messages, provides physical recreation opportunities for children, creates jobs for adults, and promotes health education through sport. MDG 5: By working with NGOs to develop an accountability framework KPMG people from 14 countries came together in Improve maternal for maternal, neonatal and child health, KPMG has supported partnership with Millennium Promise and The Public health NGO commitments and facilitated the global strategy on this Health Laboratory Ivo de Carneri (PHL-IdC) to reduce critical issue. maternal mortality in Pemba, Tanzania, in support of the Millennium Villages Project. MDG 8: KPMG led by example by taking leadership roles in multiDevelop a global stakeholder initiatives and forums including: partnership for • participating in the UNGC as a LEAD member development • acting as a Strategic Partner to the World Economic Forum in order to help shape initiatives, projects and task forces and to give intellectual guidance • actively participating in the UNGC Global Corporate Citizenship National Committee • providing representation on the Global Reporting Initiative By creating six city reports and three industry reports Board focused on investment opportunities in sub-Saharan Africa, our professionals enhanced the local economies • collaborating with the World Bank, the International Finance of 11 countries by, for example, shining a spotlight on Corporation (IFC) and the Inter-American Development Bank the need for secure investments in order to start the (IDB) as a Steering Committee member for the development manufacture of bamboo bicycles in Kumasi which, in turn, of a report on opportunities for investment, job creation and provides local employment. growth in post-crisis Haiti. Communication on Progress report 17 Linking development and diversity agendas Developing women leaders KPMG, VisionFund International, and Women in World Banking are harnessing and developing the expertise of senior women in an effort to develop a sustainable microfinance industry, ensure that diversity agendas are progressed and – as a result – tackle poverty. Caroline Tsilikounas, CEO of AgroInvest Serbia and Montenegro with her mentor Evelyn Vinke-Smits, a KPMG’s motivation for co-creating this program was financial services partner with KPMG in the Netherlands simple: we knew that by providing financial support, knowledge and skills to the microfinance industry, we could put one of our values (commitment to communities) Participant reflections into action. Moreover, the program offers KPMG’s senior The mentees involved in the program reported that they women an unprecedented opportunity to learn from gained new knowledge, abilities and/or personal insights women in the microfinance industry and, in turn, bring which they felt would positively impact their microfinance some of that inspiration back to their own communities. institutions. What is more, many participants said that We are confident that – through our firms’ commitment they now look to their KPMG mentor as a “partner, to advancing female leadership – we will facilitate the advisor and support system”. creation of more diverse teams that will enhance the overall quality of work and innovative capacity. For their part, participating KPMG partners reported that they found the program to be a very interesting The program aims to develop leadership skills (which, experience: one participant commented “What I find in this time of rapidly changing economic, social and very inspiring about this program is that it is an exchange political conditions, are particularly critical) and helps of insights and ideas”. And while – due to geographical microfinance leaders to develop both the mindset and distance – most mentoring relationships are maintained capability to pursue robust financial performance while remotely, at least one KPMG mentor has been so simultaneously meeting the financial needs of the inspired by the program that she has already taken the entrepreneurial poor. initiative to travel from Europe to Asia to visit her mentee. 18 Communication on Progress report KPMG’s disaster relief and risk reduction program Exacerbated by climate change, it is KPMG’s people, clients and communities Disaster relief clear that devastating natural disasters are all affected by natural disasters and KPMG’s first disaster relief global are occurring with increasing frequency, emergencies. And since both our values appeal was launched in response to and are disproportionately affecting and our people demand our involvement the devastation caused by the 2004 those who are least resilient. In 2011, in helping communities rebuild and Asian Tsunami. Today, we provide 332 natural disasters were registered restore their lives and their livelihoods, guidance to our firms and regions on which resulted in 30,773 deaths and we aim to leverage our global reach and how best to respond to natural disasters 244 million affected people worldwide. stature to respond to those most in need in the community through our Global The Philippines registered the highest effectively and efficiently. Citizenship office which, in 2008, number of disasters in its history with implemented the Disaster Emergency At KPMG, our approach is founded on 18 floods and landslides, 12 storms, Response Process (DERP). the belief that business has a distinct two volcanic eruptions, one earthquake and vital role to play in helping solve the Based on the guidelines set out by and a tropical cyclone. The economic world’s most complex problems. We the International Business Leaders costs of disasters in 2011 also mounted: are therefore committed to doing more Forum, the DERP structure has helped the Great East Japan earthquake and by moving beyond good governance, the KPMG network to raise millions tsunami cost more than USD210 billion, compliance, ethical behaviors, and in support of communities affected the Thailand floods – USD40 billion, philanthropy to increase our work with by disasters. With a strong focus storms in the United States – governments, societies, and NGOs on sustainable social and economic USD25 billion and the New Zealand in an effort to tackle global social and redevelopment, our partners and staff earthquake – USD15 billion. By 2015, environmental issues. And one way we have used their business skills to support experts predict that climate related address this is by providing support to local and international NGOs as they disasters will increase in frequency and those devastated by disasters and those cope with disasters by enhancing their scale, eventually affecting an estimated at risk from the affects of climate change. response and quick recovery capability. 375 million people every year.1 We also help communities to increase their resilience against future risk. 1 Annual Disaster Statistical Review 2011, Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters (CRED) – includes all source data within paragraph. Great East Japan Earthquake The Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami struck the Tohoku region in the north east of the country on 11 March 2011 with an estimated 20,000 lives lost and countless homes, livelihoods and communities crushed beyond recognition. The global KPMG network immediately launched an appeal which raised over USD3.3 million for disaster relief. Coordinated by KPMG International and led locally by KPMG in Japan, our people provided critical business and financial aid for both the immediate relief effort and the long-term recovery program. In the immediate aftermath, KPMG implemented a range of programs that spanned everything from clean-up and replanting projects to the development of a free information website on disaster-related accounting and audit for businesses. One of the longer-term programs sponsored by KPMG donations was conducted in partnership with Oxfam Japan. Over the course of a 6-month period, our program supported one of the most vulnerable sections of Japanese society: single-mother families. Through our combined efforts, the program helped to retrain and educate impacted women to allow them to find steady employment and help their children go back to school. Communication on Progress report 19 Disaster risk reduction KPMG International subscribes In 2011, KPMG Global Citizenship • a new business skills based pro bono to the concept of disaster risk reviewed its response to disasters and program which leverages business reduction (DRR). By systematically emergencies. The findings of this review skills, capacity and resources to analyzing and managing the causal and the suggested next steps for KPMG support NGOs’ disaster risk reduction factors of disasters, DRR helps member firms were documented in capacity. We have started work on a to reduce exposure to hazards, the internal report Disasters Relief and pilot program supported by member lessen the vulnerability of both Emergencies: Framework for Enhanced firms in Australia, China, India, Mexico people and property, instill the Capacity (FEC), which was endorsed by and the US who will work with Oxfam sustainable management of land the Global Board. in the Philippines. and the environment, and improve Three integrated and parallel strategies preparedness for adverse events. were approved: The expected outcome of DRR is the substantial reduction of disaster losses, • the creation of a new, centrally held, not only in economic terms, but also disaster relief fund dedicated to in the number of lives, societies and providing financial support to areas environmental assets that are affected affected by disasters within 5 days by natural disasters. • the continuance of local, regional The UN estimates that every dollar and global appeals focused on spent on disaster risk reduction saves providing immediate relief and seven dollars that would otherwise be support for longer-term sustainable spent on post-emergency aid. redevelopment programs 20 Communication on Progress report 03 Human rights This year, KPMG International issued an updated Code of Conduct, which included a commitment to aspire to the Ten Principles of the UNGC. Human Rights KPMG International recognizes the as well as helping uphold human rights corporate responsibility to respect and universal values wherever we human rights as defined by the operate. Universal Declaration of Human Our Code of Conduct and KPMG values Rights. These rights apply equally and play a key part in how we live out this universally in all countries. commitment. Our KPMG values require For KPMG member firms, integrating our employees to meet the highest Principles 1 & 2 of the UNGC into principles of personal and professional strategies and operations means conduct. This includes respecting the encouraging the respect of human human rights of others. rights in our direct sphere of influence, Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support Make sure that they are not and respect the protection complicit in human rights of internationally proclaimed abuses. human rights; and Communication on Progress report 21 Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights KPMG International supports the contributing to adverse human rights Guiding Principles on Business and impacts and to address such impacts Human Rights: Implementing the when they occur, and to seek to prevent United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and or mitigate adverse human rights Remedy Framework’ (the Guiding impacts that are directly related to Principles). our operations, services and business relationships. The Principles are seen by many businesses, NGO’s and governments We have also approved a statement as an authoritative standard for helping outlining our position to protect and businesses manage human rights risk. respect human rights through our Our aim is to be an example of how operations and in our sphere of activity. to conduct business while respecting This statement is aligned to the Guiding human rights. Principles as well as the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Support for the Guiding Principles Fundamental Principles and Rights at means that over the past 12 months, Work and the Organisation for Economic KPMG International has reviewed Co-operation and Development’s its existing policies and procedures (OECD) Guidelines for International against its requirements. As a result Enterprises. of this review, we are updating our policies and procedures to put into To view our new Human Rights practice our commitment to protect Statement please visit our Global and respect human rights. This includes Citizenship website. an undertaking to avoid causing or 22 Communication on Progress report KPMG International – UN Global Compact (UNGC) As of October 2012 156 the number of countries we operate in 30 the number of member firms that currently participate in Enactus USD3.3 m the amount raised for disaster relief by KPMG member firms following the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami 215 the number of women participating in our US firms’ Executive Leadership Institute for Women Communication on Progress report 23 2002 the year KPMG International signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 152,000 the number of tax, audit and advisory people at KPMG -1.1% our net emissions reduction per full time employee in 2011 7,738 the number of pro bono hours invested in BRIGHT – a program led by KPMG Europe LLP 24 Communication on Progress report 04 Labor KPMG International and KPMG member firms fully support Principle 3 the UNGC Principles 3, 4, 5, & 6 and respect our people’s rights and freedom of association while recognizing the Businesses should uphold right to collective bargaining where appropriate. We reject the freedom of association and the effective recognition any forced, compulsory or child labor. We promote fair labor of the right to collective practices among our partners, employees, and suppliers, bargaining; ensuring healthy working conditions and a work/life balance for all KPMG people. And we encourage and respect Principle 4 individuality as one of our values embedded within our Code The elimination of all forms of of Conduct. forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 W e encourage our people to our member firms to the four labor make a sustainable difference principles of the UNGC and informs our The effective abolition of child for our clients, communities local labor practices. labor; and and firms, while simultaneously ensuring that everyone has access Development and talent Principle 6 to the knowledge and skills they We are committed to supporting our The elimination of need to be the most relevant in the people to reach their full potential. market. KPMG International’s People, discrimination in respect of We ensure they have access to high Performance and Culture Manual aligns employment and occupation. quality and relevant training through Our KPMG Business School ensures that technical, business and leadership training is available through a combination of virtual, e-enabled and face-to-face learning, and provides supplementary learning tools including getAbstract (which provides compressed business knowledge through access to over 7,000 summaries of best-selling business books) and Harvard Manage Mentor (which is a practical and engaging set of online modules for fostering core business skills). Communication on Progress report 25 our KPMG Business School. The relocate to countries across the world, training they receive enhances both the further strengthens our employment development of their career and the offer. We believe that mobility enriches impact they have on their communities. our people and provides them with Equally, we also firmly believe that a greater awareness of the world in the opportunities our people have to which they live and work. volunteer and participate in activities At the same time, we help develop the KPMG member firms such as pro bono work helps them to develop and become more rounded talent of the future through our KPMG are committed to International Case Competition (KICC) in and effective professionals. which university students from around equitable recruitment Resourcing and mobility the world gain casework experience practices to ensure and compete before a panel of KPMG To solve our member firms clients’ judges. Global career opportunities career opportunities most complex challenges, we bring and future career development for are made available to together professionals from across the graduates is also encouraged through globe through our Global Opportunities our Global Internship Program which everyone. program in order to provide the allows students to work side-by-side innovative, relevant and expert with KPMG professionals to take on services our clients need and expect real responsibility and sharpen their from KPMG. The program, which also business skills in their home country enables our people to permanently and abroad. KICC, a global student recruitment initiative now in its ninth year (2012), drew some 6,000 students from more than 300 universities in 24 countries to compete against each other in Hong Kong by developing solutions to realistic business scenarios. This challenge represents the complexity our people tackle every day, working with some of the world’s most notable organizations. 26 Communication on Progress report Engagement At KPMG, we know that our people are our greatest differentiator. Our commitment to fostering a twoway dialogue with our people and to understand what motivates them in their careers has led us to carry out regular ‘pulse’ and full employee surveys. Results from these surveys help us understand and respond to the issues that matter to our people and enable us to identify how we can Acting with integrity, supporting the provide them with the tools they need to not only develop and reach their full communities in which we work and potential, but also to bring their best to respecting the individual are at the our clients and our communities. With heart of what it means to be part of In 2011, we conducted the knowledge that the example set by KPMG. Our values are integrated a robust and our business leaders is integral to the engagement of all our people, we also into how we conduct business and highly-successful use the results of our surveys to enable how we work every day. benchmarking our partners to be better role models and lead by example. assessment that was completed by Diversity and inclusion 42 member firms. For KPMG, creating an inclusive and the various approaches that culture where all our people achieve have been developed nationally. This their potential is critical if we are to has also enabled us to identify key deliver the solutions clients need. opportunities and to leverage our We believe that diverse teams better member firms diversity practices reflect the diverse nature of our throughout our network. clients’ businesses. This enables us to We have a well established Global express different viewpoints and create Diversity Network that drives change well-rounded perspectives that drive and inclusive leadership across innovative thinking. our global network. This network is Since 2008, we have conducted committed to collaborating, sharing a number of benchmarking and learning from others who have a assessments to determine how passion for making a difference. we can continue to move forward Here are just a few examples of how our global diversity and inclusion we are maximizing our potential and efforts. Through these assessments, driving change across the world. we have learned to understand the challenges faced by member firms Communication on Progress report 27 Read how some KPMG member firms are demonstrating their commitment towards diversity and inclusion: KPMG in The Brazilian firm’s ‘KPMG Network of Women’ (KNOW) connects women leaders Brazil from both inside and outside of KPMG, and provides a forum where they can Retention openly discuss topics such as coaching, career planning and gender parity issues. of women KPMG in The Russian firm is committed to raising awareness of disability issues. Key Russia initiatives around disability include partnering with a local NGO, Perspektiva, to Recruitment of provide job shadowing opportunities for students with disabilities, and hosting people living career competitions. with disabilities In 2012, the HR Director for the Russian firm gave a televised interview on the TV channel Rain about their continued participation in the Paths to Careers competition for disabled students and how the job shadowing initiative has resulted in a number of permanent hires. KPMG in India KPMG in India has developed a new concept called ‘shared leave’. Each KPMG Work/life employee is allocated a specific number of annual leave days depending on their flexibility seniority within the firm. Shared leave allows an employee to donate any leftover annual leave to any employee within the firm. It is 100% gender neutral. This initiative was showcased in The Economic Times, Delhi, in December 2010 and has connected many staff with senior management leaders. This has led to a more harmonious work culture and where the firm can better understand and engage with the needs of their people. KPMG in Founded by the COO of KPMG in Saudi Arabia, Glowork is the first job portal in the Saudi Arabia Middle East dedicated to the recruitment of local women. In the first 6 months of Recruitment of operation, Glowork created over 2,000 vacancies for women and registered more women than 130 companies. In 2012, Glowork was named as the most innovative solution relating to job creation by the UN and the International Labour Organization. KPMG in The US firm’s Executive Leadership Institute for Women is a strategic program the US founded in 2010 by the Philadelphia office’s ‘KPMG Network of Women’ (KNOW) Development chapter. Created in conjunction with The Leaders Edge/Leaders by Design, of female the program focuses on leadership training for partners and senior managers leaders and includes women from a number of client organizations. In 2011, some 215 women across three cities (183 from outside companies and 32 KPMG people) participated in the year-long program. 28 Communication on Progress report 05 Environment Global Green Initiative Overview KPMG Greenhouse Gas KPMG is committed to making a (GHG) emissions: positive impact on the environment and addressing local environmental KPMG is proud of the success of the challenges. For example, KPMG first phase of our Global Green Initiative member firms are investing in in which member firms achieved a responsible energy use; educating combined 29 percent reduction in net and supporting our people in making emissions per full-time equivalent sustainable decisions; working on between 2007 and 2010. Building on this environmental protection projects; and momentum, the Global Board approved joining forces with leadership groups a new emissions target in 2011 calling and other businesses to address for a further 15 percent reduction in net environmental impacts. emissions (against a 2010 baseline) per full-time equivalent by the end of 2015. KPMG’s Global Green Initiative is a three pronged approach to tackling the Our 2011 results indicate that we are climate change challenge by: making progress against the new target and, to date, have achieved a 1.1 percent 1. measuring, reporting and reducing net emissions reduction per full-time our greenhouse gas emissions equivalent, as well as a 2.5 percent 2. supporting environmental projects reduction in gross emissions per full-time within our wider commitment to our equivalent. Moreover, by focusing on communities enhancing our building efficiency in 2011, we facilitated a 1.3 percent reduction 3. working with our people, suppliers in kilowatt hour (KwH) consumption and clients to help them improve per square meter, and increased our their climate change impacts. procurement of renewable energy, with 25 percent of our purchased electricity in 2011 coming from renewable sources. Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Businesses should support Undertake initiatives to Encourage the development a precautionary approach to promote greater environmental and diffusion of environmentally environmental challenges; responsibility; and friendly technologies. Communication on Progress report 29 2011 GHG emissions GHG emissions (Tons Metric CO2e) 2010* 2011 % Change TOTAL GROSS EMISSIONS 471,391 483,561 2.6% 228,479 –1.3% 80,199 −4.1% Less: renewable energy Less: verified offsets (42,406) (42,023) (42,210) (38,378) – – 225,410 76,904 TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 386,962 402,973 4.1% Average full-time 138,340 145,613 5.3% equivalents (FTE) GROSS EMISSIONS PER FTE 3.41 3.32 -2.5% NET EMISSIONS PER FTE 2.80 2.77 -1.1% Electricity, heating, Car travel cooling 160,578 11.4% 2,135 9.7% 178,905 2,342 Air travel Rail travel *2010 data has been restated to include class of travel consideration for air travel emissions. Additional minor restatements due to increased data availability were also made. 2010* 2011 % Change Further information regarding KPMG’s GHG emissions is included in the KPMG International Response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (publically Note: GHG emissions (Tons Metric CO2e) available at www.cdproject.net). 30 Communication on Progress report Supporting environmental projects within our wider commitment to our communities At the local, regional and global level, environmental NGO on research KPMG people are committed to initiatives. What follows are just two supporting environmental projects examples of KPMG’s commitment that range from tree-planting at a local to making a positive impact on our level to collaborating with a global environment. Global Green Expedition In October 2011, KPMG International partnered with Reef Check Malaysia for a Global Green Expedition focused on leadership and environmental stewardship. The 2011 program included KPMG people from Malaysia, Singapore, the US, and Vietnam who went to Tioman Island, Malaysia, to undertake a survey of local reefs. Reef Check provides these surveys to scientists to help evaluate the global health of coral reefs and to better understand the impacts from climate change. The expedition also raised awareness of the issue of climate change by creating Global Green ambassadors who, upon their return to their home countries, leveraged their experience to educate their colleagues on this global issue. Cycle for Water Supported by KPMG and with the goal of raising awareness of water scarcity, two Dutch cyclists recently completed an epic journey covering 26,000 kilometers, from the Arctic to the Antarctic. Named ‘Cycle for Water’, the journey on bamboo bicycles took nearly 18 months, finishing in February 2012. Throughout the journey, the cyclists visited KPMG offices and communities to engage and educate people regarding the world’s shortage of clean drinking water. The team also received plenty of attention throughout their trip from local and global media outlets. The cyclists joined KPMG in the Netherlands in June 2012 as Climate Change & Sustainability advisors. Communication on Progress report 31 Working with our people, suppliers and clients to help improve their climate change impacts Awards By engaging our people, suppliers and is derived from energy use, many clients, we believe we can magnify the member firms have also engaged their KPMG named ‘Sustainable impact of our environmental actions. landlords in efforts to drive greater Firm of the Year’ building efficiency and worked with At its inaugural awards People: KPMG member firms are our IT suppliers to improve the energy ceremony in April 2012, the involved in a wide range of initiatives efficiency of our IT infrastructure International Accounting aimed at engaging our people in our and IT assets. Leveraging these best Bulletin (IAB) named KPMG environmental activities. In 2011, for practices, KPMG organized a working as the ‘Sustainable Firm of example, more than 20 KPMG member group on sustainable procurement for the Year.’ According to IAB firms participated in Earth Hour with KPMG member firms in 2011 to share Editor Avind Hickman, KPMG many more encouraged to participate programs and practices. demonstrated with hard at home. For World Environment Day 2011, more than 700 people within Clients: KPMG’s Climate Change & data the impact of corporate KPMG member firms made pledges Sustainability professionals make a responsibility initiatives to reduce their environmental impacts. significant impact on the environment across its network. “The firm Member firms also provide internal by helping organizations to apply a also demonstrated thought training and webinars related to ‘sustainability lens’ to their business leadership by hosting the sustainability in business. operations. For example, the practice high-profile global business developed a Business Ecosystems sustainability summit, Business Suppliers: Several KPMG member Perspectives on Sustainable Training program in collaboration firms have implemented supplier codes Growth, which underscored with the World Business Council in of conduct that include expectations KPMG’s already very strong 2011, which is designed to improve on environmental responsibilities for reputation in sustainability our clients’ understanding of their KPMG suppliers. Recognizing that the services,” added Mr. Hickman. company’s impact and dependence on largest percentage of our emissions ecosystems and ecosystem services. Montvale data center first to win energy star CHP Award The EPA Combined Heat and MEMBER FIRM EXAMPLES Power (CHP) Partnership is a voluntary program seeking KPMG in India supports solar projects at two local colleges, three to reduce the environmental Recognizing that solar power is a schools, and six social organizations. impact of power generation responsible, clean, and economical The firm also supports solar projects at by promoting the use of CHP. source of energy, KPMG in India development partner sites and other Each year, the CHP Partnership works with local schools and social educational institutions. recognizes organizations and organizations to provide renewable facilities that demonstrate energy and – ultimately – to improve the KPMG in the US installs solar considerable fuel and emissions quality of school programs. Not only do panels savings over comparable, statethe solar panels provide an immediate KPMG in the US has installed solar of-the-art separate heat and source of energy for fans and indoor and panels on four buildings on its Montvale power generation. In October outdoor lights, but they also help reduce campus. The panels will harness the 2011, the Montvale data center, electricity costs and raise awareness sun’s energy to help heat, cool, light owned and operated by KPMG about the importance of renewable and power the offices, thereby lowering in the US, was the first data energy among students. Since 2008, the firm’s commercial energy cost by center in the world to win this KPMG in India has supported 11 solar approximately 10 percent. prestigious award. 32 Communication on Progress report 06 Anti-bribery and corruption The quality and integrity of our people and our work is central to everything we do at KPMG. Audit committees, investors, regulators, governments, and clients all deserve to clearly understand the steps that KPMG member firms take to uphold our professional obligations and responsibilities in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption. We accomplish this objective in a number of different ways: Our values • prohibit bribery and corruption by our Our values define how KPMG member people Principle 10 firms go about their work. The key • not tolerate illegal or unethical Businesses should work value, which underpins all others, is that behavior by our clients, suppliers or against corruption in all its member firms and their people act with by public officials integrity, constantly striving to uphold forms, including extortion and the highest professional standards, • follow high standards of ethical bribery. provide sound advice, and rigorously conduct around the world, including maintain their independence. aspiring to the 10 principles of the UNGC (including anti-bribery). Our Global Code of Conduct Our international commitments The KPMG values are at the heart of KPMG International has been a the Global Code of Conduct, which signatory to the UNGC since 2002. defines the standards of ethical The principle on anti-corruption calls conduct that we expect from every on all signatories to “work against partner and employee within KPMG’s corruption in all its forms, including global network. extortion and bribery”. Specifically in relation to anti-bribery and In early 2007, KPMG International signed corruption, the Code commits us to: the World Economic Forum’s Partnering • act lawfully, ethically and in the public Against Corruption – Principles for interest Countering Bribery. These principles commit signatories to the adoption Communication on Progress report 33 of a zero tolerance policy on bribery, standards must be completed by (GCR), monitor compliance with certain and the development of practical client facing professionals at least KPMG International policies at the and effective internal programs for once every 2 years, with new hires member firm level. implementing that policy. completing such training within 3 The RCP is a member firm’s annual months of joining a KPMG member self-assessment program which, on a Our policies firm. In addition, certain non-client regional basis, monitors compliance KPMG has global policies mandating facing personnel who work in finance, with applicable policies and procedures. compliance with: laws, regulations and procurement, or sales and marketing GCRs are performed over a 3-year cycle professional standards; requirements departments, and who are at the and are conducted by reviewers external to report, and consult in relation to manager level and above, are also to the member firm led by the Global suspected wrongdoing by KPMG firms required to participate in anti-bribery Compliance Group. These reviews or personnel, clients or third parties; training which is tailored to these assess member firm compliance with anti-bribery regulations; gifts and groups. key KPMG International policies and entertainment policies and supplier procedures. In the event that a GCR arrangements. All KPMG partners and Our compliance programs review identifies significant issues which staff are required, at a minimum, to KPMG International has an integrated require immediate or near-term attention, adhere to these policies. monitoring program that covers all a follow-up review will be performed as member firms to assess the adequacy appropriate. At the heart of the anti-bribery policy is a and effective operation of key quality specific prohibition against involvement control policies and procedures. Our whistle blowing program (or an impression of involvement) in any This monitoring addresses both type of bribery, even if such conduct is To facilitate the reporting of potential or engagement delivery and certain legal or permitted under applicable law suspected violations of KPMG policy KPMG International policies and or local practice. This prohibition extends or applicable laws, regulations, and/or procedures. The results and lessons to both public and private sectors. professional standards, many member from the programs are communicated firms have set up whistle-blowing within each member firm and the Our training hotlines. In addition, a KPMG International overall results and lessons from the KPMG member firms are required hotline is available for KPMG personnel, programs are reviewed at regional and by policy to provide anti-bribery and clients, and other parties to confidentially global levels. corruption training to all client-facing report concerns they have relating partners and employees as well as Two cross-functional programs, the to certain areas of activity by KPMG certain other member firm personnel. Risk Compliance Program (RCP) and the International itself, those who work Training covering compliance with Global Compliance Review program for KPMG International, or the senior laws, regulations and professional leadership of a KPMG member firm. 34 Communication on Progress report 07 KPMG reporting: transparency and assurance KPMG International currently produces the following reports, supplemented by communications on our global website that are relevant to our organization: Communication on Progress: This report describes the way KPMG International and member firms are implementing the 10 principles of the UN’s Global Compact. International Annual Review: This report provides stakeholders and clients with an overview of KPMG’s strategic vision, key priorities, business objectives, value propositions and combined member firm results. Transparency Report: KPMG’s Transparency Report reflects the network’s unwavering commitment to audit quality and aligns to both our own Audit Quality Framework and the requirements of Article 40 of the EU Eighth Directive on Statutory Audits. Our path towards Integrated resources it utilizes to generate value Data quality and approach Reporting in the short, medium and long-term, to assurance helping investors to manage risks and KPMG is active in the development allocate resources most efficiently. KPMG has instituted internal controls of Integrated Reporting. It enables an for key environmental indicators to organization to tell its value creation KPMG International is participating in help ensure data quality for information story by providing financial and the pilot program of the International contained within this report. As part non-financial information on its strategy, Integrated Reporting Committee and of our consideration for Integrated performance and governance in its is exploring opportunities to integrate Reporting by KPMG International, we are business and social context, in a way our reporting, both internally and evaluating assurance options for the nonthat highlights the interdependencies externally. As part of this process, financial data provided in our reporting. of the information. Integrated Reporting we have formed a cross-functional Steering Committee, chaired by Regarding the data provided in this is intended to reflect the broad and our Global CFO with support from report, several member firms have longer-term consequences of the executive leadership and leveraging instituted internal assurance procedures decisions organizations make, based the insights of KPMG client service for selected indicators. In addition, a few on a wide range of factors, to create professionals that assist clients with member firms have initiated external and sustain value. It also enables an Integrated Reporting and assessing assurance and/or verification services for organization to communicate, in a opportunities for our own reporting. their sustainability data. clear way, how it is drawing on all the Communication on Progress report 35 Notes Notes Contact us Let us know what you think As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at citizenship@kpmg.com. Alternatively you may contact one of the representatives from KPMG International listed below. Michael Hastings Lord Hastings of Scarisbrick CBE Global Head of Citizenship T: +44 (0) 20 7694 8050 E: michael.hastings@kpmg.co.uk Brad Sparks Director, Global Green Initiative T: +1 213 955 8653 E: bradsparks@kpmg.com Simon Appleby Global Citizenship and Policy T: +44 (0) 20 7694 2401 E: simon.appleby@kpmg.co.uk kpmg.com/socialmedia kpmg.com/citizenship The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation. © 2012 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm. All rights reserved. The KPMG name, logo and “cutting through complexity” are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. Designed by Evalueserve. Publication name: Communication on Progress report Publication number: 121035 Publication date: December 2012
