Better Energy, Better World B e y o n d L N G , G l o b a l K O G A S Sustainability Report 2011 Report Outline In pursuit of our corporation’s mission of 'Better Energy, Better World', KOGAS aims at developing into the world’s leading energy company to support the co-development of its stakeholders. This is the sixth sustainability report issued by KOGAS and it incorporates our company’s activities and performance, which strengthened stakeholder engagement in 2011. We at KOGAS will continue our efforts to reflect the interests of our stakeholders through constant communication. • Reporting Principles This report is compiled in reference to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines. We have specified the reporting scope by examining the findings from the DJSI Korea survey in 2012, the company’s surveys on stakeholders’ opinions regarding KOGAS’ sustainability management strategy, and a media analysis. We have also made our utmost efforts to ensure the transparent disclosure of information. • Reporting Scope This report covers the operations of our headquarters, 12 domestic business locations, and KOGAS’ R&D center. It includes summaries about the business performance of Korea Gas Technology Corporation (KOGAS-Tech). KOGAS’ overseas branches and subsidiaries, however, are not covered by this report. • Reporting Period and Cycle This report covers the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 on an annual publication basis. It also contains business reports for the three years from 2009 to 2011 to help assess performance trends by sector. The information pertaining to 2012 is specified in this report. • Report Assurance We have consulted with external economic, social, and environmental experts to enhance the reliability of the data stated in the report. We have also commissioned an outside agency to perform surveys to identify major issues of interest for our stakeholders, and obtained assurances from an independent third party assurance service provider. • Additional Information Please contact us for more information or if you have any inquiries. Website http://www.kogas.or.kr E-mail vision@kogas.or.kr Phone 82-31-710-0214 Fax 82-31-710-0899 Address Management Strategy Team, Office of Management Strategy, Korea Gas Corporation, Dolmaro 171, Bundanggu, SeongnamSi, Gyeonggi-do, Korea Contents CEO’s Message 03 KOGAS 2011 Highlights 05 Global Company Profile 09 KOGAS Vision & Strategies 13 Corporate Governance 15 07 Risk Control 17 Stakeholder Communication 20 Economic Stable Supply of Natural Gas 25 Performance Developing New Growth Potentials 27 Continuous Management Innovations 31 23 Upgrading Core Technologies 33 Major Economic Performance 35 Environmental Environmental Management System 39 Performance Environmental Management Performance 40 Environmental Practices 42 37 Strategic Green Growth 44 Addressing Climate Change 45 Efficient Use of Energy 47 Social Fair and Transparent Management 51 Performance Safe Work Environments and Healthy Associates 54 Human Resource Management 57 49 A Partnership for Inclusive Growth 61 Customer Satisfaction Management 63 Social Contributions 65 Appendix History 70 69 Organization Chart, Affiliates & Subsidiaries Subsidiary Performance (Korea Gas Technology Corporation) 71 72 General Sustainability Management Data 73 Assurance Statement 75 GRI 3.1 Guideline & ISO 26000 Index 77 ISO 26000 81 Glossary 82 Awards and Associations 83 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report CEO’s Message 3 CEO's Message Dear Stakeholders, Since our establishment in 1983, KOGAS has endeavored to improve the quality expanding the supply of clean and environmentally friendly natural gas and reducing of life for the public through the stable and affordable supply of natural gas. We greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption to enhance the environmental have reinforced our efforts to ensure the stable supply of gas imports by tapping sustainability of our society. We have also designated biogas and other renewable into overseas energy resources. We have also opened many doorways for private energy businesses as our new green business opportunities in pursuit of eco-friendlier Korean companies regarding gas-related businesses. management. As a result of this work, the company has secured the world’s largest LNG storage capacity, became the first in the energy industry and other public enterprises to • Talk & More obtain ISO 50001 certification, and maintained a leading position in customer KOGAS highly values communication with our external and internal stakeholders. satisfaction surveys for 5 consecutive years. We have also discovered a new gas We have expanded communication channels with our executives and employees for in place at an ocean gas exploration site in Mozambique, which is the largest more communication-based operations and held about 80 on-site presentations and gas in place discovered ever in exploration activities by a Korean company, and meetings to enhance customer satisfaction. These efforts allowed KOGAS to become established a sound footing for private companies to win gas plant projects in the nation’s first public enterprise to top the customer satisfaction survey for 5 years in Iraq, Australia, and Uzbekistan. a row. The company was also awarded by the Minister of Employment and Labor for KOGAS is also committed to expanding its natural gas storage capacity by our advanced relations with workers. building its fourth LNG Terminal in Samcheok and extending the reaches of its natural gas supplies to help sustain balanced regional growth and energy welfare. • Share & More In the course of our business activities, KOGAS constantly communicates with All of KOGAS’ associates practice ethical management standards based on top-notch a variety of stakeholders to fulfill their diverse demands and continue our transparency and reliability. We have been raising our internal transparency standards, comprehensive efforts to protect the environment by cutting greenhouse gas pursuing fair business transactions, and supporting the growth of small and mid-sized emissions and building advanced safety practices and systems. enterprises to help build a healthier corporate environment and a fair society. We are also providing gas utilities discounts, medical services, and scholarship funds to the socially underprivileged and engaging in our unique social accountability programs, KOGAS will act and cooperate including the sponsorships for East Timor’s Youth Soccer Team and the preservation globally for the public interest. of cultural heritages, to reach out to communities. KOGAS will continue our innovative efforts as we grow into a global energy KOGAS will globalize its business operations through the vertical integration leader, ‘Global KOGAS’. We will continue our fair and transparent business of its value chain (Broad & More), protect the environment for future generaactivities, fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen for the community, and tions (Green & More), continue to move forward with customers by improving make contributions to society in return for public support. communication with them (Talk & More), and share knowledge with the world KOGAS’ passionate and aspiring advances will enrich the lives of our stakeholders. (Share & More) as we 'act and cooperate globally for the public interest'. Thank you. • Broad & More Choo, Kang-soo KOGAS actively engages in securing overseas energy resources and developing midPresident and CEO of Korea Gas Corporation stream and downstream businesses. We will aggressively make inroads into North and South America, Africa, Oceania, and the Arctic Zone. We will also integrate our entire value chain, covering exploration/development and production/transport/supply, as we reshape into a leading global energy company. • Green & More Fully aware of the responsibilities and roles for building an eco-friendly society, KOGAS makes comprehensive efforts to preserve the environment. We are committed to 4 커트라인 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report KOGAS 2011 Received the top grade in the Customer Satisfaction Survey for Public Enterprises for 5 consecutive years. Highlights KOGAS continues its efforts to enhance communication with customers to create an advanced customer-oriented management environment. Won the 2011 National Quality Competition Human Resource Won the Disaster Control Award from the Prime Minister and Development Award from the President. Ministerial Anti-Disaster Safety Management Award. We focus our investments and resources in securing and developing skilled KOGAS places its top management priority on safety to build safe and professional human resources to spearhead global energy businesses. healthy work environments. Revamped the construction project process to ensure Joined the DJSI Korea Electricity/Gas Category for reciprocity in partnerships with SMEs. 3 consecutive years. KOGAS complies with fair business practices and supports inclusive growth KOGAS has been maintaining well-balanced management practices, which with small and mid-sized partners to ensure business reciprocity. embrace financial performance and environmental and social values for higher sustainability. 5 KOGAS 2011 Highlights Discovered a supersized gas in place (approximately Developed the technology to design the first supersized 680 million tons) in Mozambique. (270,000 kl) storage tank in the world. KOGAS was the first to make headway in the untapped East African region, This new technology will improve KOGAS’ technical reputation, help cut which will enhance the nation’s energy independence and ensure the construction costs, and expand the storage capacity. stability of gas supplies. Nominated as Korea’s Most Admired Energy Company for First to issue bonds denominated in Canadian dollars 5 consecutive years. among Asian corporations. KOGAS fulfills its social responsibilities as it grows into a reliable and wellKOGAS has established a footing to tap into the Canadian energy sector respected global energy company. and ensured stable local financing. First to obtain ISO 50001 certification in the energy industry Better Energy, Better World and other public enterprises. Global KOGAS growing As an ISO 50001 certified company, KOGAS will spearhead efforts to ensure the systematic management of energy supplies and reduce carbon together with customers emissions. GLOBAL 6 Global KOGAS KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Company Profile Overview Established in 1983, KOGAS has been committed to improving public welfare by ensuring the safe and stable supply of clean natural gas. (As of December 31, 2011) Company Korea Gas Corporation CEO Choo Kang-soo Establishment August 18, 1983 Industry Production and Distribution of Natural Gas Head Ofﬁce Dolmaro 171, Bundanggu, SeongnamSi, Gyeonggi -do, Korea 1. Production & distribution of natural gas and purification and sales of natural gas by-products 2. Construction and operation of natural gas plant and distribution network 3. Development and export/import of natural gas Major 4. Development and export/import of liquefied natural gas Businesses 5. Development of new and renewable energies using natural gas or its by-products, clean synthetic fuels, and eco-friendly businesses 6. Execution of projects commissioned by national and local governments 7. Exploration and development of petroleum resources and relevant businesses (Approvals from the Minister of Knowledge Economy are required.) Employees 2,947 Total Revenue KRW 28,493.7 billion Total Assets KRW 36,010.5 billion Natural Gas Sales 33,570 thousand tons IPO Listed on the Korea Exchange in 1999 About Our Natural Natural Gas Value Chain The natural gas produced through gas fields are converted into LNG for maritime transport, and is then gasified for retail Gas Business supplies. The gas supply chain is categorized into upstream, midstream, and downstream processes which refer respectively to the pre-liquefaction operations, the liquefaction and transport process, and the post-transport process. KOGAS, the world’s largest LNG provider, engages in the transport and sales of gas. We are also extending our reach into overseas energy resource development and the construction and operation of local and overseas LNG plants and offshore gas supply networks to globalize our business. Upstream Midstream Downstream Overseas Producer Shipping Importer Gas Field Liquefaction Facility Maritime Transport Production Facility Pipeline Network Consumer Development of Elimination of impurities LNG Carrier Unloading / Storage / Pipeline Transport, Power Generation, Natural Gas / Liquefaction / Storage Gasification / Delivery Static Pressure / City Gas Retailing / Loading Measuring / Blockage Gasification and Power Elimination of Impurities Delivery of LNG Plant Liquefaction of Natural Gas Nationwide Distribution LNG Carrier Pipeline Distribution House Heating Management Center Development of Loading Unloading Natural Gas City Gas Industrial Uses Storage of LNG Supplier Storage of LNG Distribution Production Facility Cogeneration Facility 9 Global KOGAS Company Profile Domestic Natural Gas Business For domestic natural gas supplies, KOGAS imports LNG from Ministry of Knowledge Mayor/Provincial Policy Economy Governor overseas producers as a wholesale buyer. We then provide it Cooperation Approval of wholesale Approval of retail rates to power plants and regional city gas companies, which supply rates Administrative Administrative guidance and gas to end users countrywide. The pricings consist of wholesale guidance and supervision supervision and retail rates. Wholesale rates are authorized by the Minister of Knowledge Economy after joint deliberations with the Minister Wholesale Retail Gas Supply of Strategy and Finance. Retail rates are composed of wholesale KOGAS City Gas Corporations fees and the supply costs of city gas suppliers, which are Gas Supply Gas Supply authorized by mayors or provincial governors. Large-scale Buyers Retail Consumers Power Generation, Tankers Major Businesses KOGAS develops and engages in a variety of businesses over the entire natural gas supply chain, from the upstream processes, which deal with the development and production of gas resources, followed by the downstream supply processes, and finally to end consumers. Expanding our business reaches from the imports and sales of LNG, we are vertically integrating the entire value chain of our gas business and diversifying our product line-up into petroleum and unconventional gas resources as we steadily develop into a global energy supplier. Exploration · Engaged in a total of 5 investment projects. 2001~ · Significantly expanded gas resources through successful exploration. Discovered gas fields in Myanmar in 2002 (Currently under development). Discovered a supersized gas in place in Mozambique in 2011. Development/ · Engaged in a total of 9 investment and operation projects. Production · Won 4 oil and gas development project bids in Iraq. Upstream 1997~ KOGAS participated in Iraq’s Akkas development project in 2011 as the first operator in the company’s history. Acquired and sold the produced crude oil in Zubair, Iraq, in 2011. · Tapped into the unconventional gas development projects in North America. Development projects in Horn River and West Cutbank in Canada and Cordoba, etc. Started producing unconventional gas in Canada in 2010. · Integrated resource development project covering upstream/downstream businesses, construction/operation of gas chemical plants, production, and trading. Achieved progress in the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan in 2011. LNG-Related · Engaged in a total of 6 investment projects. Businesses Established a vertically integrated LNG value chain. 1997~ · Earned dividend incomes from OLNG, Rasgas, and YLNG projects. · First in the global industry to start LNG businesses based on unconventional natural gas. Midstream to Downstream Participated in GLNG project in Australia in 2010. Overseas LNG · Engaged in 5 projects. Terminal Operations · Vertically and horizontally extended LNG plant businesses based on expertise from the operation of the world’s largest 2008~ LNG facility. Completed the construction of terminal in Manzanillo, Mexico in 2011, which is scheduled to start running in 2012. Raised profits from LNG terminal projects. Domestic Gas Sales · Sold LNG for household use and power generation. 1983~ · 5 piers, tank storage capacity of 8,320,000㎘, 3,022㎞-long pipeline network. · Sold 33,570,000 tons of gas in 2011. 10 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Overseas Businesses KOGAS actively carries out overseas projects to secure a long-term stable energy supply and expand its business. We are continuing our efforts to expand our value chain into exploration/development/production/distribution. We are also participating in 25 overseas projects in a total of 15 countries around the world. D E Uzbekistan D T Iraq China P Qatar D Myanmar P T P Oman Thailand Yemen T Singapore L E Indonesia E East Timor E Mozambique E L Australia 11 Global KOGAS Company Profile E Exploration P Production T Terminal · 1Tcf = Approximately 22,580,000 tons (LNG) D Development L Liquefaction · 1bbl = 0.125 ton (Crude oil) Overseas Operations Type Country Project Scale East Timor B,C,E,H Fields (In G&G Study) Mozambique Area 4 Field (Under drilling) (In geophysical Uzbekistan Uzunkui study) Exploration Krueng Mane Indonesia 0.23Tcf Field (In technical Australia Blue Energy review) D Myanmar A-1, A-3 Field 4.53Tcf Canada Uzbekistan Surgil Field 5.6Tcf Zubair Field 6.4 billion barrels Badra Field 0.8 billion barrels Iraq Akkas Field 2.6Tcf Development Mansuriya Field 2.65Tcf Horn River/West 2.57Tcf Cutbank Field Canada Umiak Gas Field 0.3Tcf in Arctic Zone Cordoba Field 4.5Tcf T 6.7 million tons/ Yemen YLNG year Mexico 7.2 million tons/ Production Oman OLNG year 6.6 million tons/ Qatar Ras Laffan LNG year Joint Operation 2.0 million tons/ Indonesia of DSLNG year 7.8 million tons/ Liquefaction GLNG year Australia Prelude FLNG 3.6 million tons/ Project year 3.8 million tons/ Construction and year Mexico Operation of LNG (Processing Terminal capacity)ㅤ LNG Terminal Singapore Test Operation and Training Jiangsu LNG Terminal Test Terminal Operation and Training China Dalian LNG Terminal Test Operation and Training LNG Terminal Thailand Test Operation and Training 12 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Vision & Strategies KOGAS Vision 2017 We at KOGAS have been implementing our mid-term and long-term plan and corresponding strategies through 2017 to realize our corporate philosophy of 'Better Energy, Better World'. We have set out 4 major strategic goals of preemptively securing energy sources, expanding business networks, enhancing global competencies, and advancing our management system. We will raise energy self-sufficiency to 25%, increase the proportion of overseas profit share to 60%, double our productivity, and boost corporate value to 30 trillion won by 2017 through well-balanced growth. All of KOGAS’ associates are working to achieve a ‘Global KOGAS growing together with customers’. Corporate Philosophy Better Energy, Better World With customers Growing together Global KOGAS All stakeholders at home and Ceaseless efforts are made to Global expansion of By achieving its vision, the abroad including users, serve our customers, the source business areas, pursuit of company will emerge as the Vision 2017 shareholders, employees, of our entire value and global standards for personnel, best brand to enhance partners and society competitiveness. New values institution and organizational customer confidence and are created to give back to culture and the acquisition guarantee a bright future our customers of competitiveness for our customers. Corporate Value KRW 30 trillion Core Competencies Core Values 2017 100% Trust PROFESSIONAL 2017 Objectives 60% 2012 Change 2012 45% TECHNOLOGY 2017 34% 25% 2012 Challenge 9% BRAND POWER Self Sufﬁciency Overseas Proﬁt Productivity Responsibility Share Enhancement RESPECT MORE REXPECT MORE EXPECT MORE * Achieving Vision 2017 by respecting customers and pursuing for higher value, better growth, and greater compensation 4 Strategies Strategic Enhancing Global Upgrading the Securing Energy Resources Expanding Business Networks Competencies Management System Directions and Proactive oil & gas field development Expanding production and supply Securing global talent Incorporating core values Missions Securing non-conventional energy sources infrastructure Augmenting midand down-stream Enhancing core technologies Reinforcing financial soundness Enhancing customer-oriented management Fostering green energy projects businesses Performance-based HR system Reinforcing energy marketing Working with 1 Safe, stable, economic supply of natural gas to the entire nation Management Policies the world, Serving the nation, 5 2 3 Long-term security of gas resources Core competencies to participate in overseas network projects Implementation Tasks 4 Corporate culture based on trust and confidence 5 Customer-oriented sustainability management 13 Global KOGAS Vision & Strategies KOGAS Sustainability KOGAS has set out our sustainability vision as 'Global KOGAS – with people, with the planet' to achieve Vision 2017. We’ve also established our categorical agenda to achieve our mid-term objective of 'ensuring sufficient management sustainability Strategy to be qualified for DJSI'. Vision Global KOGAS with people, with the planet Mission Sustainability Excellence : DJSI Level Governance Economy Environment Society Strategic Orientations Secure leadership in sustainability by Implement sustainable projects on Minimize environmental impact through Build human-oriented corporate building a solid management system stable energy supplies proactive environmental management systems cultures · Raise the BOD’s efficiency and · Raise energy independence · Re-establish environmental · Heighten ethical standards accountability for sustainable · Develop alternative businesses for gas management policies · Revamp human rights and labor practices management · Strengthen controls on demands for · Improve environmental KPI · Improve merit-based remuneration · Improve the non-financial risk control stable supplies management systems system · Develop alternative energies · Improve the response system for · Reinforce safety and health management Core Issue · Establish integrated stakeholder · Set up an anti-trust system climate change systems management systems · Improve infrastructures for partnerships · Reinforce the system to analyze and with vendors communicate issues with stakeholders · Improve social accountability and performance management · Reinforce customer management Establishment of Sustainability · Redefine Sustainability Management Strategies · Establish Taskforces and Operating System for Sustainability Management Management Infrastructures Governance Economy Environment Society Board of Directors Energy Assets and Self-sufficiency Redefine Environment Management Ethical Management · Increase independence and efficiency of · Identify supply restraints and set up peak Policies · Upgrade ethical management policies BOD oil strategies · Re-establish environmental management · Raise management transparency · Raise BOD’s accountabilities for · Expand investments in overseas E&P organizations Human Resources sustainability management · Set up biodiversity policies and guidelines · Revamp human rights and labor practices · Strengthen merit-based remuneration systems · Develop global talents Reinforce Environmental KPI Safety and Health Management · Manage operations free from accidents Risk Control Demand Control · Set up environmental data management / disasters · Establish R&R in risk-related departments · Raise efficiency on demand sides standards · Strengthen health controls for associates · Strengthen controls on non-financial risks · Set up plans to cooperate with industries Priorities · Redefine environmental data KPI SME Partnerships · Upgrade eco purchasing programs · Support SME’s sustainability management · Help SMEs gain competencies Customer Satisfaction Stakeholder Management Development of New Business & Upgrade response systems to climate · Analyze VOC and customer feedback · Manage stakeholders’ issues on an Alternative Energy change · Heighten privacy protections for integrated basis · Operate LNG facilities and develop · Strengthen controls on greenhouse gas customers · Communicate issues internally and transport businesses emissions Social Accountability externally · Reinforce business networks · Reduce carbon emissions to meet · Improve the management of social · Establish an integrated form of stakeholder · Expand R&D investments in alternative targeted goals contribution activities management energy · Establish carbon-neutral systems · Implement strategic social contribution programs · Redefine Sustainability Management Vision and Missions · Set up Enterprise-wide Sustainability Management Taskforce · Strengthen External Commitments on Sustainability Management · Raise Awareness of Sustainability Management among Associates Implementation KOGAS’ Management Strategy Team supervises our sustainability management and reports new strategies and ongoing progress to the Management Committee on a regular basis to review the major agenda and make necessary decisions based on such reviews. 14 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Shareholders KOGAS’ shares are owned by public and private investors. Public entities such as the Korean government, Korea Electric Power Corporation, and local administrations aggregately hold a stake of about 61%. Proportional Shareholder Shares Ownership Private Government 20,758,110 26.86% 39% Public KEPCO 18,900,000 24.46% Local Administrations 7,416,600 9.59% Public Private Investors 30,209,800 39.09% 61% (Total) 77,284,510 100.00% Board of Directors Composition of BOD The board of directors is KOGAS’ highest decision-making organization, Operations of BOD which consists of 12 directors, 5 executive, and 7 non-executive directors in compliance with the 'Act on Public Institution Operations' Shareholders’ Meeting and our company’s articles of incorporation. The director’s information (Chaired by the CEO) and the minutes of their meetings are released through websites. The Executive Nomination Committee is run to ensure the independence Board of Directors (Chaired by the Senior in the nomination of directors. The senior non-executive director is Non-Executive Director) Board of appointed as the chairman of the BOD to divide chairmanship from Non-Executive management leadership. The director’s meetings are held every fourth Directors · Audit Committee Thursday to examine and determine the agenda stipulated in the · Planning & Strategy Committee · Overseas Project Committee regulations or articles of incorporation and material issues. This well· Budget Review Committee structured BOD operation system has been established to ensure efficient operations. Subcommittees KOGAS’ BOD has four subcommittees Audit Committee, Planning & Strategy Committee, Overseas Project Committee, and Budget Committee under its wing to utilize the expertise of non-executive directors to examine the agenda in depth and improve checks and balances in management. Meetings Committee Agenda Composition Participation (2011) Operating and accounting audits 2 non-standing auditors Audit Committee Evaluation of internal accounting management systems 8 93% 1 standing auditor Audit of directors’ actions Long-term strategies and visions Planning & Strategy 2 non-executive directors Major investment projects, budget (operation) schemes 2 100% Committee 2 executive directors Management assessment, PR Development and production of overseas resources Overseas Project 3 non-executive directors Export of plants and technologies 3 100% Committee 2 executive directors Purchasing of natural gas and other overseas projects Budget Review Examination of 2012 budget (plan) 7 outside (non-executive) directors 3 100% Committee 15 Global KOGAS Corporate Governance Greater BOD BOD Targets More Active Involvement KOGAS strengthens the BOD’s examination and decision-making processes through periodically holding highly functional prior Involvement meetings, convening board meetings, and activating the subcommittees. Based on the results of the management environment analysis, we determine the operating objectives for the BOD and make use of our optimal operating and evaluation systems to enable more efficient BOD operations. Once we complete the establishment of the 'BOD and Subcommittee Meeting Management System', which is slated to be launched in the first half of 2012, the system will enable us to standardize BOD operations and manage data more systematically so that we can maximize the BOD’s operating efficiency. BOD Operating Data No. of Board Prior Revision of Participation Participation of NonVoices of Non-Executive Meetings (Case) Deliberation (%) Opinions (%) (%) Executive Directors (%) Directors (%) 2009 18 44 10 94 97 57 2010 16 81 14 94 98 54 2011 16 81 5 93 92 54 Application of Non-Executive Director’s Expertise Professional and experienced experts from a variety of fields are nominated to be non-executive directors as recommended by the Ministry of Public Administration and Security, academic scholars, and Executive Nomination Committee. The company provides comprehensive and systematic support to improve their competencies and enable them to engage in field operations, which ultimately helps them make better decisions. They are also encouraged to make management suggestions to help improve business performance. Reinforcement of Non-Executive Director’s Expertise Reinforcement of Non-Executive Director’s Expertise 1. Nomination of Expert 2. Systematic Support 3. Utilization of Expertise 4. Engagement in Field Operation Secure various talent pools Run programs to help gain Apply expertise for better Visit local and overseas operations MOPA DB understanding management Visit operations at home and Recommendations from Report corporate profiles and Improve performance through abroad to inspect operations and academics operations to new directors management suggestions obtain feedback Professional institutions Update data regularly Proactively participate in Tour offshore sites for LNG Executive Nomination Offer sufficient explanations and subcommittee activities purchasing and resource Committee supplementary data development Evaluation of Directors KOGAS is one of the first organizations among public enterprises to begin implementing individual evaluations of directors in December 2008. This was done to raise the awareness of the roles and responsibilities of directors and identify needs and and Executives loopholes through objective assessments. The BOD’s overall operations and individual performances of directors are discretely evaluated to improve the efficiency of the BOD’s operations. Remuneration for executives includes basic salary, incentives, and retirement allowances. The annual basic salary is determined by non-executive directors within the limits approved at the shareholders’ meeting. The CEO shall propose specific management objectives to achieve KOGAS’ corporate missions and visions and award incentives according to the performance assessments pursuant to the management contract formed with the Minister of Knowledge Economy. The executive directors shall form performance contracts with the CEO and receive incentives according to performance assessments. 16 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Risk Control Enterprise-wide Risk Control Strategy KOGAS defines risk as the dangers or crisis factors which pose uncertainties or cause the loss of opportunities to disturb the Risk Control accomplishment of strategic and business goals. The company is aimed at taking proactive risk controls to contribute to the management and business activities to create values for KOGAS. Risk Control Contribute to the management and business activities through proactive risk control activities Objectives Risk Control Sound Management Clear Roles and More Effective Risk Consistent and Effective Proactive Executive Strategies Policies Standards Controls Management Engagement Establishment of Enterprise-wide Risk Control System In response to the rising external and internal demands for risk controls and overseas expansions, KOGAS has been establishing an enterprise-wide risk control system to ensure the integrated monitoring of risk control activities. Based on the prior assessments implemented in 2010, we have completed the establishment of our enterprise-wide risk control system in 2012 and plan to adopt an ubiquitous real-time monitoring system by 2014. 2013~2014 2011~2012 · Adopt an enterprise risk 2010 · Establish and execute the enterprisemanagement (ERM) system ~2009 wide risk control system · Implement prior assessments to set · Establish risk control manuals up an enterprise-wide risk control · Set up EHSQ system system Risk Control Organization KOGAS has designed our risk control organization based on the '3 Lines of Defense' model, which is widely considered to be the best global practice for risk controls. The CRO is responsible for reporting to the Risk Control Committee as a supervisor of enterprise-wide risk controls. The Risk Control Committee is the highest decision-making institution that determines all issues related to risk controls under the direct control of the CEO. The Risk Control Committee holds a regular meeting at least once year to review the company's risk control status and responses and make the relevant decisions. CEO Risk Control Committee Chief of Division Chief of Division Chief of Division Chief of Division CRO（Vice President） Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Support Audit Committee Manager Manager Manager Manager Risk Control Check & Overseas Project Operating Financial Supervising Summarize Management Dept. Internal audit Risk Control Risk Control Risk Control Departments (Management Department Department Department （16 crisis areas） Information Team) Overseas Project Operating Risk Financial Risk Crisis Management Office of the Auditor Risk 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line Check & Internal audit 17 Global KOGAS Risk Control Risk Response System Categorization of Risks KOGAS categorizes risk factors into those under proactive monitoring systems and others under post-management. We have re-classified risk controls into the management of operating, overseas projects, and financial risks in accordance with the establishment of our enterprise-wide risk control system in 2012. We also set up respective management systems while maintaining the existing 16 crisis management sectors to upgrade our overall systems. Enterprise-wide Risk Control Risk Control Crisis Management Operating Risk Overseas Project Risk Financial Risk Control Disaster Management Communication Conflict Control Control Risk Control System ●Operating Risk Control We identify and monitor risk factors that are obstacles to our achievement of strategic missions and assignments (KPI). We also prepare appropriate countermeasures to prevent operation risks on an enterprise-wide basis. Identification KPI Association Identification Pool Management Strategic Mission Assignments KRI Monitoring Identification Pool Management Potential Cause Analysis Risk Establishment Countermeasure ●Overseas Project Risk Control Risk control departments apply qualitative and quantitative risk control methodologies respectively to monitor potential risk factors in overseas projects and prevent actual risks. Qualitative Risk Control Quantitative Risk Control Review standard cash ﬂow models for investment projects Review standard risk pools by investment project phase Estimate basic cash flows for respective investment projects Assess risk factors by investment project Examine KRI by investment project phase phase · Business Factor Map out risk factors · External Variable Evaluation standards Collect data on risk indicators · Credit Factor Risk-based required rate of Risk-based cash flow model Risk Aversion Matrix Monitor maximums return model Apply variability of risk factors CFaR/EaR/Forecast F/S variations Set up and implement action plans 18 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report ●Financial Risk Control The International Finance Team and Financing IR Team control financial risks and assess and manage the corporate financial indices on exchange rates, interest rates, and liquidity. Market Data FRM system Risk Control/Report Exchange Rate Data Enter Estimate Variability VaR in Market Exchange / Set up maximum limits （EWMA） Interest Rate Data Data Interest Rates EaR in Construction Management Execute random Exchange / Monitor actual risks simulations Interest Rates Debt Financings Exposure Special Energy Fund Repayment Plan Risk Countermeasures / Report Cash Flow Management CFaR Cash Flow Plan (Alleviation /Exception) * EWMA : Exponentially Weighted Moving Average Crisis Management System Several departments supervise the management of 16 different crisis categories and compose reports on crisis management activities to strengthen countermeasures and implement other government programs. Category Crisis Deﬁnition Environmental Crisis Environmental contamination caused by leaks from facilities or LNG carriers Facility Crisis Gas leaks and fire outbreaks caused by destruction of production or distribution facilities Disaster Disaster Crisis Disruptions to natural gas supplies caused by earthquakes, typhoons or floods Information System Crisis System malfunctions or operating disruptions caused by hacking attacks or virus terrorism Decrease of market presence due to appearance of new competitors Regulatory Crisis Deterioration of business environment due to the suspension of variable pricings on fuel costs Overseas Project Crisis Inevitable changes or suspension of overseas projects Disruptions to the achievement of management objectives due to failures to procure resources for strategic Strategic Crisis implementations Supply Crunch Decline in LNG inventories due to supply disruptions or demand hikes Management Deterioration of financial soundness or liquidity due to volatilities in exchange rates, oil prices, interest rates, Financial Crisis or credit ratings Social Accountability Crisis Negligence in social accountability Human Resource Crisis Lower employee satisfactions Operating Crisis Occurrence of internal corruptions Marketing Crisis Bankruptcy of city gas supplier Communication PR Crisis Deterioration of corporate image or reputation caused by the wrong or negative media coverage Labor Strife Disruptions to gas supplies due to walkouts or other labor strife (including illegal actions) Conflict Collective Complaints Disruptions to operations caused by collective complaints over facility operations or construction processes Crisis Preventions A total of 15 crises have taken place in 2011 alone, and they were classified to facilitate the implementation of appropriate countermeasures. （Unit: Case） Disaster Facility Strategic Regulatory Labor Financial Information Supply Collective Total Crisis Crisis Crisis Crisis Strife Crisis System Crisis Crunch Complaints 2009 4 – – 1 1 – 2 1 – 9 2010 3 2 – 1 1 1 4 1 1 14 2011 7 1 1 – – 2 3 – 1 15 19 Global KOGAS Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communication Stakeholders of KOGAS Aware of our public responsibilities as a public enterprise, KOGAS considers all society members to be our stakeholders. We engage in transparent and proactive communication with them to fulfill our social responsibilities. As our company takes the initiative in pushing for overseas projects, we also strive to communicate with global stakeholders and build effective communication channels. We will continue to listen to the voices of stakeholders at home and abroad as we improve the sustainability of KOGAS’ businesses. Internal Associates Direct Customers Shareholders · Investors (City Gas Suppliers, Power Plants, etc.) Major Issues Major Issues Major Issues Business expansion / Competence strengthening Stable supplies / Sound facilities / Rates / Stock price / Investment / Safety / Dividend / / Wages / Job security / Welfare / Customer services Growth potential / Financial soundness / Safety and health / Labor-management relations Corporate governance Communication Channel Communication Channel Communication Channel Field briefings for managers Customer meetings IR activities Data on major businesses Customer surveys Electronic posting (ALIO, KRX, and FSS) Labor-management conferences Pricing briefings KOGAS Newsletter and coordination meetings Technical information meetings Ombudsman, etc. Customer service system Strategy workshop Citizens(Consumers) Global Government · Authorities Major Issues Major Issues Rates / Stable supplies / Thermal unit (Quality) Countermeasures to climate change / / Social contributions and energy welfares Growing Together Corporate Governance / Stable supplies / with Customers Restructuring Communication Channel Communication Channel Pricing briefings Information disclosure request system Newsletter, web postings Business reports Campaigns and social contributions Congressional or BAI audits Information disclosure request system Community · NGO Business Partners Global Stakeholders Major Issues Major Issues Major Issues Social contributions / Ethical management / Business expansion / Support to SMEs / Environmental and human rights guidelines / Safety and environment management / Financial soundness Global CSR activities Sustainability management / ISO 26000 Communication Channel Communication Channel Communication Channel Campaigns and social contributions Joint workshops and sports matches KOGAS Newsletter (English ver.) Conferences Business information sessions Sustainability report Newsletters Surveys on contract satisfaction Local newspapers and broadcasting Web postings Discussion meetings Community services and donations 20 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Materiality Test Materiality testing is a method to help identify and prioritize issues of high interest for stakeholders. KOGAS has been identifying critical sustainability management issues through management strategies, status analysis, media analysis, benchmarking, engagements of internal and external stakeholders, and specified core issues requiring proactive leadership from KOGAS through priority assessments for this report. KOGAS Materiality Test Proccess 1. Identify External 2. Identify Internal 3. Analyze 4. Confirm Issues Issues Stakeholders Issues · Media analysis · Analysis of management · Analysis of stakeholders’ · Departmental meetings · Benchmarking strategies and status interests · Determination of core · Survey of external stakeholders · Analysis and assessment of · Analysis of impacts on issues for report · Interview with external previous annual reports organization stakeholders · Collection of feedback from · CSR trend analysis related departments · Analysis of international · Surveys on associates standards and guidelines 5. Materiality Test Results High 1 2 3 4 5 External Stakeholder Evaluation 9 8 7 6 10 Middle High Low Middle Low Internal Stakeholder Evaluation High 1 Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations 6 Reinforcement of International Partnerships 2 Priority on Safety and Enhancement of Safety Accident Controls 7 Inclusive Growth with Business Partners 3 Customer-oriented Management 8 Hiring and Development of Human Talents 4 Enhancement of Energy Self-sufficiency 9 Countermeasures to Climate Change 5 Upgrade of Anti-corruption Ethical Management Practices 10 Strengthening of Local and Overseas Social Contribution Activities 21 Global KOGAS Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Survey • Survey Outline KOGAS has performed a stakeholder survey to reflect the major areas of interests and opinions of internal and external stakeholders in the 2011 Sustainability Report and apply them to the prospective sustainability management activities. The survey was performed for 15 days from June 14 to June 28, 2012 by using an emailbased questionnaire. 141 internal stakeholders and 208 external stakeholders have participated in this survey. Our company plans to include global stakeholders in prospective surveys because of our growing overseas presence. We have interviewed global stakeholders in economic, environmental, and social respects this year. The details about the interviews are noted in pages 24, 38 and 50. • Core Issues for Stakeholders According to the results of the materiality tests on 20 sustainability management issues, 5 respondent groups other than Community /NGO have chosen 'Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations' as one of their top 2 issues. These responses demonstrate that stakeholders are highly aware of and interested in KOGAS’ global business expansion. Customer （Unit : point） Government/Authorities （Unit : point） Business Partners （Unit : point） 1st 8.8 1st 8.0 1st 8.0 Priority on Safety and Enhancement of Safety Accident Controls Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations 2nd 8.7 2nd 7.6 1st 8.0 Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations Strengthening of Local and Overseas Social Contribution Activities Upgrade of Anti-corruption Ethical Management Practices Shareholder/Investor （Unit : point） Community / NGO （Unit : point） Associates （Unit : point） 1st 6.8 1st 7.7 1st 8.8 Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations Strengthening of Local and Overseas Social Contribution Activities Development of Upstream Businesses and Overseas Operations 1st 6.8 2nd 7.6 2nd 8.7 Customer-oriented Management Establishment of Reciprocal Labor-Management Relations Priority on Safety and Enhancement of Safety Accident Controls • Material Issue Management Ratings （Unit : point） The evaluations of KOGAS’ management of 6 material issues for sustainable 2010 2011 2012 development suggest that energy security has gained the largest advance from Establishment of Vision and Strategy 4.12 4.06 4.41 Energy Security 4.26 4.15 4.69 a year earlier. Although most of the evaluation categories have also shown Contribution to Economic Development 4.27 4.28 4.01 improvement, the rating on the contributions to economic development posted Environmental Performance 4.22 4.23 4.48 a decline on a year-on-year basis. We will take measures to close loopholes and Social Performance 4.15 4.11 4.32 International Cooperation 4.01 4.07 4.44 enhance KOGAS’ sustainability. • Materiality of Core Values （Unit : %） 'Transparency' was considered to be the most important core value for KOGAS’ ㅤ 2010 2011 2012 Transparency 29.3 32.7 21.1 sustainable development by stakeholders, just as in the previous survey. Reciprocal Partnership 16.0 16.3 18.4 'Responsibility' exhibited the largest increase in materiality rating from a year Trust 15.3 15.3 19.7 Change 8.3 11.3 6.7 earlier. Responsibility 13.3 9.7 14.4 Challenge 8.7 6.3 10.0 Cooperation 5.3 5.7 8.7 Community Services 3.7 2.7 1.0 22 _ Economic Performance 경제 Revenue in 2011 Combined Storage Nationwide Gas Pipeline LNG Sales in 2011 Overseas Business Capacity Network 57Storage Facilities 25 Projects in KRW 28.5 trillion 8.32 million ㎘ 3,022 ㎞ 33.57 million tons 15 Countries KOGAS is involved as an operator in the development and production project for Akkas gas fields in the western province of Anbar, about 400km northwest of Baghdad, Iraq. After submitting a preliminary development scheme, KOGAS has been implementing its obligations as scheduled. KOGAS has been making great progress with the project, and has demonstrated very impressive management techniques and passionate effort. I strongly believe that KOGAS will succeed in completing the project, despite the tough challenges ahead. Akkas JMC Chairman_Abdula KH. Zarzor KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Stable Supply of Natural Gas Natural Gas as the Natural gas accounted for 17.2% of Korea’s primary energy consumption in 2011, and is one of the major national energy supplies along with petroleum, coal, and atomic energy. As the nation’s city gas distribution network covers 73.3% of Nation’s Source of households (as of 2011), the natural gas provides highly important fuel supplies to homes. Energy Proportion of Natural Gas in Primary Energy Consumption Households with City Gas Supplies (Unit : %) (Unit : %) 77.7 75.9 73.3 72.2 17.2 16.0 14.8 14.7 13.9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 2020 2010 2011 (Forecast) (Forecast) Forecast on Natural Domestic Natural Gas Demands Gas Demands Natural gas is in high demand in winter and in low demand in summer as households consume a large amount of gas supplies for heating due to seasonal temperature gaps. Natural gas producers usually prefer constant production throughout the year to recoup their massive facility investments early, which unbalances the supply and demand. Given this situation, KOGAS has been expanding its storage facilities to close the gap between supply and demand and is working to purchase gas at low costs by tracking spot price trends to meet the seasonal demands in winter. KOGAS is constantly endeavoring to ensure stable and affordable energy supplies. Higher Accuracy in Demand Forecast KOGAS is continuously working to upgrade its forecast model to better reflect the ever-changing demand conditions and increase the flexibility of the model to facilitate the scenario-based demand forecasts in case of abnormal climate conditions, which aims to improve the accuracy in demand forecasts. Efforts on Stable KOGAS secures natural gas supplies based on long-term contracts which usually last 10 years or longer to ensure the Supplies stable supply for the growing domestic natural gas demands. We are also flexibly making short-term spot purchases in line with the changes in demands. As of 2011, we had 13 mid-term to long-term contracts with a validity of 4 years or longer, amounting to a total of about 25 million tons of natural gas, as well as many short-term contracts. We have purchased natural gas from 16 countries in 2011, and around 86% of our total supplies came from the Middle East and Asia. We have also executed new long-term contracts that amount to over 7.6 million tons to diversify the supply channels and maintain stable supplies. New Long-term Contracts in 2011 Gas Supply Origins in 2011 (Unit : %) South America Australia Type Country Volume Contract Term 2 2 North and Central America 1 million tons/year 2013~2017 4 3.64 million tons/year 2017~2037 Africa Long-term 7 Australia etc Contracts 1 million tons/year 2014~2017 Middle East Eurasia 44 2 million tons/year 2017~2031 9 Southeast Asia 32 25 Economic Performance Stable Supply of Natural Gas Supply and Demand Supply Risks and Countermeasures KOGAS forecasts and monitors the probabilities of supply and demand risks in advance and prepares appropriate Management countermeasures to better cope with effective contingencies in the natural gas supply. Supply and Demand Risks Risk Factors in Demand Risk Factors in Supply City Gas Power Generation · Business cycle · Business cycle · Breakdown of production facilities · Temperature change · Climate change · Political factors in gas-producing countries · Increase in power demand · Risks in LNG transport · Maintenance of power plant facilities · Crude oil price, etc Countermeasures to Demand Risks Countermeasures to Supply Risks · Stipulate supply volumes in agreements with city gas suppliers and power plants · Make additional purchases including SPOT trades · Raise the capacity of oil and coal-powered thermoelectric plants · Drive SWAP forward · Expand the rate plans to control demands · Adjust the shipping schedules for LNG carriers Expanding LNG Storage Capacity As of the end of 2011, KOGAS' LNG storage rate stood at merely 11%, much below the storage capacities of other gas importers such as Japan (16 to 18%). KOGAS plans to increase the rate of storage to 21% by 2024 to ensure stable supplies in the future. Our company is pushing to build the 4th LNG terminal (Samcheok) that is scheduled to be completed in 2014 in addition to its three LNG terminals in Incheon, Pyeongtaek, and Tongyoung. We are also considering to build a new LNG Terminal base to maintain a stable supply for the high-demand in the Seoul Metropolitan Area. In preparation for the procurement of PNG from Russia, we’re reviewing the plan to build a storage facility using the underground bedrock storage technology to store natural gas in gas form. Expanding Pipeline Networks to unreached Regions We at KOGAS are extending our distribution pipeline network to unreached regions to close the regional energy gaps and diversify energy source options for consumers. We plan to add new pipelines, stretching to about 1,290㎞, with the existing 3,022㎞-long pipelines and raise our coverage from 168 cities and counties to 212 areas by 2016. Once this project is completed, natural gas supplies will additionally become available for 44 middle to small-sized cities across the country. Supply and Demand Management in 2011 Demands were highly volatile throughout 2011 due to the frequent occurrences of abnormal weather conditions and instability in the power generation sector. There have also been supply risks due to Iran threatening to block the Hormuz Strait and the terrorism attacks in Yemen. KOGAS has successfully overcome such challenges by setting up LNG procurement plans in advance based on demand forecasts according to climate conditions. We have also increased our monitoring of the geopolitical risks in the Hormuz Strait and updated our crisis management manual to maintain a stable supply. Gas Supplies in 2011 Long-term Mid-term Short-term SPOT Total Volume (1,000 tons) 22,539 2,065 6,649 2,721 33,974 Number of Cargo 349 34 111 38 532 26 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Developing New Growth Potentials Promoting Securing Competitive Advantages in E&P Projects KOGAS is looking to diversify energy sources into oil, conventional, and unconventional gas, and other resources, as well Overseas Resource as integrate the value chains for oil and gas. We have secured gas reserves of 133,470 thousand tons, which amount Development to Korea's 4-year gas consumption, on a cumulative basis in 2011 as we tapped into new high potential areas in Africa, Projects America, Oceania, the Middle East, and other frontier regions. KOGAS also discovered a supersized gas field with a gas in place of 680 million tons in Mozambique, which is the largest discovery in the history of Korean gas development and the world's second largest discovery made in 2011. As KOGAS made its first successful inroad into Mozambique, it has established a footing to tap further into the African market and develop other related businesses. This is expected to add economic momentum to both Korea and Mozambique and help local plant builders expand their overseas presence. The oil and gas projects in Iraq have also made tremendous progress in 2011, enabling KOGAS to recoup its investment of USD 100 million through the oil development project in Zubair. KOGAS has also executed its first operating license contract for the Akkas project, which is expected to help it grow into an E&P (Exploration & Production) company. Accelerating Unconventional Gas Businesses Unconventional gas reserves are estimated to be over 5 times larger than the conventional gas reserves. KOGAS is planning to diversify energy sources and procure cost-effective natural gas sources by developing unconventional gas projects to enhance the stability in gas supplies. We achieved substantial progress in the unconventional gas business in 2011. We have increased our unconventional gas reserves in North America from 36 million tons to 61 million tons through collaborations with strategic partners. KOGAS has also increased the production of unconventional gas from 1.6 tons to 105,000 tons by launching the Cordoba project in Canada and GLNG CBM (Coal Bed Methane) project in Australia. We also tapped into gas hydrate projects as well as some undeveloped areas in Mongolia, Indonesia and Australia to expand our business. Integrating the Gas Business Value Chain KOGAS creates high value-added business opportunities by extending its value chain into upstream and downstream sectors and accumulates technical and commercial expertise by developing LNG projects and operating plants to improve its brand value. We participated in a floating liquefaction terminal project using LNG-FPSO, a domestically developed technology, to strengthen our technical expertise and core values in trading. The Surgil Project, an upstream and downstream chemical package project in Uzbekistan, is also showing clear signs of development. We are set to make a final investment decision (FID) and commence construction in the first half of 2012. KOGAS Overseas Projects 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Exploration ·Development· Production · Invested in Oman OLNG project and established KOLNG · Myanmar A-1 Field Liquefaction·Storage · Invested in Oman OLNG project and established KOLNG Unloading·Storage· Gasiﬁcation·Distribution Pipeline·Sales 27 Economic Performance Developing New Growth Potentials Expanding Overseas Expanding the Gas Utility Business KOGAS invests in the development of overseas LNG terminals and pipeline networks and expands gas utility businesses to Midstream and earn profits through constructing and operating facilities as part of our efforts to integrate the midstream and downstream Downstream value chains. We successfully completed the terminal construction project in Manzanillo, Mexico in 2011 and deployed Businesses highly trained staff to that facility through the local training program. We also successfully established and applied a new operating management system to the Manzanillo project, which formed the basis of our new business model for prospective overseas LNG terminal projects. After integrating KOGAS' expertise from the operation of the world's largest LNG terminal with our local partner's competencies in EPC (Engineering, Procurement & Construction), we are also seeking to tap into new offshore plant and EPC projects. We will further expand our business reach through developing new LNG terminal, gas pipeline, and liquefaction plant projects. Expanding the Technical Service Business KOGAS sells its engineering technologies for the construction and operation of LNG liquefaction plants to overseas LNG terminal operators. We have won the bids for 6 new technical projects, including the test operation of an LNG terminal in Dalian, China, and technical advisory services for the UAE LNG terminal and Australia GLNG projects, which amount to a total of USD 8.62 million. We plan to maximize customer satisfaction through the systematic management of overseas technical projects and acquire more expertise to expand our technical service business. Broadening the Energy Trading Business In addition to KOGAS' existing LNG procurement and domestic sales, we are expanding our trading business into LNG, crude oil, unconventional gas, petrochemical products (PE, PP), PNG, and DME in line with our strategy to diversify energy sources. We plan to develop our trading business and competencies through trading KOMAN LNG, gas, and petrochemical products produced in Surgil, Uzbekistan, crude oil productions in Iraq, and unconventional gas production in Canada. Our company also participates in the natural gas charging and cylinder project in Uzbekistan and other locations in bid to make more inroads into the overseas downstream market. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 · Myanmar A-3 Block · East Timor/ · 5 maritime blocks · Surgil Gas Field Project in Uzbekistan · Obtained joint operating license for Horn River and · West Kamchatka Australia JPDA in East Timor · Uzunkui Block in Uzbekistan West Cutbank development projects in Canada Block in Russia 06-102 Block · Maritime block in · Designated as the developer of oil and gas fields in Mozambique Zubair and Badra, Iraq · Maritime block in · Acquired development and production licenses for Indonesia gas fields in Akkas and Mansuriya, Iraq · Umiak block in Canada’s Arctic Zone · Designated as the developer of LNG · Invested in GLNG project in Australia terminal in Mexico · Acquired joint operating license for Donggi-Senoro LNG project in 2011 · Invested in maritime gas development and ground pipeline projects in Myanmar 28 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Best Practice Discovery of a Supersized Gas Field in Mozambique In July 2007, KOGAS started exploring natural gas resources in the Area 4 Ocean Block north of Mozambique in Africa, which has been considered highly likely to have a large-scale natural gas field, as part of its efforts to tap into overseas resources. The company finally discovered a gas field through its first rig, Mamba South-1, among the 4 rigs in Area 4 on October 20, 2011. This discovery confirmed the existence of supersized gas fields in the area. ▒ Project Profile AREA 4 · Block Name : Mozambique Area 4 Block AREA 1 KOGAS ENI · Location : East of Mozambique (12,956㎢ in area) ANADARKD ARTUMAS · Ownership : Eni (Operator) 70%, KOGAS 10%, Galp 10%, AREA 2 AREA 3 ENH (Mozambique’s State-run Company) 10% NORSK NORSK NYDRO NYDRO · Gas in place : 47~52Tcf AREA 1 AREA 4 · Investment : USD 49.6 million (cumulatively as of May 2012) ANADARKD PETRONAS 모잠비크 Area 4 위치도 Location of Mozambique Area 4 ▒ Progress The gas in place in the Area 4 block is estimated to contain at least 47 to 52 Tcf (about 1.17 billion tons) of natural gas. KOGAS is estimated to secure around 117 million tons of natural gas, which is equal to Korea's natural gas consumption for about 3.1 to 3.4 years. KOGAS plans to add 2 more rigs by 2012 to secure additional resources and assess the project. This gas resource discovery is expected to increase further in accordance with future progress in this area. · 2011. 09~2011. 11 : Drilling at Mamba S-1 (22.5Tcf of gas in place) · 2011. 11~2012. 01 : Drilling at Mamba N-1 (7.5Tcf of gas in place) · 2012. 01~2012. 03 : Drilling at Mamba NE1 (10~12Tcf of gas in place) · 2012. 04~2012. 05 : Drilling at Coral-1 (7~10Tcf of gas in place) · 2012. 06 : Started drilling at Mamba NE2 ▒ Implications KOGAS' successful exploration in Mozambique is the company's first groundbreaking achievement in East Africa, an area that has remained largely untapped. This discovery will help Korea gain more independence in energy development and stability in its natural gas supplies. This success is also expected to build a sound foothold for subsequent energy development projects in Africa. 29 Economic Performance Developing New Growth Potentials Eco-Friendly DME, the Emerging Global Clean Energy Source DME (Dimethyl ether) is an emission-free clean energy source, and KOGAS is one of the four global companies securing Technology Business DME technologies. We have developed source technologies for the DME production process and basic design engineering for commercial plant construction. We are reviewing plans to build DME plants and commercialize projects in Middle Eastern and African countries such as Saudi Arabia, Mozambique, and Nigeria. We are also preparing for DME plant and DME-FPSO projects in Malaysia, Australia, and other Asian countries. Household Fuel Cell Monitoring Program for Eco-Friendly Home Environments Household fuel cells are eco-friendly and high-efficiency renewable energy power generators that transform natural gas into hydrogen, and then it react with oxygen to produce electricity and thermal energy. As of the end of 2011, a total of 210 household fuel cells were installed and operated to prepare for prospective commercialization. They were installed at the Blue House and the office of the Green Development Committee to promote this new technology to the public. These installations have made great contributions to the 'Fuel Cell Installations at 100,000 Homes' project in line with the government's '1 Million Green Homes by 2020' project. Research on Biogas Development to Turn Organic Wastes into Energy Biogas is a new renewable energy source produced through the anaerobic digestion of organic wastes such as food wastes. This new energy source can be compatible with natural gas and help process contaminants to generate energy without any carbon emissions. KOGAS formed a research partnership over natural gas, biogas, and bio DME with Sweden-based Business Region Gothenburg in a bid to accelerate its biogas project. The company also began to conduct joint research on the commercialization of biogas fuels with a local partner and the Gangwon Province Government in 2010. KOGAS aims to contribute to eco-friendly economic growth by developing alternative fuel technologies on biogas and other energy sources for vehicle and industrial use. We play a leading role in biogas plant engineering and CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) businesses. Natural Gas Vehicle Project for Clean Air in Cities The natural gas vehicle is an eco-friendly technology that emits fewer pollutants than diesel powered vehicles. Natural gas buses and garbage trucks are in service in Korea while CNG hybrid buses and HCNG buses will become available in the coming years. KOGAS actively engages in technological research on Natural Gas Vehicle (NGV) and charging stations (CNG and LNG). Our company has already developed an LNG container design (450ℓ, ‘KOGAS LNG Container’) through domestic research. DME Facility DME Bus Fuel Cell Installation Ceremony at Prime Installation and Operation of Fuel Cell at the Minister’s Residence Blue House Biogas Purification Facility Liquefied Carbon Dioxide Storage Facility CNG Hybrid Bus Profile CNG Hybrid Bus 30 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Continuous Management Innovations Innovative Brand Best & First, KOGAS Innovative Brand Aware of the importance of consistent and continuous innovation, KOGAS enthusiastically promotes BnF (Best & First), our Best & First field-oriented operating innovation initiative, as our innovative brand as we grow into a global energy company. BEST FIRST Activities to spread and share the Best Activities that identify and address Practices identified through the First organizational loopholes and promote activities the engagements of associates BnF 3.3.3 Program Our 11 bases and regional divisions selected 3 action programs for each of our 3 major missions under the 3 BnF strategic orientations to implement a total of 297 innovative activities under the BnF 3.3.3 Program every year. We also map out measures for improvement on the implemented BnF activities through a qualitative and quantitative analysis of past performance in comparison with their initial plans, and then include them in the next year’s plan for BnF 3.3.3. Strategic Orientations Global Management Management for Public Interests Creative and Innovative Management · Enhance global competencies · Build reciprocal labor-management · Improve operating practices relations Major Missions · Global organizational cultures · Reduce costs · Strategic social contributions · Prepare for global warming · Top priority on customers · Safe and stable facility operations BnF Activity Process Each operating group in charge of implementing the BnF 3 ·3 ·3 programs determines the annual project missions every March and compiles reports over the outcomes of program implementation. Each report includes two best practice cases to be shared and communicated to the other groups through case competitions. The BnF Program has proven to be effective on the back of the proactive support and engagement of all our associates and is developing into KOGAS' representative innovation practice through appropriate compensation and encouragement. Develop Select Missions and Evaluate Execute Missions Share Learning Missions Set Up Plans Performance Develop crucial competencies and promote associates’ engagement through creative and innovative TF activities Best Practice 2011 KOGAS BP Competition KOGAS has held the '2011 KOGAS BP Competition' in November 2011 to systemize our hands-on experience and accelerate our drives to improve work processes. Incheon Terminal Division has won the Grand Prize with the 'SOS Level 1 Project', which can reduce costs by KRW 14.1 billion by improving the functionality of existing gasification facilities to raise the maximum output without facility expansion. 31 Economic Performance Continuous Management Innovations Knowledge-based Learning Community CoP KOGAS creates an advanced body of collective knowledge and we encourage our associates to improve their Management troubleshooting skills through the activities of CoP (Community of Practice), a voluntary learning community program, to share the outcomes across the company and enhance operating efficiency. In 2011 alone, 519 CoPs were established and 99 out of the newly established practices were designated as Advanced CoPs according to fair and strict reviews. 9 out of 3,931 knowledge items were rated as highly valuable. These knowledgebased management activities have created financial benefits with a total worth of KRW 156,207 million. We currently review plans to patent the 99 advanced CoPs and the 9 highly valuable knowledge items to capitalize valuable knowledge assets. Best Practice Awarded an ‘Innovation Prize’ in the Knowledge Innovation Award KOGAS has received an ‘Innovation Prize’ in the public sector of the 12th Knowledge Innovation Award in March 2011. Our company has earned high ratings for conducting innovative activities based on our strategic objectives and core competencies, adopting a professional management system, continuously developing core competencies, and promoting field innovations in our organizational culture and systems. Benefits of BnF activities and knowledge-based management practices have returned financial benefits worth KRW 157,745 million in 2011, up 38% from the previous year. Cost reductions account for 12.7% of the benefits while the reduction of major Innovation Programs business expenditures account for the remaining 87.3%. Financial Beneﬁts by Program (Unit : KRW 1 million) 2009 170,344 170,344 157,745 156,207 2010 114,623 2011 109,951 4,672 1,538 BnF CoP Total Financial Beneﬁts by Category (Unit : KRW 1 million) Cost Cut 8,976 7,604 20,033 Reduction of Major Business Expenditures 88,248 105,878 137,712 2009 2010 2011 32 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Upgrading Core Technologies Establishing the R&D KOGAS is set to develop advanced core natural gas technologies by 2020 to accomplish our mid-term and long-term R&D objective. Our company has set up three basic strategies for making selective investments, reinforcing the roles of the Roadmap profit center, and revamping the R&D system to develop our R&D center into one of the world's top-notch energy research institutions. Vision Leading Future Values, World First Class R&D of KOGAS Objective Upgrading Core Natural Gas Technologies Strategy Selection and Concentration Reinforcing Profit Center Role Revamp R&D System · Select priority research areas on selection · Develop profit opportunities · Overhaul research project selection and concentration procedures Priority · Adopt and systematize processes · Overhaul research project evaluation system Areas · Restructure R&D portfolio · Set up R&D system · Expand research project dropout system · Heighten management of commissioned · Continuously expand R&D investments · Commercialize R&D outcomes research projects R&D Sectors The KOGAS R&D Center selects several core technology development projects in 3T·9F (3 Technologies 9 Fields) in consideration of the economic feasibility and strategic suitability of technologies and makes intensive investments in developing such technologies. WT GT CT （World （Growth （Core Technology） Technology） Technology） Technologies requiring global leaderships Green Technology Gas Facility Technologies 1. LNG Plant 4. GTL Plant 7. Pipeline stability 2. Floating Offshore Plant 5. New and Renewable Energies 8. Higher facility efficiency 3. DME Technology 6. Unconventional Energy Technologies 9. Facility maintenance techniques Promoting R&D The KOGAS R&D Center was staffed by 78 research professionals as of the end of 2011 and invested KRW 42.1 billion in R&D projects. In response to the strong demands for renovating and strengthening our R&D functions in line with new business environments, KOGAS plans to raise our R&D investments to 4% of total revenue, approximately KRW 96.4 billion in 2015. R&D Center Organizational Chart R&D Staff and Investment R&D Staff (Person) Center Chief 78 R&D Investment （KRW 100 million） Research Planning Team 77 Technology 75 Commercialization Team 421 Research Support Team 383 347 New Energy Facility Subsidiary Technology Engineering Technology LNG Technology Research Center Research Center Research Center Research Center 2009 2010 2011 33 Economic Performance Upgrading Core Technologies R&D Results The KOGAS R&D Center has achieved significant technological advances in LNG storage tanks, LNG warehouse, DME technologies, the IP (Intelligent Pig) sector, the gas field, and new energy technologies in 2011. Our company has also participated in state-sponsored research projects and received KRW 7,820 million in state financings to conduct crucial research projects for the nation’s economy. We have also obtained 21 patents and official certifications for 8 programs, which helped expand our intellectual property assets. Major Technological Advances in 2011 Research Areas Key Technological Key Technological Advances Advances · Developed 270,000㎘ LNG storage tank technologies R&D on LNG Tank/Warehouse · Developed and patented new LNG liquefaction process technologies R&D in DME · Developed basic designs for commercial KOGAS DME plant R&D in IP · Secured and commercialized intelligent pig technologies · Completed CBM exploration drilling in the Mongolian project R&D in Gas Field · Conducted a state research project on shale/tight gas field developments · Researched the development and application of hydrogen station control system programs R&D in New Energy Technology · Developed footholds for fuel cell businesses through the household fuel cell monitoring project · Developed biogas purification device technologies Governmental R&D Subsidies Received for Intellectual Property Acquisitions Industrial-University Cooperation (Unit : KRW 10 million) (Unit : Case) Intellectual Property 2009 2010 2011 782.1 Pending 37 17 32 Patent 534.6 546.2 Registered 21 19 21 Pending 3 5 8 Program Registered 3 11 8 Technology Transfer 3 Total 67 52 69 2009 2010 2011 Best Practice Development of the World’s Largest LNG Storage Tank KOGAS developed the technology for building the world's largest 270,000㎘ LNG storage tank on March 21, 2011. The newly developed LNG tank can be installed at LNG terminals and liquefaction plants and features a 35% larger capacity than existing 200,000㎘ storage tanks: this makes it possible to reduce construction costs by KRW 23.5 billion (15%) per tank. This larger capacity will also help streamline operating and maintenance expenditures. We are currently working on the final designs to apply this new technology to the construction of the No. 10, 11, and 12 tanks in Samcheok LNG Terminal starting July 2011. We expect this technology to reduce building costs by about KRW 70.5 billion compared to existing storage tanks and also expand their capacity by 210,000㎘. 34 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Major Economic Performance Domestic Business Natural Gas Trading LNG Procurements Natural Gas Sales （Unit : 1,000 tons) （Unit : 1,000 tons) 33,974 33,570 31,816 31,202 23,802 24,644 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Gas Infrastructure Development LNG Storage Gas Distribution Pipeline （Unit : ㎞） Storage Rate（%） Storage Capacity（10,000 ㎘） 3,022 11.3 11.3 10 832 2,879 712 612 2,777 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Overseas Business Overseas Resource Development Secured Reserves Self Sufﬁciency （ Unit : 10,000 ton） Self Sufficiency Rate（%） 2011 13,347 Self Sufficiency Reserves（10,000 ton） 2011 122 3.6 2010 10,420 2010 74 2.5 2009 6,500 2009 35 1.5 Overseas Projects Dividend Incomes from Overseas Projects Total Investments （Unit : USD 1 million） （Unit : USD 1 million） 2011 134 2011 1,906 2010 97 2010 449 2009 86 2009 100 35 Economic Performance Major Economic Performance Finances Major Economic Performance Unit 2009 2010 2011 Revenue KRW 100 million 193,918 227,405 284,937 Operating Profit KRW 100 million 7,940 9,701 10,182 Debt Ratio % 63.4 52.0 55.7 AAA (Domestic) AAA (Domestic) AAA (Domestic) Credit Rating A2 (Moody’s) A1 (Moody’s) A1 (Moody’s) ※ The 2009 data is subject to the K-GAAP Financial Reporting Standards while the 2010 and 2011 data was compiled pursuant to the K-IFRS Consolidated Reporting Standards. Key Financial Indicators Category Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Current Ratio (%) 132 138 147 Safety Debt Ratio (%) 344 288 348 Interest Coverage (Ratio) 1.2 1.5 1.4 Return on Assets (%) 1.0 0.9 0.5 Profitability Return on Equity (%) 4.6 3.6 2.2 Operating Margin (%) 4.1 4.3 3.6 Revenue Growth (%) △ 16.3 25.3 Tangible Asset Growth (%) 23.5 6.6 7.7 Growth Potentials Operating Profit Growth (%) 24.9 5.0 Total Asset Growth (%) 4.5 4.9 19.9 Distribution of (Unit: KRW 100 million) Economic Benefits Revenue Wages and Benefits Donations 284,937 for Associates 145 684 Commission Payments Taxes 3,035 Customer 229 Community Associates Interest Payments Dividends Government 7,238 559 Business Partners Creditors Shareholders 36 _ Environmental Performance Investment in GHG Emission Reductions First in the Energy Industry Engaged in the Carbon Participated in Biodiversity Environmental Projects by Building New to Obtain ISO 50001 Disclosure Project Protection Initiatives Renewable Energy Facility Certification KRW 27.2 billion 470 tCO₂eq KOGAS invested in Mexico's Manzanillo LNG terminal project as a constructor and the operator, and I am in charge of managing the safety and health of the project site and workers, their training, and work environment on the project site. KOGAS demonstrated good field performance in terms of all the sectors related to environment, safety, and health. The company can also be considered to have fully complied with the regulations. KOGAS is scheduled to operate the facility for 20 years from 2011 to 2031. I expect the company to bring new advances to the safety and health management systems to help reduce accident risks on site during the project period. Representative of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Colima, Mexico_José Daniel Rodríguez Herrera KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Environmental Management System Environmental Clearly aware of the responsibilities and roles for addressing climate change as an energy company, KOGAS works to minimize the environmental impact caused by the construction and operation of natural gas facilities and diminish global Infrastructure climate change. Computerized Environmental Management System KOGAS establishes an integrated environmental management system within the company's intranet in line with ERP (Enterprise Resources Planning). We then use this to control access to data about environmental contaminants and improve the accuracy of data. Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) KOGAS has established an EPE (Environmental Performance Evaluation) system in accordance with domestic and overseas guidelines in December 2007. We manage environmental performance indicators as a tool for sustainable management to enhance the effectiveness of environmental management. Our company also monitors environmental performance indicators through annual evaluations to facilitate the qualitative controls of environmental management performance. Environmental Crisis Management System KOGAS has compiled our 「Ocean Pollution Management Manual」 in December 2007 to cope with maritime disasters and set up an efficient system to handle crises in a fast and efficient manner. Our company also continuously trains our staff and prepares more anti-disaster supplies than legally required as contingencies to minimize the environmental aftermath of such crisis. Environmental Cost KOGAS manages expenditures on environmental programs under four different activity categories contamination prevention, contamination management, stakeholder communication, and regulatory compliances pursuant to our Management environmental spending guidelines. Our company has spent about KRW 27.2 billion won for environmental activities in 2011, about 37% of which was disbursed for preventing and managing air pollution. Annual Environmental Expenditures (Unit : KRW 1 million) 2009 34,694 2010 28,314 3,200 913 33,345 8,551 859 2011 23,135 27,224 22,890 3,484 2,256 920 688 53 Contamination Contamination Stakeholder Regulatory Total Treatment Prevention Communication Compliances 2011 Environmental Expenditure Statement (Unit: KRW 1 million) Activities Contamination Contamination Stakeholder Regulatory Compliance Total Category Treatment Prevention Activities and Restoration Air 203 9,844 10,047 Water 1,392 415 1,807 Waste 70 19 89 Noise and Vibration 0.5 641 641 Soil 3 56 59 Others 588 12,160 920 913 14,581 Total 2,256 23,135 920 913 27,224 39 Environmental Performance Environmental Management Performance Environmental Management Performance Air Pollutant Submerged combustion vaporizers (SMV), gas heaters, cogeneration facilities, boilers, and air conditioners are KOGAS' main air-polluting production and distribution facilities. KOGAS operates these facilities to minimize the emission of contaminants. Management Cogeneration facilities are managed so as not to exceed 75ppm in pollutant density, which is half the domestic emission standard of 150ppm. We also monitor and control NOx density and emissions by using the TMS (Tele-Monitoring System) installed at stacks on a real-time basis. NOx Emissions 14.87 SOx Emissions 12.16 0.372 Unit : kg/1,000 tons 9.54 Unit : kg/1,000 tons 0.245 0.238 499,111 Unit : kg Unit : kg 379,612 9,177 8,216 235,175 7,438 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 CO Emissions 6,362 Dust Emissions 5,901 0.123 5,433 0.101 Unit : kg/1,000 tons Unit : kg/1,000 tons 0.082 Unit : kg 213,578 Unit : kg 169,521 4,135 145,555 3,161 2,017 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Water Pollutant Sewage KOGAS manages sewage through sewage treatment facilities at our waterfront production plants in Pyeongtaek and Management Incheon LNG Terminal before discharging it into seawater. The sewage from Tongyoung Terminal and the valve stations of the Trunk Line Operation Department is sent to local sewage treatment plants for processing. The pollutant concentration of wastewater effluent is controlled so that it does not exceed the legal limit of 20ppm. Wastewater Management As KOGAS' natural gas production processes consume a limited amount of water, they have little impact on water environments. Incheon LNG Terminal operates its own water and waste oil treatment facilities while other plants recycle the water supply for all the processes within their facilities to prevent the discharge of contaminants. The seawater used for LNG vaporizers is discharged into the ocean without any harmful effects after being used for heat exchanges. Water Usage BOD Emissions Unit : kg/1,000 tons Unit : kg （Unit : ㎘） 2011 446,708 2011 201.6 0.006 2010 483,696 2010 111.9 0.004 2009 481,461 2009 253.0 0.010 COD Emissions Unit : kg/1,000 tons Unit : kg SS Emissions Unit : kg/1,000 tons Unit : kg 2011 61.0 0.0018 2011 295.7 0.0088 2010 56.1 0.0018 2010 155.7 0.0050 2009 81.0 0.0032 2009 292.5 0.0116 40 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Control of Hazardous Caustic soda (NaOH) and hydrochloric acid (HCI) are the major hazardous chemicals used in KOGAS' production processes. These substances are applied to control the acidity of the contents in the tanks of submerged combustion vaporizers (SMV), Chemicals which are LNG gasification facilities. We have researched measures to reduce the use of such chemical counteragents for submerged combustion vaporizers. Hazardous Chemical Emissions Proportional Emissions by Category (2011) 12.33 （Unit : %） Unit : kg/1,000 tons 9.16 10.06 Others Unit : kg 0.5 337, 945 Hydrochloric Acid 304,166 10.4 285,808 Caustic Soda 46.2 Heat Medium Liquid 42.9 2009 2010 2011 Waste Management KOGAS applies stricter standards to the management of our waste production than the applicable regulations, and we perform periodical inspections on waste management service providers. Waste Discharges Proportional Emissions by Category (2011) 22.29 （Unit : %） Unit : Ton 14.12 Unit : Ton/1,000 tons 9.09 695,718 Specified 0.05 474,008 224,111 General Construction 99.65 0.30 2009 2010 2011 Biodiversity Aware of the importance of biodiversity in addressing climate change, assuring sustainable energy supplies, and building an ecofriendly society for future generations, we, at KOGAS, apply strict standards to the construction and operation of terminals to Management preserve biodiversity. Our company performs environmental impact assessments to prevent environmental degradations, assesses post-environmental impacts to handle environmental degradations in a timely manner, monitors environmental conditions to manage environmental data, and alleviates the anxieties of local communities as part of our efforts to preserve biodiversity. We are committed to protecting local biodiversities and preventing topographic and ecological damages as much as possible. As KOGAS is expected to become increasingly involved in overseas resource developments, we are monitoring international energy and environmental initiatives to carry out stricter environmental controls than legally stipulated. KOGAS Biodiversity Management System 1. Environmental Impact Assessment 2. Post-Environmental Impact Assessment 3. Environmental Monitoring Perform post-environmental impact assessments Operate environmental monitoring Society/ Natural Living (Monthly·Quarterly) committee Economy Operate environmental watchdog Set up schemes to handle violations of Identify measures to reduce environmental impacts environmental regulations or corporate policies Manage environmental database Select and evaluate measures Report the outcomes of post-environmental Establish the optimal plan impact assessments Communicate with local communities 41 Environmental Performance Environmental Practices Environmental Practices Green Partnerships Supporting Eco Initiatives of Partners Our company periodically inspects the regulatory compliance and environmental management of our partners, based on the environmental management plans on the compliance and implementation of KOGAS' environmental management system. These plans include the handling and storage of wastes and prevention of scattering dust. We also take measures to make necessary corrections and provide technical guides, equipment, training data, and instructions to help our partners enhance their environmental management performance. Green Credit Program Under the Green Credit Program, large corporations provide Contribute to Provide state financing and the nation’s infrastructural support financing and technical support to help SMEs reduce greenhouse greenhouse Government gas emissions and receive a portion of credits for emission cuts in gas reduction return for such support. The program provides a win-win mechanism through which large corporations can reduce carbon emissions Large cost-effectively while SMEs can cut their greenhouse gas emissions CorpoSME ration and raise energy efficiencies through receiving support. At KOGAS, we plan to fulfill our social responsibilities as a public enterprise by cutting greenhouse gas emissions and upholding the growth of Equipment investment technical support SMEs through the Green Credit Program. Obtaining Green Credit Environmental KOGAS commissions a professional education service institution to provide environmental management education to all our associates, helping them improve their environmental management performance by raising awareness of the values of Education Programs environmental protection. Environmental Management Education Curriculums Course Trainee Agency Contents Note · Air pollution regulations Air Environment Professional Air Environment Manager KEPA Legally required · Operation and management of prevention facilities Water Environment · Water pollution regulations Water Environment Manager KEPA Legally required Professional · Operation and management of prevention facilities Hazardous Substance Hazardous Substance Manager KCMA · Hazardous Substance Management Act, etc. Legally required Management Ocean Pollution Prevention Ocean Pollution Prevention MERTI · Ocean pollution management Legally required Manager · ISO 14001 practices Environmental Managers or In-house Training R&D Division · ISO 14001/9001 internal audit program Management Staff · Environmental management accounting and regulations Environmental Managers or External Training KEPA · Environmental preservation Management Staff Environmental Expert Session Entire Staff of Terminal Base KEMCO · EnMS In-house Staff Training · Energy-saving activities Entire Staff of Terminal Base Green Growth Team In-house training Program · Low-carbon green growth · Contaminant-reduction plans In-house Environmental Staff · Environmental regulations and procedures Environmental Managers EHSQ Team In-house training Training · Environmental accounting · Environmental labeling · Cautionary information on bunkering Bunkering Staff Training Bunkering Staff EHSQ Team In-house training · Ocean Pollution Prevention Act, etc. 42 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Aware of the importance of autonomous practices and contributions in preventing global warming, KOGAS actively engages Green Communication in maintaining green communication with other corporations, social partners, and local communities. • Gas Science Museum KOGAS runs the Gas Science Museum at its LNG terminal base to promote the environmental benefits and values of LNG for environmental protection. The museum is one of the major cultural attractions in the region, receiving a cumulative total of 1.2 million visitors. About 100,000 visitors come to visit this museum annually. • Green Bazaar KOGAS participates in a joint green bazaar project, 'Green Life Together', with the Hangang Environmental Agency and Green Company Council. Together, we collect and donate recyclable items to help raise public awareness of the green lifestyle and the importance of energy savings and recycling. • Cultural Heritage Preservation KOGAS inspects the safety of gas facilities, repairs any malfunctioning facilities, and cleans the environments of cultural heritage sites to contribute to the preservation of local heritage and enhance its reputation as a community-friendly corporation. • Beach Cleaning Day We collect garbage and trash on beaches and roadways along our LNG terminal bases to help protect the clean and beautiful environments on Beach Cleaning Day. Best Practice The New Green Headquarters Project KOGAS plans to build a new head office building as we relocate our headquarters to Daegu. This new building is designed to reduce about 2,700 tons of greenhouse gas emissions by satisfying the requirements of Building Energy Efficiency Level 1, enabling an energy savings of over 50% compared to regular office buildings (approximately KRW 1.1 billion/year). It will also be considered Top Eco-Friendly Construction Grade, Intelligent Construction Level 1 to minimize the building maintenance costs, and Preliminary Certificate for Top High-Speed Information Communication Grade. The building is also designed to use renewable energy sources (solar power, geothermal heat) for all its interior lighting, meeting the company's reputation as an eco-friendly energy company. 43 Environmental Performance Strategic Green Growth Strategic Green Growth Green Growth KOGAS has established green growth strategies as Korea's leading eco-friendly energy company to actively engage in the government's ‘Low-Carbon Green Growth’ drive. This is because we believe that the green growth strategy is not an option Strategy but a requirement for our company's survival and sustainable growth. Under the vision of becoming a ‘sustainable green energy enterprise’, KOGAS is pushing forward 7 missions and 52 action plans in three categories: ‘addressing climate change’, ‘saving energy’ and ‘securing green growth engines’. VISION Sustainable Green Energy Enterprise Objectives 1. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy 2. Create new growth engines by commercializing 3. Increase reputation as a green energy enterprise consumption by 2014 as targeted green technologies Key Missions [7 Missions in 3 Categories] 1. Integrate the controls of GHG emissions Addressing Climate Change 2. Strengthen activities and networks in addressing climate change Compliance with Regulations 3. Raise the associate’s awareness of eco-friendly practices 4. Realize low-cost green management practices through saving energy conservation Saving Energy Cost Reductions 5. Apply green practices and technologies to actual operating locations Securing Green Growth 6. Research and develop green technologies Creating Opportunities Engines 7. Commercialize green technologies Green Growth KOGAS' green growth strategies are determined and implemented through a two-step deliberation process. The Green Growth Execution Council, which consists of the directors of the related departments in charge, reviews the agenda on the Organization green growth initiative. Afterward, the Green Growth Committee comprised of executives sets up the final strategic plans and deliberates on key issues in addressing climate change. · Chairman : Vice President Green Growth · Commissioner : LNG Terminal Division Director, Trunk Line Division Director, Support Division Director, R&D Division Committee Director, Resources Development Division Director, Resources Business Division Director, Corporate Planning Division Director, Management Strategy General Manager · Administrator : Team Manager of Green Growth Team · Council Chairman : Management Strategy General Manager Green Growth · Council Member : General and Team Manager of departments and teams related to green growth business Execution Council · Administrator : Senior Manager of Green Growth Team 44 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Addressing Climate Change Low-Carbon Natural As natural gas emits less carbon and air pollutants than other fossil fuels, it will be an effective clean energy source in bridging the transformation into renewable energy-dependent environments. The demands for natural gas are expected to Gas Energy further increase as the Korean government pushes for low-carbon green growth drives in line with global efforts to address climate change. KOGAS will continue to fulfill its responsibilities as a clean energy provider. Establishing the GHG KOGAS has been working to identify direct and indirect greenhouse gas sources within our operations. We also assess the respective emissions to secure a footing for further efforts to reduce GHG emissions by clearly tracking the GHG data. Our Inventory Control company also developed and applied a GHG inventory guideline to facilitate the efficient control of GHG emissions. System In addition to KOGAS' GHG inventory controls, we plan to build an IT system to manage GHG gas emissions and energy consumption, as well as reduce the emissions more effectively and contribute to the global initiatives to stop climate change. GHG & Energy KOGAS submitted a GHG & Energy Statement for the years between 2007 and 2011 and was assigned a 2012 GHG reduction target from the government in accordance with the 'Guidelines for GHG & Energy Management', one of the Management government's key policies for the low-carbon green growth initiative. KOGAS has compiled these reduction plans from our Guidelines divisions and submitted a new plan to the government in December 2011. We have been executing the plan as scheduled to achieve our energy reduction targets. The guideline program is designed to assign GHG and fossil fuel consumption reduction targets to corporations that cause large GHG emissions or consume a lot of energy. Performance assessments are then used to manage and support such corporations. The government sets GHG and energy consumption reduction targets for these companies, and then uses incentives and penalties (instructions, fines, etc.) to help them accomplish these goals. Guidelines for GHG & Energy Management Announce the designated Submit statements corporations (Late March) (Late June) Determine reduction Select corporations to targets be managed (Late September) (Late April) ents shall be verified by in nces and statem depend erforma ent ag duction p enc Assign reduction Re ies . targets to divisions (Late October) Evaluate and order corrections Submit Report action plans performance (Late December) (Late March) 45 Environmental Performance Addressing Climate Change Natural Gas Incentives KOGAS offers incentive grants to promote the use of eco-friendly natural gas to encourage industries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Categorizing the incentive program into those for industrial use and cogeneration use, we provide a variety of subsidies, installation incentives, and design incentives to reduce heavy cost burdens for the initial installations of natural gas facilities. The incentive program leads many companies to replace Bunker C Oil which has high amount of pollutants with natural gas to fuel their operations and build eco-friendlier systems. We also promote cogeneration systems to allow corporations to reduce their energy consumption through efficient energy use and improve efficiency in the country’s energy network. We have granted KRW 4,842 million in 2011, up 70% from a year earlier. Carbon Disclosure KOGAS has been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2008. Our company provides accurate KOGAS data Project to financial institutions and investors across the world to help them clearly assess the investment risks and opportunities related to climate change through the data disclosure project. The project's ultimate goal is to help minimize the relevant investment risks. GHG Emissions In 2011, KOGAS has emitted a total of 622,750tCO₂eq in greenhouse gases, 305,215tCO₂eq directly and 317,535tCO₂eq indirectly, up 18.6% from the previous year. The emission per unit of natural gas sales stood at 18.6 (tCO₂eq/1,000 tons), up about 1.8 (tCO₂eq/1,000 tons) from a year earlier. Category 2009 2010 2011 Natural Gas Sales (1,000 tons) 24,644 31,202 33,570 Direct GHG 144,406 232,164 305,215 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Indirect GHG 245,889 292,730 317,535 (tCO₂eq) Total 390,295 524,894 622,750 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Unit (tCO₂eq/1,000 tons) 15.8 16.8 18.6 *The GHG emission data specified above may differ from the data released by GIR (Greenhouse Gas Inventory & Research Center of Korea) due to the difference in rounding methods. Best Practice The Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Earns a Carbon Emission Certificate KOGAS’ Pyeongtaek Terminal Division has obtained the gas industry's first Carbon Emission Certificate. The certificate program calculates the carbon emissions generated from the entire production and service processes, and then affixes labels with this carbon data to products. The certificate program aims to promote lowcarbon production and consumption practices as part of the efforts to address climate change. KOGAS is set to expand the certificate program to other operations to spearhead the industrial efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 46 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Efficient Use of Energy Energy Saving As KOGAS' greenhouse gas emissions are directly related to the energy input into our production process, our company runs an Energy Saving Committee to promote the efficient use of energy across our operations. We set enterprise-wide Committee energy saving targets and assign specific goals to our 14 operating locations on an annual basis. The Green Growth Team, which is in charge of managing energy consumption, regularly analyzes and assesses energy consumption data and encourages the company's associates to conserve more energy by granting prizes to energy-efficient operations. Establishing the Energy KOGAS was the first in the domestic gas industry to set up a pilot energy management system (EnMS) at the Incheon Terminal Division in 2011. We did this in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and establish an energy Management System management structure. Our company is ready to gradually expand the coverage of EnMS over the entire organization by 2014 in accordance with our mid-term management blueprint to conserve more energy. Energy Management System ISO 50001 Standard 1. Management Responsibilities 2. Energy Management Planning · Management Determination · Energy Policy P · Energy Data Analysis · Energy Executive Committee · Strategic Planning · Regulatory Requirements and Others · Energy Management Supervisor · Energy Targets and Specific Goals · Energy Management Team 5. Management Review ISO A 50001 D 3. Implementation and Operation · Management Review · Resources, Roles, Responsibilities and Authorities · Eligibility, Training and Awareness 4. Inspection and Evaluation · Purchasing · Energy Monitoring and Assessment · Equipment, Facility and Process Management · Management of Monitoring and Assessment Devices · Application of Energy-conscious Design · Evaluation and Inspection of Compliance C · Energy Management Project · Performance Management · Management of Outsourced Energy Services · Corrective and Preventive Measures on Non· Communication compliance · Documentation · Internal Audit · Record Management Adopting Green KOGAS is adopting new eco-friendly facilities and systems to enhance its energy efficiency. We invested KRW 732 million in installing renewable energy facilities at our 6 regional offices in 2011 alone to produce 115.2kW of electricity. As of March Facilities 2012, the newly installed facilities generated 2,500kWh of electricity, which amounted to the greenhouse gas emissions of 470tCO₂eq on an annual basis. We also plan to build small-scale wind power generators, develop hydrogen fuel cell technologies, and install thermal energy-based air conditioners at our production facilities to conserve more energy and further increase our energy efficiency. Renewable Energy Facility Installations in 2011 Location Type Capacity (kW) Investment (KRW 1,000) Power Generation (kWh) Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Sunlight 3.0 21,360 Tongyoung Terminal Division Sunlight 27.0 176,000 4,188 Gyeongbuk District Division Sunlight 0.5 6,279 96 Solar Heat 4.6 42,075 Gangwon District Division Sunlight 30.0 204,067 12,900 Jeonnam District Division Sunlight 0.1 6,623 Solar Heat 0.01 4,110 Gyeongin District Division Sunlight 50.0 271,067 2,500 * Power generation data was compiled as of March 2012. 47 Environmental Performance Efficient Use of Energy Reducing Energy KOGAS procures residual heat from heat producers neighboring its distribution stations to reduce fuel consumption for gas heaters and conserve energy usage for the transport of materials and products. Having adopted this approach, our Consumption for company's Joongdong station has cut greenhouse gas emissions by 15% from a year earlier. KOGAS also operates Transport and Travel commuter shuttle buses (6 for head office, 17 for regional offices) and an alternating driving day program to encourage our associates to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions caused by their commuting and business travel. We have also designated November 11 as 'Car-Free Day' to encourage commuters to use public transit services. Energy Consumption In 2011, KOGAS has consumed 12,129TJ of energy, 6,000TJ directly and 6,129TJ indirectly, up 18.9% on a yearto-year basis. Our company also consumed 0.361 (TJ/1,000 tons) of energy for each unit of natural gas sales, up 0.034(TJ/1,000 tons) from a year earlier. Category 2009 2010 2011 Natural Gas Sales (1,000 tons) 24,666 31,202 33,570 Direct Energy 2,835 4,562 6,000 Energy Consumption (TJ) Indirect Energy 4,732 5,636 6,129 Total 7,567 10,198 12,129 Energy Consumption per Unit (TJ/1,000 tons) 0.307 0.327 0.361 * The energy consumption data specified above may differ from the data released by GIR (Greenhouse Gas Inventory & Research Center of Korea) due to the difference in rounding methods. Best Practice The Incheon Terminal Division is ISO 50001 Certified for its Energy Management System KOGAS’ Incheon Terminal Division has obtained ISO 50001 certification for its energy management system from the Korea Energy Management Corporation on December 28, 2011. This energy management system is a new energy management paradigm designed to enhance energy efficiency, and it is rapidly gaining popularity in the U.S. and Europe. It was officially registered and proclaimed as a new international standard (ISO 50001) in June 2011. The Incheon Terminal Division has standardized its energy management processes and enhanced the energy efficiency in processing and facility operations by conducting PDCA (Plan-DoCheck-Act) programs to make use of energy for facility operations more efficiently. Based on such efforts, The Incheon Terminal Division has established and been operating the energy management system pursuant to international standards and became the first among domestic public enterprises and energy corporations to have its system officially certified. This certified system will be a great role model for KOGAS' initiative as we expand our overall energy management system. We expect this system to develop into a wellstructured management scheme to help promote eco-friendly growth. 48 _ Social Performance 경제 Executives and Employees The General Topped the Public Social Contribution Industrial Accidents in Transparency Survey of Enterprise Customer Mileage 2011 the Anti-corruption & Satisfaction Survey Civil Rights Commission 2,947persons Ranked 12 notches higher from the previous year For 5 consecutive years Up 86.3% from the previous year 0 case It has been five years since KOGAS started sponsoring East Timor's Youth Soccer Team. When KOGAS disclosed its sponsorship plan, East Timor had just ended the civil war that severely devastated the country. The company's support has been a great aid for the young, barefooted soccer players of East Timor. KOGAS currently provides us with accommodations, meals, and practice grounds during our training trip in Korea and also grants soccer supplies to our team. The trips to Korea have been particularly valuable experiences for our players. I deeply appreciate KOGAS' sponsorship and try to tell others about such contributions because the company doesn't seem to advertise this sponsorship program much. I hope that our partnership continues for a long time and that the company will also pay attention to the poor educational environment in East Timor in the future. Head Coach of East Timor Youth Soccer Team _Kim Shin-hwan KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Fair and Transparent Management Transparent Initiatives We at KOGAS establish and execute four ethical management strategies under our ethical vision of becoming a 'Clean Management System KOGAS', a socially accountable enterprise based on transparent management. We also periodically examine the strategic progress and update our strategic initiatives. KOGAS Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers Deﬁnition of Ethical ‘Clean KOGAS’ complies with transparent and environmental management practices and fulfills social responsibilities Management as a global energy enterprise in pursuit of customer trust and sustainable growth. Ethics Vision ‘Clean KOGAS’ fulfills its social responsibilities through transparent and fair management. Upgrading the Ethical Reinforcing the Monitoring Heightening Anti-corruption Establishing a Foothold for Management System and Feedback System Controls Social Accountability 4 Key Initiatives for Enhance associates’ Establish a constant monitoring Establish an anti-corruption Promote voluntary practices Ethical Management system on sites compliance with ethics codes system to check ethical Reinforce awareness and practices Develop and manage Reinforce partnerships with execution of ethical practices KOGAS ethics performance Business partners by assuming assessment indicators more social responsibilities Compliance with Number of regulatory Participation Organizational transparency ethics codes violation reports in Cheongyeon Fund Ethical Management Compliance with data ‘Partnership Ethics Camp’ Community service Performance Satisfaction with contracts disclosure duration rules with customers hours per associate Indicators (KPI) Satisfaction with online training Implementing Organization The External Cooperation Team is in charge of the company's ethical management, supervising the establishment and revision of ethics codes and the establishment and operation of our ethical management practice programs. This team also periodically monitors the progress to enhance its executions and ethical standards as well. Based on the close collaborations with the Executive Committee, Office of the Auditor, and field organizations, the team acts as KOGAS' ethical management hub to improve the company's ethical management practices and standards. · Setting up Ethical Management Orientations after a Discussion with the Executive Committee · The CEO: Determines the directions for ethical · Ethical Management Education and Supports management and spearheads practices · Monitoring Ethical Management Practices and Feedbacks Determining the Directions for Ethical Management Operating Locations Executive Committee Consultation External Support Practice Committee at Headquarters (Chaired by the CEO） Cooperation Ethics Practice Leader · Establishing an Enterprise-wide Team Ethical Management System Ethics Officer Cooperation Office of the Auditor（prevents corruption/ex-post audit） PR Team （public relations through corporate newsletters and mass media） External Cooperation Team (operates management information disclosure program) Accounting & Tax Affairs Team （operates transparent internal control system) 51 Social Performance Fair and Transparent Management Strengthening Reinforcing Anti-corruption and Governance Innovation Taskforce KOGAS sets up and operates the Anti-corruption Transparency Committee as part of our efforts to prevent corruption and Anti-corruption build transparent organizational cultures. Under this committee, the Transparency Action Committee and field subcommittees Practices are established to promote ethical management practices. Chairman : Standing Auditor Anti-corruption Transparency Committee Commissioners : Directors and managers Roles : Determine key policies regarding ethical and reciprocal management Chairman : Chief Auditor Transparency Action Committee Commissioners : Managers of teams in charge Roles : Develop policy plans and identify areas requiring improvements Chairman : Field Operating Director Field Transparency Subcommittees Commissioners : Team managers Roles : Establish and execute transparency plans for field offices Major Performance of Anti-corruption Transparency Committee in 2011 Category Descriptions Adopting HR Verification Program · Prevent the promotion or transfer of low-integrity associates to key positions · Establish and execute 112 action plans to prevent corruption and upgrade system practices Accounting : 22 plans including the management of vehicle sales Renovating High Risk Areas Contracting : 22 plans including the receipt of specification statements for bidding Construction : 68 plans including the compensations to workers · Disclosing Personnel : President → All executives Expanding Disclosures of Discretionary Expenditures · Disclosure Method : Annual disclosure of total amount → Monthly disclosure of specific expense items · Purpose of Assessment : Enhance the transparency of high-ranking officers and encourage Transparency Assessment of High-ranking Officers them to spearhead transparent practices · Assessment Subjects : Ethical compliance of high-ranking officers · Purpose : Prevent illegal accumulation of wealth and ensure fair operating practices Executing Voluntary Property Registration Program · Subjects : Directors and managers at Officer Level 1 or higher · Property Registration : Properties of officer and his/her spouse (End of March) · Establish internal standards to assess transparent practices Others · Include ethics questions in the Level 3 promotion test · Revamp subcontracting systems to raise transparency in construction practices Ethical Education for Associates KOGAS provides ethical education sessions for all associates every year. Our company aims to educate them about the negative impact of corruption and train them to appropriately address such corruption to better cope with ethical dilemmas and enhance overall ethical standards. Ethical Education in 2011 (Unit : person) 2009 2,733 2,711 2,700 2010 2,680 2,622 2011 2,672 2,600 KOGAS Ethical Management Education Online Ethics (Code of Conduct) Education E-Clean Ethical Education 커트라인 52 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Clean Management External Independent Anti-corruption Reporting Center In addition to our internal anti-corruption reporting center, Practices Cheongeumgo, KOGAS is the first among public enterprises to run an external independent reporting center to protect whistle-blowers and corruption reporting. Since an outside agency runs the reporting center, the whistle-blower’s privacy is completely protected. We have received 6 reports over unfair practices of construction contractors in 2011 and taken disciplinary actions on those cases. We have also raised the ceiling of rewards for reporting from KRW 200 million to KRW 1 billion and established stricter disciplinary systems to encourage insiders to report more corruption and fraud and prevent such occurrences. Reciprocal Management Ethics Camp with Customers KOGAS executes a special ethical management education program every year to raise the ethical awareness of our customers and partners and build a foothold for anti-corruption reciprocal management practices. We have held 4 ethical education camps in construction, piping maintenance, contracting, and facility maintenance in 2011. Based on such efforts, we are reinforcing our leadership in ethical management as a public enterprise and promoting ethical management practices among our partners. Transparency Vows of Associates KOGAS has all our executives and employees take transparency vows and execute written pledges to raise their awareness of clean management practices and expand transparency in the company's system as a clean energy provider. We also hold rallies to show our resolve to lead the efforts to eliminate corrupt practices and build a clean and fair society, as well as carry out joint campaigns with private organizations to promote the ethical practices. Best Practice Rated ‘Good’ in the Public Institution Transparency Survey 2009 (Unit: point) KOGAS ranked 3rd in the 'Public Institution Transparency Survey' 2010 performed by the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission to 2011 enhance the nation's transparency by building cleaner and more 9.24 9.14 9.36 transparent public sectors in 2011, compared to our rank as 9.05 8.89 8.71 8.21 15th in 2010. We have earned high ratings for our continuous anti-corruption initiatives such as our Anti-corruption Taskforce. We will continue our pursuit for internal improvements to further General External Internal upgrade KOGAS’ transparency. * Internal transparency survey has not been performed until 2009. 53 Social Performance Safe Work Environments and Healthy Associates Safe Work Environments and Healthy Associates Operation of the EHSQ EHSQ Operation System KOGAS manages safety, health and the environment on an integrated basis through our EHSQ (Environment, Healthy, Safety System & Quality) System. Since adopting this system in 1997, KOGAS has been making continuous efforts to develop it into an integrated management system. We are also continuing to upgrade the system through the P-D-C-A cycle. PLAN DO CHECK ADJUST Analyze gaps, determine Develop and execute Audit EHSQ Fulfill expectations priorities, and assign human and documents (procedures) financial resources Continuously improve activities and assess performance Establishing the Occupational Health Management System KOGAS started operating a newly established occupational health management system in September 2011. This system covers the safety control area including personal protection gear, material safety data sheets (MSDS), and health exposure assessments and the health management area including the management and reservation of medical examinations, surveys, and management of patients. We aim to maintain comfortable work environments and ensure compliance with regulations and restrictions such as the Occupational Safety and Health Act by identifying safety and health risks and then controlling and removing these risks by using this system. EHSQ Education & Training in 2011 KOGAS executes medium to long-term roadmaps on EHSQ education and training programs to raise safety awareness among executives and associates and train some associates into EHSQ experts. We have also systematized training data management and launched new in-house training courses in 2011 to improve our operating efficiency. Category Curriculums Trainees Improvement of Safety Practices Gas Fire Control Training 481 Internal Training (3 courses including the EHSQ Field Practice Program) 105 Improvement of Vocational Internal Education (3 courses including the Accident Inspector Program) 71 Competences Short-Term Commissioned Training (16 courses including the ISO 9001 System Practice Program) 43 Safety and Health Expenditures in 2011 KOGAS has spent KRW 219.6 billion in safety and health programs in 2011, up 52% from the previous year. These Expense to Revenue (%) 0.77 Expense (KRW 100 million) expenditures amount to about 0.8% of our total revenue. 0.64 2,196 0.45 It is expected to increase further as our company plans to 1,445 build more terminals and expand overseas projects in the 877.6 coming years. 2009 2010 2011 커트라인 54 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Accident-free Work Promoting Safety Practices Given the commitment of our CEO to promote safety practices throughout our company, KOGAS proactively brings attention Environments to safety practices through the joint efforts between labor and management. Vision and Directions of Safety Practices Vision Develop an Advanced Safety Culture on Proactive Action Raising Safety Awareness Building Consensus Promoting Actions Directions Share the CEO’s determination Voluntary safety activities Reward safety improvements Strengthen ties between management and Promote safety practices Reinforce weighted evaluations workers -Executives take leadership in initiatives Heighten internal communications Strengthen internal competences Establishing Proactive Safety Cultures on Sites Field Cooperation Activities Voluntary between Leadership Continuous Customized for engagement labor and of managers implementation operations management Disaster Management System KOGAS operates a 24-hour monitoring system over gas facilities at the headquarter-based central control room, 8 regional control centers, and 3 control rooms at production plants. We also ensure the safety system, run the cooperation network with related institutions, prepare case-by-case contingency manuals, perform regular emergency drills to promptly handle disasters, and maintain a fast and systematic disaster control program. We have held 258 disaster control training sessions, including 9 in-house contingency drills and 28 joint training sessions with related institutions, in 2011 to test our company's competency in disaster control and check the cooperation network with affiliates. Risk Factors Management KOGAS identifies risk factors in the construction, expansion, or alteration of gas facilities and work processes and develops and applies measures to reduce or remove such risks through safety assessments. Using the work safety analysis data accumulated over more than 10 years, we have built a risk factor inventory system to communicate risk data with associates and determine priority safety control targets for safer work environments. Best Practice The 2011 Safety Culture & Human Factor Survey KOGAS conducts safety culture and human factor surveys Human Factor （Unit: point） every two years to study the safety awareness and behavioral Safety Culture 88.7 standards. Our company applies the survey results to 84.7 78.1 80.4 77.2 79.2 upgrade the systems and programs to ensure safety in work 75.2 74.8 70.1 69.8 environments. We saw large increases in the ratings for both safety culture and human factors, which demonstrated that the continuous execution of the EHSQ system has helped promote 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 these practices and resulted in visible outcomes. · Safety Culture: Determinations to participate in the system through renovating safety awareness/behaviors · Human Factor: Activities to execute specific safety standards 55 Social Performance Safe Work Environments and Healthy Associates Accident Prevention KOGAS conducts safety management practices customized for field operations to ensure an accident and disaster-free work environment, which is the ultimate goal of safety management. The company holds an annual 'Safety Inspection Day' program, which requires the involvement of all associates including the CEO; manages field operations pursuant to approved procedures; and assesses facility safety every five years to remove potential risks in advance and proactively carry out safety practices. Health Management Employee Assistance Program KOGAS has been implementing the EAP (Employee Assistance Program) since 2009 to help associates resolve various problems and alleviate their stress to achieve higher operating efficiency. 82 executives and employees have received a total of 402 counseling sessions in 2011. Expected Beneﬁts from the EAP Service EAP Service Categories Associates Company Marital Stress Resolve personal/work-related Psychological Efficient and systematic and Family troubles management Relations Test → Improve work efficiency Improve individual Compliance with safety and health regulations at Career mentality (happiness) workplaces Childcare Job/ Development Associate – Company Personal Win – Win Reduce stress-induced Psychological stability Life Topics absence and accidents Personal Improve corporate image Personal Financial services Enable motivations Relations → Secure core talent Legal Services Raise organizational Develop the company through Emotional Stop drinking satisfaction improving productivity Problem and smoking Industrial Safety & Health Committee KOGAS has set up the Industrial Safety & Health Committee co-chaired by the representatives of labor and management to discuss and determine the major safety and health agenda as part of our efforts to ensure disaster-free work environments. Each committee has the same number of members, representing employees and employers equally. They hold meetings at least once a quarter at the company's 12 operating locations. Best Practice The Obesity Control Program for Associates KOGAS launched an obesity control program in 2011 to help our associates improve their health and reduce the risks of chronic illnesses as the obesity rate has recently been on the increase among them. We have conducted a joint research on the obesity control program with Bundang Seoul National University Hospital. Their professional medical staff has also offered four educational sessions to the associates. We have also performed periodical obesity assessment programs and provided customized health counseling services to 52 program participants, among whom 41 participants, 79%, have successfully lost their weight. We plan to develop customized programs for small groups, upgrade existing programs and systems, encourage associates to reduce redundancy in dinner parties, and improve the company's cafeteria diet to ensure healthier lifestyles for our executives and employees. 커트라인 56 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Human Resource Management Executives and KOGAS recruits and hires executives and employees in accordance with fair and transparent procedures in compliance with the Labor Standard Act, Equal Employment Act, and other regulations. A total of 2,947 associates were in service as of the Employees end of 2011. The wage for newly employed college graduates amounts to about 234% of the legal minimum wage. We see no gender gap in terms of wages. The number and proportion of female, disabled, and veteran associates are increasing, thanks to KOGAS’ growing gender equality and affirmative action. The employee turnover rate also stood at 1.2%, and the actual rate is estimated at 0.6% in consideration of retirement and resignation upon the completion of term. Forced or child labor is completely prohibited pursuant to the Labor Standard Act and the regulations specified by the International Labour Organization (ILO). (As of December 31, 2011) Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total Employees Persons 2,796 2,862 2,947 Employment Full-time Persons 2,768 2,830 2,914 Type Temporary Persons 28 32 33 Gender Equality Female Associates to Full-time Employees % 7.70 8.80 8.24 Female Managers to Full-time Employees % 0.04 0.03 Socially Disabled Associates to Full-time Employees % 2.28 2.33 2.37 Underprivileged Former Veterans to Full-time Employees % 8.85 8.87 8.79 Turnover Number of Retirees Persons 28 44 35 * Perpetual contract workers belong to full-time associates while temporary associates include only dispatched workers other than interns and short-term contract workers. Open Employment Systematic Employment Program Based on business forecasts, KOGAS establishes systematic employment plans and hires qualified talent through fair and Opportunities transparent evaluations. Our demands for human resources are rising as our company taps into new energy projects and expands business networks at home and abroad. We expand our global talent pool for key projects and attract talented resources with appropriate compensation to enhance efficiency in human resource management. Afﬁrmative Action for Local Talents KOGAS runs an affirmative action program for local talents as part of the effort to provide more socially equitable employment opportunities. We currently hire 20 to 30% of our new employees among applicants from local communities to close the regional gaps and promote performance-based corporate cultures. We have hired 37 local applicants in 2011 alone through our affirmative action program. Hiring High School Graduates KOGAS hires high school graduates to expand job opportunities to the socially underprivileged class and promote competence-based corporate cultures. We also analyze the associate’s operations to identify appropriate areas for them. We’ve also revamped the hiring procedures to attract more applicants and encourage applications from high school graduates. We have hired 20 high school graduates, 20% of our new employment, in both 2010 and 2011. 57 Social Performance Human Resource Management Human Resource Human Resource Development Strategy KOGAS has set up a human resource development system based on our four major competence categories to ensure the Development well-balanced development of organizational and individual competences. Our company is also implementing customized human resource development roadmaps and providing educational programs. Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers · People taking on new challenges and leading the trends Respon· People pursuing to be the top in their respective fields Core Values Trust Change Challenge Role Model sibility · People seeking to demonstrate reliability and succeed in collaborations HRD Missions Providing HRD infrastructures Providing human performance solutions Establishing performance-oriented organizations Reinforcing organizational competitiveness (OD) Strengthening individual competencies (SD) HRD System · Basic Competences · Leadership · Vocational Competences · Global Competences HRD Strategies Strategy-oriented Creating performances Self-initiated Field-oriented HRD Infrastructures Competence-based educational system, e-HRD system, Self-development Planning, Institutional Support for Education and Development Customized Competence Development on Career Development Planning KOGAS provides procedures and tools for our associates to assess their competences and plan their competence development through education and self-motivated learning to offer customized ways to learn and develop competences. Competence Modeling Competence Assessment Self-development Planning Executing Self-development Educational Support Basic Competences Appropriate Self-development Planning Executing Self-development Establishing Infrastructures Competence Level Leadership Competences Career Development Plan Taking Curriculums Educational Resource Management GAP Analysis Vocational Competences Learning Plan on Curriculum CoP Activities, Knowledge Activities Self-Learning Support Program Current Competence Level Global Competences Other Self-development Plans Other Learning Activities Education and Training System Career Development Plan Providing Education Company’s Priority Areas Mentoring of Seniors (Team Managers), Learning Supports Feed Back Providing Curriculums on Associate’s Needs KOGAS provides a variety of curriculums to help our associates change their career tracks. We have run 875 educational courses for 18,665 trainees in 2011 alone. We seek to build organizational practices that will lead our associates to develop their self-development plans on competence assessments and become more educated. We are also increasing our budgetary support to help satisfy our associate's needs for competence development opportunities. An average of 122 hours of educational service was offered for each employee in 2011, up 20 hours from the previous year. Our company was estimated to have spent KRW 2.8 million in education and training for each employee on average. Best Practice KOGAS Wins the Presidential ‘HR Development Award’ at the 2011 National Quality Management Competition KOGAS has won the presidential 'HR Development Award' at the 37th National Quality Management Competition in December 2011. This prize is the nation’s most prestigious award in human resource development, which is usually granted to corporations that show great performance in helping develop the lifetime competences of associates and improve organizational competences. KOGAS was nominated as the final prize winner because the company has earned high ratings in leadership, infrastructure, human resource management, human resource development, and business performance according to document and field surveys. 커트라인 58 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Fair Personnel Competence and Performance-based Personnel Management KOGAS has established a virtuous cycle of evaluations and compensations based on our fair performance evaluation system. Management Our company's basic objective in human resource management is to set up a competence and performance-based personnel management system to address the loopholes in promotion programs. We are working to encourage low-performance associates to improve their performance by implementing a gradual renovation management program and hire talent through public recruiting programs and special appointments to induce healthy competition among associates. Enhancing Fairness in the Promotion System KOGAS heightens fairness in promotion to allow our associates to better accept personnel management decisions. Candidates are examined by multiple evaluators to test their qualifications while organizational and personal performance is assessed at the same time to more clearly identify the better candidates. We have also raised the transparency in evaluation processes by disciplining the candidates involved in unfair behaviors related to promotion, applying strict standards to the nomination and management of evaluators, and reinforcing the qualification reviews of auditors. Personnel Management Satisfaction on the Rise for 4 Consecutive Years KOGAS conducts annual personnel management satisfaction surveys of our associates to evaluate our personnel management and operations and identify measures to continuously improve the personnel management system. The overall satisfaction was estimated at 58.6 in 2011, up 3.4 points (6.15%) from the previous year. The category of promotion particularly saw a large advance of 5.9% thanks to our company's efforts to improve fairness in the promotion programs. （Unit : point） 2010 66.0 68.0 2011 61.3 54.8 57.6 56.0 59.0 56.8 55.2 58.6 51.1 53.7 53.5 47.6 Overall Employment Placement Evaluation Promotion Reward Discipline Satisfaction Core Value-led KOGAS has been building a healthy and energetic corporate culture through the proactive engagement of our executives and employees based on our priorities on communication and harmony. Based on our core values 'Trust, Change, Organizational Culture Challenge, Responsibility', our company is conducting a variety of core value-inspired activities to unify our associates. Activities to Build the Organizational Culture in 2011 Category Description Core value team-building workshop Internalizing Visions and Core Values Assess the internalization of core values Provide online education on core values Conversations between the CEO and employees Promoting Communication Hold strategic discussions, executive meetings, and vision workshops and operate intranet Management executive’s visits to overseas operations and countries in which the company runs major projects Enhance organizational unity through divisional or team sports competitions Building a Culture of Harmony and Trust Hold a meeting between workers and executives on ‘Labor Management Cooperation Day’ Establishing a Global Overseas Project Information Conference Organizational Culture Provide classes on foreign cultures and global etiquette 59 Social Performance Human Resource Management Welfare Program Welfare System KOGAS has established an advanced welfare program and helps our associates plan promising futures under our strategic mission of 'Planning Career and Life for a Healthy Future'. Performance in 2011 Help Balance Career and Family through Advanced Welfare Programs Childbirth Promotion : Offer childbirth grants and subsidize infertility treatments (KRW 110 million) Maternal Benefits : Medical leave, maternity leave, paternity leave Healthy Childcare : Corporate nursery, tuition subsidies for middle and high school students, vacation camps for children Life Family Nursing : Family nursing leave available to care for family patients Counseling : Counseling program for family issues and work stress (EAP) Vacation Benefits : Operate training and resort facilities and grant optional welfare benefits Flexible Shift : Run flexible shifts (from 8 to 10) as a pilot program for applicants Ensure Healthy Work Environments for Stronger Unity Healthy Health Management : Operate medical checkup programs, intensive care program, and obesity and smoking control program Work Hobby Club : Support pastime and communication activities among associates (126 clubs) Sports Event : Hold sports events pursuant to the National Sports Promotion Act (twice a year) Improve the Quality of Post-Retirement Life through a Better Retirement Program Healthy Provide education on post-retirement planning to help retirees better plan their retirement Future Launch retirement pension funds to ensure stable retirement (December 2011) Building Better Establishing the Labor-Management Relations Committee We have renamed the Labor-Management Cooperation Committee as the Labor-Management Relations Committee in Labor-Management March 2011 and improved its functionality to reinforce risk control and upgrade labor-management relations amid fastRelations changing labor environments. The Time-Off Program was newly adopted in July 2010, and multiple labor unions began to be available as a single corporation in July 2011. Promoting Labor-Management Communication We are operating a variety of conversation channels to induce well-balanced opinions and enable effective coordination. We have worked to promote the bilateral, top-down, and bottom-up communication and enhance leadership and followship through the CEO's direct communications in 2011. Bilateral Communication Top-Down Communication Bottom-Up Communication CEO Communication Labor-Management meetings Briefings of the CEO, executives, Forums by rank, job type, location, Labor-Management hot line (66 sessions) and managers (98 sessions) and hierarchy (35 sessions) Labor union meetings (21 sessions) Labor-Management conference Labor-Management TFT (54 sessions) Finding Reciprocal Solutions for Labor-Management Agenda Placing top management priority on stable and cooperative labor-management relations, KOGAS and the trade union are committed to building a productive and cooperative partnership. We have launched a retirement pension program with a special labor-management coordination taskforce and taken the necessary measures ourselves as specified by the Board of Audit and Inspection to reinforce our collaborations. 커트라인 60 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report A Partnership for Inclusive Growth Inclusive Growth Inclusive Growth Strategy KOGAS established four strategic missions of strengthening inclusive growth infrastructures, expanding procurements Initiatives from SMEs, promoting collaboration over technology developments, and building fair trade practices, as well as 16 action programs to ensure inclusive growth and reciprocal partnerships with SMEs. We seek to build a sound business ecology in the natural gas industry and enhance the competitiveness of both KOGAS and SMEs. Build a sound business ecology in Korea’s natural gas industry to enhance the competitiveness of KOGAS and SMEs Mission by seeking inclusive growth with SMEs Strategy Promote social investments through inclusive growth initiatives and reciprocal partnerships Strengthening Inclusive Growth Expanding Procurements from Promoting Collaborations on Establishing Reciprocal Cooperation Infrastructures SMEs Technology Developments and Fair Trade Practices Strategic Management's determination on Expand opportunities for SMEs’ Expand technical project bidding Help SMEs enhance competencies inclusive growth direct engagements opportunities for SMEs Heighten cooperation between large Missions Promote the Inclusive Growth Execute public procurement program Establish and operate joint technology corporations and SMEs & Action Committee more effectively development institutions Expand field support to SMEs Expand inclusive growth missions Expand procurements from SMEs Finance technology development Execute fair contracting practices Programs and incentives Expand purchases of technological projects from both private investors Promote reciprocal partnerships and developments and the government inclusive growth cultures Promote technology development projects Expanding Inclusive Growth Promoting Reciprocal Building Trust Strengthening Cooperation Potential Development Mid-Term Set up a new taskforce Promote cooperation on technology Provide customized support by business Support local and overseas joint marketing Operate a reciprocal partnership developments phase Help improve overseas competitiveness to Expand technology transfers and Diversify cooperation systems committee Help SMEs enhance their competences Long-Term Help SMEs become global competitive Expand procurements from SMEs Promote fair trade practices support commercialization Roadmap players Strengthen fair trade practices Operate technology development Help SMEs enhance competitiveness Promote fair trade practices and strengthen committees with SMEs Strengthen fair trade practices collaborations Promote social investments Implementing Organization KOGAS has set up the SME Sponsorship Team as an implementing organization in charge of the inclusive growth scheme. Our company has also established the Inclusive Growth and Reciprocal Partnership Committee in 2011 to provide more systematic support to SMEs. The Inclusive Growth and Reciprocal Partnership Committee Reciprocal Management Committee Chairman: Chief Director of Support Division Commissioner: Directors and general managers of related divisions and departments Reciprocal Management Action Responsibilities: Major inclusive growth policies Committee (headquarters) Chairman: Director of General Affairs Dept. Commissioner: Managers of related departments at head office Responsibilities: Action plans on reciprocal cooperation SME Support Team (Taskforce) Public Procurement Manager 1 team manager and 5 members Reciprocal Management Conference Committee (headquarters, branches) (on sites) Chairman: Director of General Affairs Dept. Composition: Orderer, contractor, Commissioner: Managers of related teams at subcontractor head office and branches Responsibilities: Field reciprocal cooperation Responsibilities: Support public procurements schemes 61 Social Performance A Partnership for Inclusive Growth Transparent and Fair Executing Fair Trade Pacts In December 2011, KOGAS and the Korea Gas Technology Corporation, a KOGAS subsidiary, have formed the 'Inclusive Trade Growth and Fair Trade Pacts' with 54 small and mid-sized partners in the natural gas industry. The agreement procedures and sponsorship criteria of the Fair Trade Commission applied to this pact in consideration of each company's situation. KOGAS ensures full compliance with anti-trust and fair trade regulations. We will make further efforts to promote fair trade practices and raise the awareness of inclusive growth as a public enterprise. Establishing Subcontracting Guidelines KOGAS has set up subcontracting management guidelines specifying the subcontracting payment confirmation program, exclusion of low cost subcontractors (72% or less), stricter inspections on the subcontracting business, and operation of reciprocal cooperation conferences in February 2011 to establish fair trade practices in the construction sector. Our company has also inspected the subcontracting practices in natural gas piping projects across the country and corrected unfair contracts with 89 vendors and subcontractors. Promoting Electronic Bidding KOGAS operates an electronic bidding system to completely prevent fraud and unfair practices that may occur in the course of bidding and contracting. We have computerized the entire post-contracting processes, including invoicing and payments, to ensure a transparent and fair contract execution procedure. We also adopted our 'Fingerprint Verification Tender System' for the electronic bidding procedure in July 2011 to apply stricter identification processes to bidders and prevent fraud, such as the illegal lending of public authentication files and proxy bidding. Reinforcing SMEs’ KOGAS increases our physical and policy support to help SMEs strengthen their self-sustainability and provides aid to technology development to enhance their corporate competitiveness. We also expand opportunities for the direct business Competitiveness engagements of SMEs and implement public purchasing programs to help them attain more self-sustainability. Sponsorships for SMEs in 2011 • Inspect the payments to subcontractors Reinforcing Establish subcontracting management guidelines to protect second and third-tier vendors (February 2011) SMEs’ Self• Provide public purchasing loans for small businesses sustainability • Provide support to human resource development (5 technical guidance services, 3 seminars, 6 training sessions) • Agree to form a KRW 5 billion fund jointly financed by private investors and the government (September 2011) Helping • Establish operating guidelines on SME sponsorship projects (September 2011) SMEs Improve • Help SMEs develop R&D projects and finance development (5 projects, KRW 635 million) Competences • Transfer the technologies of KOGAS (6 companies, 7 technology transfers) • Help protect SMEs’ core technologies (3 companies, deposit 4 core technologies) • Launch the 'Main Contractor Joint Subcontracting Program' to enable SMEs to participate in projects as contractors Expanding • Place split orders on large-scale construction projects and alleviate the eligibility of bidders Procurements • Purchase construction materials directly from vendors for large-scale projects from SMEs • Expand purchasing of SMEs’ new technological developments (40 cases, KRW 2.9 billion in 2010 → 80 cases, KRW 9.3 billion in 2011) • Collect feedback from SMEs Building Surveys of small and mid-sized partners (2 surveys), conferences (3 meetings), field trips (7 companies) Reliable Operate reciprocal cooperation conferences and ethics camps Relations • Systematize the handling of internal and external complaints Operate information systems including Civil Service Center, Suggestion Center, Electronic Procurement System, and Customer Service System 커트라인 62 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Management Creating Customer Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy KOGAS runs CS management practices under our four key strategic orientations enhancing customer satisfaction, Value improving expertise in CS, strengthening management of core services and quality, and maximizing satisfaction with frontline services to realize our CS (Customer Satisfaction) vision of 'KOGAS Pursuing Customer Value for More Happiness'. CS Vision KOGAS Pursuing Customer Values for More Happiness Strategic Strengthening Management of Maximizing Satisfaction with Enhancing Customer Satisfaction Improving Expertise in CS Orientations Core Services and Quality Frontline Services Increase customer satisfaction Upgrade CS organization and Improve customer-oriented Promote the use of VOC Strategic surveys system practices and regulations (Voice of Customer) Missions Expand energy welfare and Run KOGAS CS School Strengthen monitoring on Increase CS activities for major services service implementations customers Establishing Enterprise-wide CS Networks KOGAS is establishing CS service networks throughout our organization with the City Gas Sales Team as the center of the overall network. We are also operating the CS Service Committee with customer commissioners to facilitate direct communication with customers. We began to operate this customer support system in addition to our website-based customer service center in 2011 to improve our frontline customer services. Making Decisions on CS CS Management Organization (City Gas Sales Team) Executive Committee Establishing CS Strategies and Action Plans Supreme Decision-Making Customer Satisfaction Survey Organization CS Implementation Committee Making Decisions on Front Line CS Customer Support System Customer Meetings Customer Customer Service Center on the Website Customer Service Center Working Meetings on Website CS Support Organizations Frontline CS Organizations Field Organizations Services of Development, Resolving customer complaints Promoting Natural Gas Power Generation Sales Team, about the operations and services Establishing Pricing Policy Transportation Business Team, of 8 Regional Headquarters and 2 CS Training IR Team LNG terminal Customer Support System Page Best Practice KOGAS Tops Public Enterprise Customer Satisfaction Survey for 5 Consecutive Years KOGAS earned a 99.0 rating in the 2011 Public Enterprise (Unit: point) Customer Satisfaction Survey, making it the fifth year in a row in 99.2 99.0 98.9 which our company ranked the top. According to the individual 98.7 interviews with 379 customers of KOGAS services including city gas 98.6 suppliers, private power companies, and direct suppliers, KOGAS was highly rated for our efforts to help revitalize the economy of underdeveloped regions and expand public welfare through improving energy welfare and expanding distribution networks into untapped regions. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1 1 1 Excellent Excellent * The grading system replaced the ranking system starting in 2010. 63 Social Performance Customer Satisfaction Management Promoting Heightening Online and Ofﬂine Communication KOGAS has been establishing various communication channels on its customer service frontlines to reinforce customer Communication with communications. We are listening to the voices of customers through the Wednesday Development Conference, Pricing Customers Policy Public Hearing, Customer Meetings, Technical Information Seminar, Wednesday Development Workshop, and Day of Field Operations events. We also listen to the voices from our major clients, including city gas suppliers, electric power companies, and direct suppliers, through a wide variety of direct communication channels. We have held road shows at the client offices in 2011 to identify their needs and find resolutions together. We are monitoring the voices of customers on a real-time basis and improving the statistical and analytic functions over VOCs through promoting customer support system and revamping our web-based customer service center. We aim to strengthen our bilateral communication through advanced IT-based customer management and service systems. Upgrading Customer-oriented Energy Marketing In response to the growing demands for early commencement of natural gas supplies in many newly established industrial complexes and industrial towns, KOGAS has set up new distribution branches to provide natural gas earlier than scheduled. We also built satellite terminals to supply natural gas using tankers for regions where the supplies through pipelines are unavailable. This improves public welfare in underdeveloped regions in terms of energy supplies and contributes to the regional economy. We are expanding incentives on gas-powered cooling facilities and implementing a fixed quantity program for collective energy businesses as part of our customer-oriented marketing initiatives. We have also revamped the pricing program for semiresidential facilities to alleviate their cost burden. The invoicing procedure for natural gas supplies for power generation and the refund procedures of consumption tax on natural gas supplies were revamped and the validity of surety insurance on the industrial buyers of tank truck supplies was shortened to reduce financial burdens on customers and enable us to lower pricings. Enhancing Expertise in CS KOGAS is offering CS education according to the CS Competence Enhancement Roadmap established on priorities through the assessment of the CS competence system. We provided customized education through the 'KOGAS CS School', our special education program to help enhance CS competences, in 2011. We also offer demand forecast training programs to city gas suppliers, our customers, and jointly operate Customer Satisfaction Manager Courses with them to promote the improvement of CS competences for the development of the city gas supply industry. CS Expertise Development Program 2010 : Priority Competences 2011 : Competences Requiring Improvement 2012 : Competences to be Maintained and Reinforced · Customer management skill · Ability to manage changes in CS · Business etiquette · Team leadership · Ability to handle customer complaints · Self-control skill · Mass communication skill · Ability to manage quality issues · Ability to maintain expertise · Ability to improve customer services · Ability to describe products and services · Internal customer mindset · Sharing the CS vision · Ability to establish customer-oriented policies · External customer mindset · CS analysis · Ability to manage the quality of frontline services Our performance in our efforts to improve CS competences Competence Improvement is assessed through the survey on field applications (Unit: point) 2009 71.5 70.6 conducted two months after CS trainees complete their 2010 67.1 66.1 sessions, annual assessment of internal associate's CS 2011 61.3 62.5 competences, and customer oriented index survey. Evaluation of Associate’s Customer Oriented Index 커트라인 CS Competence 64 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Social Contributions Social Contribution Strategies KOGAS executes social contribution strategies to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities and increase our brand value. Strategy Mission Humanitarianism, Sharing, Happy Society Purpose Increasing KOGAS’ brand value Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities Strategies Develop a brand representing KOGAS Expand regionally customized social contributions Promote donations and contributions Onnuri Love Project Onnuri Hope Project Businesses Onnuri Harmony Project Volunteer 5UP Campaign Slogan Clean Energy, Happy World Implementing Organization KOGAS has established the Social Contribution Team to maximize the effects of our social contribution activities. We have also established cooperation networks with local governments and welfare centers to raise our social reliability and expertise in social responsibility programs. KOGAS Onnuri Volunteer Corps Cooperation with the Private Sector Director of Corps Developing Social Trust and Enhancing Expertise in Social Contributions Vice President Thermal Efﬁciency Improvement Project (From 2010 to 2011) Deputy Director Community Chest of Korea, Korea Social Welfare Association Planning and PR Director Clean Zone Project (From 2009 to 2011) Secretary General Corporation Leftovers Love Sharing Community External Cooperation Team Manager Medical Project (From 2009 to 2011) Bundang Seoul National University Hospital, Community Chest of Korea Head Ofﬁce (6 teams) Field Operations(12 teams) Global Fellowship Program (From 2010 to 2011) Graduate school partners (Seoul National University, Korea University, Team Team Team Team 1 Team 2 Team 3 Incheon Sogang University, KDI, HUFS) Pyeongtaek Tongyoung Raon Dasom Hannuri Solseon Michoohole Onnuri Nanoomi Blue Sky Pact (From 2005 to 2011) Team Team Team Daejeon City, Green Union Team 4 Team 5 Team 6 Gyeongin Seoul Gangwon Hope Dream Sinarae Do Dream Gyeongin Aureum Volunteer Corps Bongdari Community Social Contribution Pact (From 2010 to 2011) Tongyoung City (Since 2011), Gimhae City (Since 2010) Team Team Team ChungWest Sea West Sea Honam Love Embracement Pact (From 2010 to 2011) cheong Nanuri Helpers Light Sharing Ministry of Knowledge Economy, 13 local childcare centers Team North Team South Team Hope Village Sponsorship Project (Since 2011) Gyeongsang Gyeongsang Samcheok Trae Dasom Milky Way Korea Energy Foundation Social Contribution We at KOGAS have developed our own social contribution initiative brand, 「Onnuri」, to establish a social contribution model customized for public energy enterprises. 「Onnuri」 is a combination of 'On', which means warmth, and 'Nuri', which means Brand, Onnuri the world. This term carries the meaning of 'making the entire world warm and peaceful.' We are currently running three key initiatives the Onnuri Love Project, Onnuri Hope Project, and Onnuri Harmony Project. Onnuri Love Project Onnuri Hope Project Onnuri Harmony Project To provide more energy welfare For the better future and public For local communities and global to the underprivileged class welfare citizens 65 Social Performance Social Contributions Onnuri Love Project KOGAS carries out thermal efficiency enhancement projects and offers gas utility discounts to help the low income class improve their quality of life and gain more energy sufficiency. • Renovate the heating systems of low income households and welfare facilities Onnuri Thermal (floor heating, insulating wall, replacement of windows) Efﬁciency • Improve the environments of local childcare centers around operating locations (building maintenance and renovations) Enhancement Project • Created 613 jobs and develop 15 social enterprises, providing residential and welfare services in addition to the direct subsidies of KRW 1.9 billion in 2011 Energy Welfare Program • Provide gas utility discounts to low income households, disabled customers, and (over 13,000) welfare facilities for the Low Income Class • Granted subsidies of KRW 33.5 billion in 2011 Onnuri Hope Project KOGAS contributes to a better future and better public welfare through its 'Onnuri Hope Project' in a variety of ways. • Provide rehabilitative assistive devices to disabled children and teenagers suffering from brain lesions (61 patients, KRW 300 million) Medical Execute 「Onnuri R-Bank Pact」 with Bundang Seoul National University Hospital (R-Bank: Deposit facility for customized assistive devices for growing children) • Provide scholarships to low income high school students around operating locations Scholarship Grant tuitions to 183 students at 137 schools (KRW 1.6 million/person, KRW 300 million in total) Cultural Heritage • Preserve cultural heritages around operating locations countrywide Preservation Inspect safety and clean the environment (semiannually / 205 volunteers have worked for 20 national treasure sites across the country) • Has been conducting environmentally responsible programs since 2005 Blue Sky Examine air quality, build bike lanes, and provide environmental education Partners: Daejeon City, Daejeon & South Chungcheong Green Union Traditional Market • Each operating location forms a partnership with nearby traditional markets and holds a Traditional Market Day Event. (monthly) Sponsorship Onnuri Coupon Purchases: KRW 760 million Onnuri Harmony Project KOGAS runs the 'Local Community Relations' projects to build reliable relations with local communities and expand customized support. Our company also pushes for 'International Community Relations' projects to help successfully carry out overseas projects and fulfill our responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. • Rural Town Sponsorship: Each operating location provides customized support to a village under the program • Hope Town Sponsorship: Provides heaters to low income households • Open facilities to the public: Jeongseon Training Center (934 visitors), Gas Science Museum (110,267 visitors), Local Community Gas Training Center (287 visitors) Relations • Love Embracement: Supports 13 local childcare centers across the country in partnership with the subsidiaries of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (facility renovation, cultural programs, educational tools and materials, etc.) • Local Cooperation: Operates local Volunteer Corps and supports nearby facilities in local communities (Incheon Ice-Rink Sponsorship, etc.) • Global Fellowship (Scholarships to students from countries in which KOGAS runs resource development projects) Universities: Seoul National University, Korea University, Sogang University, HUFS, KDI Maximum Grant: KRW 50 million/person, 2 years International Beneficiaries: 5 students (Beneficiaries of 1st Scholarship Program from Russia, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, China, and Nigeria) Community • Sponsorship for Foreign Heart Disease Child Patients Relations Beneficiaries: Child patients with heart disease in developing countries including Vietnam and Uzbekistan Partner: Inje University Paik Hospital • Sponsorship for the East Timor Youth Soccer Team Sponsor training camp expenses including accommodations, meals, ground facilities, and sporting goods 커트라인 66 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Promoting Volunteer 5up Campaign KOGAS runs the Volunteer 5up Campaign to encourage associates to increase their social contribution mileage by over 5% Involvements and every year to promote donations. Donations Social Contribution • Rewards in the electronic database of associate’s social contribution activities Mileage Program • Associated with the internal management evaluation program • Match corporate donations to associates’ contributions for the underprivileged class (55 organizations, 9 individuals) Matching Grant Program Total Donations: KRW 127 million (donated by 62.1% of 2,947 associates) Onnuri Volunteer Corps • Operate 18 local volunteer corps for various monthly community services Social Contribution Day • Joint labor-management community services (quarterly) Associate Participation • Family volunteers, blood donation, book donation, etc. (participated by 4,103 volunteers) Programs Expanding Communication • Distribute 6 Social Contribution Newsletters and Participation * Social Contribution Mileage: Calculated by totaling the volunteer service hours and donations Social Contribution Social Contribution Investment Public Service Reputation (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: point) Performance 145 132 2011 0.289 118 2010 0.274 2009 2009 2010 2011 * Starting 2010 Matching Grant Social Contribution Mileage (Unit: mileage) Unit : KRW 1 million 127 Unit: person 115 2011 20.75 1,829 107 1,628 2010 11.14 1,543 2009 5.46 2009 2010 2011 Purchasing from Social Enterprises Jobs Created through the Thermal Efﬁciency Enhancement (Unit : KRW 1 million) Program (Unit: person) 664 2011 613 235 2010 349 153 2009 2009 2010 2011 * Starting 2010 67 Social Performance Social Contributions Social Contribution Calendar January February March Rice-cake soup Party Clothing Donations for the February 9 Blood Donation Event (Hansol Welfare Center) January 27 Homeless March 18 April May June Agreement Assistive Rehabilitation Device Sponsorship Volunteer Service (Bund ang Seoul Natio nal Unive rsity) April 20 Grant Onnuri Scholarship Veteran’s Hospitals for Suwon Certificates May 19 June 29 July August September Family Saturday ccer (Bethany Village) Volunteer Service East Timor Youth So August 8 Chuseok (Thanksgiving) July 9 Team Sp on so rs hi p Half-Moon-Rice Cake Party September 9 October November December Mobile Meal Service Rice Donations (Suwon Station) October 26 Cultural Program for a Lo (Hansol Welfare Center) Center (Trip to Kidza cal Childcare December 23 nia) November 11 68 _ Appendix Appendix History 2010~ 2011 Discovered a supersized gas field in Mozambique (the world’s second largest discovery in 2011) Topped the Public Enterprise Customer Satisfaction Survey for 5 consecutive years Nominated as Korea’s most admired energy company for 5 consecutive years Won the Presidential Human Resource Development Award in the National Quality Competition 2010 Ranked 4th in the World’s Most Admired Energy Company category by Fortune Selected as an operator of the Akkas gas project in Iraq 2000~ 2009 Acquired an oilfield in Zubair and Badra in Iraq Joined DJSI Korea 2008 Participated in the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan 2007 Declares the 2017 Vision lssued the first Sustainable Management Report 2006 Awarded the Grand Prize in the Enterprise of the Year Category 2004 Received the Environmental Management Award Ranked 1st in customer satisfaction among public corporations 2003 Established agreement of cooperation with Gazprom 2002 Completed construction of nationwide supply pipes 2001 Organized the ‘LNG 13’ Conference Acquired the equity of A-1 Block in Myanmar 1990~ 1999 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange 1997 Completed construction of the Incheon LNG Terminal 1996 Announced a second foundation of KOGAS Established KOLNG(1997), Established KORAS(1999) 1994 Placed a national flag carrier for LNG transport in service 1993 Established Korea Gas Maintenance & Engineering Co., LTD. 1992 Initiated construction of the Incheon LNG Terminal 1991 Established a long-term plan to supply natural gas 1980~ 1988 Established the master plan for the nationwide natural gas distribution 1987 Commenced city gas supply to the Seoul metropolitan area 1987 Commenced terminal and distribution facilities at Pyeongtaek 1986 Commenced natural gas distribution to power plant operations 70 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Organization Chart, Affiliates & Subsidiaries Organization Chart 6 Division, 18 Departments and 12 District/Terminal Division, 1 Control Center （As of april, 2012） CEO Board of Directors Audit Committee Office of the Auditor Office of EHSQ Sr. Executive Sr. Executive R&D Division Vice President Vice President Office of Central System-Control Resources Corporate Resources LNG Terminal Trunk Line Support Division Development Planning Division Business Division Division Division Division Office of Planning & LNG Procurement Resources Terminal Operation Trunk Line General Affairs Dept Public Relations Dept Development Dept. Dept Operation Dept Office of Management Human Resources Project Terminal Trunk Line Sales Dept Strategy Dept Management Dept Construction Dept Construction Dept Russia Project Resources Pyeongtaek Seoul Finance Dept Group Technology Dept. Terminal Division District Division Incheon Gyeongin Terminal Division District Division Tongyeong Gangwon Terminal Division District Division Samcheok Chungcheong Terminal Division District Division Jeonbuk District Division Jeonnam District Division Gyeongbuk District Division Gyeongnam District Division Affiliates & Major Afﬁliates & Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Country Company Business Establishment Ownership (%) Korea Korea Gas Technology Corporation Maintenance & Engineering 1993 100 KOGAS Iraq B.V. 2009 100 Iraq KOGAS Badra B.V. 2010 100 Development & Production of Oil and Gas KOGAS Akkas B.V. 2010 100 KOGAS Mansuriya B.V. 2010 100 Overseas Australia KOGAS Australia Pty Ltd. Exploration & Development · Liquefaction 2008 100 Canada KOGAS Canada Ltd. Development & Production of Oil and Gas 2010 100 Mexico KOGAMEX Investment Manzanillo B.V Construction & Operation of LNG Terminal 2009 100 Oman KOMAN ENERGY LNG Trading 2008 50 Russia KOGAS Vostok LLC Gas Exploration & Inspection 2009 100 71 Appendix Subsidiary Performance (Korea Gas Technology Corporation) KOGAS-Tech Profile Company Korea Gas Technology Corporation Establishment May 27, 1993 Head Ofﬁce 1227 Daedeokdaero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Korea Inspection and maintenance of gas facilities Renovation and repairs of gas facilities and related businesses Businesses Safety inspections and maintenance of gas pipe networks Plant engineering services and plant facility maintenance Employees 1,032 (As of Dec. 31, 2011) Capital: KRW 10.6 billion Investment KOGAS Ownership: 100% KOGAS-Tech Business Category Unit 2009 2010 2011 Performance Sales KRW 100 million 1,627 1,467 1,605 Finance Net Profit KRW 100 million 94 80 66 Current Ratio % 278.3 180.4 170.6 Debt Ratio % 51.8 55.2 58.7 Management Revenue per Employee KRW 1 million 163.2 147.1 153.8 Value Added per Employee KRW 1 million 82.3 83.1 92.8 Labor Cost per Employee KRW 1 million 60.7 62.7 76.3 Quality of Suspension of Gas Supply Case 0 0 0 Maintenance Piping Damages Case 0 0 0 Facility Repairs Case 3,438 3,104 2,519 Education & Investment in Education & Training KRW 1 million 1,715 1,713 2,068 Training Investment/Revenue % 1.05 1.17 1.29 Overseas Sales KRW 1 million 8,819 10,448 12,262 Growth Potential R&D Investment KRW 1 million 530 436 444 R&D/Revenue % 0.3 0.3 0.3 Korea Investors Service P– AA– P– AA – P– AA – Credit Rating Korea Ratings P– AA– P– AA – P– AA – Korea Enterprise Data AA – AA – * The 2009 data is subject to the K-GAAP Financial Reporting Standards while the 2010 and 2011 data was compiled pursuant to the K-IFRS Consolidated Reporting Standards KOGAS-Tech Strategic Mission Service Customers with Leading Energy Technologies and Contribute to the Society Scheme Vision The World’s Leading Energy Technology Company 2017 Management · Top KRW 300 billion in revenue · Raise R&D investments (3%) Objective · Top KRW 210 million in revenue per employee · Raise customer satisfaction (80 points) Reinforce Business Develop New Growth Enhance Technology Upgrade Management 4 Strategic Orientations Competitiveness Engines Leadership System 1. Improve the productivity of 1. Expand overseas projects 1. Establish technology 1. Reinforce strategic maintenance operations 2. Diversity business lineups development system management system 8 Strategic 2. Enhance the 2. Develop global talent 2. Redesign performanceMissions competitiveness of oriented personnel engineering businesses management system 22 Action Plans 72 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report General Sustainability Management Data Economy EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation KOGAS implements joint contracting programs with local constructors and is involved in other various efforts to revitalize regional economies by encouraging the engagement of local SMEs. Rather than placing a turn-key order for the construction of the Samcheok Terminal as we would usually do for large-scale plant projects, we have split the entire construction project (costing about KRW 300 billion) into several smaller projects (costing about KRW 16.2 billion) to provide opportunities to local small constructors. We also stipulated that the bidders for the construction of new the KOGAS head office building in Daegu shall subcontract at least 40% of the project to local SMEs. Given such efforts, the winning bidder has subcontracted 49% of the entire project to SMEs. Environment EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials KOGAS has been using compressed conveyance facilities to recollect and reuse the remnants of natural gas in pipelines since 2003 to minimize the venting of remaining natural gas into the air caused by the relocation or maintenance of piping networks. We have recollected 1,144.9 tons of natural gas in 2011. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source （Unit : ㎘） Category 2009 2010 2011 Tap Water 474,990 467,579 426,420 Underground Water 6,471 16,117 20,288 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas According to the environmental impact assessment for the Samcheok Terminal, the submerged rock was found out to belong to a sea cliff. We have therefore obtained approval for the reclamation of the preserved area of approximately 880㎡ from the Ministry of Environment. We also plan to establish an ecological forest in the green buffer zone for the lakeside industrial complex development project. EN13 Habitats protected or restored / EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations by level of extinction risk KOGAS has conducted an ecological survey of otters, an endangered species. Based on this work, we have designed a rest area for otters to minimize the ecological impact of the Samcheok Terminal construction project. We have transplanted 80 dogbanes, which are under legal protection, to the Korea Botanic Garden. We have also transplanted 165 Japanese black pine trees in the pine forest protective zone for the lakeside industrial complex development project. The survey plans were established to map out specific protective measures for endangered wild animals such as otters, wildcats, and swans. Society LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Category Unit 2009 2010 2011 Number of Workers Subject to Unionization Person 2,796 2,862 2,947 Number of Unionized Workers Person 2,424 2,525 2,610 Proportion of Unionized Workers % 86.7 88.2 88.5 73 Appendix LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes Signiﬁcant Operational Changes Prior Notice Restructuring (Layoffs for management purpose) 50 days in advance Modifications of incorporation articles, organization, and capital, transfers of operating or key assets, restructuring, Promptly upon the occurrence of such events and privatization Adoption of new machineries and technologies, renovation of work processes Prior notice and discussion required on the occurrence of such events LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave Category 2009 2010 2011 Male 100% 100% 100% Parental Leave Rates Female 100% 100% 100% Return to Work after Parental Male 100% 100% 100% Leave Female 96% 100% 100% 12 Month Retention Rate after Male 100% 100% Parental Leave Female 96% 100% HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments KOGAS inspects the transparency level in relations with our partners over all our operations. Our company also conducts periodical surveys on our ethical management standards to enhance human right protection and fairness in operations. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms With the CEO and the Chairman of the Labor Union as members, the Labor-Management Conference works to resolve inconveniences to employees and protect their rights. The conference also receives suggestions regarding work environments and human rights issues that are handled by the Ombudsman Committee. Associates can file complaints over their rights through KOGAS' website and intranet without any restrictions. We also have counselors to handle sexual harassment for employees at our operating locations. No lawsuits related to human rights issues have been filed in 2011. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption （Unit : case） Category 2009 2010 2011 Corruption Reports 6 15 15 Bribery Reports 0 0 1 Discharge 0 1 0 Follow-ups Wage Reduction 0 0 1 Others 0 1 0 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impact of products and services are assessed for improvement Phase Major Activities Conduct safety, health and environmental safety assessments for the installation and modification of gas facilities, subsidiary equipment, construction, and new instruments to systematically identify potential risks and establish countermeasures Manufacturing and Production Perform a job safety analysis (JSA) and hold a tool box meeting (TBM) before commencing works on site to identify potential risks in advance Perform safety checks on pipelines older than 15 years at least every five years Storage, Transport, and Supply Conduct safety assessments on the storage tanks at terminals every five years Usage and Service Attach the material safety datasheets (MSDS) for materials in use at operating locations to prepare for problems like leakages Review the EHSQ management plans submitted by waste management companies, and inspect the service providers to check Disposal, Reuse, or Recycling whether they legally and properly manage wastes semiannually or more frequently 74 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Assurance Statement INTRODUCTION Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out assurance engagement Korea Gas Corporation (hereinafter referred to as ‘KOGAS’) 2011 Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the KOGAS’ Sustainability Report. KOGAS is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of KOGAS only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. SCOPE OF ASSURANCE This Assurance Engagement covered data from calendar year 2011. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with KOGAS included the verification of: • Sustainability policy, goals, initiatives, practices and performance for calendar year 2011, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. • Health & Safety, Social and Environmental data management systems, and associated processes and tools for collecting, analysing, aggregating and reporting quantitative and qualitative information provided in the Report. • Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. (Limited to Head office and project sites) • Review of the extent to which the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) are reflected in the Report. • The reliability of the information within the Report for calendar year 2011 was verified to a moderate level assurance. KOGAS’ reporting boundaries include all operations over which KOGAS’ management exercises significant control, but do not include overseas branch offices and share-holding affiliated companies. LIMITATIONS The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of KOGAS’ suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performances including financial data were cross-checked at head-office with internal documents and the financial statements audited by another 3rd party. The activities of overseas branch offices and share-holding affiliated companies are not included in this Assurance Engagement. STATEMENT OF DNV provides sustainability risk management services through specialists worldwide. This engagement was undertaken by a multidisciplinary team of suitably qualified and experienced sustainability professionals. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any COMPETENCE AND information presented in the Report. DNV did not provide any services to KOGAS in 2011 and 2012 that could compromise the INDEPENDENCE independence or impartiality of our work. VERIFICATION This Assurance Engagement was carried out from June till July 2012, and in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. METHODOLOGY In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; • Interviewed KOGAS’ representatives from different divisions and functions; • Visited KOGAS’ Head office in Seongnam, Republic of Korea; • Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by KOGAS; • Reviewed the mechanisms implemented by KOGAS to promote and oversee its sustainability-related policies as described in the Report; • Reviewed a selection of internal communication and external media reports relating to KOGAS’ sustainability management approach, performance and adherence to its policies; 75 Appendix CONCLUSIONS In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of KOGAS’ sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2011. Based on the work undertaken as part of this Assurance Engagement, DNV believes that the Report generally meets the principles of GRI G3.1. Further conclusions and observations on the adoption of reporting principles and specific performance information are made below; Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following:: Inclusivity and Responsiveness : KOGAS has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustainability issues via survey. 8 groups such as government, local society, partners, global stakeholders, employees, investors, customers and end users are identified with the reason of being selected and the communication processes for respective groups in the Report. Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the survey are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of KOGAS’ sustainability management approach. The Report provides insight into the organization’s relationships with its key stakeholders and how and to what extent the organization understands, takes into account and responds to their needs. Materiality : The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are most significant to KOGAS’ activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. The material issues were identified and prioritised based upon the stakeholders’ opinion sought by survey. However KOGAS needs to make full use of identified engagement measures with the stakeholders in order to reflect their concerns and expectations into the sustainable management. Reliability : No material errors have been detected for data and information verified. Information in the Report is presented so as to allow comparison of year-on-year performance. Completeness : Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by KOGAS, we conclude that the Report does not omit information that would significantly influence stakeholders’ decisions. More efforts to improve reporting on the performance from overseas project need to be made. Neutrality : In general the Report provides a fair and balanced representation of KOGAS’ approach and performance in 2011 OPPORTUNITIES FOR The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to KOGAS management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. IMPROVEMENT • To establish key processes (data gathering, analysis and reporting) for issuing the sustainability report, and documented procedures specifying R&R for key performance index of sustainability to manage the reporting processes more systematically. • To expand sustainability management to its affiliated companies and subcontractors continually. • To consider developing consistent data collection process from overseas project. Seoul, Korea 20 July 2012 Cheol Soo Kim Lead Verifier In Kyoon Ahn Country Manager 76 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report GRI 3.1 Guideline and ISO 26000 Index Report Level : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure General GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note Vision and Strategy 1.1 CEO statement 6.2 3~4 ● 1.2 Risks and opportunities 6.2 17~29, 21 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of organization 9 ● 2.2 Primary brands and products 10 ● 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 71 ● 2.4 Location of head office 9 ● 2.5 Country where the organization operates 11~12 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 15 ● 2.7 Markets served 11~12 ● 2.8 Size of organization 9 ● Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 2.9 15, 71 ● Unchanged ownership 2.10 Awards received 83 ● Report Scope 3.1 Reporting period 1 ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 1 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle 1 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content 20~22 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 1 ● 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 ● 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability 1 ● 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 36, 72 ● 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 1 ● 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods ● Unchanged 3.12 GRI Content Index 77~80 ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 7.5.3 75~76 ● Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 15~16 ● 4.2 Indication of whether the Chair of the Board of Directors is also the CEO 15 ● 4.3 Structure of Board of Directors 15 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the 4.4 15~16 ● Board of Directors Linkage between compensation for members of the Board of Directors and senior 4.5 16 ● managers, and the organization’s performance Processes in place for the Board of Directors to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 ○ avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of 4.7 the Board of Directors for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, 15~16 ● environmental, and social topics 4.8 Principles of management 13 ● Procedures for the Board of Directors for overseeing the organization’s 6.2 4.9 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 14~15 ● performance Processes for evaluating the Board of Director’s own performance, particularly with 4.10 15~16 ● respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 17~19 ● organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4.12 81, 83 ● other initiatives to which the organization subscribes. 4.13 Memberships in associations and national/international organizations 83 ● 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 20~22 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 20~22 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 20~22 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 20~22 ● and how the organization has responded 77 Appendix Economic GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note 6.8 / 6.8.3 / 6.8.7 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 35~36 ● / 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s EC2 6.5.5 30, 43~46 ● activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 60 ● EC4 Financial assistance received from government 34 ● Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 6.4.4 / 6.8 57 ● significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 6.6.6 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 EC6 73 ● significant locations of operation /6.8.7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the 6.8 / 6.8.5 / EC7 57 ● local community at locations of significant operation 6.8.7 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.3 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided / 6.8.4 / 6.8.5 / EC8 66 ● primarily for public benefit 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.6.7 / 6.7.8 / Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the 25, 29, EC9 6.8 / 6.8.5 / ● extent of impacts 61~62, 67 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 Environmental GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 46 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 73 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 48 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 48 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 45, 47~48 ◐ Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 6.5 / 6.5.4 EN6 47 ● services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 48 ◐ EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 73 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● None EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● None Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 73 ◐ areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and 6.5 / 6.5.6 EN12 41 ● areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored 73 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 6.5 / 6.5.6 41 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 6.5 / 6.5.6 73 ◐ habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 46 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5 / 6.5.5 46 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 45~46 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ○ EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions 40 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 40 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 / 6.5.3 41 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 41 ● Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex Ⅰ, Ⅱ, Ⅲ, and Ⅳ, and percentage ● N/A of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.5.6 ● N/A and runoff Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 EN26 45, 47 ● of impact mitigation /6.7.5 78 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by EN27 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.7.5 ● N/A category Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 6.5 ● None noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 48 ● workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 6.5 39 ● Employment GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 57 ● 6.4 / 6.4.3 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 57 ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 60 ● part-time employees 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 73 ● / 6.4.5 / 6.3.10 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operation changes 74 ● / 6.4.5 Percentage of total workforce represented by joint management-labor health and LA6 56 ● safety committees 6.4 / 6.4.6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of LA7 ● No occurrence work related fatalities 6.4 / 6.4.6 / 6.8 Programs in place to assist workforce members and community members LA8 / 6.8.3 / 6.8.4 / 56 ● regarding serious diseases 6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions 6.4 / 6.4.6 56 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4 / 6.4.7 58 ● Programs for lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 6.4 / 6.4.7 / 6.8.5 58, 60 ● employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 6.4 / 6.4.7 59 ● reviews 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 15, 57 ● 6.4 /6.4.3 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 57 ● 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 74 ● Human Rights GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human rights 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.5 No agreement HR1 ● clauses or that have undergone human rights screening / 6.6.6 formed in 2011 6.3 / 6.3.3 / Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening and HR2 6.3.5 / 6.4.3 / ○ human rights 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning human HR3 6.3 / 6.3.5 52 ● rights 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● No occurrence / 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / 6.3.8 / HR5 The right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 60 ● 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 57 ● measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 Operations identified as having significant risks for incidents of forced or / 6.3.5 / 6.3.7 / HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or 6.3.10 57 ● compulsory labor 79 Appendix GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note Provide regular 6.3 / 6.3.5 / 6.4.3 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained regarding human rights ● training to security /6.6.6 personnel Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 HR9 ● No occurrence actions taken / 6.3.8 / 6.6.7 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 74 ● reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved HR11 55, 59, 74 ● through formal grievance mechanisms Society GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note 6.3.9 / 6.8 / Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs that assess and manage the SO1 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 / 41, 65~68 ● impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting 6.6.7 13 business Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to SO2 ● units in total corruption (100% analyzed) 6.6 / 6.6.3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and SO3 52 ● procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 74 ● 34, 44~46, Lobbying banned for SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 6.6 / 6.6.4 / ● public enterprises 61~62 6.8.3 SO6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties and politicians, ● No occurrence Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 6.6 / 6.6.5 / SO7 62 ● No occurrence practices and their outcomes 6.6.7 Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 6.6 / 6.6.7 / SO8 ● No occurrence noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.8.7 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 ● None communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with negative S010 41, 65~68 ● impacts on local communities Product Responsibility GRI 3.1 Description ISO 26000 Page Report Level Note Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 74 ● assessed for improvement 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 PR2 ● No occurrence and safety impacts of products and services See the material safety data sheets PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4 ● (MSDS) for natural / 6.7.5 / 6.7.6 / gas on website 6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product PR4 ● No occurrence and service information and labeling 6.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 PR5 Policies and practices related to customer satisfaction / 6.7.6 / 6.7.8 / 63~64 ● 6.7.9 Policies and programs for marketing communications, including advertising, PR6 ● N/A promotion, and sponsorships 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.6 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning / 6.7.9 PR7 ● No occurrence marketing communications, including advertising and sponsorship Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy PR8 6.7 / 6.7.7 ● No occurrence and losses of customer data Monetary value of fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning PR9 6.7 / 6.7.6 ● No fine paid the provision and use of products and services 80 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report ISO 26000 The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has launched the International Standard providing guidelines for social responsibility, named ISO 26000, in November 2011. It covers the 7 core subjects of organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development, as well as many existing guidelines on management integrations. KOGAS assures its compliance with ISO 26000 under continuous management. Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure Topic Key issues Relevant GRI Index Level of Disclosure 6.2 Organizational governance 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures 1.1, 1.2, 2.3, 4.1∼4.17 ◐ 6.3.3 Due diligence HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7 ◐ 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations HR5, HR6, HR7 ● 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 ◐ 6.3.6 Resolving grievances HR4, HR9 ● 6.3 Human rights 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9, LA13, LA14 ● 6.3.8 Civil and political rights HR5, HR9 ● 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights SO1, PR1, PR2, EC8, EC9 ● 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, Labor DMA, LA4, LA14 ● 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships HR2, HR4, HR5, HR8, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA13, LA14 ◐ 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection LA3, LA4, LA5, LA14, EC5 ● 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.5 Social dialogue HR5, LA4, LA5 ● 6.4.6 Health and safety at work LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 ● 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace LA10, LA11, LA12 ● 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution EN19∼EN24 ◐ 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN1∼EN10, EN25, EN26, EN27, EN29 ◐ 6.5 The environment 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation EC2, EN16∼EN18 ● 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats EN11∼EN15, EN25 ◐ 6.6.3 Anti-corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 ● 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement SO5, SO6 ● 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.5 Fair competition SO7 ● 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain HR1, HR2, HR8, PR1, PR2, EC6, EC9, EN26, EN29 ◐ 6.6.7 Respect for property rights HR9, SO1, SO7, SO8, EC9 ● 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7 ● 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health and safety PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5 ● 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5, EN26, EN27 ● 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR9 ● 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy PR8 ● 6.7.8 Access to essential services PR5, EC9 ● 6.7.9 Education and awarenes PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7 ● 6.8.3 Community involvement SO5, SO6, LA8, EC1, EC8 ● 6.8.4 Education and culture LA8, EC8 ● 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development SO1, LA11, EC6, EC7, EC8, EC9 ● 6.8 Community involvement and 6.8.6 Technology development and access EC8, EC9 ● development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation SO1, SO8, EC1, EC6, EC7, EC8, EC9 ● 6.8.8 Health LA8 ● 6.8.9 Social investment EC1, EC8, EC9 ● 81 Appendix Glossary Term Deﬁnition A global project that collects and analyzes the greenhouse gas emission data of major public companies across the world on CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) behalf of global investors and financial institutions. A method to estimate the maximum loss in cash liquidity within a specific period which can be caused by the variability in CFaR (Cash Flow at Risk) business, investment, and financing activities in accordance with a specific confidence level. CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) Natural gas compressed under high pressures at normal temperature (14.5℃ ~ 15.5℃) to be used as vehicle fuel. DJSI Korea (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) A Dow Jones social responsibility index for domestic corporations only. Dimethyl ether (CH₃-O-CH₃, DME) is produced by extracting and synthesizing compound gas (CO, H₂) from natural gas, coal, DME (Di-Methyl Ether or dimethyl ether) and biomass. It is available as an alternative to LPG (liquefied petroleum gas). A program to help associates resolve personal issues which may impact their health and welfare. The program includes EAP (Employee Assistance Program) diagnosis, counseling services, and hospital referrals for associates and their families. A method to estimate the potential loss caused by changes in gross profit or interest payments in accordance with a specific EaR （Earnings at Risk） confidence level. A crystalline compound produced when methane gas, as a hydrocarbon, coexists with water at low temperatures and under GH （Gas Hydrate) high pressures. Also known as Methane Hydrate. The world's largest global corporate citizen initiative under the United Nations that provides the framework of the ten principles Global Compact for corporations to apply to their strategies supporting human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Technology that chemically and physically converts natural gas into liquid petrochemical products. GTL products include GTL （Gas To Liquid) diesel, gasoline, naphtha, wax, and methanol. Technologies for installing the facilities built at dockyards on maritime gas rigs and then relocating them to other gas projects for LNG-FPSO （Floating Production Storage and Off-loading） reuse after the completion of the previous project. It is appropriate for medium to small-scale ocean gas development rojects. A government-driven national development paradigm that develops new growth engines and jobs with green technologies Low Carbon Green Growth and clean energy sources to ensure sustainable growth by cutting greenhouse gas emissions and environment pollution. A pipeline system to provide natural gas supplies in gas form from a production plant to users without any liquefying PNG （Pipeline Natural Gas） processes. Percentage of resources developed by domestic corporations in the annual resource imports. Self-sufficiency is calculated by Self Sufficiency dividing the total imports by the combined stakes of domestic companies in overseas production. Facility that heats water through the combustion of fuel in the water. Using tubes installed in the water tank, the LNG is SMV (Submerged Combustion Vaporizer) pumped into the tubes to be gasified. Spot Market LNG trading market that ensures free trade between producers and buyers without any medium to long-term contract terms. Tcf （Trillion Cubic Feet） Volume unit equivalent to 1 trillion cubic feet. Gas resource requiring different development approaches from conventional gas. It has been largely ignored due to its low economic feasibility, but is recently gaining much more attention due to technical advances and oil price hikes. Unconventional Gas It is categorized into coal bed methane (CBM) or coal seam gas (CSG), shale gas, tight gas, or gas hydrate according to the constituent of the layer containing gases. A method to estimate the maximum loss which can be caused by the variability in the portfolio value in normal market VaR （Value at Risk） circumstances for a specific period in accordance with a specific confidence level. Vent Discharge of natural gas in pipelines into the air for emergency or maintenance. 82 KOGAS 2011 Sustainability Report Awards Awards Organization Joined the DJSI Korea Electricity/Gas Category for 3 consecutive years Korea Productivity Center Earned the top grade (Excellence) in the customer satisfaction survey for public enterprises for 5 consecutive years Ministry of Strategy & Finance Won the Presidential Human Resource Development Award at the 2011 National Quality Competition Korea Standards Association Won the ministerial award for advanced labor-management relations Ministry of Employment & Labor Social Contribution Award (Ministerial, Chungcheong Regional Headquarters) Ministry for Health and Welfare Ministry of Public Administration & Social Responsibility Award (Ministerial, North Gyeongsang Regional Headquarters) Security Ministry of Public Administration & Won the Disaster Control Award from the Prime Minister Security Won the Ministerial Anti-Disaster Safety Management Award Ministry of Knowledge Economy Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Earned the Excellence grade in the Transparency Survey Commission Nominated as Korea’s most admired energy company for 5 consecutive years Korea Management Association Associations ㅤ Organization Key Activities Note IUNC Biodiversity Support Overseas UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Human Rights Support UN Global Compact Compliance with the Global Code of Ethics & COP Reporting Membership Institute for Global Economics Analysis of Global Economic Trends and Major Economic Issues, etc. Membership Energy & Mineral Resources Development Association of Korea Energy Resource Development Planning, etc. Membership Domestic Green Company Council Accomplishment of the Low-Carbon Green Growth Vision Membership Korea Environmental Preservation Association Research, development, education, and PR on environmental preservations Membership Ethical Management SM Forum Activities of the CEO and working groups for ethical management practices Membership Past KOGAS Sustainability Reports For more information about KOGAS... Corporate Proﬁle http://www.kogas.or.kr Management Disclosure http://www.kogas.or.kr/kogas_kr/html/notice/notice_submain.jsp Sustainability Management http://www.kogas.or.kr/kogas_kr/html/open/open_01.jsp Ethical Management http://www.kogas.or.kr/moral/ Safety & Environmental Management http://www.kogas.or.kr/kogas_kr/html/open/open_21.jsp 2006 2007 2008 Social Contribution http://www.kogas.or.kr/kogas_kr/html/open/open_27.jsp Gas Science Museum http://www.kogas.or.kr/museum_in/kr/00_main/main.jsp Bidding Information http://bid.kogas.or.kr/supplier 2009 2010 83 This report was printed with soy-based ink on the environmentally-friendly recycled paper. www.kogas.or.kr Korea Gas Corporation, Dolmaro 171, Bundanggu, SeongnamSi, Gyeonggi-do, Korea TEL +82.31.710.0114 FAX +82.31.710.0117
