Responsible Growth AAK Sustainability Report 2011/2012 About this report Welcome to AAK’s Sustainability Report 2011/2012 With this, our third sustainability report, we aim to provide a transparent presentation of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) objectives, initiatives and activities of the AAK Group. All data is from 2011 and is based on the core indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Food Sector Supplements, adjusted for our business. Principles for reporting are described in the section “Reporting criteria” on page 40. The report covers our entire organisation, including production plants, administrative offices, sales offices and sourcing operations. The environmental data is restricted to the production plants. Data from our mid-2011 acquisition of Golden Foods/Golden Brands in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, is not included in the report. Likewise, our production plant in Oldham, UK, which is being phased out, and production transferred to other sites during 2011 are not part of this report. In 2012 AAK acquired the businesses of Oasis Foods ComMarketplace This report is available in English and pany and Crown-Foods A/S. Those companies Supply chain Swedish. It can be downloaded as a PDF will not be included in the report as they will Environment at www.aak.com. To obtain a printed copy start reporting on GRI in 2013. Workplace please contact Corporate Communications Wherever relevant, we have compared the Community at comm@aak.com. figures with those from 2010. We also comment on the trends and developments we see Throughout the report, AAK colleagues share Head office and include our outlook for the years ahead. stories about some of our many CSR initiaAarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) To make the report easier to read, we have tives. Top managers also share their thoughts Jungmansgatan 12 divided it into five major sections that reflect the and insights in relation to their specific areas SE-211 19 Malmö, Sweden way we structure data collection and reporting of responsibility. Altogether, this report should +46 40 627 83 00 within the AAK organisation: provide a clear picture of how we at AAK info@aak.com work with sustainability – our drive towards Registered office: Malmö responsible growth. Reg. No. 556669-2850 Contents page Global About this report..................................2 CEO Statement...................................3 Reporting AAK in 60 seconds..............................4 Initiative Our business.......................................5 CSR Objectives...................................7 (GRI) Marketplace.........................................8 Supply chain......................................14 GRI is a network-based organisaEnvironment......................................20 tion that pioneers the world’s most Energy...........................................21 widely used sustainability reportAir..................................................23 ing framework involving more than Water.............................................24 30,000 companies in 70 countries. Waste............................................25 The reporting framework measWorkplace..........................................26 ures and reports economic, enviCommunity........................................32 ronmental, and social performance CSR approach...................................36 and also addresses the UN Global Reporting criteria...............................40 Compact principles. GRI Index..........................................41 About this report 2 CEO Statement by Arne Frank Responsible growth is core to our business always need a very strong safety attention our strategy. Our responsibility towards the local efforts will continue to focus on the developcommunities where we operate, our global ment of AAK as a safe workplace. customers, our employees and the environment, is integral to our efforts to achieve our Sustainable sourcing business goals. Sustainable business pracRaw material sourcing is another area where tices govern our operations around the world. we endeavour to make a clear difference, I am encouraged that our commitment is both to the environment and to the local comwidely shared by many of our customers, supmunities where the raw materials are grown pliers, shareholders and employees. In 2011, and harvested. the annual Top of Mind Survey conducted in For our shea based products we have for 45 countries by the global Consumer Goods many years been working very closely with Forum found that corporate social responsibillocal populations in several West African counity is now the number one concern of many tries and in particular with the women there companies. For the sake of today’s and future who gather the wild-growing shea kernels. In generations, it is encouraging to know that March this year we signed a letter of intent CSR is gaining priority in the business world. with the government of Burkina Faso, with the Demographic forecasts underline the chalaim to establish a public-private partnership lenges ahead, with predictions of an additional to expand our work organising and educating two billion people on our planet by 2030. In local women’s groups. The initiative ultimately addition, global average calorific consumptargets improved volumes and quality of the tion per head of population is expected to raw material and at the same time secures increase, leading to pressure on our global improved living conditions for the women in natural resources and with consequences Arne Frank Burkina Faso. We will increase the number for global warming. This emphasises even CEO and President, AAK of women involved in this initiative from appr further the need for business to step up its 10,000 to 30,000 over two years. commitment to optimal resource utilisation At our side in this important work we have with minimal waste and emissions. and producing more refined solutions for our the globally leading beauty and personal care In this – our third – Sustainability report, customers. company L´Oréal, which actively supports this we share with you our sustainability efforts Speciality products are more “production initiative through an agreement confirming conover the past year. The ten principles of the intense”, which would normally resulted in tinuing supply this project until at least 2014. UN Global Compact continue to provide the significantly increased resource consumption We have high expectations this agreement framework for our CSR work. As a strong and emissions. will bring us closer to an even more sustainsupporter of the Global Compact, we also For several years we have had a strong able and effective supply chain along with our encourage our business partners to integrate focus on reduction of energy consumption other activities to secure responsible supplies its principles in their business activities. through investments in new technology. For of strategic raw materials, and to improve example at our Karlshamn site, we have revolumes and quality. Business expansion duced our mineral fuel consumption to almost Among our important business achievements zero, replacing it with bio-fuel, reducing our Building on progress over the last 12 months are the acquisitions carbon dioxide emissions from 40 000 tons/ The significant progress of the past year makes of Golden Foods/Golden Brands and Oasis year to 6-7000 tons/year. For these achieveit a great pleasure for AAK to present this Food Company in the US and Crown Foods ments we recently received the E-prize, which Sustainability report. A/S in Denmark – reputable companies that is awarded by the Swedish business weekly In the year ahead, we will execute our busistrengthen our position considerably within magazine Veckans Affärer, in collaboration ness strategy and underlying, AAK Acceleraflaked shortenings and the food service marwith the energy company E.ON. This prize is tion program with a continuing a strong focus kets. awarded to companies that combine energy resource efficiencies, employee safety and on Implementation of our Code of Conduct is efficiency and economy in order to reduce sustainable raw materials. Corporate Social already underway at these sites to ensure the their environmental impact, cut costs and Responsibility remains at the core of AAK. same principles for responsible business are increase competitiveness. applied throughout our organisation. Employee safety Resource efficiencies Employee safety is a top priority within AAK. While we have grown our business and purWe are committed to ensure that our employsued our strategy to develop our sales of more ees stay safe and healthy while performing speciality products, we have also managed to their very professional daily work for our comachieve nearly all of our 2011 CSR objectives. pany. By a strong safety focus we have manOur enhanced resource efficiency is reaged to maintain a low level of work-related Arne Frank flected in our environmental performance injuries. We are also convinced about the consumption, CO2 emissions, water discharge correlations between work safety, productivand landfill waste have all gone down, even ity, product quality and customer satisfaction. with our successful speciality strategy, selling As some of our manufacturing processes will CEO Statement 3 Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With more than 8,700 signatories in over 130 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. The principles are: Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Global Compact 4 AAK in 60 seconds AAK’s vision is to be the first choice in AAK’s raw materials are derived from AAK is one of the founders of the value-added vegetable oil solutions. renewable sources primarily sourced in Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Northern Europe (rapeseed), West Africa (RSPO). AAK also founded and operates AAK is organised in three business (shea) and Southeast Asia (palm). GreenPalm, which provides an exclusive areas: Food Ingredients, Chocolate & web-based platform for the trade in cerConfectionery Fats and Technical ProdAAK’s twelve production plants are tificates for sustainable palm oil. Through ucts & Feed. located in Denmark, the Netherlands, these and other initiatives, AAK continuMexico, Sweden, the UK, Uruguay and ously contributes to the production of AAK has more than a century of unrithe US. We also have sourcing operasustainable palm oil. valled experience with vegetable oils for tions, toll manufacturing and sales ofa broad spectrum of applications. Our fices in several key locations around the The parent company, AarhusKarlshamn customers are primarily from the food, world. AB, is a Swedish-registered joint-stock confectionery and cosmetics industries. company. The company’s shares are We also supply the animal feed and New products are developed in close listed on NASDAQ OMX, Stockholm, in technical industries. partnership with customers, drawing on the Mid Cap segment, Consumer Comoils and fats expertise and knowledge modities sector. AAK’s products are ingredients, includof market trends. Close relations enable ing alternatives to dairy fat and cocoa AAK to create strong, lasting solutions butter, trans-free solutions, low saturated that meet customer needs, expectations fats solutions, nutritious fats for infant and high standards. formula, environmentally-friendly lubricants, and healthy skin care products. A growing number of AAK’s products are sold as brand products to consumers. Key financial figures Operational key ratios (SEK million unless otherwise stated) 2010 2011 Net sales 14,808 16,695 Operating profit 824 911 Operating profit per kilo, SEK 0.57 0.64 Earnings per share, SEK* 14.15 14.72 Return on operating capital, % 13.10 13.30 Investments 335 670 Net debt 2,634 3,141 Equity/assets ratio, % 34 36 * Earnings per share have been calculated using a weighted average of the number of outstanding shares during 2011. Deﬁnitions, see page 55 of the Annual Report. AAK in 60 seconds 5 Our business Sales offices Production plants Customisation plants Sourcing operations Our reason for being A vital ingredient All our customers have one interest in comAAK’s core business is the production of vegFat is essential to human life. We need it in mon: applying value-added vegetable oils and etable oils and fats from natural, renewable our diet for energy, to absorb vitamins, to fats in their products. As a result, vegetable raw materials. Produced in our twelve plants in produce hormones and to provide us with oils and fats from AAK are present in many Europe and the Americas, our products reach essential fatty acids that our bodies are unof the products we all use and consume on global markets through our sales offices in key able to synthesise. However, following the a daily basis. locations throughout the world and our close rise of obesity and obesity-related diseases, network of agents and distributors. fat is often seen as harmful and something Responsible growth We use plant-derived raw materials, such to be avoided. At AAK, sustainable development is fundamenas rapeseed, soya beans, shea kernels, sunAt AAK, we work continuously to develop tal to our business. Hand in hand with social flower seed and palm oil, primarily sourced in healthy types of oils and fats that meet the and environmental responsibility, financial Northern Europe, West Africa and Southeast requirements of customers and consumers. growth is key to our continued development Asia. Some raw materials – seeds and kernels and future success. This is what we mean by – are crushed and extracted at our production Part of daily life “responsible growth”. plants, while others are bought as crude oils Close customer cooperation is central to our We believe that leading sustainability in or semi-refined oils, which we then process work, whether identifying the right solution for our everyday activities helps us reach our and refine further. an application or developing new products. vision of being the first choice in value-added Drawing on our extensive knowledge and As a supplier to a wide range of manufacturvegetable oil solutions. experience, we utilise and add value to the ers of branded goods in the food, cosmetics, natural properties of vegetable oils and fats – feed and technical industries, we interact with our speciality for more than a century. very different customers characterised by very different needs. Our business 6 CSR Objectives This page lists our overall CSR achievements regarding the 2011 objectives. Objectives for 2012+ are outlined. The 2012+ objectives are also presented separately and at greater length in the five sections to which they apply, namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. Global CSR Objectives 2011 What we achieved Code of Conduct AAK Code of Conduct was implemen2011: 100 percent implementation ted with 85 percent of employees Marketplace Sedex 2011: 6 sites SMETA certified (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) 6 sites were SMETA certified Supplier Code of Conduct 2011: Minimum 90 percent implementation for direct raw material suppliers 90 percent were implemented Supply chain (excl. West Africa) 2011: Minimum 60 percent implementation for direct raw material suppliers in 59 percent were implemented West Africa Energy 2012: Investigate opportunities to exploit renewable energy technology Good progress Environment Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed as reused, recycled or recovered 98.3 percent achieved. An improvement of 0.7 percent point from 2010. Lost Time Injury rate 2011: Each site to perform better than the national industry average Average Lost Time Injury Rate: 1.5 Workplace Performance & Development Plan 2011: Implemented with all employees globally 100 percent of employees have a PDP Local engagement Community 2011: Engaging in local projects and activities All sites engaged in local community activities Global CSR Objectives 2012+ Sedex Marketplace 2012: 8 sites SMETA certified (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) Supplier Code of Conduct Supply chain 2012: Minimum 90 percent implementation for direct raw material suppliers (excl. West Africa) 2012: Minimum 90 percent implementation for direct raw material suppliers in West Africa Energy 2012: Investigate opportunities to exploit renewable energy technology Environment Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed as reused, recycled or recovered Lost Time Injury Rate 2012: Average Lost Time Injury Rate to be at or below 1.5 Safety Workplace 2012: Develop a common global safety strategy Performance and Development Plan 2012: All employees to have a PDP by Q2 Local engagement Community 2012: Engaging in local projects and activities CSR Objectives 7 Marketplace In this section, Marketplace, we cover all the areas where we meet our customers, Objective Ethical audit evaluates including our products, product development, food safety, product information on Sedex working conditions at and market communication. The Supplier Ethical Runcorn Data Exchange (Sedex) An ethical audit at AAK in Runcorn has Our interaction with customers is based on is an online platform for evaluated the welfare and treatment of sound business ethics and a deep undersharing ethical data between site staff in respect of the Ethical Trading standing of our responsibility for safeguarding companies and their suppliInitiative (ETI) Base Code. Conducted by customer brands. As a supplier of ingredients ers. Developed specifically to Bureau Veritas on behalf of Walmart, the for some of the world’s best-known brands, support the Sedex system, the audit also covered elements of the Sedex we recognise our role and our customers’ Sedex Members Ethical Trade Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). expectations. Audit (SMETA) follows the same The auditor interviewed three groups philosophy by enabling the sharing of permanent and temporary employees AAK is organised in three business areas: of audit reports with customers who without the presence of the site manageare also Sedex members. ment team. Questions covered areas Food Ingredients – catering for customSix of our production plants undersuch as working conditions, discriminaers within the Food Service, Bakery, went a SMETA audit in 2011. Two more tion, working hours, pay and the comInfant Nutrition and Dairy Segments, and will be similarly assessed during 2012, pany’s attitude towards safety. In each food manufacturing raising the total to eight. case, the feedback from our employees Chocolate & Confectionery Fats, includThis means that 80 percent of our was very positive, reflecting our efforts ing Lipids for Care – with customers in production sites will be in a position to provide fair pay and conditions, high the chocolate and confectionery industry, to share data about labour and busistandards of training and, most imporand the cosmetics industry ness practices, health, safety and the tantly, a safe working environment. Technical Products & Feed – supplying environment with Sedex-member One area that required improvement the feed industry as well as technical customers – an important step in was our system for confirming the identity and mechanical industries. ensuring an ethical supply chain. of new employees. Since the audit, we have updated our procedures to conform to the standard required. The auditors concluded that they had observed good practices throughout the site, noting forklift truck checks, first aid Creating value through product development alert stations, chemical segregation and health and safety trainRapidly changing market requirements us to perform fast, targeted development ing as examples. have given the food industry a new set of of new raw material bases, technologies priorities. While sensory quality and health and products. Assessing and documenting issues remain important, increasing focus environmental, health and safety aspects is David Knowles is placed on the total impact of our producan integrated part of each project. Technical Manager AAK UK tion and the consumer’s overall perception During 2011, we have continued to deof the final product. Social responsibility, velop healthy and sustainable products, naturalness and the environmental burden focusing many of our efforts on products of our operations are all factors that are with a lower content of saturated fatty acids taken into account. that comply with local regulations. AAK has more than 100 years’ experiWe expect the health trend to continue ence in working with natural, vegetable raw alongside the increasing focus on environmaterials, produced with comparatively little mental impact and consumer perceptions. environmental impact. Today, we invest Through our product development, our aim significant resources in understanding the is to maintain our leading edge as a supplier nature of our raw materials and their capabilof value-adding solutions to market needs. ity to solve the major challenge: to provide tasty, healthy and sustainable food for the world’s growing population. Our product development work revolves around our broad technical knowledge and state-of-the-art technology. This equips Karsten Nielsen Chief Technology Officer Marketplace 8 Sedex Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) is a Labour Standards not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated Health & Safety to driving improvements in responsible and ethical The Environment business practices in global supply chains. Business Practices It is based in London and was formed in 2001 by a The Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) was also developed group of large retailers and their suppliers. The reason to reduce duplication of ethical trade auditing, benefitting all players for forming the organisation was the enormous burden of in the supply chain. It was designed in response to member demand suppliers being audited time and time again against varifor an ethical audit report format that could more easily be shared. ous customer standards. Therefore, the group of retailers Today, Sedex has more than 450 ”buyer” members and more than and suppliers agreed to stop developing own standards 23,000 ”supplier” members and is the largest collaborative platform and instead create one, common standard. for sharing ethical supply chain data. The Sedex core product is a secure, online database that allows members to store, share and report information on four key areas: Long-lasting customer relationships Over the years, we have established long-lastset new trends through the development of understanding of the customer’s requirements ing relationships with our customers, building leading-edge products. is key to developing the right solution. This is on mutual respect and detailed understanding Oils and fats from AAK perform valuable why close cooperation is so very important. of customer needs. Knowing our customers functions in customer products. They may Together with customer representatives, our means knowing our markets, and that gives ensure the right meltdown property, carry product experts test applications, develop us a good head start when responding to flavour, supply essential fatty acids, provide solutions and explore new production methods. market trends. From time to time, we even texture and much more. In each case, our Driving ethical growth in confectionery and cosmetics Corporate social responsibility values are integral to the way we think and work. Now, as customers place more emphasis on ethics in the supply chain, our CSR initiatives play a growing role in maintaining our leading position in the confectionery and cosmetics markets. The well-being of global consumers is among our key focus areas. Through our investment in research and development, we have developed new solutions that contribute to an improved health profile for our customers’ final products. Proactive work with our supply chains is behind the development of sustainable solutions. When sourcing shea kernels in West Africa, for example, we support the rural women who gather the wild-growing kernels by introducing fair trade principles and educating them in quality improvements. We also ensure that no organised child labour is involved and maintain a continuous cooperation with UNDP, NGOs and West African governments. Another important supply chain topic for our business area is sustainable palm oil. As an RSPO founder member, we are pleased that the volume of sustainable palm oil on the world market is increasing significantly and that RSPO membership is still growing. We encourage our customers to purchase the sustainable option by providing RSPO-certified mass balance and segregated palm oil and GreenPalm® certificates. Torben Friis Lange President Chocolate & Confectionery Fats Marketplace 9 Sharing knowledge Global Magazine for Our commitment to transparency involves sharing various types of data. In our interacour customers AAK Magazine | No 1, 2012 tion with customers, knowledge sharing is equally important. We have established an AAK’s Global Magazine is a customer magazine AAK Magazine | No 1, 2011 dedicated setup for product development published twice a year. It is an important tool for projects, where customer cooperation is in creating and maintaining awareness among our Visit AAK at FIE in Paris 29 Nov-1 Hall 1 – booth Dec 2011 number 1F27 focus. For example, we often run customer customers. Among the topics are: The launch application trials in our pilot plants and offer of new products, highlights of product benefits, AAK at Food Ingre dients China, page 2-3 cheese, page 6-7 ional value in advice on optimising customer processes as raw materials, interesting research development Improved nutrit Heat stability in chocolate produ cts, page 18-19 well as products. and AAK ACADEMY. The magazine also presents AAK Magazine | No 2, 2011 Chocofill – InFat – close r to mother’s milk The AAK ACADEMY offers customer coursevents where AAK will participate and lists when for chocolate page 5 and confection Health chec ery fillings ks: How Bake ry Solutions page 6 is on call to customers es where our experts share their knowledge AAK ACADEMY courses will take place. The page 9 on topics such as lipid technology and healthy magazine is highly appreciated by our customsolutions. In our customer magazine, Global ers, and even investors see this as a good way Magazine, we also communicate the latest of receiving information about AAK. results of our product and process developThe Global Magazine is available both in a ment, increasing customer awareness of our printed version and as a PDF file for download expertise. Our participation in working groups from www.aak.com. It is distributed to all AAK with other companies and educational institusites and business areas around the globe for tions is yet another way in which we share the local teams to send to their customers. The knowledge and work on specific joint projects. magazine also serves as a marketing tool at exhibitions, conferences and in customer contacts. It is printed on environmentally-friendly paper, and Lena Ingvarsson we use ink based on vegetable fat. Marketing Director Dairy Solutions AAK ACADEMY – the knowledge centre for lipid technology AAK ACADEMY is exclusively for our customers. The idea behind this advanced training concept is basically very simple: a good understanding of lipid chemistry helps to guide the customer in search for the best solution for a given end-product. It also facilitates the dialogue between customer and supplier and helps us create better solutions together. AAK ACADEMY offers a wide range of courses, from basic lipid chemistry to segment-specific and tailor-made courses. A few examples of the content of the courses: We present the production plants in which we transform vegetable raw materials into highly specialised, sustainable and safe ingredients for In 2011 we held more than ten academies for beauty care market all over the world. Since food, chocolate and beauty care. about 300 customers from all over the world. the beginning, we have educated thousands The important role of lipids in our diet The academies were held in e.g. Colombia, of customers in lipid know-how. Our goal is or for healthy skin. Denmark, France, Mexico and Sweden. For to continuously expand AAK ACADEMY and Our soft processing methods and those customers who do not have the posmake it possible for even more customers their effects to enhance quality and sibility to come to us, we go to them. to be educated in lipid functionality, described together with AAK ACADEMY started in Sweden in 1991 technology. safety issues and practical advice on for the Scandinavian customers in the food handling. industry. Later, we expanded into other segments like chocolate & confectionery and the Rita Leissner Marketing Manager Lipids for Care Marketplace 10 Growing proactive solutions AAK UK Bakery go sustainable for a competitive market Since 2003, when AAK became a founding member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), we have played a leading role in Food Ingredients Continental Europe is serving European the production, distribution and use of RSPO-certified sustainable food industry customers and global customers within the Infant palm oil. In 2008 AAK imported the first RSPO-certified sustainable Nutrition segment. Our prime strength is our ability to deliver palm oil (CSPO) into Europe, and in 2011 we broke new ground customised oils and fats at speed in response to changing food once again. industry requirements. The products themselves are not changed in any way. The only This is not just about application development. It also involves difference which has occurred is the updating of all paperwork, inthe incorporation of corporate social responsibility in our product cluding new technical specifications, which are necessary in order concepts. If relevant and possible we employ segregated flow to comply with the RSPO’s rules. lines for our products. Through our proactive approach to the Following an audit by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil market, we have maintained our leading position in almost all (RSPO) AAK UK also has a unique reference number (URN) that is our business segments. used on all documentation for products containing sustainable palm Today, we are developing further our position as the natural oil. This URN clearly shows that AAK UK is an approved supplier of choice for speciality vegetable oils and fats, targeting a broad RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil. customer base operating in a volatile, competitive market. With AAK continues to lead the way on sustainable our application and market knowledge, technological capabiliissues. This is at the heart of our business, and ties and fast response time, we are a valuable partner for our key to our success. customers. Our value-added solutions and strong sustainability focus are present in all our processing steps. Judith Murdoch We identify improvement areas in close cooperation with Marketing customers. At all times, a number of projects are underway to AAK UK update our response to new requirements, supported by our food processing know-how, strong supplier links and continuous development work. Together with our solid CSR programme, these are the key factors for continuing success. Great aspirations in Mexican business Renald Mackintosh President Food Ingredients Continental Europe Mexican companies are setting new goals following the spread of sustainability information. At AAK Mexico, we are doing the same – by working hard to integrate a sustainable approach in our activities in alignment with global AAK policy and our customers’ requirements. One of the steps we have taken to satisfy these expectations is to join the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). On the environmental front, we have made a series of major improvements. The water demineralisation system that feeds the main boiler, for example, has been converted from chemical to inverse osmosis. This has eliminated our previous monthly consumption of 80 tonnes of caustic soda and 80 tonnes of hydrochloric acid. Another beneficial change is that we now offer our customers bulk pumpable products, reducing the consumption of packing materials. Our environmental projects continue this year. A particular goal is to reduce our water consumption by 22 percent, from 1.8 m3/MT to 1.4 m3/MT and introduce water recycling. For some years now, we have allocated resources to a number of social activities, such as an annual health fair and children’s day for the local community. We want our people at AAK Mexico to have an awareness and vision of social responsibility issues. We want them to make a difference. Octavio Díaz de León Carrillo Managing Director AAK Mexico Marketplace 11 A matter of trust Trust is just as important as our products Third party certification of AAK when it comes to meeting customer needs and production plants expectations. Our customers must be able to rely on AAK as a safe supplier, particularly our 90 percent are certified to one or more internationally commitment to working in an ethically sound recognised food safety standards (ISO 22000 / BRC / manner. To ensure transparency in everything HACCP / AIB) we do, we are a member of Sedex (Supplier 60 percent have Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Supply Ethical Data Exchange) (see factbox on page Chain Certification (segregated / mass balance) 9). This allows our customers to look over our 40 percent are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001 shoulder and assess our ethical performance. 40 percent are quality management certified according to Our Code of Conduct, which applies to ISO 9001 all AAK staff, regulates how we interact with 20 percent are energy certified according to national standards both customers and suppliers. The Code is based on the same standards as the supplier In addition, various production plants are also certified according to codes that our customers expect us to follow, other standards such as organic production, feed safety, health and including ILO conventions, human rights, safety, Halal production and Kosher production. OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. The AAK Code of Conduct is our guarantee to customers that we act responsibly, right CB Certificate Number 00110 across our organisation. Certificate Number BMTRSPO000022 RSPO Member Number 200010400000 Food safety is another area of customer Date of initial BM TRADA Certification 4 April 2011 Date of last issue 29 March 2012 Date of expiry concern. To satisfy the requirements of cus3 April 2017 ITAS Date of first RSPO Certification SKE VER 4 April 2011 BM TRADA certify that the DET NOR ATE RSPO Supply Chain System of CERTIFIC SYSTEM AK tomers as well as national and international AarhusKarlshamn UK Ltd EMENT King George Dock MANAG 2413 7-200 8-AQ -DEN-DAN North Humberside Hull No. Certificate HU9 5PX legislation, our production plants are certified certify that This is to complies with the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, A/S Denmark version November 2011. This guarantees that the criteria for lshamn processing RSPO certified sustainable palm oil through one or more AarhusKar of the supply chain models as stated in the RSPO Supply Chain in accordance with recognised standards and standard: Certification Systems have been met. nt system to the manageme conform Management representative and contact details: Mike Stewart found to mike.stewart@aak.com has been 8 9001:200 DS/EN ISO Scope of Certification e ranges: subject to regular audit by third parties. AAK’s ct or servic The refining of palm oils and incorporation into bulk blends, ing produ foodservice, bakery and speciality oil products. for the follow icate is valid This certif fats. oils and sales of edible Quality Control functions ensure and docuuction and Supply chain model assessed: Mass Balance ent, prod Segregation developm Product Identity Preserved the appendi x. Place and date: appear in 7 tion will in the certifica 2011-06-0 Locations included Hellerup, S, ment that each and every delivery lives up to E VERITA DET NORSKNCE, DANMARK A/S until: S ASSURA ate is valid BUSINES This certific 1 Signed on behalf of BM TRADA Certification Ltd 2014-05-3 Vic Bowen, Chief Operating Officer DANAK Chiltern House, Stocking Lane, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP14 4ND specifications and all food safety requirements. Further clarification regarding the scope of this certificate and verification Petersen 5001 Reg.nr. of the certificate is available through BM TRADA. SYSTEM Rikke Topp ing Direct or This certificate remains the property of BM TRADA Certification Ltd Manag And can be withdrawn in case of terminations as mentioned in the contract or in case of changes or deviations of the abovementioned data. The licensee is by performed obliged to inform BM TRADA immediately of any changes in the above audit has been BM TRADA Certification is accredited for ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996 and mentioned data. Only an original and signed certificate is valid. Certification ard approved by RSPO on 30th March 2010. Uffe Pilga For multisite clients the scope of certification shown above includes facilities shown in Appendix A r Our vision is to be our customers’ first choice Lead Audito te invalid. this certifica may render Agreement Certification out in the A/S e, Danmarkwww.dnv.com / www.dn v.dk ns as set of conditio Assuranc Business +45 39 45 48 00, fulfilment in value-added vegetable oil solutions. To Lack of Det Norske Veritas, , Denmark . Tel: Hellerup 8, 2., DK-2900 Tuborg Parkvej achieve that, it is important for us to show our customers that AAK is a responsible, trustworthy supplier that would never compromise their brands. Environmental awareness in Technical Products & Feed Our Technical Products & Feed business Increased environmental awareness has area is an excellent example of the role had a positive impact on sales. Within the that vegetable oils play with respect to the metalworking industry, the replacement environment and health. Biodegradable, of mineral oil with Binol products brings vegetable oils for lubricating logging mamany benefits, including improved lubrichinery minimise the problem of discharge cation performance, reduced overall cost into the environment. Feed for dairy catand, not least, a significantly better working tle is vegetable-based and guaranteed environment. salmonella-free. Renewable fatty acids Binol products are not only environmenfor candles have lower greenhouse gas tally friendly in their function; they are also emissions than paraffin candles. These are based on renewable raw materials. Even just some of the products that we supply. though the total market for lubricants is AAK develops, produces and markets shrinking, our bio-alternatives are gaining environmentally-friendly technical oils, such increasing market share. as metal processing fluids and lubricating oils for the metalworking industry and hydraulic and chainsaw oils for the forestry and contracting industries. These are marketed Bo Svensson under the brand names Binol and BioSafe. President Technical Products & Feed Marketplace 12 trition Infant Nu Substantial product information The minimum requirement for product inforMaterial Safety Data Sheet relates to Bakery mation is in general stipulated by legislation safety issues especially in relation to and requirements from standard contracts transportation. It is a legal requirement used in our business. for chemicals, but not for food. It is, howRequirements for further information very ever, a general demand from customers. much depend on the type of delivery, i.e. Quality & Product Safety Sheet has addifats for partner in different requirements exist for standard and tional information related to the product AAK – the Infant Nu preferred trition highly refined products, and for ingredients such as allergens, GMOs, contaminants, or final consumer products. country of origin, raw materials and addiBakery solutions – Shortening your way AAK’s product information sheets can have tives, typical fatty acid composition, etc. to success! different names in different countries, but in general, three types of information are For the majority of products, a Certificate available: of Analysis will accompany each delivery. The certificate is produced by the relevant Product Information Sheet / Product AAK laboratory and confirms compliance with Specification specifies physical and agreed product specifications. chemical properties of the products Other examples of information supplied and will often be part of a contract. together with the products are production date or product expiry date. Dairy So lutions Marketplace 13 Supply chain This section, Supply chain, covers activities related to the sourcing of raw materials that we use in our production plants. RSPO – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is the backbone of our business at AAK. The combination of the right raw materials and value-adding functionality is key 1% 2% to the wide range of products we offer. 7% Just as it is vital for us to obtain the right Investors raw materials, we place equal emphasis on 35 % Consumer goods manufactures sustainable growing and procurement. For Environment NGOs example, we cannot accept violations of basic 35 % Oil palm grovers human rights or organised child labour in our supply chain. This is why we are implementProcessors and traders ing a Supplier Code of Conduct that as a Retailers minimum applies to AAK’s direct raw material 17 % Social NGOs suppliers worldwide. 3% Certifications are carried out by indeIn 2003, WWF together with a small group pendent, accredited and RSPO-approved of companies including AAK took the initiacertifying bodies. tive to establish and promote a standard for the production of sustainable palm oil. Vision As a result, in 2003 the multi-stakeholder RSPO will transform markets to make organisation The Roundtable on Sussustainable palm oil the norm. tainable Palm Oil (RSPO) was formally established. Today, it has more than 600 Mission ordinary members. To advance the production, Raw materials from all Members of RSPO must abide by the procurement, finance and use of RSPO Code of Conduct and submit an over the world annual RSPO progress report which is sustainable palm oil products; To develop, implement, verify, publicly available at the RSPO website. In our production plants we process many assure and periodically review credRSPO has developed a certification different types of raw material. Some are ible global standards for the entire system for the entire supply chain. Plantapurchased as crude or semi-refined oils, while supply chain of sustainable palm tions have to comply with Principles and others are purchased as kernels (shea) or oil; Criteria developed by RSPO to obtain seeds (rape) that are crushed at our plants. To monitor and evaluate the ecogrowers certification. nomic, environmental and social Players down-stream in the supply chain Our raw materials originate from all over the impacts of the uptake of sustainable every step to the final consumer product world. The most important ones are: palm oil in the market; must be supply chain-certified to be able To engage and commit all staketo claim the use of Certified Sustainable Rapeseed – Northern Europe and North holders throughout the supply Palm Oil. These requirements primarily America chain, including governments and focus on traceability and cover three difShea – West Africa consumers. ferent supply chain certification systems: Palm and palm kernel – South East Asia Identity Preserved, Segregated and Mass and Americas The supply chain includes ecosystems, Balance (see factbox on the RSPO SupSunflower – Europe and Americas communities, growers, traders, procesply Chain Certification Systems). A fourth Soya bean – Americas sors, consumer goods manufacturers, redelivery option is the Book and Claim sysCoconut – South East Asia tailers, financial institutions, civil society. tem (GreenPalm), which does not require Corn – Europe and North America supply chain certification (see page 16). In 2011, our production plants processed a total of 1,624,000 MT of raw materials. More information on the RSPO can be found at www.rspo.org or www.rspo.eu. Compared to 2010, this is a decrease of 1.2 percent, which is in line with our strategic decision to supply more high value-added products and less commodity products. Supply Chain 14 Our Supplier RSPO wins growing Code of Conduct commitment – achieving compliance Significant progress has been made since the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) was formed in 2003 with AAK as a founder member. Today, production Introduced in late 2009, our Supplier Code of Conduct of RSPO-certified palm oil has reached more than 6 is an integral part of our general approval system for new million tonnes – around 12 percent of global crude suppliers. During 2011, we were pleased to note the complipalm oil production. Growth in demand, particularly ance of 90 percent of existing approved suppliers. In this, our trading in GreenPalm certificates, reflects the susprimary focus is direct raw material suppliers, who are required tainable palm oil commitment of major multinational to approve and sign the Code or in some other way demonstrate food businesses. their compliance. As a growing organisation, the RSPO continues Our objective is that 90 percent of all suppliers, including minor to become more professional and efficient and has local direct raw material suppliers, will have confirmed their complialready attained remarkable global influence – a tesance with the Code by the end of 2012. tament to its ideals and integrity. Crucial next steps In West Africa, we have decided to implement the Code in a different include developing demand in new markets, such way due to various linguistic and cultural obstacles. Because ethical as China and India, which are already major palm requirements in business relations are not a widespread tradition in the oil importers. Critical to the organisation’s ongoing region, more talks, meetings and explanations are required to achieve the credibility is that it is seen to deal effectively with necessary understanding. In 2011, we achieved 59 percent recognition grievances and that members submit the required here and expect to take it to 90 percent in 2012. annual progress reports in good faith. AAK makes a strong contribution to the RSPO. Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates our requirements with regard to As treasurer on the Executive Board, member of the the following: Trade and Traceability Standing Committee, and administrator of the GreenPalm certificate trading Human rights Freedom of association platform, we invest considerable resources in the Child labour Young workers initiative. This also includes our increased involvement in the development of certified smallholder production. Working hours Remuneration We look forward to continuing our active participation. Working environment Housing Environment Corruption Tim Stephenson Forced labour Notification Finance and Global Trading Director RSPO Executive Board Member Discrimination Workplace violence RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems Palm oil can be traded through The Segregated (SG) supply chain model certified palm oil to the palm oil supply base. one of the four supply chain modassures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its The supply base may then offer these cerels that are approved by RSPO to derivatives delivered to the end user come tificates on a web-based transaction system be able to make claims relating to only from RSPO-certified sources. It permits to end users who choose to support specific sustainable production: the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a volumes of RSPO-certified palm oil and/or The Identity Preserved (IP) supply variety of sources. their derivatives. chain model assures that the RSPOThe Mass Balance (MB) supply chain Book and Claim was an AAK idea, decertified palm oil and its derivatives model administratively monitors the trade of vised, sponsored and promoted by AAK. delivered to the end user are uniquely RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivatives Now, AAK’s GreenPalm is the exclusive identifiable to the mill and its supply base throughout the entire supply chain, as a driver RSPO-endorsed web-based platform for and are kept physically isolated from all for mainstream trade in sustainable palm oil. certificate trading (see page 16). other oil palm sources throughout the The Book and Claim (B&C) supply chain supply chain. model provides tradable certificates for RSPOSupply Chain 15 RSPO, GreenPalm and AAK GreenPalm certificates for Globally, palm oil is the most produced and sustainable palm oil consumed of the vegetable oils, accounting The GreenPalm Programme provides an exclusive, RSPO-enfor 33 percent of the world’s vegetable oil dorsed, web-based platform for trade in certificates for sustainable production. Soya bean oil, at 27 percent, palm oil and thus supports the production of sustainable palm products holds second place. At the same time, the oil in accordance with the Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable on palm has the highest yield of all oil crops at Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). an average of 3.7 tonnes of oil per hectare – GreenPalm provides an infrastructure for end-users to make direct soya bean yield being around 10 times lower. payments to producers of RSPO-certified sustainable palm products. While this makes palm oil plantations highly efficient, palm oil production has raised seriBy selling certificates through GreenPalm, palm oil producers can earn ous concerns, including fear of deforestamore for their crop through sustainable farming. tion and elimination of orangutan habitats to By buying a product that bears the GreenPalm logo, consumers can name a few. make a positive contribution to the production of certified sustainable In 2003, WWF initiated the Roundtable on palm oil and palm kernel oil. Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) along with AAK, By making or selling products that are covered by the GreenPalm ProGolden Hope Plantations, Migros, Malaysian gramme, food manufacturers and retailers can reward palm producers Palm Oil Association, Sainsbury’s and Unifor working in a sustainable and responsible way, and tell their customers lever. The organisation has now worked for that they have done so. almost a decade to promote the growth and use of sustainable palm oil worldwide. As a GreenPalm is operated by GreenPalm Ltd. – an AAK subsidiary – and is founder member, AAK continues to be highly exclusively endorsed by RSPO. involved at all levels from the Executive Board to working groups. Our commitment to sustainable palm oil is also underlined by our subsidiary, GreenPalm, which we founded in 2008 to establish a webbased platform to allow the trade in certificates for RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil. The GreenPalm initiative and our commitGreenPalm – going from strength to strength ment to RSPO are our promise to stakeholders GreenPalm’s fifth year of trading has seen 2011 has shown significant growth, now that we care about responsible growth in the unprecedented growth in both the number comprising around 12 percent of global palm oil supply chain. of certificate transactions and the number palm production. Due to our position in the palm oil supply of members accepted onto the GreenPalm GreenPalm is the most widely used RSPO chain, we are fully dependent on the availprogramme. These new members include supply chain option by far. Recent RSPO ability of supply of physical, segregated susour very first independent small-holders – figures reveal that in 2011 GreenPalm actainable palm oil. Customer requirements a development of which we are incredibly counted for 70 percent of certified palm oil define the kind of palm oil we deliver. We see proud. purchased. GreenPalm certificate trading increasing demands for sustainable palm oil. Our General Manager Bob Norman was volume has increased from 8,000 in 2008 In preparation for the demand we anticipate invited to join the RSPO Task Force for to 250,000 and 925,000 in 2009 and 2010, will come, seven of our production plants have Smallholders to give updates on supply reaching 1.9 million in 2011, representing obtained RSPO Supply Chain Certification chain options, particularly for independ1.9 million tones of certified production. and are ready to produce sustainable palm ent growers. The GreenPalm programme The estimate for 2012 is 3 million certifioil as required. Our overall aim, as stated is the only practical supply chain option cate trades. in the annual report to the RSPO, is for all that ensures independent smallholders a Since inception in 2006, over $27 million palm oil used in AAK’s production plants to sustainable premium for their sustainable has been paid to certified growers through be RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil by the production by direct payment from end usGreenPalm. GreenPalm is making a positive end of 2015, subject to supply. ers. To see the first independent growers difference not only to growers but also to (from Thailand) join the RSPO and prepare the planet, and its people for certification is immensely satisfying. by providing incentives for The RSPO recently published its CSPO RSPO certified growers. Growth Interpretation Narrative which clearly shows that production of Certified SustainBob Norman able Palm Oil (CSPO) between 2008 and General Manager GreenPalm Supply Chain 16 Supplier Code of Conduct Fully segregated, RSPO-certified CEBES for In addition to palm oil, shea and rape, we process a Australia and New Zealand range of other raw materials. While our engagement in palm oil and shea is evident, our work to enhance After almost two years of planning and many months of preparation, fully segsustainability aspects covers all the raw materials in regated RSPO Supply Chain Certified CEBES was launched in November 2011 our supply chain. for the Australian and New Zealand market. CEBES is one of AAK’s products for Until 2010, AAK operated two different supplier apchocolate coatings. proval systems. During 2011 we have been working With this product, AAK is first to market enabling AAK to gain the 100 percent towards integrating them in one common system, based support of our dedicated customers, with a commitment to buy only AAK RSPO on quality, food safety, environmental and ethical reproducts for the foreseeable future. The launch was followed by a marketing camquirements. The first stage of implementation involved paign to increase awareness and support sales activity. designing a common format for ethical requirements. The added value to our offering enables AAK to increase our market share in a This is still in the process of being implemented with very competitive space. It also cements our position as being a market leader and suppliers. Once this is in place, we will focus on the confirms our commitment to the sustainability policies of AAK. other elements of our common system. To enable us to make this product offering, AAK Asia Pacific and AAK Australia The Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental tool were fully RSPO Supply Chain Certified, and are now in a posifor assessing our suppliers. In this context, we have tion to market and distribute RSPO products to other markets in decided to work within our sphere of influence, i.e. Asia-Pacific and beyond. We see this as a major step forward in to focus on those whom we have the best chance of maintaining AAK’s high profile and presence. influencing – our direct raw materials suppliers. Still, Peter Brazel by urging our suppliers to positively influence their Business Development Director suppliers, we aim to broaden our sphere of influence AAK Asia Pacific and inspire other players in the supply chain to act responsibly. Rapeseed sourcing close to home Rapeseed is an important raw material at AAK. Thanks to local seed suppliers and in-house processing, we can offer oils from traditional seeds and a range of speciality variants. Most of the rapeseed used for our products is grown in Sweden, where farms have increased their output in recent years. Through our close cooperation with the farmers, we are able to maintain control of the entire value chain, from production of raw material to finished products. The rapeseed meal that remains after oil extraction is used for animal feed. Both in conventional and new varieties with a high oleic acid content, rapeseed oil has the lowest saturated fat content of all vegetable oils and is high in monosaturated fatty acids. It also contains the essential fatty acids linoleic acid (Omega 6) and alpha-linolenic acid (Omega 3), as well as vitamin E (tocopherol) and vitamin K. The nutritional and functional properties mean rapeseed oil is ideal for use as a cooking oil or ingredient. Food applications range from mayonnaise and salad dressings to baby food. In margarines and bakery products, rapeseed oil ensures the right consistency and an improved nutritional profile. For high-temperature processes, high oleic acid varieties of rapeseed are significantly more suitable. The advantages are a low saturated fat content together with good thermal and storage stability. Supply Chain 17 Social responsibility in the shea trade Our involvement in the development of the West African shea secCapacity building tor continues at a rapid pace. In March 2012 we signed a letter of Well-functioning women’s groups with good commercial, organiintent to establish a public/private partnership with the government sational and managerial competences are the foundation for of Burkina Faso. The project aims to expand our work with organisefficient commercial interaction with AAK ing and educating women groups. From an initial target of 30,000 named women enlisted in well-functioning groups, the intention is to In addition to these four focus areas, we are launching a programme increase the number of women and groups to cover the whole country. to improve knowledge about basic human rights. This will ensure The initiative is another important step towards improving the West supply chain awareness of the requirements in the AAK Supplier African shea business. Objectives are: Code of Conduct. Our overall goal is to ensure a sufficient, sustainable supply of Transparency in the market good quality shea kernels in the future. We are keen to engage with Market prices should be known to supply chain participants all governmental and non-governmental organisations that share Fairness this ambition. Only those who add value in the supply chain should be paid – speculation should be avoided Quality Improved shea harvest and handling routines are an untapped Knud Larsson opportunity to increase the rural women’s income Sourcing & Trading Director Shea – a strategic raw material Shea kernels from West Africa are a very important and unique raw material at AAK. Over more than 60 years, we have gained extensive knowledge and experience of the raw material and the local communities in which we operate. Our continued presence in West Africa is essential to us. We monitor selected shea trees to assess the size of the next harvest, and we handle a number of processes to ensure an unbroken supply chain from the collection of shea kernels, to their early treatment and transportation to the harbours, to their warehousing and shipment to Northern Europe. Shea trees grow in some of the world’s Work with women’s groups in Burkina Faso poorest countries. Here, we work directly with the women who collect the shea kernels, Ongoing work to organise women’s groups in the shea kernels during the rainy season. building capacity in local communities. Our Burkina Faso resulted in a record 2011/2012 Regarding child labour, most of the women work in these areas includes the formation of season with 10,000 women enrolled in the state family members help with gathering women’s groups in the villages and teaching project. AAK is committed to increasing that the shea kernels. School-age children are, the women about how to maintain the quality number to 30,000 women within two years. however, not involved. The women say they of the kernels. In response to a questionnaire, 100 peroften leave their children asleep since they Combined with our involvement in the Global cent of the women expressed satisfaction go out very early in the morning to harvest Shea Alliance, of which we are a founding with the way AAK works, saying that they the wild-growing kernels. member, these activities demonstrate our gain many benefits from having direct acAt a workshop held during the season, commitment to the sustainable sourcing of cess to the industrial company using the the team working with the women’s group shea in West Africa. We are proud of our shea kernels. They appreciate the transproject in Burkina Faso gave the project a achievements and are committed to continue parency of our operation and claim that it local name: “Kolo Nafaso”, which means our work. helps them in their fight against poverty. “the house of shea kernel The questionnaire also highlighted the benefits”. challenges faced by the women in satisfying AAK quality standards. Many Mads Jules Feer mention their difficulties with drying Sustainability and Shea Manager AAK West Africa Supply Chain 18 The Global Shea Alliance The Global Shea Alliance is an international, non-profit association of industry stakeholders whose mission is to represent and further develop the shared interests of the shea sector. The Global Shea Alliance promotes shea worldwide, establishes industry standards for quality and sustainable sourcing and facilitates information exchange. AAK is a founding member together with other stakeholders. Vision: A sustainable and competitive shea industry. Mission: To enhance economically viable, environmentally and socially responsible shea nuts and shea product businesses. More information about the Global Shea Alliance can be found at www.globalshea.com. More value in the shea value chain The Global Shea Alliance (GSA) continues Providing an income for millions of women, to work on its three priorities: to promote the shea trade has existed for hundreds shea internationally and in the African reof years. gion; to improve shea kernel quality through As a founding member of GSA and link industry standards, grading and transparent in the value chain, AAK is committed to trading; and to promote the importance of improving the shea trade – increasing transshea towards national and regional auparency and quality with respect for tradithorities. tion to ensure the shea-gathering women Shea is a natural raw material that grows a higher return. wild in the Sahel region of West Africa. No land clearing is required for plantations nor are any pesticides or fertilisers used. Monika Hjorth General Manager West Africa UNDP Partnership In 2003, AAK entered into a partnership with United Nations Development Program (UNDP) to install simple machinery in rural villages in Burkina Faso. The objective was – and continues to be – to reduce the women’s daily workload while at the same time increasing their opportunities for generating an income. These women collect the shea kernels that are an important raw material for AAK. The machinery is a simple diesel engine that provides energy for various tools and generates electricity – a so-called Multifunctional Platform. Installation of the platforms has been very successful, and the platform project has been expanded to a national project headed by the government and comprising all of Burkina Faso. In 2011, 848 platforms had been installed. Supply Chain 19 Environment The section on Environment covers emissions. Our ongoing aim is to become AAK’s impact on the environment in more environmentally-friendly tomorrow than we are today. Objective on terms of consumption at and emissions from our production plants. To To achieve this, we implement envienergy ronmental projects, monitor consumption ease the reading of this section, it is and emissions, and identify best practices Energy is indispensable within our busidivided into sub-sections on Energy, by benchmarking our production plants ness. Constantly increasing energy effiAir, Water and Waste. against each other and other players ciency to reduce the impact on the environin the industry. A handful of our various ment is a natural part of the way we manage AAK’s production plants differ in size, environmental projects are described in our operations. capacity and the types of processes used. this section, presented by the employees Complementing or substituting fossil fuels with Processing vegetable oils is both complex involved in reaching the results. renewable alternatives is one way of reducing and energy intensive. As a matter of course, we take environthe impact. We want to employ more renewable At AAK, we are very much aware of mental laws and regulations very seriously sources of energy and new green technologies. the footprint our production plants leave and are proud to report that, in 2011, we To this end, we have decided to investigate on the environment. This is why we conrecorded no incidents of non-compliance. the opportunities to exploit renewable energy stantly strive to reduce our consumption of Further no significant spills were registered technology before the end of 2012. energy and water and reduce waste and during the year. Reducing the environmental footprint In order for our business to grow sustainmeeting was to review best available techwith resource efficiency not only reduced ably, we are reducing our environmental nology (BAT) for waste reduction in utilities, our environmental footprint but also refootprint, by focusing our efforts on admaterials conversion, transportation and for duced costs. dressing climate change, through good conservation. For 2012, we have two new global objecmanagement practices. We are focussing We will continue to develop learning and tives in order to reduce the foot print on the on all resource used in the conversion and best practice across our production plants and environment. We will investigate opportunidistribution of our products and services. To benchmark performance to improve Operaties to exploit renewable energy technology. be truly sustainable we have embarked on tional Eco-Efficiency. We are very much aware For 2012 and the future we work towards a a journey by making environmental comthat improvements are not only dependent minimum of 98.5 percent of waste disposed mitments and reviewing the progress we on a handful of large projects, but equally as resused, recycled or make towards achieving them. important are the many smaller initiatives at recovered. During the year we brought our operations all production plants. directors together with our key business We aim for our business to have a positive partners who supply plant equipment and impact on the environment, sustaining our David Smith general services. The main focus of this planet for future generations. Focused work President European Supply Chain Environment 20 Energy 92 percent comes from biomass and biofuel. in New Jersey, Zaandijk and Dalby purchasing More energy from Some production plants have their own power 100 percent green electricity. renewable sources plant and sell energy in the form of steam Overall, then, total energy consumption Rising energy costs and the link between and electricity externally. To account for this, reached 3,816,358 Gj, a decrease of 4.5 perenergy consumption and impact on the climate the total energy consumption given in this cent. Calculated per tonne produced, energy have sparked an increasing focus on energy report refers to energy purchased plus energy consumption has decreased by 3.3 percent issues. Responsible growth is only possible generated minus energy sold. despite our strategic decision to increase if energy consumption and costs are kept as In 2011, our production plants had a comproduction of highly refined products, which low as possible. bined direct energy consumption of 3,200,000 all things being equal require more energy Due to our relatively high energy consumpGj, a decrease of 4.9 percent compared to to process. tion, efforts to increase energy efficiency and, 2010. Direct energy consumption from renewThe increasing proportion of energy from where possible, move towards renewable able resources constitutes 30 percent. renewable sources is in line with our energy energy sources are important. During the same period, electricity purchasconsumption objective: we want to utilise The type of energy used at our production es (indirect energy consumption) decreased renewable sources of energy and new green plants varies considerably. In Montevideo, by 2.5 percent to 646,000 Gj, The proportion technologies to an even greater extent. Uruguay, all direct energy consumed is derived of renewable resources increased by 3 perFor an overview of energy consumption and from biomass, while in Karlshamn, Sweden, centage points mainly achieved by our sites sources, please refer to the charts. Direct energy consumption by energy Purchased electricity by energy, 2011 2010 2011 24 % Fuel oil 22 % Renewable 39 % 40 % Gas 44 % 10 % 6% 56 % Non renewable Biofuel 29 % 30 % Biomass E-PRIZE/Karlshamn Over the last ten years we have worked efficiency and economy in order to cut costs, hard and focused on energy improvements. reduce their environmental impact and inBecause of the energy savings, AAK in crease their competitiveness. Winners are Karlshamn has maintained energy conselected by an independent jury. sumption at the same level during the last decade, while production has increased by The energy improvement work 2011 has around 40 percent. give the following result The use of renewable energy sources has increased significantly and is now over Energy consumption per tones has 90 percent. been reduced by 6 percent The emission of fossil carbon dioxide NOx emission has been reduced has also been reduced from around 100 by around 21 percent kg/tones to nearly zero. SOx emission has been reduced For this work, AAK in Karlshamn, Sweden, by around 23 percent received the prestigious E-prize – Energy The total usage of non renewable Prize. The E-prize is awarded by the Swedenergy sources has been reduced ish business newspaper Veckans Affärer in by 10 percent. collaboration with energy provider E.ON. It rewards companies that combine energy Environment 21 Aarhus site looks into renewable energy An investigation is underway to determine the feasibility of a switch from heavy fuel oil to biomass at our Aarhus site, a move that will both reduce our carbon footprint and costs. Wood chips are the source of renewable energy under consideration. Using a gasification system, the wood chips can be converted into gas to fuel our existing power plant, in this way we can reuse 90 percent of our power plant. A pre-study will reveal whether our existing boilers are suitable for burning the wood-derived gas. Henrik Wessmann Service Manager AAK Denmark New cooling tower saves energy and water A new cooling tower at AAK USA in Port Newark provides 30 percent more cooling capacity with 20 percent less water consumption than the old tower and temporary cooling unit it replaced in May 2011. Energy consumption per tonne of product is also significantly reduced, and the cooling process much quieter. The lower water usage is largely due to a reduction in drift – the amount of water that evaporates into the atmosphere. The investment is part of a capital programme to expand and refurbish the AAK USA sites in order to meet increased market demand while reducing environmental impact. Tom Winter Vice President Operations AAK USA Total energy consumption (Gj) Total energy consumption (Gj) Per 1000 t processed material 4,500,000 3,000 4,000,000 2,500 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,000 2,500,000 1,500 2,000,000 2,500,000 1,000 1,000,000 500 500,000 0 0 2010 2011 2010 2011 Environment 22 Air Reducing carbon footprint direct carbon dioxide emissions stemmed In 2011 we used 29 kg ODS. Policies are in Rising average temperatures, more extreme from renewable resources. place to phase out all remaining equipment weather and changes in rainfall patterns are Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel that uses ODS. all symptoms of the climate change we are per tonne processed decreased 4.5 percent Due to our use of fuels, our production experiencing. Today, legislation and markets compared to 2010. plants emit 285 MT NOx (nitrogen oxide) and aim to mitigate these changes by reducing the The ozone layer protects life on earth by 347 MT SOx (sulphur oxide). 258 MT VOC greenhouse gas emissions believed to be the filtering out some of the sun’s harmful UV (Volatile Organic Compounds) are also emitdriver of global climate change. At AAK we radiation. For that reason, any thinning of the ted from plants that run extraction and solvent are ready to play our part. ozone layer is hazardous. At AAK, we are fractionation processes. We constantly monitor In 2011, we generated 232,000 MT of carbon working actively towards eliminating all equipprogress across our production plants. dioxide at our production plants, 5.6 percent ment that uses ozone-depleting substances less than in 2010. However, 36 percent of (ODS), which are generally used for cooling. Direct CO2 emission (t) Direct CO2 emission (t) Per 1000 t material processed Direct CO2 emission, 2011 300,000 160 140 250,000 120 200,000 100 150,000 80 Non renewable 36 % 60 64 % 100,000 40 Renewable 50,000 20 0 0 2010 2011 2010 2011 Environment 23 Water Rethinking our water consumption Water consumption (m3) Water savings at our In addition to being energy intensive, vegetable 2,500,000 Aarhus site oil processing requires large amounts of water, mainly for cooling and steam production. 2,000,000 Three kaizens – rapid improvement proMost of our products do not contain water on 2,500,000 cesses – at the AAK site in Aarhus have leaving the plants. so far reduced water consumption by 7 Combined, our production plants use 1,000,000 percent over the past year. Supporting 47,000,000 m3 of surface water. This water, the implementation of a lean culture, which is used for cooling, has no contact with 500,000 the reduction is equivalent to 28,000m3 products or pollutants and is returned to the 0 of water, bringing financial savings of source without any change in quality. The 2010 2011 800,000 SEK (92,560 EUR) discharged water may, however, be slightly The goal of the first kaizen was to warmer than when entering our system. SurWater consumption (m3) develop a water balance model to give face water consumption stayed at the same Per 1000 t processed material an overview of the site’s water usage. level as last year. Two more kaizens were then initiated Ground water and municipal water used in 1,400 to find and realise water savings. Examprocessing totalled 1,800,000 m3, a decrease 1,200 ples include: of 5 percent compared to 2010. Calculated 1,000 as processing water per tonne produced, 800 Reuse of water from centrifuges consumption has decreased by 4 percent. 600 in the extraction department as processing water, saving 3,000m3 Wastewater 400 per year When water is discharged, its quality is meas200 Installation of a timer so the heat ured by two methods, as required by the local 0 exchanger is only in operation when authorities: BOD5 (biochemical oxygen de2010 2011 required mand) and COD (chemical oxygen demand). This determines the degree of pollution. The Water discharge (m3) BOD5 and COD figures for water discharged from our plants are within the stipulated limit 1,600,000 Palle Jensen values. BOD5, at 7 MT, is at the same level as 1,400,000 Plant Manager AAK Denmark 2010, while COD, at 1,100 MT, has increased 1,200,000 with approximately 50 percent mainly caused 1,000,000 by changes in product portfolio. All wastewater 800,000 is treated at our own or municipal treatment 600,000 plants. 400,000 200,000 0 2010 2011 No more waste water discharge into the river Zaan Until three years ago, the Dutch factory was also put to use for the deodorisers. We used a steam booster to create vacuum for further improved the bleaching process and the bleaching and deodorizing process. At all these measures combined resulted in an the same time, the factory used water from enormous decrease of the contamination the River Zaan for its cooling processes. level of the discharged water. During the creation of vacuum volatile fatty In 2011, a closed water cooling system acids are drawn in, which were discharged was installed throughout the entire factory to the river together with the cooling water. and this has brought down the discharge The cooling process also added pollution of polluted water into the to the water. Zaan to zero. Early 2009, we introduced a mechanical vacuum system for the bleaching process and by the end of that same year this system Piet Mul Maintenance Manager AAK The Netherlands Environment 24 Waste Disposal of waste Objectives on waste During 2011, our production plants generated 88,000 MT of waste, a 11 percent increase During the last decade, the solid waste handling industry has increased compared to 2010. 99 percent of the total dramatically, specialising in the recovery of material value by reuse, amount of waste was non-hazardous. In waste recovery of recyclable materials and establishment of waste-to-energy disposal, there is a clear, very positive tenfacilities. This has created more possibilities for disposing of our waste dency towards reduced use of landfill. Only material responsibly and more cheaply by implementing widespread waste 1,500 MT were disposed to landfill, which is sorting systems. 17 percent less than in 2010. This is in line In 2011, 98.3 percent of our waste material went for reuse, recycling or rewith our objective to minimise the amount of covery. An improvement of 0.7 percent point from 2010 and well ahead of plans. waste going to landfill. Only 1.7 percent, equal to 1500 MT, was disposed of in the least favourable way: A large proportion of our waste is shea landfill. Sending waste to landfill means not utilising any of the potential value that meal, which is the residual product when oil is may still be present. Further, in many countries, a landfill tax has been introduced extracted from shea kernels. Shea meal has to reduce the amount of waste disposed in this way. no nutritional value and is used as biomass We want to take a further step towards minimising landfill. Our objective is that, in power plants. by the end of 2015, minimum 98.5 percent of our waste will go to reuse, recycling The majority of our finished products are or recovery. delivered in bulk, defined as more than 0.9 MT Least favourable Most favourable per delivery unit, thus including pallet tanks. Bulk delivery means a reduction in packaging Landfill Recover Recycle Reuse Reduce material. 64 percent of our products are bulk deliveries, while 36 percent are packed goods. The development that we want our waste disposal to follow: going from waste to landfill, over recovery, recycling and reuse, to reduction. Waste disposal, 2011 Type of waste, 2011 Waste to landfill (t) 2% 1% 2,000 4% 1,500 12 % Reuse 1,000 Recycle Hazardous 500 Recover Non-hazardous 82 % 99 % 0 Landfill 2010 2011 Environment 25 Workplace This section, Workplace, is about working life at AAK how we stay an attractive AAK Code of Conduct workplace to our employees and make During 2010, we developed and began In addition to the Code, a sesure that everybody is healthy and safe. implementing the AAK Code of Conries of policies are established Our employees are our most important duct (the Code) globally. Combined to give more detailed guidance resource. With 2,286 employees at the with our values, our policies and our to specific topics: end of the year (an average of 2,065 emrules for corporate governance, the ployees as stated in our 2011 Annual ReCode provides a strong framework for AAK Supplier Code of Conduct* port), and many different locations across our business and a way to maintain the External Disclosure Policy trust of our stakeholders, which is esAAK Group Compliance Programme the globe – in production plants, sales ofsential for the success of our business. – Guidelines fices and sourcing operations – AAK is a AAK Legal Policy diverse company with many different job The Code is applicable to all employees AAK Insider Policy functions. at all sites and in all business areas, AAK Intellectual Property Rights Policy in all markets, at all times. It describes AAK Group Policy: Corporate Social Common to every employee are our values the following overall topics: Responsibility* and Code of Conduct, which govern the way AAK Group Environmental Policy* in which we conduct our business and interDeployment act with each other and our stakeholders. Information and communication A short version of the AAK Code of Conduct Combined with the UN Global Compact and Business ethics and policies marked with * can be found on our CSR Policy, they provide the framework Human and labour rights our website, www.aak.com, under the section for AAK as a workplace. Health, safety and environment Documentation. Port Newark celebrates new safety record September 2011 was a month to remember for Port Newark. Having celebrated a record-breaking 365 consecutive days with no lost time due to accidents in September 2010, a year later the site had doubled the record: two consecutive years with zero lost time accidents. Congratulations go to the entire team at Port Newark, where “safety first” is clearly a motto that everyone takes seriously. JoAnne Martinez Director Human Resources AAK USA Workplace 26 Towards a stronger global team Continued restructuring strengthened our global employees; increased mobility of huduring 2012. In the same year, our dediorganisation further in 2011, ensuring its man resources and knowledge; and training cated efforts to improve employee safety competitiveness. Particularly our sites in to reinforce our capabilities. resulted in a 21 percent reduction in our Denmark, Sweden and the UK were afLost Day Rate. fected by this change, which necessitated a Workforce improvements number of redundancies. Great efforts have One of the objectives has been to increase Value-based development since been made to secure fair treatment the number of employees invited to a personal Leading the AAK Acceleration Programme and the best possible support for those Performance & Development Plan (PDP) are the company values: Initiative, Immembers of staff affected. meeting from the 30 percent recorded in provement, Innovation, Change, TeamComplementing this structural change, 2010. The aim for 2011 was that more than work and Sense of urgency. During 2012, we commenced the execution of the AAK 40 percent would have a PDP by the end of we will continue implementing the People Acceleration Programme, focusing on the first quarter and 100 percent by the end of projects to meet our CSR objectives within three priority areas: Growth, Efficiency the year. Both of these goals were achieved. the workforce area. and People. Under the heading ‘MobilizAnother 2011 achievement within the People ing Ourselves’, the People project target project, was the design of our new global sales the performance and development of all training programme, which will be rolled out Anne Mette Olesen Vice President HR, Communications and CSR Working life While our Code of Conduct provides the funObjective on Performance and damentals for each employee’s working life, Performance and Development Plans (PDPs) Development Plans guide our everyday activities. Each employee It is crucial to our business that everyone understands our overall goals and shall have at least one annual meeting with clearly understands what is expected. For that reason, we have introduced his or her manager to discuss both their perPerformance and Development Plans (PDP) – formal, annual meetings between formance and development with the objective individual employees and their immediate manager. that both parties gain a clear picture of what The PDP meeting is a dialogue where individual objectives are discussed and to focus on and what to work towards. In adperformance is assessed. Mutual expectations are also shared, including an evaludition, AAK offers relevant onor off-the-job ation of competencies and development needs. training to allow employees to develop in Our objective for 2012 is that all employees have had their personal PDP before their job function. the end of second quarter 2012. Workplace 27 Internal communication Labour rights In the AAK Acceleration programme, one of Labour rights issues are governed by our CSR Giving staff equal and fair treatment is anthe projects under the People priority area Policy, which applies to all our sites. Among other focus area of our CSR Policy. During is Internal Communication. Its objective is to other things, the policy states our view on child 2011 there were no incidents of discriminasignificantly improve the internal communicalabour and young workers, on forced labour, tion at AAK. tion globally in AAK, enabling all employees and on freedom of association and the right We do not report ratio of basic salary, men to understand both the direction and the perto collective bargaining. to women, since interpretation of the data formance of the company. 44 percent of our employees are covered by would not give a true picture. On average, One of the key internal communication collective bargaining. At our production plant in AAK pays more in salary to male employees channels is the AAK Intranet, which targets Aarhus, Denmark, salary negotiations resulted than to female employees, not because the every AAK employee. In practice, though, in 77 employees going on strike for one day. basic salary for male employees is higher, not everybody uses a computer on a daily There were no other strikes during 2011. but because male employees generally have basis. This is why we also share information We do not have a Group policy that stipujobs with a higher salary. For the same job, via bulletin boards, electronic boards, inforlates a common, cross-group notice period the salary for male and female employees mation leaflets and regular “town hall meetfor significant operational changes. Instead, is the same. ings” for all staff. The most efficient means we abide by national legislation and local of communication very much depends on agreements based on collective bargaining, local tradition and culture, which is why the combined with what is outlined in the CSR local management teams are responsible for Policy: “We give fair notice to employees of timely internal communication, shared in the significant changes that could substantially right way. To monitor satisfaction with internal affect them.” communication, we run regular employee surveys. In 2011 this resulted in an 9 percent increase of the satisfaction rate within AAK. Remuneration We comply at least with local and benefits including compensatio international legal minimum standards concerning wages n for overtime. The size of and needs. wages enables workers to meet basic Notification We give fair notice to emplo yees of significant changes that could substantially affect AAK Group Policy: them. Working environment Corporate Social Respon sibility We strive to offer a safe workin g environment for all emplo AAK supports in its actions procedures are implemented. yees. Adequate health and the ten principles of United As a minimum, we comply safety human and labour rights, enviro Nations Global Compact in safety legislation in the countr with all local and national health nment and anti-corruption, the areas of ies in which we operate. and powerful platform for our activit and we perceive the princip ies within sustainability. les as a Workplace violence AAK will integrate social and We protect employees in the environmental concerns into working place against physic interaction with our stakeh our business operations and al, verbal, sexual or psych olders. We will use our resour in our harassment, abuse or threat ological assessment and sphere of ces in order of priority based s. influence. on risk Environment Human rights We strive to minimise the We support and respect the environmental impact of our protection of internationall management, widespread activities through responsible supervise within our sphere y proclaimed human rights environmental awareness of influence that we are not and constantly environmental impact. We and the use of technologies complicit in human rights abuse recognise that prevention with low . approach to avoid environment rather than cure is a more al damage. cost-effective Freedom of association We respect the freedom of Corruption association and the right to collective bargaining. Our businesses should work against corruption in all its Forced labour forms, including extortion and bribery. We do not accept any form of forced labour such as bonde human trafficking or retent d ion of important personal docum labour, prison labour, slavery, Yours faithfully ents of employees. AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) Child labour and young work ers We cannot accept the emplo yment of children. The minim less than the age of compl um age of employment shall etion of compulsory schoo not be (14 years in some developing ling and in any case not less countries). than 15 years Arne Frank, President and CEO Where national law permit June 2010 s it, children between the age of light work per day. The of 12 and 15 may perform work must not interfere with a few hours the children’s education. For young workers below the age of 18 special precau accidents and damage to tions are taken to protect them their health. against Discrimination We will not engage in or suppo rt any form of discrimination Employment related decisi in hiring and employment ons shall be based on releva practices. nt and objective criteria. Working hours We comply with all applicable local and national standards on working hours and overtim e. 2 AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) Phone +46 454 820 00 A company in the AAK Group Jungmansgatan 12 Registered office: Malmö SE-211 19 Malmö info@aak.com www.aak.com Company no. 556669-2850 Sweden SE556669285001 Workplace 28 Our workforce in numbers As per 31 December 2011, AAK had a total world due to a more mature organisation. ly employed, while 10 percent are temporarily of 2,286 employees (an average of 2,065 20 percent of our employees are female. employed. The remaining 14 percent comprise full-time employees, as stated in our 2011 This is a lower percentage than in many other trainees, agency staff and at-will employees. Annual Report), 12 percent less than in 2010. businesses, but it is due to the fact that a The latter is a doctrine of American law that Among permanent employees 6.1 percent job in our production plants typically attracts refers to an employment relationship which left the company. more men than women. At managerial level, can be broken by either party with no liability. The average age of employees in Europe 16 percent are female. 4 percent of our employees work part-time. is significantly higher than in the rest of the 76 percent of our employees are permanentPermanent employees turnover by age Employment type 14 % 4% 42 % 25 % 96 % 19 % <30 30-39 40-49 >49 Full time Part time Employee distribution by age Employee category by age Employees by age 14 % % % 100 100 32 % 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 23 % 31 % 0 Management White-collar Blue-collar Americas Europe West Africa <30 30-39 40-49 >49 <30 30-39 40-49 >49 <30 30-39 40-49 >49 Employment contract type Employee category by gender Employee by gender 8% % % 100 100 4% 2% 80 80 10 % 60 60 40 40 20 20 76 % 0 0 Management White-collar Blue-collar Americas Europe West Africa Permanent Temporary Apprentice Females Males Female Male Agency staff At-will Workplace 29 Working in a safe environment Safety in the workplace is a top priority with These improved figures are definitely a step AAK, and we are committed to ensuring our in the right direction in terms of ensuring that employees stay safe and healthy when perAAK is a safe workplace, and our efforts will forming their daily work for the company. focus on continuing this development. Our production plants work continuously to Despite our efforts, there are occasions improve the Lost Time Injury rate, defined when serious accidents do occur, and we as the number of injuries where one or more have to report that in April 2011 at our Runcorn days/shifts were lost per 200,000 working site a delivery vehicle collided with a forklift hours. In 2010, the rate dropped to 1.5 from truck resulting in the sad loss of a valued 2.3 in 2009 – a 35 percent improvement. In colleague. Such an event re-emphasises 2011 the rate stayed low 1.5. the critical importance of Health & Safety in The Lost Day rate, calculated per 200.000 the workplace, and why we regard safety as working hours and a measurement of injury our key priority. We shall continue to make severity, showed a significant improvement every effort to eliminate the potential for acof 45 percent to a rate of 21. cidents to occur. Two cases of occupational disease were registered. Safety – a top priority We expect all our personnel, whether at our assesses local culture, systems and processes KPIs as a common platform. To improve production plants or at our offices, to take and provides a general status report and the management of our safe working enmeasures to keep themselves and those recommendations for each production site, vironment, each site holds monthly review around them safe. along with key performance indicators (KPIs). meetings, reporting on performance to their We employ an external consultancy to We are in the process of implementing these local board. provide independent, expert risk and safety recommendations and assessing progress. reports, a summary of which is presented to Each month, we benchmark performance the AAK Board of Directors. The consultancy across all our production plants using the David Smith President European Supply Chain Workplace 30 Staying healthy Objective on Lost Safety in the workplace is also about maintaining health. We are present in many countries with very different cultures, varying degrees of health Time Injury rate awareness and different health initiatives by local or national authorities. Since 2010, we have aligned definitions For these reasons, we do not have a common approach to maintaining and measured injuries across the AAK health, but build our activities on local decision-making based on a needs Group. We have defined Lost Time Injury assessment. Most initiatives focus on our employees, for example: Rate as the number of work injuries that result in one or more days/shiftsof sick leave per First aid training 200.000 working hours. Our objective for 2012 Safety training was that each site should perform better than the Protective equipment like helmets, safety glasses, computer glasses national industry average in the country where it Health checks is located. We must realize that it has not been Sports facilities possible to find comparable national data for the Vaccination against flu offered each year individual sites due to variations in definitions, partitioning etc. However, comparing the AAK For our employees in West Africa, we offer free mosquito nets, annual inaverage Lost Time Injury Rate to various interformation on risk control, vaccination against yellow fever, meningitis and national databases leave us with a belief that cholera, and health insurance – again based on a local needs assessment. AAK is well below industry average. AAK Mexico offers health facilities and consultation for employees’ family members and the local community in general. Workplace 31 Community In this section, Community, we present the activities that we initiate and engage in, be they local, regional, national or inObjective on community ternational, in order to play our part and We have a long tradition of being an active member of the communities where we act responsibly in society. Contributing to operate, by sponsoring or by actively participating in projects. In 2011, we engaged and being part of the community where in numerous local activities. We will continue to monitor that we are an integrated we operate is essential to maintaining part of our local communities by engaging in such activities. a positive relationship with neighbours, politicians and authorities. Through our commitment to community causes, we are also instrumental in creating a workplace with highly motivated employees Aarhus port invites the locals who take pride in working for a company Neighbours to the AAK plant in Denmark the company and talk with interested local that makes a visible difference. were among the visitors at Aarhus Open citizens. Visitors could also try their hand Port 2011, where they could learn about at making shea oil. many of the port-based businesses. Organised by the Port of Aarhus each AAK participated with an exhibition tent. year, the well-visited family event is free Here, staff members took turns to present of charge. Green Schools Program saves energy in New Jersey Close to 200 schools have reduced their energy bills by 5-25 percent due to their participation in the Green Schools Program in New Jersey, USA. As one of the local sponsors, AAK is pleased to see the positive effect of the initiative. The program’s goals are to engage teachers and students in learning about energy, its impacts on the environment, and energy conservation. Dollars saved through the schools’ energy-saving actions are returned for additional educational and outreach activities. This provides the necessary funding to sustain these activities over time. For the school pupils, the initiative makes an important contribution to academic learning. In addition to demonstrating the relevance of science and maths, it teaches about energy and the links between energy efficiency, the environment and finances. Peter Maulbeck CFO AAK USA Marianne Dysted HR Manager AAK Denmark Community 32 Local community involvement Our many community-related activities bring us into contact with neighbours, authorities, educational and cultural institutions, and sports clubs. We also work with and sponsor projects that support children, youth and minority groups. In line with our Code of Conduct, virtually all AAK sites involve themselves in community, environmental and health-related activities at local level. We are very much aware of the impact that AAK has on the community when we enter, operate in or leave an area. During 2011, we did not establish or terminate any operations that required a special community impact assessment. The impact of existing operations is monitored continuously by means of dialogue, for example at “open house” events and when receiving visitors, participating in local events, giving presentations and taking interviews. Media monitoring also provides us with a picture of local sentiments towards AAK. Overall, our community involvement helps give us the “license to operate” that is essential to us as a company and as a player in local business life. AAK UK raises funds for hospice appeal From the left: Paul Green, Gerard Toplass, Joyce Clappison, Paddy Hall, all from Dove House; AAK’s Martin Craven; Andrew Mould and Pauline Speed from Dove House. A busy year of fundraising by AAK UK brought in more than £13,000 (€16,500) for the Dove House Hospice Charity Love You 2 Appeal. Dove House presented AAK UK with a certificate of thanks for the donation, which supports an extensive re-development of the hospice in Hull. The new facilities will bring more specialist palliative care, respite care and other enhanced services to people with life-limiting illnesses, their relatives and carers. AAK UK staff raised the funds through their participation in 10km runs, bike rides and motorbike treks, sales of Christmas cards and other activities. Their donation brings the Love You 2 Appeal a step closer to its £2.5 million (€3.1 million) goal. Martin Craven Managing Director AAK UK Community 33 Children’s Day for the local community More than 400 children from the surrounding neighborhoods enjoyed a magical day full of surprises and fun when AAK Mexico celebrated Children’s Day in April. For AAK Mexico, this has become an annual event, which starts with welcoming the children and providing lunch, popcorn and fresh water. Drawn by the exciting activities on offer, the children demonstrated their skills in fishing, hoop, target shooting and performing arts. They could also have their face painted – with stars, rainbows, puppies, tigers and fairies. The event ended with a raffle, including 100 toys as prizes. A great time was had by all the children and their families, who are already looking forward to next year’s Children’s Day. Karla Román Personnel Manager AAK Mexico AAK volunteers build homes for the poor AAK Uruguay joined ten other companies in building temporary homes for 35 families in Montevideo during 2011. Over the past few years, volunteers from AAK have participated in the ‘Constructing with companies’ project, run by the Latin American non-profit organisation – Un Techo para mi Pais (One Roof for my Country). The organisation mobilises youth volunteers to eradicate the extreme poverty that affects more than 80 million people in the region. Working with residents of Latin American slums, the aim is to construct transitional homes and implement social inclusion programmes to improve their quality of life. Andrea González Regional Logistics Manager AAK South America Community 34 AAK as a global citizen The impact of our business goes beyond loOil Production. Principle 6 has a particular compliance function to report material violacal communities. At a global level, we do our focus on considering employees and other tions of laws, legal requirements and/or the best to involve ourselves in areas where we individuals and communities affected by palm AAK Code of Conduct. Information received can make a difference – our sphere of influoil growers and mills. will be treated confidentially, anonymity will ence. As we see it, that means influencing Due to the global nature of our business, be respected and the sender shall not fear our suppliers and – through our involvement considering issues such as corruption and bribreprisals from anyone. in various interest groups – the industry in ery is a necessity. The section on bribery in our AAK is naturally also a member of various which we are operating. Code of Conduct is aimed at ensuring alignnational and international organisations that Being a founding member of Roundtable ment across the AAK organisation: “Employees safeguard the interests of the vegetable oils on Sustainable Palm Oil, RSPO, we have will not accept or offer any form of bribes, and fats industry. Through these organisaplayed an active role in defining the RSPO whatever the form, method or purpose.” Each tions, we aim to influence the legislation that Principles and Criteria for Sustainable Palm employee can contact our Code of Conduct governs our activities. Free medical services at Mexican health fair At AAK Mexico, we maintain our commitment to the well-being of our neighbours. For almost a decade now, our efforts have included free daily medical consultations, medical treatments and our annual health fair. The health fair is usually held over one day in October with the participation of government health institutions, medical laboratories and medical schools. Members of the local community can benefit from services such as cancer screening, vaccinations and preventive medical treatment. Through this activity, women have been diagnosed with cancer in good time to seek the necessary treatment. Children, pregnant women and elderly people have received vaccinations against endemic diseases. Those with a chronic ailment also gain information about the progression of their condition and how they can take best care of themselves by adapting their lifestyle. These efforts are strengthening our relations with the local community Ana Bertha Gil Islas – all in the spirit of corporate social responsibility. Company Doctor AAK Mexico Examples of memberships that safeguard the interest of our industry National associations Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade / NOFOTA Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries / Vernof Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils / MVO Confederation of Danish Industry / DI The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors / ADOP Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles / ANIAME Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana / COPARMEX Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán / AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation / LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation / P&K Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association / SCOPA International associations Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers / ABIM The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry / FEDIOL Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce / SACC Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association / FOSFA The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils / ISEO FoodDrinkEurope American Fats and Oils Association / AFOA European Oleochemicals and Allied Products / APAG National Confectioners Association / NCA National Institute of Oilseed Products / NIOP Uruguayan Chamber of Industries / CIU Community 35 CSR approach We believe in the importance of anchoring our CSR efforts in the organisation Internal CSR Award and incorporating a sustainability mindset Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a strategic issue that we in our everyday working life. To that end, give priority. To make CSR even more visible within our organisawe have set up a CSR organisation retion, each year we present our Internal CSR Award to the AAK site or sponsible for CSR-related initiatives, probusiness area that has demonstrated outstanding CSR performance. gress, communication and reporting. This section describes our structured, operaPrevious winners: tional approach to CSR, always building 2011: AAK New Jersey, USA for outstanding improvements within environment, workforce, and community. on our values, policies and the AAK Code of Conduct. 2012: AAK Zaandijk, The Netherlands for significant improvements within all environmental key indicators (including vast reductions in energy consumption, CO2 emission and termination of wastewater discharge), disposal Global CSR organisation of waste, zero Lost Time Injuries and cardiopulmonary resuscitation for with local roots employees. The Global CSR Manager reports to the Vice President of HR, Communication & CSR and member of AAK’s Executive Committee. At Board level, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the follow-up and in the local teams, which are central to our consist of five to ten people led by a CSR Team reporting of CSR topics, activities and data. CSR work. The teams cover competences Leader. The teams at our sourcing operations Since the global CSR organisation was eswithin Human Resources, Health, Safety & in West Africa have a different setup and may tablished in early 2007, the principal objective Environment, Finance, Sourcing, Operations draw on competences from the major sites. has been to ensure broadness and diversity and Sales. At our production sites, the teams CSR approach 36 CSR organisation Management CEO and Executive Committee Production Sourcing Global CSR Manager CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team Aarhus Montevideo Morelia Zaandijk SE UK USA West DK South MX NL Africa America Karlshamn Runcorn New Jersey Benin Dalby Hull Kentucky Ghana Burkina Faso Mali Ivory Coast Keeping momentum Increasing CSR awareness and obtaining each person’s signature of acAn important aspect of our CSR work is to The introduction of dashboards is sharpening ceptance. Systems have been established to maintain global momentum. To ensure this, attention on progress made. These comprise ensure that our Code is part of the introduction the Global CSR Manager visited all production a one-page presentation of data and graphics package for new employees. plants during 2011 and again in early 2012. showing GRI indicators with high priority or in These visits had multiple objectives. During significant development. A global dashboard Global team effort workshops with the local teams, CSR SWOT has been created for AAK’s Executive ComThe annual production and release of our analyses were completed, feedback was given mittee to follow global developments, while GRI Report for internal use is a global team on the 2010 GRI Report and Sustainability local dashboards illustrate developments at effort involving staff from various functions Report, and the ambition level and objectives individual production plants. at all sites. were discussed. Finally, locally reported GRI To make CSR even more visible to the AAK In line with this, this Sustainability Report is data was scrutinised with each member of organisation, we have instituted an Internal a global team achievement that includes statethe local team to clarify ambiguities and align CSR Award, presented each year to the AAK ments, initiatives, projects and views from the definitions. site or business area that has shown outstandentire organisation. Our goal is to illustrate – to To promote continued sharing of information, ing CSR performance. our stakeholders and ourselves – that CSR best practice and progress on CSR objectives The adoption and global implementation of is firmly anchored within our organisation. on a more regular basis, we have introduced our AAK Code of Conduct is another demonmonthly virtual conferences with the participastration of how CSR is integrated in our busition of all CSR team leaders. This initiative ness. Site and business area management has been very well received and is creating teams are responsible for introducing the value for those involved. Code to employees, discussing it with them CSR approach 37 AAK CSR Teams CSR Team DK CSR Team Hull, UK Linda Hansen* Quality Manager Judith Murdoch* Marketing Manager Marianne Dysted HR Manager Peter Scarbrough Procurement Manager Bo Porsgaard Pedersen Sourcing and Trading Ernesto Reynolds Zamudio Gomez Trading Manager Tom B. Christiansen HSE Manager Mike Stewart Technical and HSE Manager Lars Kronborg Quality Technician Les Bales HR Manager John Barner Koustrup Controller Steve Harrison Health & Safety Officer Liz Skern Financial Accountant CSR Team Montevideo, South America CSR Team Runcorn, UK Andrea González* Regional Logistics Manager Maria Soledad Cardozo Regional Manager for Applications Vicki Potter* Finance Manager and Product Quality Jon Devine Operation Manager Nicolás Santos Financial manager Peter Evans Production Manager Martin S. Gil Production & Operations Director Ian Roberts Engineering Manager David Knowles Technical Manager CSR Team MX CSR Team New Jersey, US Ramiro Corona* HR Manager Pablo Cazarin HSE Manager Tom Winter* Vice President, Operations Maria de Lourdes Prado Zamudio QS Manager JoAnne Martinez Director Human Resources & Communications Ezequiel Perez Calderon Project Manager Kurt Faudel Supply Chain Director Gabriela Méndez Zamora Costing Analyst Scott Welsh HSE Manager Laura Alejandra Calderón Rocha Applications and Development Manager Peter Maulbeck Vice President Accounting & Finance Daisy Ramirez Castro Communications Consultant CSR Team Kentucky, US CSR Team Zaandijk, NL Tom Winter* Vice President, Operations Piet de Bakker* Logistics and Sourcing & Trading Andrea Bartley HR Manager Manager Luis Gomez Operations Director Mieke Doll QA Manager Jackie Steffey R&D Marcus Bense Technical Director Site Manager Micki Hoskins Production Planning Rene Huisman Controller Hiske Keller Area Sales Manager Piet Mul Maintenance Manager CSR Team West Africa Tineke Brinkkemper HR Manager Monika Hjorth* Shea Sourcing Manager Mads Jules Feer Sustainability and Shea Manager CSR Team SE Christer Yxell Country manager, Mali Alexander Andersson Country manager, Benin Anders Söderström* Site and Customer Quality Manager Pär Torstensson Country manager, Ghana Gunilla Bergqvist Sourcing & Trading Martin Ingemansson Country manager, Burkina Faso Martin Antonsson Purchasing Christine Åkesson-Stenbeck Regional Sales Director *) Team leader Joakim Karlsson Sourcing & Trading Jim Broberg HSE Manager Johan Bodin Technical Products & Feed, Binol Anna-Karin Nilsson HR Monica Hjorth Sourcing & Trading Rita Leissner Marketing Manager, Lipids for Care CSR Team Dalby, SE Annelie Abrahamsson* Qaulity Manager Roger Hermansson Production manager Kent Persson Supply chain relations, HR Manager, Environmental responsible Andreas Åkesson Marketing Manager Søren Ask NIelsen Sales Manager CSR approach 38 Investor relations Shareholders and local meetings with the Swedish Shareproviding information about our practices. AAK endeavours to generate an attractive holders’ Association. For this reason, we aim to answer the most return on investment for all shareholders, Within the AAK Group, we strive to facilitate common questions in this report. However, of which 80 percent are in Sweden. More current and potential shareholders’ assesswe value constructive dialogue on risks, information about the company’s ownerment of our performance through the transparopportunities and strategies related to CSR ship structure is available on our website, ent communication of our work to enhance and sustainability. www.aak.com. environmental and social sustainability. During the year, shareholder-related dialogues were Financial performance Dialogue with shareholders held with a number of socially responsible and financial risks Dialogue with shareholders is primarily investment analysts. AAK’s financial performance and financial conducted via the Board of Directors, at the Every year, we receive several questionrisks are presented in the Annual Report Annual General Meeting and, also, through a naires from investors and analysts, and we do 2011. well-developed Investor Relations function. our best to meet their requests for information. Examples of Investor Relations activities We believe that our sustainability report is the include capital market days, road shows most appropriate and efficient channel for Fredrik Nilsson Group Financial Manager and Investor Relations Ongoing dialogue with external stakeholders We value the ongoing input from and dialogue with our stakeholders in respect of our CSR approach, including their assessments of our efforts. Through this dialogue, we can ensure that AAK continues to be their first choice, also when it comes to CSR. From customers and investors, we regularly receive questionnaires, supplier codes of conducts and similar, which we respond to in accordance with our policies. This type of input serves as a useful guide to the priorities on our stakeholders’ agenda – supporting our continuous, proactive efforts to maintain an up-to-date perception of what will be expected of us in the future. Contacts Anne Mette Olesen Vice President HR, Communications & CSR Jesper Korning Global CSR Manager Email: jesper.korning@aak.com or sustainability@aak.com CSR approach 39 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality Data and calculations This is the third AAK Sustainability Report, the We release the GRI Report internally in the first was published in October 2010. Our aim first quarter of every year. This is based on is to continue reporting on an annual basis. information received from all sites and contains Since commencing structured reporting in both local and compiled global data. A section 2008, we have followed the Global Reporting showing trends from the previous year is also Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting included. Data and information from the GRI Guidelines. As this is the most widely used Report forms the basis for our Sustainability reporting framework, we believe many readers Report, which is published externally. will already be familiar with its principles and The majority of data in the Sustainability find them helpful when searching for informaReport is drawn from measurements. Air emistion. We have focused on GRI Core Perforsions data is based on direct measurements, mance Indicators and a few additions from calculations based on specific data and calGRI’s Food Processing Sector Supplement. culations based on default values. InformaBecause GRI is an all-encompassing format, tion concerning purchased electricity from it is not relevant for us to report on all criteria. renewable resources is based on national grid In 2010, we initiated an internal process to information. Information about employees, identify the issues relevant to our business and including numbers, gender, composition etc., our stakeholders. This involved discussions is calculated per 31 December 2011 and is with staff at all sites and feedback from other based on payroll information. stakeholder groups. The ambition is only to Some minor data errors in the 2010 reporting report information requested by stakeholders have been identified and corrected. Further, a or that creates value internally. few definitions have been adjusted and globThe Sustainability Report is a supplement ally aligned. to the 2011 Annual Report, therefore, contains From our experience of the reporting process, only a summary of financial performance we expect corrections will be necessary in future figures. reports as well. Nevertheless, we believe that In general, data in this report covers our the trends and overall picture given are a true activities from 1 January to 31 December 2011. reflection of our activities. Updated information regarding some 2012 The data included comprises data reported events is included since they are considered to the authorities and information generated of material importance to our stakeholders. specifically for this report. The report has not Data from our mid-2011 acquisition of Golden been reviewed by external auditors. We trust Foods/Golden Brands in Louisville, Kentucky, that the requirements of authorities along with USA and Oldham, UK is not included. Productheir effective scrutiny of the company are tion at Oldham is being transferred to other sufficient guarantee of the accuracy of the sites. However, we expect to include Louisville AAK products produced by our toll producdata reported. in our 2012 report. tion partner Cousa in Montevideo, Uruguay. Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: Other core data relates to AAK in its entirety, EN) relates to the 8 AAK production plants including production plants, purchasing sites that were fully operational in 2011 and the and sales offices. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI is a network-based organisation that pioneers the world’s most sion of the reporting guidelines – the G3 Guidelines widely used sustainability reporting framework. -– was published in 2006. Established in 1997, GRI has grown into an international network of The reporting framework sets out the principles and more than 30,000 companies in 70 countries, reflecting the developperformance indicators that organisations can use to ment of reporting, from an extraordinary exercise by a few pioneering measure and report their economic, environmental, and organisations to an essential management and communications tool social performance. for many businesses. The framework also addresses the United Nations Global GRI’s reporting framework is developed through a multi-stakeholder Compact principles and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multiprocess. Participants are drawn from global business, civil society, national Enterprises. labour, academic and professional institutions. The current third verReporting criteria 40 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO p. 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report: pp. 26-30 Report 2011: pp. 20-21 2 Organisation profile 2.1 Name of the organisation p. 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and services pp. 8-13 2.3 Operational structure Annual Report: p. 48 pp. 37-38 2.4 Location of headquarters p. 2 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates p. 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report: pp. 56-57 2.7 Markets served pp. 8-13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual Report: pp. 8-17 p. 4, 29 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report: pp. 4-5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period No CSR awards 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 01.01.2011 – 31.12.2011 3.2 Date of most recent prior report 01.01.2010 – 31.12.2010 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 39 3.5 Process for defining report content p. 40 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 40 3.7 Specific limitations of the scope or the boundary of the report p. 40 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period or p. 2, 40 between geographical locations 3.9 Description of data measurements techniques and the basis of calculations p. 40 3.10 Explanation of any restatement of information given in earlier reports p. 40 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures p. 41-43 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report p. 40 4 Governance, commitments and engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Annual Report: pp. 47-53 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board or company Annual Report: p. 47 management 4.5 Connection between compensation and the organisation’s performance Annual Report: p. 50 4.6 Procedures in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report: pp. 50-51 4.7 Procedures for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.8 Mission, values, codes and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance p. 3, 4, 26 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation’s management of economic, environmental Annual Report: p. 49 and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and No reporting social performance Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 41 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed p. 8 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental or social initiatives to which the organisation p. 3, 15, 19 subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships of associations p. 35 4.14 The organisations stakeholders pp. 33, 39 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage Engaging few selective stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement pp. 33, 39 4.17 Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and the organisation’s respond Supply chain sustainability EC Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Employee benefits: SEK 13,151,000 Community donations: SEK 1,028,000 EC2 Financial risks and opportunities due to climate change No reporting EC3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report: p. 34 EC4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 12,000,000 EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers No reporting EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community No reporting EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public pp. 32-35 benefit EN Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Material used by weight or volume p. 14 25,000 MT processing aids 26,000 MT packaging materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material 0 MT EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p. 21 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 21 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 24 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Hull,UK and Newark,US sites high biodiversity adjacent to protected areas. No significant impact on production EN12 Description of significant impact on biodiversity No significant impact identified EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 23 EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Insignificant in relation to emissions from production EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 23 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 23 EN21 Total water discharge p. 24 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 25 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 20 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services, and extend of impact mitigation pp. 20-25 EN27 Percentage of products and packaging material reclaimed p. 25 Main initiative to reduce packaging material is to convert to bulk deliveries where relevant EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with environmental laws and regulations Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 42 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported LA Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region p. 29 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region p. 29 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 28 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes p. 28 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of fatalities by region p. 30, 31 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regarding serious p. 27 diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Inadequate recording globally LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category p. 29 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category p. 28 HR Human Rights Performance Indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses p. 2 or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights p. 15 and action taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken p. 28 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining No risks identified may be at significant risk, and actions taken HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken p. 18 No risks identified HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and No risks identified measures taken SO Society Performance Indicators SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities AAK Code of Conduct p. 33 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption p. 15, 26 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 26 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption No incidents occurred SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying p. 35 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations PR Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such p. 8 procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant p. 13 products and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing No reporting communications PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the No non-compliance incidents provision and use of products and services FP Food Processing Sector Supplement FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and lockouts p. 28 FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party p. 12 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 43 The first choice for value-added vegetable oil solutions Published by AarhusKarlshamn AB, Sweden. Produced by AAK Corporate Communication and AAK Corporate Social Responsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: www.benfoto.se, AAK, Thomas Tjäder. Futureimagebank. Print: Kaigan.
