2011 Annual Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > PORTINARI, A MESSAGE OF PEACE In 2012, year in which Candido Portinari is remembered for the 50th anniversary of his death, QGEP pays homage to the memory of one of the greatest Brazilian artists by selecting a few works of this famous painter to illustrate this publication. The reproductions were authorized by João Candido Portinari sole holder of the painter’s copyrights, founder, and general manager of the Portinari Project, whose main sponsor has been QGEP, since 2010. Boys on a Swing 1960 Oil on canvas 61 x 49 cm Rio de Janeiro, RJ MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > QGEP’s Board of Directors From left to right: Lincoln Guardado, Exploration director(1); Paula Costa, Finance and Investor Relations director; Danilo Oliveira, Production director; José Augusto Fernandes Filho, Chief Executive Officer(2). Message from the chief executive officer In 2011, we started drilling well affected, totaling BRL 289 million at With the Manati Field operating at its normal capacity, cash We are pleased to present QGEP Participações S.A.’s first 1-QG-5A-BAS, in block BM-J-2, in the end of the year, 25% below the net generation for 2012 should return to the level presented in annual sustainability report. This publication provides an the Jequitinhonha Basin, where revenue recorded in 2010. Even with previous years. This, in conjunction with a robust net cash of overview of our performance in 2011, our first year as a we hold 100% interest and are the maintenance at the Manati Field, we BRL 1.1 billion in December 2011, places us in a very favorable publicly traded company. the operators. This drilling aims reached a positive operating cash flow position to take advantage of the opportunities found in the to test a thick session of preof BRL 194 million and registered a net industry and, consequently, to accelerate our company’s growth. The main milestones in this period were, salt reserves. In this highly bioincome of BRL 92 million in 2010. unquestionably, our successful initial public offering, diversified area, we highlight our Therefore, we would like to highlight that 2011, regardless of the which yielded BRL 1.5 billion, and the purchase of socio-environmental performance. In 2011, we also had to adapt internally to difficulties that were overcome, was a very positive year. The shareholding interest in blocks BM-S-8 and BS-4, both We developed the projects included face all the challenges of an unequivocally development projects of Atlanta and Oliva, in block BS-4, in the located in highly prospective areas in the Santos Basin. in our licenses not only to comply burgeoning company. We invested in the initial implementation phase, and the perspectives concerning These two acquisitions have added value to our portfolio with legal requirements, but above restructuring of areas and departments, short-term results for our ongoing exploratory projects, in and reinforce our position as one of the main players in all for our awareness of potential in hiring new professionals, and in the conjunction with the Manati Field’s return to its full production the Brazilian oil and gas industry. impacts of our activities. Thus, we development of operational policies and capacity, foresee a very promising year for our company. We are innovated in various activities and procedures focusing on sustainability. only at the beginning of a long journey, which, undoubtedly, will Formed by the Atlanta and Oliva fields, which are executed projects through our own involve a great deal of learning. Yes, we will grow, but always currently being developed, block BS-4 expands the initiative. We also implemented Currently, we have a Code of Ethical supported by the pillars of sustainability. company’s cash flow generation potential in the medium environmental, cultural, and sports Conduct developed by our employees term. Moreover, our approval as operators of the block education actions and directed our and an Integrated Management System by our partners and by ANP (National Petroleum, Natural R&D resources towards actions (SGI) that guides our initiatives related Gas and Biofuels Agency) confirms our qualification as aiming to develop new technologies to the environment, health and safety. In deepwater operators. In BM-S-8, the two discoveries for the conservation of Brazilian addition, we consolidated our adherence made after the farm in prospects Biguá, at the end of natural habitats. to the UN Global Compact and, in 2011, and Carcará, at the beginning of 2012 confirm the 2012, we intend to take a step forward, high potential of the block, which was acquired in the 2011 was also full of challenges. We structuring actions to implement its ten middle of the year. In 2011, we also started drilling the faced a non-programmed maintenance principles. We also adopted the Global Ilha do Macuco well, in block BM-S-12, located in the in the Manati Field, which, at times, Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and Santos Basin, intended for the reserves in the pre-salt had one of its six wells in production. we publish this report in compliance with 1 On June 01, 2012, he assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer region, among others. This result was disclosed in 2012. Consequently, our net revenue was its internationally accepted norms. 2 On June 01, 2012, he became a member of the company’s Board of Directors 4 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Sustainability Report About the report QGEP reports its performance in its first year of operation through a sustainability report that adheres This annual sustainability report complies with the latest to the international standards of the Global Reporting version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, known as G3.1. It reaches an application level C, Initiative (GRI). addressing 21 indicators, which describe economic, social, and environmental performances. C C+ B B+ A A+ Respond to items: Respond to all criteria listed 1.1; for the C+ level: 1.2; Profile Result 2.1 to 2.10; 3.9, 3.13; Same requirements. 3.1 to 3.8, 3.10 to 3.12; 4.5 to 4.13; 4.16 to 4.17. 4.1 to 4.4, 4.14 to 4.15. With External Assurance With External Assurance With External Assurance Information on management Management regime informed Result Report Content Management Not required. approach for each indicator for each indicator category: Approach category. Vandemir Ferreira Address each critical indicator Report at least ten Report at least 20 of the guidelines and of the Geophysical Performance Performance Indicators, industry-specific supplement*, Indicators & Performance Indicators, Station, located in including at least including at least one with due consideration of the Result Sector in each area: economic, Materiality Principle, for one the municipality of Supplement one in each area: social, economic and environmental, human rights, of the following forms: (a) São Francisco do performance labor practices, society and addressing the indicator or (b) indicators environmental. Conde (BA). product responsibility. explaining the reason for the omission. * Industry-specific supplement in its final version. In order to develop this content, QGEP complied with the best reporting practices, conducting the following actions: • comparative study with other companies in the industry; • online surveys with multi-stakeholders (suppliers, government, organized civil society, financial institutions, investors); • survey with representatives from the communities located in the area directly influenced by the drilling of block BM-J-2, in the State of Bahia; • analysis of industry-specific documents; • online survey with internal stakeholders; PMNT-1 Platform, located in the • interviews with senior and key managers. south of the State of Bahia. 6 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 7 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Based on the convergence of perceptions of stakeholders, a materiality matrix was created, containing the company’s primary themes. 2.6 1. Impact on the communities located in the areas MOST RELEVANT influenced by its activities 3 2. Accident prevention 1 5 2 3. Accountability and transparency SOCIETY (external) 6 8 4. Engagement, dialogue, and direct communication 1.3 4 7 channels with the stakeholders 5. Risk management 6. Contribution toward local development 7. Investment perspectives MOST RELEVANT 0.00 8. Biodiversity 0.00 1.3 1.6 COMPANY (internal) For the preparation of this report, internal and external stakeholders were consulted. Continuous improvement The GRI indicators in this report are being integrated to S.A., a privately held company, already operating independently in the the Business Intelligence (BI) system, in order for them to whose social and specific goals reporting period. WE WANT YOUR OPINION be monitored and assessed, and to allow, based on their are to manage the Manati Field. Please help us improve our next results, the establishment of improvement goals for future The criterion used to define the For this report, the term employee is used reports. Send your questions, periods. This integration will contribute to the identification scope was based on the degree of to refer to full-time company workers. The of new socio-environmental investment needs, cost shareholding interest and control acronym QGEP will be used in reference opinions, comments or reduction opportunities, and improvement of performance held by QGEP Participações S.A. to QGEP Participações S.A. and to its suggestions regarding the format in safety, environment, and health. in the other companies. Whenever subsidiary Queiroz Galvão Exploração e and content of this publication or there is a difference in scope, the Produção S.A. In case any clarification is Report scope and boundaries information is clarified in the text or required on the oil and gas terminology any other related issue to This report covers the period between January 1st and in footnotes of charts and tables. used in this publication, please refer to <qgep@qgep.com.br>. December 31st 2011, and it is the first report to be Considering that, before the creation the glossary available on the company’s published by the company. All future reports will also of QGEP Participações S.A., the website: <www.qgep.com.br>, follow annual cycles. exploration and production activities in IR Home >The Company. belonged to Queiroz Galvão Óleo e The information includes the actions performed by QGEP Gás (QGOG Queiroz Galvão Oil & Participações S.A., by its direct subsidiary Queiroz Galvão Gas), the historical series provided Exploração e Produção S.A., in charge of operations, and, in the financial information were whenever specified, by its indirect subsidiary Manati generated as if these activities were 8 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 9 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > A NEW COMPANY Corporate profile “ We work for the well-being of all. We are committed to health and safety in all stages of our activities. We take into consideration the whole, diversity, equity, human respect, fair labor, environment, and quality of life.” (Code of Ethical Conduct, paragraph 5) Doing a Hand Stand 1956 Oil on canvas 55 x 46 cm Rio de Janeiro, RJ 11 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > QGEP combines the tradition of Grupo Queiroz Galvão with the modern practices of publicly held companies. Created in 2010, the company wishes Code of Ethical Conduct VISION to be recognized for operations based on ethical “QGEP ENCOURAGES ALL ITS PARTNERS TO INCORPORATE THESE VALUES AND PRINCIPLES.” To grow consistently in order to be principles, respecting life and the environment. among the three largest Brazilian companies producing oil and gas 1. Our Team is Professional and Dedicated. by 2020, and to be recognized by We are a productive, respectful, professional, and relaxed team that society for its transparent and QGEP Participações S.A. is the largest company in the Brazilian private sector in the E&P industry integrates generations and experience. We are highly motivated and Brazilian company in the private sector qualified by ANP to act as operator A in deep and ultraresponsible management. valued, have development opportunities and promote a good work in the oil and gas exploration and deep waters. production (E&P) industry, based on environment. its annualized average daily production Grupo Queiroz Galvão (QGSA) is formed by a successful 2. We Adopt a Management Participatory System. of barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), Brazilian corporate conglomerate with nearly 60 years of MISSION according to data provided by the activities and 30 years of experience in the oil industry. We promote management based on communication, cooperation, National Oil, Natural Gas, and Biofuel It is the only company of the Group formed by a publicly To operate with safety, in an ethical merit, freedom of speech, and good integration among people, areas, Agency (ANP), and it is the only held corporation. and sustainable manner, in the and our stakeholders; we mutually support each other in everyday exploration and production of oil and challenges and seek solutions that are based on decisions made in gas, obtaining results and contributing the most participatory manner possible. Our numbers in 2011 to the development of the areas Gross operating revenue BRL 372 million 3. We are an Ethical and Transparent Organization. where we operate, respecting the Our work is based on honesty, credibility, transparency of Net operating revenue BRL 289 million needs of all our stakeholders. information, and respect to the interests and rights of our Operating income BRL 36.9 million stakeholders. We operate with integrity and always in compliance Profit per share BRL 0.36 with legislations, regulatory aspects, and with the best corporate Net equity BRL 2.17 billion governance practices. Investment in environmental protection BRL 9.5 million 4. We Aim at Overcoming Challenges and Achieving Results. Number of employees 74 Our line of business is complex, dynamic, and challenging, and Volume of reserves – Manati Field 70.2 million BOE involves the use of high technology. We are attentive to opportunities Volume of contingent and prospective resources 321.8 million BOE that bring wide-reaching growth perspectives and profitability. Gas production (Manati Field, in 2011) 675 million m³ of gas (referring to the company's share) 5. We Work for the Well-Being of All. We are committed to health and safety in all stages of our activities. We take into consideration the whole, diversity, equity, human respect, fair labor, environment, and quality of life. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES 6. We are Committed to Sustainability. • The only Brazilian company in the private sector • Privileged financial position, with assets Our actions incorporate respect for society and for the environment. in the E&P industry qualified by ANP as operator already in operation, significant cash flow, and We promote environmental awareness, social responsibility, and A, that is, with permission to operate onshore, in low indebtedness. actions that are consistent with sustainable development. shallow, deep and ultra-deep waters. • Highly qualified technical team with a “We are proud to be a company that is 100% Brazilian.” • A diversified, balanced, and high-quality successful professional track record. portfolio, with assets in exploration, • Significant experience, good reputation and development, and production. prestige in the oil and natural gas industry, • Long-term partnership with Petrobras as due to Grupo Queiroz Galvão’s three decades partner in exploration and production projects. of operation in this industry. 12 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 13 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Our portfolio Grupo Queiroz Galvão encourages Company assets in December 2011 all its partners and stakeholders to incorporate these values and principles. MANATI 45% GRUPO QUEIROZ GALVÃO In addition to the exploration and production area, the Salvador CAMARÃO NORTE 45% Founded in 1953 as a construction company, Grupo Group operates in other stages of the production chain BM-CAL-5 27,5% CAL-M312 20% BM-CAL-12 CAL-M372 20% Queiroz Galvão is currently a conglomerate with of the oil and gas industry, providing services and leasing BM-J-2 100% over 50 companies, operating in various segments of drilling platforms and of production ships, and projects of the economy, such as construction, real estate and construction of ships and platforms, in operation in development, participations and concessions, oil Brazil and in other African and Latin American countries. and gas, exploration and production, environmental To learn more about Grupo Queiroz Galvão, visit Belo Horizonte Vitória engineering, and in the food and steel industries. <www.queirozgalvao.com>. The Group has over 40,000 employees and is present Rio de Janeiro in all Brazilian states, in African and Latin American VALUES São Paulo countries, and exports its products to Canada, the 3 Reliability 3 Work BS-4 30% 3 Quality United States, and Europe. 3 Loyalty BM-S-8 10% The map shows the blocks in which the company holds concession rights BM-S-12 30% and the percentage of interest in each of them. Operation background in the oil & gas industry TIMELINE QGEP has one office in Salvador (BA) and one in Rio de Janeiro and gas condensate. All natural gas (RJ), where the headquarters is located. It was created in March produced in the Field is sold to Petrobras, 2010 from the restructuring of QGOG, when the activities related as determined by long-term contract, to oil and gas exploration and production were spun off from the while the gas condensate (byproduct of • Queiroz Galvão Perfurações S.A. is founded. • Begins the production of oil in the Coral Field. 1980 2003 operations related to drilling services, such as supply of rigs and natural gas) is sold to Dax Oil Refino S.A. leasing of platforms. QGEP guides its operation through the • Begins operating with onshore rigs. • Queiroz Galvão Perfurações S.A. has its In February 2011, the company opened its capital by making an Code of Ethical Conduct developed 1981 2006 name changed to Queiroz Galvão Óleo e initial public offering of its shares, which was the largest IPO with the cooperation of its employees Gás S.A. (QGOG). of the year, attracting a total of BRL 1.5 billion. QGEP’s shares and with the use of the Integrated (QGEP3) are listed in BM&FBOVESPA’s Novo Mercado, which Management System (SGI), which covers • Begins operating with offshore rigs. • Begins the production of natural gas and 1994 2007 gas condensate in the Manati Field. is known for gathering companies committed to the adoption the guidelines and procedures regarding of rules that go beyond those determined by the legislation, health and safety of its employees and regarding elements such as the balance between the rights of all the environment. The company signed • Begins activities in the area of oil and • Begins operating with platforms in shareholders – either controlling or minority – and are transparent the National Pact for the Eradication of 1996 natural gas exploration and production. 2009 ultra-deep waters. in their accountability. Bonded Labor and UN Global Compact. With an estimated market cap of BRL 4.4 billion at the end of • Begins the formation of its E&P’s portfolio • Grupo Queiroz Galvão (QGSA) decides to 1998/2000 with the participation in Round Zero*. 2010 concentrate its E&P activities in a single 2011, the company operates exclusively in Brazil with assets located in the Camamu-Almada and Jequitinhonha basins, in company and creates QGEP. the state of Bahia, and in the Santos Basin, in the southeast of • QGOG spins off all exploration and • Manati Field is discovered. production assets to QGEP. Brazil. In these regions, the company has concession rights in six 2000 exploratory blocks, three discoveries are in the evaluation phase, • QGEP Participações S.A. opens its capital three fields are in the development phase, and a gas field is in 2011 through an initial public offering. production – Manati, in which the company holds a 45% interest • Begins drilling the BC-7 block, the first 2001 • Acquires blocks BM-S-8 and BS-4. (read more on “Our operations”). to be operated by Queiroz Galvão, in • Begins activities in the BM-J-2 block as partnership with Petrobras. an operator. Currently, the company’s operating revenues come from the production in the Manati Field, through the sale of natural gas *Milestone for the opening of the oil industry in the country. 14 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 15 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY AS BASIS Corporate governance “ We adopt a participatory management system. We promote management based on communication, cooperation, merit, freedom of speech, and good integration among people, areas, and our stakeholders; we mutually support each other in everyday challenges and seek solutions that are based on decisions made in the most participatory manner possible.” (Code of Ethical Conduct, paragraph 2) Coffee Harvest 1958 Oil on wood 60 x 73 cm Brodowski, SP 17 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > All shareholders and investors are ensured equal access to information. QGEP seeks to ensure that its commitment to best the election, dismissal, and term of (OECD), on the procedures and conducts which, for six months, relied on the participation of employees. corporate governance practices, consolidated via its office for members of the Board of recommended by NGO Transparency The preparation of the code also served as an engagement and adherence to BM&FBOVESPA’s Novo Mercado, is put into Directors and Executive Board. International, and on the Charter of Social internal awareness tool concerning issues on sustainability and practice. In order to do so, in addition to complying with Responsibility Principles of Instituto ethics in the company’s daily activities. Novo Mercado’s Listing Regulations and with the norms of Other principles and policies are also Ethos. The coordination for the creation Brazil’s Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), it also important drivers, expressing the of the Pact was headed by Instituto Altogether, 90% of the employees* attended lectures and adheres to the recommendations of the Brazilian Institute responsibility of conducting all activities Ethos, the United Nations Development workshops on ethics, in which QGEP’s weaknesses and of Corporate Governance (IBGC), expressed in its Best in an honest and irreproachable Programme (UNDP), the United Nations strengths were mapped. All individuals were encouraged to Corporate Governance Practice Code. The rules below are manner and of continuously improving Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the report their view on how the company addresses issues such among those followed by the company: all internal controls, namely: the World Economic Forum, and the Brazilian as justice, equality, room for development, and relationship Relevant Fact or Act Disclosure Policy, Committee for the Global Compact. with external stakeholders (clients, government, communities, • the Board of Directors, together with the directors, the Securities Trading Policy, the Code investors, suppliers). In order to ensure freedom of speech, an promotes, at least once a year, a public meeting with of Ethical Conduct, and the ten Global Code of Ethical Conduct independent and confidential ombudsman channel was available. analysts and stakeholders to disclose information on the Compact principles. The company’s Code of Ethical Conduct, company’s finance, projects, and perspectives; established as an instrumental conduct The words used in preparing the code were said by the An independent auditor was hired to tool, is comprised of six principles, which employees themselves during the workshops and the final text • the company’s share capital is divided only in common analyze the financial balance sheets reinforce the commitment to participatory faithfully reflects the ideas set forth throughout the process, shares, granting voting rights to all shareholders; and statements, and the company also management, dialogue, transparency, except for adjustments in language. intends to establish an Audit Committee respect for the environment, diversity, and • all shareholders are offered the option to trade their linked to the Board of Directors. fair labor. To disseminate the Code of Ethical Conduct, several lectures on shares under the same conditions. Transfer of controlling ethics will be given, which will occur at least twice a year. The interest shall be made at a transparent price. In the In 2012, the company will formalize The preparation of the code was a document will be periodically reviewed, whenever applicable. event of disposal of the entire controlling block, the its adherence to the Business Pact for goal planned for the year, which was acquirer shall direct its public offering to all shareholders, Integrity and Against Corruption, based reinforced by the need to comply with The following e-mail address is available for suggestions, doubts, under the same terms and conditions of the majority on the 10th principle, anti-corruption, of the Novo Mercado rules. More than and complaints: <qgep@qgep.com.br>. shareholder (tag-along). the UN Global Compact, on the trade simply addressing mandatory issues, * The initial goal of 100% was not reached due to employees’ vacations, leave, or involvement in other guidelines for transnational companies the goal was to prepare a document that activities. • clear definition, in the bylaws, of the manner in which of the Organization for Economic faithfully reflects what the company is the General Meeting shall be convened, as well as of Cooperation and Development and what it intends to be. Thus, it chose to implement a participatory process 18 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 19 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > The principles and policies adopted seek to ensure an ethical and respectful conduct with all stakeholders. GLOBAL COMPACT Trust as a result As part of the process, QGEP prepared In December 2011, QGEP joined the Global Compact. Headed adherence to this initiative, the company already developed Ethics and transparency are the pillars of QGEP’s relationship a materiality matrix consistent with by the United Nations (UN), the Compact gathers companies actions that complied with such principles. with its stakeholders. Thus, the company has built solid relations the topics deemed relevant by these willing to align their operations and strategies to the ten In 2012, QGEP intends to structure its actions to effectively of trust and respect with its various stakeholders. stakeholders. This matrix guides the content of this publication, as mentioned universally accepted principles in the human rights, labor, implement all ten principles of the Global Compact, as well QGEP’s stakeholders were mapped based on an internal survey, in the “About the Report” section. environment, and anti-corruption areas. Even before its as to foster its dissemination among its stakeholders. an industry-specific benchmark study, and a sector analysis. Once identified, these stakeholders took part in an online survey, The company’s goals for the coming year to allow the company to establish dialogue and learn about their include expanding the engagement of topics of interest. the stakeholders via at least one panel/ meeting and developing actions aimed at Human rights The mapping involved members of the local community, its relationship with suppliers. civil society, clients, shareholders and investors, suppliers, employees, unions, and government agencies associated with The way we relate to our stakeholders is licensing processes. described in this report. 1. Support and 2. Ensure the respect the nonparticipation protection of in violations of internationally human rights. recognized human rights. Corporate structure The chart below describes the company’s current corporate structure Labor 3. Uphold the 4. Eliminate all 5. Effectively 6. Eliminate Outstanding freedom of forms of forced or abolish child workplace Queiroz Galvão S.A. (1) FIP Quantum (2) shares association and the bonded labor. labor. discrimination. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 63% 7% 30% Environment qgep participações S.A. (3) 7. Support a 8. Undertake 9. Encourage the precautionary initiatives to development and 100% approach to promote greater dissemination of environmental environmental environmentally challenges. responsibility. friendly technologies. Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. Against Corruption 100% Manati S.A. 10. Fight corruption in all its forms, including (1)  Queiroz Galvão S.A.: holding owned by the Queiroz Galvão family. QGEP Participações S.A.’s chairman of the board is also QGSA’s chairman of the board extortion and and a member of its executive board. bribery. Quantum Fundo de Investimento em Participações: FIP Quantum is a private equity fund, whose portfolio is managed and administrated by Oliveira Trust (2)  Servicer S.A., a company duly authorized by CVM to professionally manage investment funds and portfolios. FIP Quantum’s quota holders and QGSA’s shareholders are the same. FIP Quantum’s quota distribution follows QGSA’s ownership percentage. (3)  QGEP Participações S.A. has indirect controlling interest in Manati S.A. The direct subsidiary of Queiroz Galvão Exploração S.A., or QGEP, holds all shares issued by Manati S.A. 20 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 21 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > General organization of the company ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF JANUARY 2012 Shareholding structure CEO NUMBER OF SHARES AND PERCENTAGE José Augusto Fernandes(1) Before IPO (1) After IPO(2) SHAREHOLDER(3) COMMON SHARES % COMMON SHARES % QGSA 167,459,291 90.0 167,459,291 62.9 HSE MANAGEMENT LEGAL MANAGEMENT FIP Quantum 18,606,588 10.0 18,606,588 7.0 Administrators 7 0.0 7 0.1 Outstanding shares 0 0.0 79,741,019 30.0 COORDINATION OF Total 186,065,886 100.0 265,806,905 100.0 SUSTAINABILITY AND COMMUNICATION (1) Refers to baseline date of 01/19/2011. (2) Not considering the full exercise of the Over-allotment Option and the issuance of Additional Shares. (3) For a further description of the company’s shareholders and its shareholding structure, refer to item 15.2 of the Reference Form and to “Principais Acionistas e Acionista Vendedor”, on page 110 of the Prospecto de Emissão de Ações da companhia, available at <www.qgep.com.br>. NEW BUSINESS PROCESS AND MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION Administrative structure There are no committees supporting the Board of MANAGEMENT QGEP is managed by a Board of Directors. The company understands that it is still Directors and by an Executive Board undergoing a structuring stage and that the creation that perform combining agility, of committees, such as the Audit and Compensation efficiency, and quality in its decisionCommittees and the Supervisory Board, will be analyzed DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND making processes, aiming to reach throughout 2012. EXPLORATION PRODUCTION INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT Paula Costa business management excellence Lincoln Guardado(2) Danilo Oliveira and to maximize the return expected The Executive Board is subordinate to the Board of by its shareholders, respecting the Directors. Presently, it consists of four members. The environment and the communities chief executive officer, director of production, director of surrounding its developments. exploration officer, and director of Finance and IR. DRILLING The Board of Directors is QGEP’s The term of office of the members of the Executive Board GEOLOGICAL DATA MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL PLANNING ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS highest governance body, formed by and Board of Directors is two years, eligible for reelection. MANAGEMENT a group of seven members, 22% of The rules for election and removal from office of these two whom are independent, non-gender bodies, as well as detailed information on its operation, can restricted individuals. In compliance be found on the bylaws, available at <www.qgep.com.br>, with the Novo Mercado rules, in IR Home> Corporate Governance>Bylaws. the chairman of the Board cannot CONTROLLERSHIP REGIONAL STUDIES AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT concurrently hold the position of chief Employees may send their recommendations to the Board MANAGEMENT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT executive officer or main executive. of Directors through the Investor Relations Management. Minority shareholders can send their considerations to the The Board’s current members were IR Management or directly to the Board of Directors. chosen during extraordinary meetings held in 2010; therefore, before going In 2011, a few issues raised by shareholders and RESERVOIR HUMAN RESOURCES DATABASE PROCESSING MANAGEMENT public. The term of these board employees through these channels were: sustainability AND ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT members ends at the Annual General goals, creation of committees subordinate to the Board of MANAGEMENT Meeting, which shall deliberate on Directors, existence of an anti-corruption pact, general and the accounts and financial statements administrative revenues and expenses. referring to the fiscal year ended on December 31st, 2011. New board members will be elected during a FOLLOW-UP EXPLORATION PROJECT AND CONTROL meeting, to be held in 2012. MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 1 He became member of the company’s Board of Directors on June 1st, 2012. 2 He became CEO on June 1st, 2012. 22 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 23 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Professionals with recognized experience and successful track record in the E&P area lead QGEP’s activities. Board of Directors MEMBERS (ON DECEMBER 31ST, 2011) DATE OF NAME AGE BACKGROUND POSITION ELECTION Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão 57 Civil engineer President of the Board of Directors 09/02/2010 Ricardo de Queiroz Galvão 51 Civil engineer Vice-president of the Board of Directors 09/02/2010 Leduvy de Pina Gouvêa Filho 57 Mining engineer Councilor 10/26/2010 Maurício José de Queiroz Galvão 55 Civil engineer Councilor 09/02/2010 Roberto de Queiroz Galvão 46 Industrialist Councilor 09/02/2010 José Luiz Alquéres 68 Civil engineer Independent Councilor 12/16/2010 Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan 59 Mechanical engineer Independent Councilor 12/16/2010 EXECUTIVE BOARD José Augusto Fernandes Filho 72 Geologist CEO 10/01/2010 Danilo Oliveira 59 Civil engineer Chief Production Officer 10/01/2010 Lincoln Guardado 64 Geologist Director of Exploration 10/01/2010 Excellence in business management to Paula Vasconcelos da Costa 34 Production engineer Director of Finance and Investor Relations 10/26/2010 maximize results. Mini résumés of the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board are available on QGEP’s website: <www.qgep.com.br>, in IR Home > Corporate Governance > Management and Board of Directors. Compensation policy or that of third parties, to the disadvantage software, which organizes all contacts QGEP’s compensation policy aims at attracting, retaining, of investors in general, in the market and and meetings held with analysts and and motivating its professionals, aligning the interests of in the company. investors and data related to their the administrators with medium and long-term objectives. shareholding position. Policy for Trading Securities Compensation paid to our administrators (who are also This policy establishes rules for the trading Other activities are scheduled for 2012, administrators of QGEP and Manati S.A.) consists of fixed of company-issued securities by insiders, such as: a study on the investors’ and variable elements, reflecting the parameters adopted aiming at ensuring compliance with best perception of the performance of the in the oil industry with focus on exploration and production. practices and prevention of insider trading. Investor Relations (IR) area and the reformulation of the IR section available on In 2011, the variable compensation was paid to the Investor relations QGEP’s website, facilitating the language company’s directors as bonus for the successful initial In its first year as a publicly traded and providing more user-friendly access. public offering of shares which ended on March 9th, 2011. company, QGEP sought to strengthen, For 2012, the company intends to adopt, as variable expand, and diversify its investor base. compensation, a bonus for performance, operating and In order to do so, the company held financial results through a profit share plan (PLR). approximately 200 group and individual meetings and participated in national and Policy to Communicate Material Act or Fact international conferences, most of which The Communication Policy aims to provide investors making its senior management available with clear, equal and timely information required for their to investors. investment decisions, ensuring symmetry in disclosing information. In this way, we avoid misuse of insider In order to control and quantify this information in the securities market by people who have relationship, the company contracted access to this information, either for their own advantage the Investor Relationship Manager (IRM) 24 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 25 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In its first year, the company was listed in BM&FBOVESPA’s Índice Brasil (IBX-100). Distribution of capital* SHAREHOLDER PROFILE Share performance the top 100 companies with the highest QGEP’s share (QGEP3) ended the year traded at BRL indices of tradability in BM&FBOVESPA. 16.50, which represents a market cap of BRL 4.4 billion and a devaluation of 13% when compared with the price The company’s shares attracted the Shareholder profile** of the initial public offering of shares. This devaluation interest of the market and are currently (Reference date: 12/31/2011) followed the Ibovespa index, which presented a decrease covered by 15 investment analysts of 4% individual investors of 14% in the same period. The capital market showed national and international brokerage high volatility in the year due to the global macroeconomic houses and banks. At the end of 2011, scenario. among these institutions, twelve recommended buying QGEP’s shares, Tradability of the share in the year presented an average and only three recommended holding on 96% institutional investors financial volume of BRL 12 million and a daily average of to the shares; the average target-price for 30% **Percentage refers to 30% of outstanding shares. approximately 19,000 trades. In July 2011, the company the company’s shares was BRL 24.10. hired Credit Suisse as a market maker to foster the 63% liquidity of the shares. As a result, there was an increase of over 80% in the number of trades in the year. This result granted the company the inclusion of its shares in Índice 7% QGSA Brasil’s (IBrX) portfolio as of January 2012, which considers Outstanding shares Quantum – investment fund *Date of last meeting: 04/29/2011. Share Performance in 2011 Price variation from the IPO up to December 2011 Policy for dividends Maximum trading price: BRL 24.69 (April 2011) QGEP distributes dividends each fiscal year. Shareholders are QGEP assured a minimum dividend of 0.001% of the adjusted net Minimum trading price: BRL 12.37 (August 2011) IBOV profit, calculated according to the Law of Corporations, after the constitution of a legal reserve of 5% of the net profit for Brent the fiscal year, until the reserve reaches 20% of the share capital. Any remaining balance of net profit in the fiscal year 130 is allocated according to deliberations made by the company’s 120 General Assembly. 110 100 105 The Board of Directors may decide on dividends from profits or profit reserves determined in the financial statements from any 87 86 90 other period, which are considered advances of minimum dividend. 80 70 60 50 CONTACT CHANNELS 40 IR’s website: www.ggep.com.br/ri 30 E-mail: ri@qgep.com.br 02/09/11 03/02/11 03/25/11 04/15/11 05/10/11 05/31/11 06/21/11 07/13/11 08/03/11 08/24/11 09/15/11 10/06/11 10/28/11 11/22/11 12/13/11 Phone: (21) 3509-5959 26 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 27 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > FOCUS ON VALUE CREATION Operation strategy “ Our line of business is complex, dynamic, challenging and involves the use of high technology. We are attentive to opportunities that bring wide-reaching growth perspective and profitability.” (Code of Ethical Conduct, paragraph 4) Discovering Brazil 1954-1955 Oil and tempera on canvas 492 x 393 cm Rio de Janeiro, RJ 29 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > QGEP’s strategy is to be in areas that add value to the portfolio, maintaining the balance between risk and return and between short and medium-term projects. Strategy Assumptions of our operations To maintain growth in exploration campaigns. This is one • To base our decisions on planning, of QGEP’s main objectives for the coming years, whose constant follow-up, and critical focus is to reach the objective mentioned in the company’s analysis of operations as a vision: to be among the three top Brazilian oil and gas foundation for our initiatives, companies by 2020, and to be recognized by society for its whether in the financial, production transparent and responsible management. or exploration area. The current portfolio is focused on the reduction of risk • To work continuously to replace and in the short term and a significant growth in the medium expand reserves and the production term. Therefore, new opportunities for the expansion profile at the lowest possible cost, of the portfolio are still being considered, mainly in the without losing track of the excellence offshore segment. of our environmental management. Our strategy involves • To operate safely, working to prevent • Intensification of the exploration and drilling program. operational accidents and adhering to all the industry’s regulations. • Growth based on expansion of the portfolio to increase reserves and production in order to obtain appropriate • To adopt the practices required by best balance for sustainable long-term growth. corporate governance, which include transparency, equity, accountability, Operational and management goals • Making use of the knowledge of the key production and corporate responsibility. • To publish the HSE manual with guidelines on health, safety, processes of the E&P chain and of the know-how in the and the environment. development of fields and commercialization of gas, oil, and gas condensate. • To maintain an average production of 6 MM3/day. • Increasing participation in the search for new • To comply with the schedule proposed in the Atlanta Field. opportunities and exploration projects, especially in the pre-salt’s new exploration cycle, through future • To use the cash flow raised in the IPO for new acquisitions. rounds of ANP’s bidding, joint ventures, and farm-ins, making use of the company’s qualification as operator • To achieve zero environmental, personal, and property accidents. A, which enables the search for exploration areas in all environments and being the preferential partner of • To reach the minimum goal of 2% of training and development companies that do not hold this qualification. hours in relation to the total hours worked by employees. • To be in areas that add value to the portfolio, with • To reduce between 5% and 10% the specific consumption of constant balance between risk and return and between electricity in offices per employee. short and medium-term projects. • To form partnerships with strategic players that allow not only the exchange of technical knowledge, but also the reduction of financial exposure and risk faced by companies in the sector. 30 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 31 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > All areas continuously assess the main risks involving their activities. Planned investments (BRL MILLION) LESS THAN 1 TO 3 3 TO 5 MORE THAN TOTAL 1 YEAR YEARS YEARS 5 YEARS BM-S-12 78.7 78.7 BM-J-2 121.3 121.3 BM-CAL-5 27.7 6.9 34.6 CAL-M-372 BM-CAL-12 28.8 28.8 CAL-M-312 BM-S-8 47.7 47.7 Total 275.4 35.7 0.0 0.0 311.1 Investments planned for the next three years for the Minimum Exploratory Programs (PEM) assumed at ANP, in the exploration blocks under concession. These plans do not cover investments in exploratory wells not considered in the PEM or in the production development, since these investments are subject to the confirmation of new discoveries. Investments in production development in the Atlanta and Oliva Fields related to block BS-4 were not considered in this item, given that their Development Plans are being reviewed by ANP. Investments Nearly all QGEP’s revenues and We plan to invest an average of US$ 150 million in cost of goods sold are expressed exploration projects each year. We hold a privileged in Brazilian Reais (BRL). Even financial position, with a robust cash flow resulting from so, the company is exposed to • Future drillings in our areas may not occur or may not produce • The variation of the US$-BRL exchange the Manati Field’s daily production, resources obtained foreign exchange risk due to oil or gas in commercially feasible volume or quality. rate may affect items expressed in through the IPO, and a low indebtedness level, which commitments made in foreign dollars or those whose amount in BRL is enables us to capture future opportunities and to develop a currency. For this reason, the Market • Oil and gas exploration and production involves risks, such pegged to or strongly influenced by the balanced asset portfolio. Risk Management Policy was as spills, explosions in pipelines and exploration wells, and dollar rate. implemented in 2011, establishing environmental and geological disasters. Moreover, we can resort to resources from third parties, rules that must be followed by Business Intelligence according to credit availability and market conditions, the company in order to reduce • Since we are not the operators of most of our blocks, we QGEP is implementing a Business available for fields under development and in production. its exposure to risks, including have a limited capacity to successfully control the exploration Intelligence (BI) system to manage Our low indebtedness level also grants us access to the exchange variation in the US$-BRL activities and development deadlines, associated costs, and information from several company debt market, if necessary. rate for items expressed in dollars production rates related to the exploration of these blocks. departments, integrating the various or amounts in BRL, pegged to or data from these areas in order to Risk management strongly influenced by the dollar rate. • We depend on certain members of our administration and improve monitoring of processes, risk QGEP continuously manages the risks to which it is on our exploration and production team, thus, the loss or management for each activity, and, exposed and could affect its businesses, its financial The policy determines conditions withdrawal of these members can be deleterious to our consequently, decision-making processes. situation, and its operating results. The company has been and limits for the use of derivative future success. developing a general risk management structure, aided by instruments, such as Futures, The implementation process started in a specialized international consulting company, and, during NDF (non-deliverable forward), • The E&P project schedule is subject to delays and cost overrun, 2011 and has already been concluded for this process, each area is responsible for the assessment of and Options, which may only be which my adversely affect our current and future projects, the financial area. The goal is to have all the main risks involving their activities, as well as the control contracted as hedge. keeping us from reaching our exploration and production goals. indicators monitored by all areas integrated and communication of these risks to the administration. to BI, including the GRI indicators. Some of the risks assessed by QGEP • The international baseline prices for crude and natural gas and In 2011, the Board of Directors approved the company’s are summarized below. Further the demand for these products may vary due to factors beyond Market Risk Management Policy, which aims to formalize information can be found at Reference our control. the applicable measures to mitigate QGEP’s exposure to Form, at <http:// www.qgep.com. market risks non-inherent to oil and gas exploration and br>IR Home>Announcements and • The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive production activities. Minutes> CVM Filings – 2011. regulation and to the intervention of the federal government. 32 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 33 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Integrated Management System (SGI) The company also had an active DESCRIPTION OF ASSETS The Integrated Management System (SGI) is the basis for participant in Rounds 3, 4, and 6, Portfolio in 2011 the company’s operation regarding the occupational health promoted by ANP between 2001 and safety and environmental issues, contributing towards and 2004. Of the assets acquired in the management of risks related to these areas. It was prepared according to the principles of the rules issued these biddings, QGEP has interest in concessions of five exploration blocks, Portfolio expansion and diversification were by the International Standards Organization (ISO), such as the Technical Regulation for ANP’s Operational Safety one in the Santos Basin (BM-S-12), one in the Jequitinhonha Basin (BM-Jthe milestones in 2011. The asset portfolio was Management System (SGSO). 2), and three in the Camamu-Almada expanded, with the inclusion of promising blocks The full text of the Policy for the Integrated Management Basin (BMCAL-5, CAL-M-312 and CAL-M-372). and potential sources for revenue growth. The System can be found at QGEP’s website: <www.qgep. com.br>, under Safety and the Environment. In 2011, two strategic blocks located activities in the existing areas proceeded, with Aiming to comply with the legal requirements involving in the Santos Basin were added to the portfolio: BM-S-8, in the exploration important news expected for 2012. management of occupational health, safety, and phase, and BS-4, with two fields being environment, and social responsibility, the company developed and one prospect identified implemented, in 2011, a program to monitor these in the pre-salt region. Ownership items, helping in the monitoring and management of interest in these two blocks was the compliance with legal requirements applicable to acquired from Shell Brasil Petróleo QGEP’s activities. S.A. for US$ 175 million and US$ 157.5 million, respectively. These Our operations were the first two farm-in operations QGEP has a portfolio with a great growth potential and conducted by QGEP after its creation. privileged location, in the offshore region of Bahia and in the Santos Basin, which started to be formed as of The company’s reserve currently totals Round Zero, in 1998, when the exploration and production 70.2 million BOE and refers to the activities were owned by Queiroz Galvão Perfurações S.A. Manati Field. This volume, added to the contingent resources (estimated at 43.6 Between 1998 and 2000, when Rounds Zero, 1, and million BOE) and the risked prospective 2 occurred, QGEP acquired interest in blocks BC-7, resources (278.2 million BOE) total performing as the operator; BCAM-40, where the Manati 392 million BOE. These figures are and Camarão Norte Fields were discovered, located in not included in the contingent and the Camamu-Almada Basin; and BS-3, where the Cavalo prospective resources estimated Marinho Field was discovered and subsequently sold, and for blocks BS-4 and BMS-8, whose where the company took part in the development of the disclosure is being discussed between Coral Field, already decommissioned. the members of this consortium. Background of Asset formation Concessions obtained since the beginning of the E&P operations by Grupo Queiroz Galvão BCAM-404 BM-CAL-52, 4 BT-REC-81 BM-S-751 4 BS-31 BM-CAL-61 BT-REC-91 BM-S-761 NUMBER OF BLOCKS ACQUIRED BM-S-122 BM-J-22 CAL-M-3122 BM-S-771 BC-71 3 CAL-M-3722 TUC-T-1643 BS-44* BM-CAL-12 TUC-T-1633 BM-S-82* 2 BT-REC1 1 0 1998 2000 2001 2002 2004 2006 2007 2011 1 Returned. 2 In exploration. 3 Suspended. 4 Retention of discovery areas/field. * Acquired via farm-in. Blocks BS-4 and BM-8 were part of rounds 0 and 2, respectively. 34 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 35 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In the Santos Basin, the assets are located in promising BM-S-8 and highly prospective areas, near several discoveries already identified. STATUS In exploration WATER DEPTH 2,177 m FLUID Oil CONSORTIUM QGEP: 10%; Petrobras (operator): 66% Petrogal: 14%; Barra Energia: 10% Santos Basin STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE It is the largest block in the Santos Basin, with more than 2,400 km². It is located in a highly prospective area of the pre-salt region, near various giant oil disSTRATEGIC LOCATION coveries. It will provide valuable experience in this pre-salt area, allowing QGEP to assume a privileged position for future operations in the region. At least four additional prospects have been identified, including Biguá and Carcará. The drilling of the latter started at the end of 2011 and the existence of an oil column of 170 meters is known to exist in this pre-salt’s excellent quality reserve. With Carcará’s positive results, the consortium plans new drilling activities for this block. Located to the south of the Brazilian coast, it includes the DISCOVERIES UNDER EVALUATION Rio de Janeiro Bem-Te-Vi. area between the southern coast of the state of Rio de São Paulo Janeiro and the north of the state of Santa Catarina. The Abaré Oeste (extension of a discovery located in an adjacent block, BM-S-9). BS-4 region is considered to be the most promising in Brazil Biguá (discovery made in November 2011). for the exploration and production of oil, due to the most Carcará (discovery made in 2012). recent discoveries in the pre-salt region Two other promising prospects have been identified. BM-S-8 BM-S-12 BM-S-12 STATUS In exploration FLUID BS-4 Oil/Gas CONSORTIUM STATUS QGEP: 30%; Petrobras (operator): 70% Under development WATER DEPTH Drilling of the Ilha do Macuco exploration well started in July 2011 to test prospects Santos 1,550 m #1, Santos #2, Santos #3, and Santos #4. The final depth, corresponding to prospect Santos #4, should be reached by the end of the second quarter of 2012. For the other prospects, FLUID Santos#1 reserves presented water; in Santos#2, the expected reserves did not occur and the Oil seismic and geological data are being reinterpreted; and in Santos#3, reserves presented low porosity, thus the activities in the area were suspended. CONSORTIUM QGEP (operator): 30% 87.9 Blended Case (considering a likelihood of 50% oil and 50% gas). Petrobras: 40% TOTAL COSTS Barra Energia: 30% Capital invested in drilling in 2011 (Exploration capex): US$ 30 million. Estimate for 2012: US$ 40 million. STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE The Atlanta and Oliva fields have a total volume of over 2 billion barrels of oil in situ. The block represents a relevant increase in the company’s production capacity in the medium term. It also offers potential for discoveries in the pre-salt layer, due to its proximity to important fields, such as Libra and Franco, and the drilling of the Piapara prospect* is planned for 2014, aiming at the pre-salt region. In this block, QGEP was unanimously approved as operator by the members of the consortium.** DEVELOPMENT PLAN The first oil in the Atlanta Field is scheduled for 2014. It will be executed in Long Term Testing (TLD), from six months to a year, to collect data on reserves and to gather flow and production parameters. BM-S-76 *Prospect: potential oil and/or natural gas accumulation mapped and ready for drilling. ** The transfer of concession rights and the selection as operator was approved by ANP in February 2012. In 2011 the consortium (QGEP: 20%; Petrobras: 60%; Petrogal: 20%) decided to return block BM-S-76 and the adjacent blocks BM-S-75 and BM-S-77 to ANP, due to its understanding, based on the results from drillings conducted in the Enseada well, that the prospects identified in these blocks would not justify new investments, and that these resources may be put to better use in other exploratory opportunities. 36 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 37 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > The coast of Bahia is considered to have large BM-CAL-12* CAL-M-312 CAL-M-372 oil potential and holds blocks with discoveries under assessment and the Manati and Camarão STATUS Norte gas fields. In exploration DEPTH OF THE RESERVOIR 2,700 m WATER DEPTH 1,500 m FLUID Oil Coast of Bahia CONSORTIUM QGEP: 20%; Petrobras (operator): 60%; El Paso: 20% DIVERSIFIED ASSETS RISKED PROSPECTIVE RESOURCES 24.4 million BOE A prospect was identified with geological success rate of 31%. Salvador 4 leads** identified. Expected drilling of the exploration well in 2013. Manati Camarão Norte *Risked prospective resource: prospective resource multiplied by the probability of geological success. BM-CAL-5 CAL-M-312 **Lead: less defined accumulation; requires additional data and/or evaluation in order to be classified as a prospect. BM-CAL-12 CAL-M-372 Camamu Basin BM-J-2 The Camamu Basin is located in the central area of the coast of the state of Bahia, with a total area of 12,929 km². Camarão Norte Field Manati Field* STATUS STATUS In development (commercial viability declared in 2009) In production Camamu-Almada Basin FLUID FLUID It is located in the central region of the coast of the state of Gas Gas Bahia. CONSORTIUM CONSORTIUM QGEP: 45%; Petrobras (operator): 35% QGEP: 45%; Petrobras: 35% Panoro: 10%; Brasoil: 10% Panoro: 10%; Brasoil: 10% CONTINGENT RESOURCES *For more information, refer to the box on page 40. 4.5 million BOE BM-CAL-5 STATUS In exploration Jequitinhonha Basin It is located in the south of the state of Bahia. It covers an area DEPTH OF THE RESERVOIR of approximately 10,000 km². In 2003, a modeling study of this 2,700-3,700 m basin indicated a promising oil potential for the BM-J-2 block area WATER DEPTH and its surroundings, with discoveries already made by other 500-860 m companies in this region. FLUID Oil and gas CONSORTIUM BM-J-2* QGEP: 27.5%; Petrobras (operator): 72.5% DISCOVERIES UNDER EVALUATION STATUS Copaíba (oil) CONTINGENT RESOURCES* In exploration Discovery made in the second half of 2008. 21.9 million BOE FLUID Expected drilling of an extension well in 2013. Gas/Oil Jequitibá (gas) CONTINGENT RESOURCES* PROSPECTS IDENTIFIED Gas accumulation discovered in 2009. 17.2 million BOE Alto de Canavieiras: 29% chance of geological success. Reprocessing of seismic data is being performed. After the seismic reinterpretaAlto Externo: 24% chance of geological success. tions are ready, the consortium will consider whether possible discoveries enable 94.2 Blended Case (it considers the likelihood of 50% oil and 50% gas). the development of the Jequitibá Field. COST ESTIMATE * Contingent resources: Potential volume of oil, gas condensate and natural gas in known deposits, but which still are not considered commercially recoverable due to one or more contingencies. Total cost (exploration Capex): US$ 140 million, of which US$ 70 million were already invested in 2011. * For more information, refer to page 41. 38 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 39 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Manati: the long-term contract ensures continuous cash flow. BM-J-2 block The restart of operations is planned for This block was acquired in 2002, in the fourth round of the ANP 2013 to complete the drilling of the well to bidding, and covers a 370-km² area. The development’s direct the final depth of 4,700 meters. area influence (AID) consists of the municipalities of Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, and Belmonte. This region includes the Marine Four months of activities Extractive Reserve of Canavieiras. The operation lasted 141 days. In this short Maintenance in 2011 period, three emergency drills were carried Salvador The drilling site is approximately 22 km off the coast of the out and ten socio-environmental projects In 2011, the Manati Field had its wells municipality of Canavieiras, in a 44-meter water depth. The were implemented in the municipalities Manati Camarão do Norte temporarily closed for maintenance. purpose of this activity is to evaluate the presence of a reservoir within the project’s direct area of influence, with the production potential of well 1-QG-5A-BAS, known as meeting the requirements of the operating This need was detected during an inspection Alto de Canavieiras. license. The Individual Emergency Plan was of the risers (tubular systems that connect also implemented, with the installation of The operations started in June 2011, after IBAMA issued operational bases and the use of resources the wells to the platforms) when severe the operating license, with the drilling of the 1-QG-5-BAS such as combat boats and vessels, which corrosion was detected. For safety reasons, well. However, technical-operational problems with unusual are used exclusively for emergencies. the wells were temporarily closed to replace intensity occurred on this site. Since the problems could not be satisfactorily resolved, it was decided to abandon the well and QGEP also brought two projects to the the affected tubes, but were gradually start drilling in a new location, distant one km, which was called municipalities in the vicinities of the block, reopened throughout the year. At the end of well 1-QG-5A-BAS. The procedure was done safely and with the one is focused on the incentive to sports – MANATI FIELD the fourth quarter, all six existing wells were approval from ANP and the environmental licensing agency. the Viva Volleyball project – and the other is focused on culture and environmental • One of the largest producers of non-associated already operating. In September, drilling was temporarily interrupted, when the education – the Portinari for All project, natural gas in Brazil. depth of 2,540 meters was reached, in compliance with the which uses the paintings of Candido The maintenance cost referring to QGEP’s existing restrictions in the operating license. According to the Portinari as pedagogical tools. • The long-term contract with Petrobras provides share will total approximately BRL 23 million, license, activities in this region can only occur from June to solid and predictable cash flow. of which BRL 10 million were paid as expenses September because of the restriction period for the area as a These initiatives are detailed in section in 2011 and BRL 13 million are expected to be result of the presence of turtles and the smaller probability of oil “Accident Prevention” below, and in chapter Located in the Camamu Basin, in the state reaching the area of Abrolhos. “Socio-environmental performance”. paid in 2012. of Bahia, the Manati Field was discovered in October 2000 and started operations in 2007. The Maintenance works are scheduled for field’s estimated reserves were of 70.2 million 2012, but they will not have an impact on BOE in December 2011. the average daily production in the future. The construction of a compression station, Its average expected production capacity is which will maintain the level of production, Salvador 6 million m³ of gas a day. For the development is also scheduled. of the field, the consortium has already Ilhéus invested US$ 700 million. There are six wells interconnected by submarine lines to the Una PMNT-1 platform, which is installed at a Well 1-QG-5A-BAS 35-meter depth, 10 km off the coast. The gas is Canavieiras transported through a 125-km-long gas pipeline to the Treatment Station Vandemir Ferreira (EVF), in São Francisco do Conde (BA). In this station, the gas is processed and sold to Petrobras. 40 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 41 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Aerial view of the EVF in the Municipality of São Francisco do Conde. Accident prevention for accident prevention were also used in BM-J-2, such training sessions, and simulations. The company provided: two construction, highways, energy, realQGEP recognizes the inherent risks as: work permit, preliminary analysis of tasks, HSE daily dedicated vessels next to the platform, with equipment such estate developments, agribusiness, and to its activities and works to reduce communication, and safety meetings. as barriers and collectors, ready for immediate use together steel industry. them to the fullest, with special with the support vessels in case of a spill; ten boats, named focus on accident prevention. We During the reporting period, no cases of spills were recorded. combat boats, located in Ilhéus, Canavieiras, and Alcobaça, also In addition to being part of a successful analyze the risks of every activity dedicated exclusively to this activity; and land bases for the group in Brazil, QGEP adopts an attitude to be contracted in order to identify Individual Emergency Plan support of the PEI, with materials for the cleaning and protection that, based on the transparency of its the control measures that must be During the licensing process, it is mandatory to prepare of the coast in four different locations (Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, activities and on the consistency of its included as contractual requirements, an Individual Emergency Plan (PEI), which considers the and Alcobaça). The crews of over 50 fishing vessels were also image before the public, contributes to the in addition to a prior selection of risk of accidents with oil spills to the sea, the response trained (in the PEI they are referred to as coast protecting boats) generation of a reliable brand, recognized suppliers. We always work with the strategies, and the resources available. in order to act in case of an accident. by its stakeholders. Throughout 2011, the most renowned and well-prepared company’s operation was not questioned companies in the market. The Individual Emergency Plan prepared for the drilling Examples of accident scenarios foreseen in the PEI: by the press or by the communities activity in the BM-J-2 block considered more resources surrounding its developments. During the drilling activity in block than those required by CONAMA Resolution 398/08, due • spill of diesel oil by the support vessel during transportation; BM-J-2, regular HSE inspections and to the environmental sensitivity of the area. We made use audits were carried out aiming at of equipment called drifters, which are used to monitor the • spill involving the support vessel during transfer of diesel oil; continuously improving the processes surface drift (direction and intensity of currents associated and the prevention of accidents. with the effect of the winds), comparing information • spill of diesel oil or lubricants from tanks, equipment, and other The company encouraged its generated by numeric studies of the behavior of oil in an containers in the platform and support vessels; contractors to fill out HSE observation eventual spill in the area, in order to direct the resources cards, which aim at identifying and to the areas that could be affected. We also carried out • oil spills due to eruption or blowout of the well. correcting deviations that could regular training sessions and simulations that involved our lead to accidents. The data from employees and our outsourced employees. Intangible assets these cards, which were prepared The QGEP brand is associated with the Grupo Queiroz Galvão in the drilling platform, were daily For the drilling of wells 1-QG-5-BAS and 1-QG-5A-BAS, brand, which has a successful history of nearly 60 years forwarded to the QGEP for analysis approximately BRL 7 million were invested in the Individual in the development of important projects in the areas of and verification of trends. Other tools Emergency Plan, including human resources, materials, 42 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 43 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Investment of BRL 4 million in R&D promotes scientific research in an area of great biodiversity, on the coast of Bahia. The pioneering project includes studies on environmental sensitivity, climate change and bioremediation. The development of the intellectual and leadership CONHECER PARA PRESERVAR potential of our employees is a (Know it to Preserve it) key success factor. In addition to supporting the Socio-environmental By July 2013, the Jequitinhonha Basin will have a Sensitivity Charter, the data collected by UFBA Socio-environmental Sensitivity Charter that will will also help assess the current situation of the show the areas that are more sensitive to oil spills. Human capital decided to invest these resources, mangrove and develop methods and procedures The area studied covers the coastal region of Una, QGEP believes that the partnership built with its from the production in the Manati for bioremediation for this type of ecosystem. employees is the key element for the accomplishment of Field, in projects that bring social Canavieiras, and Belmonte that have mangroves, Bioremediation consists in the application of its mission and activities. In a scenario where companies and environmental benefits to the river estuaries, restinga, and beaches. compete on a global scale, the intellectual potential and Jequitinhonha Basin area, where the biodegradable procedures; therefore, a very leadership skills are considered the greatest assets of BM-J-2 block is located. Data are being collected for the preparation of this natural method for the treatment of waste and organizations. With the right mix of knowledge, skills and charter, such as use and coverage of the land, the contaminants, using microorganisms (bacteria attitude, employees are able to reach the essence of the The investment was made in a company and contribute to its success. pioneer project in Brazil, developed dynamics of rivers and water flows in the region, and/or funguses). by the Environmental Modeling winds, and meteorological and oceanographic These microorganisms may be used to “clean” an Thus, in addition to investing in the intellectual Center (NUMA), linked to the conditions. The database of the UFRJ team, which development of its employees, providing support to Laboratory for Computational area that suffered contamination by hydrocarbons, training (investment in post-graduation courses, advanced Methods in Engineering (LAMCE) of is responsible for the development of this charter, including those arising from the cleaning of vessels training, MBAs, among others), QGEP empowers COPPE/UFRJ, and by the Center for is also receiving geochemical, biological, and or engines of small boats. employees to seek alternatives and strategies to improve Environmental Studies (NEA) of the social data on the sites studied, collected by the business performance. We believe motivation is a key Geosciences Institute (IGEO) of the The studies started in 2011 and will be conducted factor in the work environment, since it translates into Federal University of Bahia (UFBA). researchers of UFBA. credibility and reliability for the entire group. More information on box “Conhecer for two years; they are of great importance for the The environmental modeling also includes the para Preservar” (in loose translation region because they contribute for the conservation Incentive to innovation “Know it to Preserve it”). analysis of the influence of climate change on of a healthier habitat and provide the communities The company supports the development of scientific the region, based on scenarios foreseen by the capital and maintains constant dialogue with academia, Investment in the project will total with additional knowledge on their territory, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change interacting in industry committees that rely on the BRL 4 million throughout the years providing them with information to demand a more participation of the academic community, such as the of 2011 and 2012. In 2011, the total (IPCC). It will be the first time that the local impact sustainable development for their region. Social Responsibility Committee of the Brazilian Institute of invested was BRL 1.9 million. of climate change will be analyzed in Brazil. Oil, Gas, and Biofuels (IBP), and participating in seminars in order to learn about new studies and new tools in the exploration, production, environmental, and social areas. The contracts for exploration, development, and production of oil and/or natural gas have a clause on investments in research and development that requires companies to invest in R&D at least 0.5% of the annual gross revenue of fields with high production levels. In 2011, QGEP 44 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 45 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > RESPONSIBLE PERFORMANCE Socio-environmental performance “ We are Committed to Sustainability. Our actions incorporate respect for society and for the environment. We promote environmental awareness, social responsibility, and actions that are consistent with sustainable development” (Code of Ethics, paragraph 6) Drag net 1959 Oil on canvas 38 x 46 cm Rio de Janeiro, RJ 47 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Examples of impact factors FACTORS IMPACTS • Reduction of the benthic community (living at Disposal of drill cuttings the bottom of the sea) by burial Use of marine areas/presence of drilling • Fishing-restricted area, for safety reasons unit and vessels • Interference in the marine habitat of cetaceans • Changes in the physicochemical characteristics of seawater • Contamination, loss of larvae, eggs, and individuals of the ichthyofauna Hydrocarbon spills, in case of • Contamination of fish, crustacean, and mollusk Potential impacts on the eventual accidents populations fishing communities are • Contamination of sea turtle feeding areas assessed and mitigated • Loss of the sustainability conditions of via specific sociothe communities surviving on fishing and shellfish picking environmental projects. QGEP has a path of growth ahead and has been on this path it closely monitors the activities The studies conducted, as proposed in the term of reference since its creation guided by the respect for the environment conducted, and is always up-to-date on issued by CGPEG/IBAMA, included the assessment of the and the communities surrounding its activities. the projects developed. impacts from drilling activities on the physical, biotic, and socioeconomic environments, both under normal activity conditions We recognize the actual and potential and emergencies. Socio-environmental studies are conducted in impacts of our operations upon the the areas of influence of its operations and all biodiversity and local communities, Thus, an impact matrix was generated for the various activities are developed with the approval of and we focus on minimizing phases of the activity (positioning/drilling/formation testing/ these impacts. All our operations decommissioning), including the analysis and discussion of the relevant agencies. are assessed in relation to the scope, magnitude, and relevance of the impacts identified. The impacts that they may cause upon matrix considers, for example, potential impacts on water quality, The company uses the Integrated Management System communities and the environment. cetaceans, birds and sea turtles, coastal ecosystems, traditional, (SGI), the Brazilian Pact to Eradicate Bonded Labor, commercial, and industrial fishing, tourism, and the quality of life the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, and the Block BM-J-2 is located in an of local communities. Global Compact principles as its guiding principles for its environmentally sensitive area, in the socio-environmental performance. In its administrative Jequitinhonha Basin, in the south of We are currently developing the implementation of a more framework, the company has a Safety, Environment, and the state of Bahia. In order to operate comprehensive risk assessment system, which shall also Health Management (HSE) department, directly reporting in this environment, QGEP took part, consider social risks, given that, at the moment, environmental, to the Presidency. In December 2011, the Sustainability in 2006, in a strict licensing process, safety, and economic risks are assessed more intensely. A few and Communication Committee was created, reporting which included the preparation of examples of impact factors, whether normal or accidental, in the directly to the HSE Department. an Environmental Impact Study matrix prepared for the EIS/EIA of the operation are listed above. and its respective Environmental The information described in this chapter includes the Rio Impact Assessment (EIS/EIA) and the de Janeiro and Salvador offices and the operations involving summoning of two public hearings. the drilling of block BM-J-2, for which QGEP is the operator The offshore drilling activity was and holds 100% interest. For the other consortiums in duly licensed by the environmental which it takes part, QGEP does not implement any socioregulating agency (General Oil and environmental actions, since it is not the operator; however, Gas Coordination – CGPEG/IBAMA). 48 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 49 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In 2011, BRL 9.5 million were invested in environmental protection actions. The implementation of socio-environmental projects is In addition, we sent communications strategic to manage actual and potential impacts arising about the activity to several from offshore drilling operations for block BM-J-2. These organizations in the region, created projects aim to reduce interferences from the activities or, a hotsite with information about the when this is not possible, to mitigate these interferences. projects, and a telephone line and The socio-environmental projects developed for the block an e-mail address for questions. were based on the impact matrix prepared for the EIS/EIA We were in direct contact with the and its execution was determined by CGPEG/IBAMA. environmental agency (CGPEG/ IBAMA), the regulatory agency To implement these actions, we engaged our stakeholders (ANP), and the fishing communities in various ways. Preliminary visits to the area of direct in the region. We also held a influence were conducted for the issuance of the EIA, preliminary meeting about the activity meetings and public hearings were held to discuss the with suppliers, and daily meetings project. In total, seven public meetings and two public with our main suppliers throughout hearings were held to discuss the activities and their the drilling process. consequences. We also took part, upon request, in the meetings of the Deliberative Council of the Canavieiras For the operation of Extractivist Reserve, located west of block BM-J-2. block BM-J-2, the community was engaged and informed of all aspects pertaining to the operation. Block BM-J-2 projects PROJECT OBJECTIVES All projects are monitored, since it is our understanding that, Throughout the reporting period, no fines through this monitoring, we can have a view of the biodiversity were paid and no non-monetary sanctions Social Communication Project To establish a communication channel between the company and communities and keep them informed on the drilling activity via local in the region prior to the operation and after drilling is finished, to were applied. This is the result of an (PCS) media, distribution of leaflets and explanatory posters, and meetings with the fishing communities and their representatives. determine any change this operation may cause. environmental compliance management based on monitoring, on permanent Fishing Activity Compensation To implement compensation measures for the fishing communities that are directly affected by the activity, so that they can acquire knowledge and Project (PCAP) abilities to support management of fishing resources to the benefit of their livelihood and that of the community. Mitigate actual and potential impacts assessments, and on the timely search for In 2011, BRL 9.5 million were invested in environmental solutions for eventual occurrences. Worker’s Environmental To achieve good environmental performance for the activity as a whole, through training and awareness of the people involved. protection actions. Of that total, approximately BRL 7.5 million Education Project (PEAT) correspond to operations involving block BM-J-2. To track environmental changes in the area of influence by: monitoring of disposal of drill cuttings and fluids; monitoring of the Environmental Monitoring physicochemical characteristics of the water and sediment before and after drilling; recording of marine animals and fishing vessels near the Project (PMA) drilling unit. Investments and expenditures on environmental protection Project to Monitor Beaches/ Monitoring and registration of beached marine animals on the beaches of Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, and Belmonte, before and after drilling, TYPE OF INVESTMENT OPERATING UNIT AMOUNT Strandings (PMP) promoting rescue and rehabilitation, whenever possible. External environmental management services Head office BRL 101,254.00 Fishing Vessel Unloading To provide information to assess the influence of drilling activities upon local fishing productivity by monitoring the unloading of fishing Project (PMDP) vessels in Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, and Belmonte, before, during, and after drilling activities. Waste treatment and disposal BM-J-2 BRL 215,576.39 To avoid the migration of fluids from the drilled well into the seabed and between the geological horizons drilled, especially for hydrocarbonPersonnel used in education and training BM-J-2 BRL 383,214.41 Decommissioning Project (PD) filled layers, pursuant to ANP’s Ordinance No. 025/2002 and to Queiroz Galvão’s norms. Prevention, protection, and environmental management costs BM-J-2 BRL 6,954,486.92 To define attributions and provide resources to operate in the control and fighting of oil spills in the sea, in compliance with Queiroz Galvão’s Individual Emergency Plan (PEI) Research and development* Manati BRL 1,936,849.40 Emergency Response Organization. To establish guidelines focused on the management and reduction in the production of wastewater, atmospheric emissions, and waste TOTAL BRL 9,591,381.12 Pollution Control Project (PCP) arising from the exploratory drilling process. * T his amount corresponds to the total invested in the PetroMangue Project, developed by QGEP, in partnership with UFBA and UFRJ. This investment will occur in a period of two years and will total BRL 4,000,000.00. Although this amount originates from Manati, the investment must be considered as a corporate QGEP investment and is being allocated to the area of influence of BM-J-2’s activities. 50 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 51 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > All waste is properly disposed and the sources of CO2 emissions are being monitored. Percentage of indirect CO2 emissions In 2011, there were no expenses with the treatment of TOG up to 15 ppm), discarded THE CHART BELOW DESCRIBES THE PERCENTAGE OF CO2-EMISSION SOURCES MONITORED IN 2011 emissions and remediation. QGEP aims to implement, in at sea, pursuant to environmental the future, an initiative to mitigate the emissions generated legislation. The 16.33 tons of oily by the company. wastewater reported in the table represent the volume that was not 1% CO2 emissions treated on board, since the water/oil In 2011, CO2 emissions from the drilling of block BM-J-2, separator was down for maintenance. business trips, and purchase of electricity for the Rio de Thus, this volume was unloaded and Janeiro and Salvador offices were monitored. The 141 days sent for treatment on land by a duly of operation of block BM-J-2 account for 99% of QGEP’s licensed company (CETREL). BM-J-2 CO2 emissions in 2011. E lectricity purchased There are no specific initiatives and business trips 99% For 2012, the goals are the consolidation of the emission to reduce water consumption, calculation process and the participation in emission reporting emissions, wastewater, and noise initiatives, such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). pollution; however, the water used in the platform, that is, for showering, Waste general cleaning, and bathrooms, is QGEP has a waste management plan that was prepared produced by an internal system that in compliance with the guidelines and best practices uses seawater. Aiming to minimize concerning the Technical Notice No. 01/11 issued the environmental impacts generated by CGPEG/DILIC/IBAMA, determining that the final by offshore drilling activities, a few disposal methods should be as follows: reuse, recycling, activities were adopted by QGEP: refurbishment, re-refining, decontamination, coTotal weight of waste by type and disposal methods processing, incineration on land, and disposal in sanitary • c ollection of drill cuttings generated NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE WEIGHT (T) GENERATING UNIT DESTINATION and industrial landfills. in the riser phase, with the fluid returning to the rig, using the Clean Paper, cardboard, plastic, glass, During the operation of BM-J-2, all waste generated was CutTM system, produced by MI 32.41 BM-J-2 Recycling metallic scrap transported and handled by duly licensed contractors. Swaco, with subsequent disposal in We point out that, given the short period of time of locations with water depth of over Common waste and wood 14.13 BM-J-2 Landfill these activities, no indicators and/or reduction goals 1,000 m. This system consists in the Spent lubricating oil 26.97 BM-J-2 Re-refining were defined. containment, handling, temporary storage, and transportation of drill Fluorescent lamps 0.022 BM-J-2 Decontamination and recycling Most oily wastewater generated by BM-J-2 was treated cuttings within a totally closed and Healthcare waste 0.063 BM-J-2 Incineration using oil/water separators located in the rig and vessels protected environment; and, when within specification (oil and grease content Waste contaminated with oil or 24.58 BM-J-2 Incineration • use of water-based drilling fluids; chemical products Oily wastewater 16.33 BM-J-2 Treatment station • s ending of the recyclable waste Indirect greenhouse gas emissions1 generated by the activity to a recycling cooperative; IN METRIC TONS OF CO2 EQUIVALENT • s ending of all spent lubricating oil for Business trips 80.2 re-refining. Hazardous waste transported* Purchase of electricity2 6.38 WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TRANSPORTED (IN TONS) BM-J-23 10,778.30 Indirect emissions are those arising from activities conducted by the organization, although generated by sources that are owned or 1 Transported 68 controlled by another organization (for example: purchase of electricity). Calculated using the 2010 GHG Protocol methodology. 2 For the Rio de Janeiro and Salvador offices. Transported through international boarders and entering the boundaries of the organization (imported) 0 3  Including the drilling rig, three support vessels, two dedicated vessels, two helicopters, and all waste transportation. Transported outside national boarders (exported) 0 Treatment station 68 * Data covers the operations of BM-J-2. 52 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 53 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Transparency in relationships Partnership with local communities Maintaining a continuously open channel for dialogue, informing about its activities in a clear and precise manner, and helping residents to better manage their territory is the signature of QGEP’s operation in neighboring communities. fluids are actions that seek to mitigate environmental impacts. generated more than 30 jobs and trained The operation of block BM-J-2 occurred at approximately 22 km the crews of approximately 50 vessels. from the coast and the only substances to be disposed of in sea, all in compliance with the legislation, were: ground organic Social investments waste, treated sewage, treated oily wastewater, water-based As a form to contribute towards the drilling fluid, and drill cuttings. 20.23 t of ground food waste, sustainable development of these 1,627.54 m3 of treated sewage, 35.96 m3 of treated oily water (< locations and to compensate for 15 ppm), 902.82 m3 of water-based drilling fluid, and 360.61 m3 their impacts, QGEP directs its social of drill cuttings were discharged. In addition to these discharged investments to the areas where it substances, we used seawater to produce drinking water, for operates. In 2011, such investments were use in drilling fluid, and to cool engines. geared to the region under direct influence of block BM-J-2 (Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, Incentive to local development and Belmonte). Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção did not make direct investments in infrastructure in 2011. However, investments in social well-being and research were made in the areas where it operates. The company supported studies and researches relevant to maintaining the existing ecosystems in the communities surrounding block BM-J-2, such as the mangrove, source of livelihood of many local communities, and fostered the inhabitants’ knowledge about the region where they live by making available all environmental research carried out, which QGEP implements its projects responsibly, always could request the inclusion of this includes from the survey and tracking of water quality in the working in a participatory manner with local communities, area to the reserve, thus expanding region to the monitoring of wildlife and flora. One of the most both in Manati (where Petrobras is the operator) and in the limits of the unit. important actions is the investment of BRL 4 million in a research the area where block BM-J-2 is located (where QGEP has and development (R&D) project in the region, which will yield 100% interest). As a result of this approach, a Socio-environmental Sensitivity Charter, containing relevant throughout the six-year relationship data for the sustainable management of the territory (for further The company has sought to maintain a transparent with the local community, no information, refer to section “Intangible Assets”). relationship with the communities surrounding block complaints or protests against the BM-J-2 since the beginning of the licensing process, activities developed by the company Since the operation lasted four months, it was not possible in 2005. One such example was the communication to in the region have been registered. to detail the impacts of QGEP’s activities on the economic the Management Council of the Canavieiras Extractivist development levels of the region. Despite its short duration, the Reserve (RESEX), formed by Instituto Chico Mendes de The use of the wastewater treatment operation in block BM-J-2 will continue to generate investments Conservação da Biodiversidade (ICMBio), and Associação station, water/oil separator, food in infrastructure, such as the implementation of the Fishing Mãe dos Extrativistas (AMEX), that it had returned a grinder, disposal beyond the Activity Compensation Project (PCAP) in 2012. At the end of portion of block BM-J-2 to ANP (return of 50% of the 12-nautical mile limit, disposal of fluids 2011, feedback meetings were held in order to inform the area was mandatory after the end of the first exploratory and drill cuttings in areas of water community about the projects executed in the region. period), located near the extractivist reserve in the depth greater than 1,000 meters, and region. With this information in hand, the community the use of water-based, low-toxicity It is also QGEP’s philosophy to hire, whenever possible, local suppliers. Despite operating for only 141 days, BM-J-2, 54 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 55 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In the project Portinari for All, the artist’s works are tools for education through art. ARTISTS SHOULD BE WHERE PEOPLE ARE The painting’s restoration process The life of Candido Portinari is intertwined with the heritage was open to the public and gathered that the painter left for Brazil. The project, which carries the over 6,000 people over the course of family name, was implemented 33 years ago by the painter’s four months. son, João Candido Portinari. If, on the one hand, in the 1970s, São Paulo was the city selected for there was the son’s growing desire to become intimate with the first exhibition after the restoration the works of his father, on the other, it was also necessary to of the panel, which will then be sent recover and reveal to the entire country that which, in fact, to Brasília, Paris (France), Hiroshima was genuinely Brazilian. (Japan), Geneva (Switzerland), and Oslo In the three decades that followed, in addition to keeping alive (Norway), before returning to Rio de the memory of that little boy from Brodósqui, the Portinari Janeiro, at the end of 2013, to be sent Project helped collect one of the greatest artistic and cultural back to the UN headquarters. legacies in the history of the country, with over 5,000 works, Within the War and Peace project, such as paintings, drawings, engravings, and poems. QGEP sponsored a new design QGEP supports this initiative, as the sponsor of all activities of for Portinari Project’s website, the Portinari Project. which provides online an extensive multimedia collection, with over 30,000 WAR AND PEACE documents. With the upgrade in the The War and Peace panels, milestones for Portinari’s database structure, the search will career and for Brazilian art, were exhibited in Brazil for the Inside the chest of project be made more efficiently, with fewer first and last time in the late 1950s. This panel was a request Portinari for All, teaching errors and faster cross-referencing of material is available to help from the Brazilian government to Portinari in order to give information. In addition, the playful and teachers disseminate culture it as a present to the United Nations’s (UN) headquarters, and environmental awareness. dynamic interface will allow children in New York. This painting had not returned to Brazil since and youths to easily perform their then. In 2010, with the UN building undergoing renovations, search, further contributing for the the Portinari Project arranged for the panels to be brought PORTINARI FOR ALL 15 days in each place. Teachers received dissemination of the works of one of to Brazil for their restoration and exhibition to the public, Since 1997, one of the main objectives of the special training on how to deal with the greatest icons in national art. in order to show the Brazilian painter’s appeal for peace. Portinari Project has been to use the works subjects such as the preservation of the of the artist to promote social, human, and wildlife and flora, the proper use of natural civic values. Since 2010, QGEP has worked resources, and the respect for human in partnership with the Portinari Project, and dignity, through the analysis of the works of Portinari for All in numbers together we developed an action focused Candido Portinari. on the communities where we operate. The 6,045 visitors, 164 teachers municipalities of Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras, and Belmonte, located in the south coast The Portinari Project also leaves in schools chests containing teaching material for teachers to pass on this knowledge and trained, 72 schools involved, and of Bahia, were visited by the traveling raise awareness within the community exhibition Art and the Environment, which about how art can transform the individual. presented 22 reproductions of Portinari’s 212 chests of teaching material distributed. paintings. The truck with this exhibition stays 56 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 57 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > HUMAN RIGHTS Respect for human dignity QGEP works towards the appreciation of fair and decent labor and for the defense of individuals’ fundamental freedom and rights. In 2011, 295 children benefited from the Viva Volleyball project. Sport and education for the promotion of social inclusion Volleyball on the island Combining civic awareness, culture, and social inclusion Campinhos, a community with may seem complicated at first. However, the practice of approximately 200 families, is part sports can bring together these three items and also add of the Marine Extractive Reserve the element of fun for children and youths. (RESEX) of Canavieiras. Being aware of the hardships these families face, Having in mind the educational potential of sports, QGEP QGEP always expressed its desire saw on the Viva Volleyball project, founded by the Brazilian to develop a special project for this Volleyball Confederation (CBV), an opportunity to take community. With the company’s education and development to the communities in which initiative, the Viva Volleyball project the company operates. Thus, through a project promoted established a center on the island, in by the Sports Incentive Law (Law 11,438/06), QGEP order to take the sport, culture and supported the implementation of the Viva Volleyball project civic awareness to the children and in the municipalities of Canavieiras and Ilhéus, giving these adolescents of the region. QGEP’s operations are guided based on social responsibility and obligations. In total, of 51 contracts with children and adolescents the opportunity to learn social on respect for human and fundamental labor rights, condemning significant national and international values, such as ethics and respect for others, through For the first time in 13 years, the Viva child labor, bonded or slave-like labor in all its supply chain. The suppliers, 48 – or 94% – had clauses volleyball. In one year, 295 children from public schools of Volleyball project was established in company signed the National Pact for the Eradication of Bonded regarding human rights. these two municipalities started practicing the sport, and a place with the characteristics of the Labor and UN’s Global Compact. the goal is to continue with these actions in 2012. island: a fishing village, which first The goal is that 100% of agreements gained access to electricity in 2010 This concern is reflected in the contracts for significant and contracts have clauses regarding the These centers always have teachers and social assistants, and which had never had contact with investments, which are analyzed by the company’s managers, protection of human rights. who act as mediators between children and their parents. this type of sport. the Executive Board, and the Board of Directors and contain, in The involvement of teachers is very important, so that most cases, clauses regarding human rights. Future actions: parents can realize that the child needs to start practicing “The change in the behavior of from an early age. these children is noticeable. Over In 2011, 24 of 26 significant investment contracts (considering • To implement a control system to time and after we gained their trust, BM-J-2) had clauses regarding human rights, which represented monitor the selection of suppliers based Since 2003, when the project was created, Viva they started to interact more easily, 92% of the total number of contracts. The definition of on their compliance with regulations Volleyball has already helped over 200,000 children and the teacher-student relationship significant investments is based on criteria established by the regarding human rights; and adolescents from 7 to 14 years of age, from all significantly improved”, says teacher International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and includes: over the country. The project has become an institute, Boaventura Freire, who emphasizes contracts of exploration and production accounted for as fixed • To perform regular audits to ensure and is now considered a Civil Organization for Public the importance of this project for the assets, amounts in excess of BRL 200,000 or equivalent, and compliance with these regulations; Interest (OSCIP). The Viva Volleyball project believes life of the residents of Campinhos. contracts that involve donations and sponsorship. that it is possible to develop a culture of peace, based “Viva Volleyball has certainly improved • To implement partnerships with on inclusion and respect, creating a healthy environment the quality of life of the residents. I The company also expects its contractors to act respectfully suppliers to improve their social for the interaction of children and adolescents, who are see that the children are happier, and and ethically regarding human rights. In the organization, responsibility processes and practices often in situations of social vulnerability. that in itself is worth all the effort.” 100% of contracts entered into with contracted companies and engage them on these issues. and national suppliers already have clauses regarding labor 58 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 59 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > OPEN DOORS TO COMMUNICATION Labor practices “ Our team is professional and dedicated. We are a productive, respectful, professional, and relaxed In the relationship with its employees, the keyword for QGEP is partnership. The company invests in respectful a policy for positions and salaries, and to organize policies and procedures for benefits. team that integrates generations and experience. relationships and in the communication among teams. There is a feeling of mutual Non-discrimination We are highly motivated and valued, have trust, which makes QGEP’s employees feel committed to working for the future In spite of QGEP not having formal policies or procedures for non-discrimination in the work place, the presence of employees development opportunities and promote a good of the company. from different backgrounds and age groups and the balance between the number of male and female employees show that work environment.” (Code of Ethical Conduct, paragraph 1) The company appreciates a good work the company understands that diversity enriches the company environment and literally maintains and can contribute to improving results. an open-door policy. Directors and managers have their office doors QGEP recognizes that there is more to be done; therefore, the constantly open, making themselves company intends to implement a hiring policy in 2012 to include available to all employees. in its staff social groups that are not currently present. QGEP also maintains a good relationship Staff Profile with the workers union. There is no The tables on the following page do not include information on restriction to freedom of association, and outsourced employees, with the exception of the first table, all employees are covered by collective whose data correspond only to the headquarters and do not bargaining agreements. include operations. QGEP ended 2011 with 74 employees. For 2012, the goal is to increase the number of employees, with plans to hire 30 professionals, three interns, and one young apprentice. Other goals are to implement a profit share system and Percentage of employees by gender PERCENTAGE OF MEN AND WOMEN IN THE STAFF 45% 55% Men Women 60 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 61 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In 2011, staff is considered even regarding gender and position. Number of employees Number and rate of hires BY POSITION BY GENDER (%) MEN WOMEN Male 19 47.5 Executive Board 3 1 Female 16 47.05 Management 6 5 BY AGE GROUP (%) Leadership/Coordination 9 3 Under 30 years of age 9 52.9 Technical/Supervision 5 4 Between 30 and 50 years of age 16 51.61 Administrative 9 18 Over 50 years of age 10 66.66 Outsourced employees 8 3 BY REGION (%) TOTAL 40 34 South BY JOB TYPE Southeast 35 49.29 MEN WOMEN Midwest Full time 40 34 Northeast Part time North TOTAL 40 34 BY CONTRACT TYPE Number of terminations and MEN WOMEN turnover rate* BY GENDER (%) Fixed term 2 Male 3 15.38 Open-ended 40 32 Female 3.33 TOTAL 40 34 BY AGE GROUP (%) BY REGION Under 30 years of age 2 16.67 MEN WOMEN Between 30 and 50 years of age 1 7.14 South Over 50 years of age BY REGION (%) Southeast 38 33 South Midwest Southeast 3 9.62 Northeast 2 1 Midwest North Northeast TOTAL 40 34 North *We understand that the company’s turnover rate may be calculated based on the number of terminations and hires already informed. 62 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 63 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In 2012, BRL 1.7 million will be invested in training and professional development programs. Board of Directors BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Training In November 2011, the company held its The oil and gas sector is highly competitive, and training of the first Internal Accident Prevention Week technical staff is essential for our future. All QGEP’s employees (SIPAT), in the Rio de Janeiro office. The 28.5% are encouraged to take part in training courses, courses, and event offered lectures on stress and workshops. The company bears from 80% to 100% of the healthy habits, ergonomics, alcohol and investment. In 2011, QGEP funded development courses, such drugs, and corporal assessment (weight, as MBAs and postgraduate studies, to its employees, in addition height, blood sugar, blood pressure). Two to professional enhancement in each area. plays were enacted: one on STD/AIDS and 100% another on accident prevention. These In 2012, it will structure training policies and procedures and subjects were suggested by employees 71.5% Under 30 – 0% reinforce investments in professional training in the amount of during a survey conducted to define the BRL 1.7 million. This amount will be allocated according to the issues to be approached during SIPAT. Between 30 and 50 Women – 0% goals planned for the year and to the results of each employee’s Over 50 performance assessment. After the event, another survey was Men conducted to measure the level of Health and safety satisfaction of QGEP’s employees in QGEP ended 2011 without any accidents in the Rio de Janeiro relation to SIPAT. The level of satisfaction and Salvador offices. In block BM-J-2, there were two accidents scored 85 out of 100. with lost time and one without. No fatalities were registered in the period. The organization has a “zero accident” goal implemented in all its operating units. Benefits BENEFITS* COVERAGE Health and safety indices Meal allowance All employees (except directors) HEADQUARTERS AND BM-J-2 SALVADOR Transportation allowance According to legislation, to all who request it INDICATOR EMPLOYEES RATE % RATE % Life insurance All employees TFCA: Lost-time accident rate (per million man-hours) Employees + contractors 0 0 2 7.5 Health insurance All employees TFSA: accident rate without lost time (per million man-hours) Employees + contractors 0 0 1 3.7 Coverage for impairment/disability As determined by legislation TFA: accident frequency rate (including accidents with and without lost time) Employees + contractors 0 0 3 11.2 Maternity leave and paternity leave As determined by legislation TDP: total lost days (in which days mean business or calendar days on which the Employees + contractors 0 0 88 N/A Retirement fund All employees count of the lost days begins on the day following the accident) Stock option plan Directors, managers, and employees in key positions Total fatalities for the period Employees + contractors 0 0 0 0 Others (day-care/education assistance) All employees The system of rules applied in the recording and reporting of statistics on accidents follows ILO (International Labor Organisation) recommendations. *In the reporting period, the company did not have any interns, part-time or temporary employees. 64 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 65 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Operational performance Economic-financial results “ We are an ethical and transparent organization. Our work is based on honesty, credibility, transparency of information, and respect to the interests and rights of our stakeholders. We operate with integrity and always in compliance with legislations, regulatory aspects, and with the best corporate governance practices.” (Code of Ethical Conduct, paragraph 3) Man Climbing Rope Ladder 1955 Gouache, graphite, colored crayon, sepia, and India ink pen on paper 26.3 x 14 cm Rio de Janeiro, RJ 67 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > In December 2011, the company had a cash balance of BRL 1.2 billion QGEP ended 2011 with a net income of BRL 92.1 Positive cash balance and low indebtedness Financial results million, 38% below that of 2010, especially due to a Even after two significant acquisitions in 2011 (acquisition of Production of natural gas lower production in the Manati Field, increased general blocks BM-S-8 for US$ 175 million and BS-4 for US$ 157 million), MANATI FIELD volume in million cubic meters and administrative expenses, and impacts of exchange the company maintained a comfortable cash balance in 2011, rate variations. EBITDAX was BRL 142.5 million, with a allowing for the continuation of its portfolio expansion projects. EBITDAX (BRL million) 49.3% margin. On December 31st, net cash was BRL 1.2 billion after payment of BRL 245.8 million corresponding to the last installment for the 1,017.5 In 2011, Manati registered an average daily output of 4.1 acquisition of BM-S-8 and 10% of BS-4. 301.2 million m3 of gas, compared to the 6.2 million m3 produced 675.1 in 2010. However, the smaller volumes produced were Indebtedness percentage was 55.4% below that of 2010, 78% partially offset by the adjustment in the price of gas. The amounting to BRL 103.6 million, and the operating cash flow natural gas sale agreement executed with Petrobras is remained positive, totaling BRL 194.2 million at the end of 2011. made in Brazilian Reais and adjusted annually, based on 142.5 the contractual rate defined. Thus, net revenue totaled BRL 289 million, equivalent to a 25.4% reduction in Significant financial aid from the government Manati S.A., QGEP’s subsidiary, has tax incentives for partial -33.7% relation to that of the previous year. reduction of income tax due, for an amount equivalent to the 2010 2011 portion provided for in the tax law for exploratory operations The exchange variation had a BRL 40.1 million impact conducted in the northeastern region. This incentive is calculated 49% on the remaining installment referring to the acquisition based on the tax profit for the activity (called exploration profit) of 30% ownership interest in block BS-4. Of the total and considers the allocation of operating profit according to the Total tax incentives for income tax 2010 2011 US$ 157.5 million, 10% were paid in August, and the production levels stimulated during the incentive period for each deduction purposes was BRL 25.1 million remaining 90%, recorded in 2011 as accounts payable, product. An amount equal to the tax savings must be allocated in 2011, of which BRL 24.5 million refer will be paid once ANP approves the transfer of concession to a profit reserve account, in net equity, and cannot be paid as to exploration profit and BRL 575,000 to NET INCOME (BRL MILLION) rights. Currency devaluation resulted in additional dividends to shareholders. cultural and artistic operations. BRL 11.9 million in the accounting provision for the decommissioning fund for the Manati Field. Net financial Manati and other companies of the Group also develop incentive 148 result of the company for the period was BRL 84.4 million, programs for the preservation of cultural heritage, which, 761.2% above that of 2010. according to the Rouanet Law, allows deduction of 100% of the 92.1 investment, up to a cap of 4% of income tax due. Costs were reduced by BRL 128.7 million in 2011, 38% representing a reduction of 8.9%. This reduction is due 32% to an impact of BRL 53.1 million from depreciation; BRL 24.7 million from special ownership interest; BRL 3 million 2010 2011 from research & development; and BRL 10.4 million from maintenance costs in the Manati Field, in addition to BRL Value-added statement 37.5 million from the operation of the natural gas plant. PERCENTAGES NET REVENUE (BRL MILLION) Exploratory costs amounted to BRL 52.1 million, of which BRL 29.7 million refer to the purchase of seismic data related 387.5 to the areas where blocks BM-S-8 and BS-4 are located. In 3.6 10.14 2010, exploratory costs reached BRL 40.4 million. 289 General and administrative expenses amounted to BRL 22.19 64.1 million in 2011, representing an increase of 196.3% in relation to the BRL 21.6 million recorded in 2011, due -25.4% to the expansion of the technical team for the operational 2010 2011 activities of block BS-4 and share options offered to Government EBITDAX margin employees. General and administrative expenses, excluding those not arising from the incentive for the IPO, 39.76 Retained earnings Interest and leases (operating costs) in the amount of BRL 23.1 million, reached BRL 41 million Net margin in 2011, compared to BRL 21.6 million in 2010. Investments in the community Variation 27.91 Employees (employee compensation and benefits) 68 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 69 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Value-added statement DESCRIPTION EXPLANATION BRL THOUSAND* Including amounts received as dividends related to investments valued at cost. The result 6.1) Results of equity accounting of equity accounting may represent revenue or expenses. In case of expenses, it must be Revenue Net sales and revenue from investments and disposal of assets 898,777 informed between parentheses Economic value distributed 6.2) Financial revenue Include all financial revenue, regardless of origin 154,480 Operating costs Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, facilitating payments 714,054 7 – TOTAL VALUE ADDED TO BE DISTRIBUTED Sum of items 5 and 6 (5+6) 330,179 Employee compensation and benefits Total payroll for employees 33,478 8 – DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE* SUM OF ITEMS 8.1 TO 8.5 330,179 All charges related to vacations, year-end bonus, FGTS, food, transportation, etc., must be Payments to the government Gross taxes 131,290 8.1) Employees and charges 33,478 added to the cost of the good or result for the period (except for INSS charges) Payments to investors In addition to the contributions due to INSS, income tax, social contribution, all other taxes, (such as shareholders) fees, and contributions must be included in this item. For values related to ICMS and IPI Voluntary contributions and investments of resources in the community as a whole, including 8.2) Taxes, fees, and contributions the values due or paid to public treasury must be considered, representing the difference 131,290 Investments in the community 11,889 donations between the taxes on sales and the amounts considered for item 2 Inputs acquired from Aggregate economic value (economic value third parties Investments, mortgages generated less economic value distributed) Including financial expenses and interest related to any type of loans and financing from 8.3) Interest and leases financial institutions, group companies, or others, and leases (including leasing-related 73,274 expenses) paid or credited to third parties 1 – REVENUE Sum of items 1.1 to 1.3 898,777 Amounts paid or credited to shareholders. Interest on own capital recorded as reserve must Including ICMS and IPI levied upon such revenue, i.e., corresponding to the gross revenue or 8.4) Interest on own capital and dividends 1.1) Sale of goods and services 372,403 be included in item 8.5 to the gross sales 8.5) Retained earnings/losses for the Profit for the period allocated to profit reserves and eventual installments without any specific 1.2) Provision for doubtful debtors – 92,137 Constitution/write-off of provision for doubtful debtors fiscal period destination must be included Reversal/Constitution Includes amounts not considered in the main activities of the company, such as: gains or *Negative values are parenthesized. 1.3) Non-operating 526,374 losses on asset write-offs, gains or losses on investments, etc. 2 – INPUTS ACQUIRED FROM THIRD PARTIES (including ICMS and IPI) Sum of items 2.1 to 2.4 714,054 2.1) Raw materials consumed Included in the cost of goods sold 2.2) Cost of goods and services sold Not including expenses with employees 145,507 Related to acquisitions and payments to third parties. ICMS and IPI taxes included at the time 2.3) Materials, energy, services from third of purchase of materials, services, energy etc., will be considered in cost of products sold, 561,300 parties and others recoverable or otherwise Amounts related to the market value of inventories and investments, etc. Note: if the net 2.4) Loss/Recovery of cost of assets 7,247 amount is positive, it should be added to item one instead of subtracted 3 – GROSS VALUE ADDED Difference between items 1 and 2 (1-2) 184,723 4 – WITHHOLDINGS Item 4.1 9,024 4.1) Depreciation, amortization, and depletion Expense recorded for the period 9,024 5 – NET VALUE ADDED PRODUCED BY THE COMPANY Difference between items 3 and 4 (3-4) 175,699 6 –VALUE ADDED RECEIVED IN TRANSFER Sum of items 6.1 and 6.2 154,480 70 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 71 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > GRI Table of Contents and Global Compact Related Global EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government. 69 Complete Indicator Description Pages Complete/partial Compact Principle Impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 4, 5 Complete Statement supporting the Global Compact EC8 primarily for public benefit. 55 Complete 2.1 Name of the organization. 13 Complete EC9 Description of significant indirect economic impacts. 55 Complete 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 14 Complete EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity. 48 to 50 Complete Principle 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 14 Complete EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity. 48 to 50 Complete Principle 8 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 14 Complete EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 52, 53 Complete Principle 8 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 14, 74 Complete EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 52, 53 Complete Principle 8 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 13 Complete EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 53 Complete Principle 8 2.7 Markets served. 14 Complete EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 42 Complete Principle 8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 14 Complete EN24 Weight of transported waste deemed hazardous. 53 Complete Principle 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 14, 22, 34, 37 Complete EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 52 Complete Principles 7,8, and 9 2.10 Awards and certifications. No awards were received Complete Monetary value of fines and total number of sanctions for noncompliance during the reporting period EN28 51 Complete with environmental laws and regulations. 3.1 Reporting period. 8 Complete EN30 Total investments and environmental protection expenditures. 51 Complete Principles 7, 8, and 9 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 8 Complete LA1 Total workforce. 61 to 63 Complete Principle 6 3.3 Reporting cycle. 8 Complete LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover and hiring. 63 Complete Principle 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 9 Complete SO1 Impact assessments and development programs in communities. 48 to 50 Complete 3.5 Process for defining report content. 7 Complete SO9 Operations with material negative impacts on local communities. 48 to 50 Complete Principle 8 3.6 Boundary of the report. 8 Complete Measures for preventing and mitigating negative impacts on SO10 48 to 50 Complete Principles 7 and 8 ocal communities. 3.7 Scope of the report. 8, 9 Complete Percentage and number of significant investment agreements and HR1 59 Complete Principles 1 and 6 3.8 Basis for reporting. 8, 9 Complete contracts that include human rights clauses. Not applicable, Percentage of significant contractors, suppliers, and other significant HR2 59 Complete Principles 1 and 6 considering that business partners that have undergone screening on human rights. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. this is the first report issued by the company. Not applicable, Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods considering that 3.11 this is the first applied during the reporting period. report issued by the company. 3.12 GRI content index. 72, 73 Complete 4.1 Governance structure. 21 to 24 Complete 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 22 Complete Number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are 4.3 22 Complete independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations. 22 Complete 4.8 Mission, vision, principles, and code of conduct. 12 Complete Principle 10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 21 Complete 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 21 Complete EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 69, 70 Complete 72 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 73 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OPERATION STRATEGY SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS AND GLOBAL COMPACT < > Credits INDIVIDUALS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INFORMATION Maria Eduarda Pessôa HSE Management Renata Amarante Investor Relations and Financial Planning Manager Rebeca Kiperman Communication and Sustainability Coordination GRI CONSULTING, TEXT, AND EDITING Report Sustentabilidade REVIEW Assertiva Produções Editoriais Translation Gotcha Idiomas GRAPHIC DESIGN, LAYOUT, AND GRAPHIC PRODUCTION Report Sustentabilidade PHOTOGRAPHS Ari Versiani Agência Ponto The images referring to Candido Portinari’s artworks were kindly provided by Projeto Portinari. PRINTING AND FINISHING Gráfica Stilgraf Print run: 250 copies Paper: body Couché Fosco Matte, 115 g/m2 and cover Duodesign, 300 g/m2 TYPEFACE FAMILY Univers (1957), Adrian Frutiger QUEIROZ GALVÃO EXPLORAÇÃO E PRODUÇÃO Rio de Janeiro (headquarters) Av. Almirante Barroso, 52 sala 1.301 Centro – Rio de Janeiro RJ Phone: +55 21 3509-5800 Bahia Av. Antonio Carlos Magalhães, 1.034, sala 353 – Pituba Parque Center Itaigara, Salvador BA Phone: +55 71 3351-6210 74 Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Production 75 www.qgep.com.br
