2011 ING IN SOCIETY ING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 97,000 PEOPLE EMPLOYED BY ING GLOBALLY € 5,766 M TOTAL NET RESULT 100 % ING IS 100% CARBON NEUTRAL AND HAS BEEN SINCE 2007 16.2 % OF OUR MANAGEMENT COUNCIL ARE WOMEN 72/100 SCORE OF DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX € 1,701 M SUSTAINABLE ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT 40 YEAR NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WITH ING OFFICES 2011 118,101 NUMBER OF CHILDREN PROVIDED WITH ACCESS TO PRIMARY EDUCATION 5 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS About this report 9 Chairman’s message 11 Governance & Compliance 12 ING Business Principles 14 Overview of our company 16 ING’s external environment in 2011 20 Sustainability reporting 21 Stakeholder engagement 28 Our vision on sustainability 30 ING progress report 2011 35 Better Customer Experience 43 Better Business 73 Better Environmental Footprint 79 Better Workplace 87 Better Communities 99 Performance 102 KPIs 105 Assurance report 107 Country list 108 Glossary 111 Colophon 4 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 7 This report describes our role in society and our sustainable initiatives in ABOUT THIS REPORT IMPROVEMENTS INTEGRATING FINANCIAL AND NON This report contains several improvements over FINANCIAL REPORTING 2011. It covers the financial year from January 2011 to December 2011. last year’s report based on recommendations ING has incorporated a chapter on its we received from our stakeholders. sustainability strategy in the annual financial This report is intended primarily for by our internal experts and an society by being good at what we do, • More detail on stakeholders’ views about report since 1995. In 2011 we started to institutional investors, our customers, independent external advisor (DHV), taking responsibility for the impact performance and reporting: this includes the integrate sustainability performance data non-governmental organisations using analytical procedures and of our products and services on the results of structured engagement around in our quarterly financial reports. This ‘ING (NGOs) and anyone with an interest follow-up inquiries. world around us, and contributing reporting and material issues, and responses in Society’ report goes a step further by in ING’s sustainability performance. to positive change that allows future to adverse comments and criticisms, see showing how the economic, social and The ING Annual Report 2011, which The sustainability data in this report generations to thrive, within the page 22-27; environmental aspects of our business are covers ING’s financial performance covers business units in 33 countries resource limits of our planet. • More information on how we engage with connected. We believe such an integrated and corporate governance policies, is and approximately 90% of our FTEs. customers, NGOs, governments, regulators, approach to reporting provides readers with available on ing.com. The report contains links to both REPORTING STANDARDS AND shareholders and other stakeholder groups; greater context in evaluating our performance ING’s website and external websites. ASSURANCE see page 22-27; data; further demonstrates how sustainability The content of the ING in Society We continue to use the Global • Greater coverage of material issues as fits into our business strategy; and meets report has been determined based For performance indicators not Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1) as identified by our stakeholders and of the information needs of our stakeholders. on the following factors and criteria: covered by our sustainability tool, our core sustainability reporting challenges for our international business; However, we acknowledge that fully • Issues that are currently most we gathered information at different framework, reporting at an A+ see page 14-27; integrated reporting is not achieved by simply important to our stakeholders, our levels within the organisation. level (GRI checked). In addition, • A more complete overview of the integrating different corporate reporting business operations and for our The departments ING Group we have reported on performance composition of our businesses, including components. We will need to further financial outcomes; Compliance, Corporate Legal, Credit indicators specific to the financial our exposure to different sectors in the invest in developing an effective integrated • Consultations with our business Risk Management, Operational services sector according to the GRI’s economy; see page 14-15; management and reporting process. This can lines to identify which social, Risk Management, Corporate Financial Services Sector Supplement • More coverage on the social and be done only by cooperating closely with environmental and ethical topics Procurement, Facility Management, (FSSS). In cases where we are unable environmental impacts of our banking different departments within ING and with are most relevant to them; Human Resources, Public & to report on certain indicators, we operations; see page 107; specific stakeholder groups, such as investors, • Sustainability issues, risks or Government Affairs, Corporate aim to improve our systems in order • More extensive assurance (covering our sustainability professionals and accountancy opportunities as identified by the Communications, and Investor to include those items in future progress report, in addition to the KPIs); firms. Group Sustainability department; Relations provided performance data reporting. From a materiality point see page 105-106. • Expectations made explicit through and descriptions of corporate policies, of view, we have published some of international standards. procedures and monitoring systems. the GRI standard disclosures on our website. For more information In 2009 we launched ‘ING for All information on ING’s financial about our compliance with GRI Something Better’, a programme performance in this year’s report is standards, please visit that brings together all of our based on the consolidated figures www.ingforsomethingbetter.com/ sustainability initiatives into one stated in the Annual Report 2011, report. Statement format. The structure of this report with the exception of the “Finance 'Z/ƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůŚĞĐŬ is based on this concept, which was and Transparency” paragraphs on We report our performance against GRI hereby states that ING has presented its report “ING in Society” (2011) to GRI’s Report Services ǁŚŝĐŚŚĂǀĞĐŽŶĐůƵĚĞĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƚĨƵůĮůůƐƚŚĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůн͘ further developed in 2011. More pages 60-61 and 70-71, for which established targets and commitments, 'Z/ƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůƐĐŽŵŵƵŶŝĐĂƚĞƚŚĞĞǆƚĞŶƚƚŽǁŚŝĐŚƚŚĞĐŽŶƚĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞ'ϯ͘ϭ'ƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐŚĂƐďĞĞŶ information about this can be found we have used internal credit risk as expressed in our KPIs and progress ƵƐĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƐƵďŵŝƩĞĚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ͘dŚĞŚĞĐŬĐŽŶĮƌŵƐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƐĞƚĂŶĚŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨ ĚŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞƐĨŽƌƚŚĂƚƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůŚĂǀĞďĞĞŶĂĚĚƌĞƐƐĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐĂŶĚƚŚĂƚƚŚĞ'Z/ on page 28. measurement data. report. All KPIs relate directly to ING’s ŽŶƚĞŶƚ/ŶĚĞǆĚĞŵŽŶƐƚƌĂƚĞƐĂǀĂůŝĚƌĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƟŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚĚŝƐĐůŽƐƵƌĞƐ͕ĂƐĚĞƐĐƌŝďĞĚŝŶƚŚĞ'Z/ 'ϯ͘ϭ'ƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐ͘ strategy on sustainability. Ernst & ƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůƐĚŽŶŽƚƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĂŶŽƉŝŶŝŽŶŽŶƚŚĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƚĞƌŶŽƌƚŚĞ COLLECTING DATA FOR THIS SUSTAINABILITY Young provided reasonable assurance ƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƟŽŶŝŶƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƚ͘ REPORT From now on, we will use the term on the KPI table and description of ŵƐƚĞƌĚĂŵ͕ϮϱƉƌŝůϮϬϭϮ We use a proprietary, online data ‘Sustainability’ instead of ‘Corporate the reporting process (About this collection sustainability tool to gather, Responsibility’ to sum up our effort report). Additionally the progress track and validate data required for to integrate social, environmental report is provided with a limited EĞůŵĂƌĂƌďĞǆ ĞƉƵƚǇŚŝĞĨǆĞĐƵƟǀĞ our annual sustainability reporting and ethical considerations into our assurance. The assurance report can 'ůŽďĂůZĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ/ŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ cycle. All ING businesses over which core business strategy. We believe be found on page 105. dŚĞ͞н͟ŚĂƐďĞĞŶĂĚĚĞĚƚŽƚŚŝƐƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶ>ĞǀĞůďĞĐĂƵƐĞING ŚĂƐƐƵďŵŝƩĞĚ;ƉĂƌƚŽĨͿƚŚŝƐƌĞƉŽƌƚĨŽƌĞǆING has management control and this term better captures our mindset ƚĞƌŶĂůĂƐƐƵƌĂŶĐĞ͘'Z/ĂĐĐĞƉƚƐƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƚĞƌ͛ƐŽǁŶĐƌŝƚĞƌŝĂĨŽƌĐŚŽŽƐŝŶŐƚŚĞƌĞůĞǀĂŶƚĂƐƐƵƌĂŶĐĞƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƌ͘ which have more than100 FTEs and the plans and targets we have Special terms or criteria used in this dŚĞ'ůŽďĂůZĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ/ŶŝƟĂƟǀĞ;'Z/ͿŝƐĂŶĞƚǁŽƌŬͲďĂƐĞĚŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶƚŚĂƚŚĂƐƉŝŽŶĞĞƌĞĚƚŚĞĚĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞǁŽƌůĚ͛ƐŵŽƐƚǁŝĚĞůǇƵƐĞĚ ƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐĨƌĂŵĞǁŽƌŬĂŶĚŝƐĐŽŵŵŝƩĞĚƚŽŝƚƐĐŽŶƟŶƵŽƵƐŝŵƉƌŽǀĞŵĞŶƚĂŶĚĂƉƉůŝĐĂƟŽŶǁŽƌůĚǁŝĚĞ͘dŚĞ'Z/'ƵŝĚĞůŝŶĞƐƐĞƚŽƵƚ ƚŚĞƉƌŝŶĐŝƉůĞƐĂŶĚŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐƚŚĂƚŽƌŐĂŶŝǌĂƟŽŶƐĐĂŶƵƐĞƚŽŵĞĂƐƵƌĞĂŶĚƌĞƉŽƌƚƚŚĞŝƌĞĐŽŶŽŵŝĐ͕ĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů͕ĂŶĚƐŽĐŝĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͘ submit data signed off by a senior for the future of our company. We report will be defined throughout the ǁǁǁ͘ŐůŽďĂůƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐ͘ŽƌŐ Disclaimer:tŚĞƌĞƚŚĞƌĞůĞǀĂŶƚƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƌĞƉŽƌƟŶŐŝŶĐůƵĚĞƐĞǆƚĞƌŶĂůůŝŶŬƐ͕ŝŶĐůƵĚŝŶŐƚŽĂƵĚŝŽǀŝƐƵĂůŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů͕ƚŚŝƐƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚŽŶůǇĐŽŶͲ executive. This data is monitored believe we can best contribute to report. ĐĞƌŶƐŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐƵďŵŝƩĞĚƚŽ'Z/ĂƚƚŚĞƟŵĞŽĨƚŚĞŚĞĐŬŽŶϭϵƉƌŝůϮϬϭϮ͘'Z/ĞǆƉůŝĐŝƚůǇĞǆĐůƵĚĞƐƚŚĞƐƚĂƚĞŵĞŶƚďĞŝŶŐĂƉƉůŝĞĚƚŽĂŶǇůĂƚĞƌ ĐŚĂŶŐĞƐƚŽƐƵĐŚŵĂƚĞƌŝĂů͘ 6 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Dear reader, 9 2011 was a year marked by strong economic headwind CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Society is demanding and intense debate on the future shape of the financial services industry. These are issues that will remain high on that we reinvent the agenda in 2012. ourselves. Amidst ongoing economic uncertainty, in which we apply all over the world with the Europe and the US in particular, society is aim to manage the potentially negative demanding that financial institutions reinvent socio-environmental risks of our transactions themselves: putting the interests of the and client engagements. In 2011, we further customer first, ensuring financial stability, refined our Environmental and Social Risk being more transparent on products and Policy framework. For example, by initiating services, strengthening risk management and a fishery policy and implementing the new governance, moderating remuneration policies OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and stepping up efforts to support sustainable as developed by the UN Global Compact economic development. Office and the OECD Secretariat. In the past year, we made significant progress Taking good corporate citizenship one step on the path of transforming our company, further, it is our ambition to contribute to separating our banking and insurance/ positive change. This means that we are investment management businesses and stepping up our efforts to provide innovative further integrating sustainability in our overall financial solutions to the major social funding corporate strategy and business activities. and investment challenges, in areas such as Looking ahead, I consider it our most energy transition and health. Our research important challenge to better demonstrate teams actively explore the business case for that we provide real value that benefits our sustainability. customers and society. What is more, we invite our employees to Earning customer trust remains a key priority play an active role in society through our for ING. In our day-to-day business, we are community investment programmes. In returning to the forefront of our traditional November and December 2011, during the function to collect customer savings balances ‘ING Chances for Children Global Challenge’, and reinvest these into the economy through a total of 24,433 ING employees pooled their investments in loans to consumers and efforts in support of children an impressive businesses. We want to further align our 27.5% of our company’s global workforce. services and business operations with the interests of our customers and clients, for Although we believe we are on the right path, instance by screening our product portfolio I am amongst the first to acknowledge that against stricter criteria for good customer regaining trust and integrating sustainability in care. This includes issues such as simplicity, the heart of our business requires continuous transparency and responsible risk appetite. effort. A very topical subject in this regard is And, we actively invest in enhancing the the widespread social concern on the financial financial capabilities of customers, in order to industry’s remuneration practices. When give them a better insight into their personal determining our remuneration policies, we financial situation and help them to simplify carefully take into account our stakeholders’ their financial decision-making. expectations with regard to responsible remuneration. In response to the Dutch At ING, we have developed a vision on public debate on this issue in March 2011, social, ethical and environmental issues. This the Executive Board decided to not accept a Jan Hommen is translated into policies and procedures, variable pay for 2010, and to abstain from Chairman of the Executive Board 8 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 11 any kind of variable remuneration as long as ING expects the highest levels of personal conduct and integrity from GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE the capital support received from the Dutch state has not been fully repaid. Moreover, its employees, especially its management, in order to safeguard its we have further reviewed and adapted our integrity, reputation and performance. remuneration policies for the rest of our staff, in particular senior management, with the aim to ensure an increased focus on longterm value creation, risk and non-financial “We are COMPLIANCE AND GOVERNANCE Good governance and compliance are the foundations for responsible business practice. ING’S SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT ING’s activities in the field of sustainability are led and coordinated by a dedicated Sustainability performance measures. determined to They are essential to serve the interests of our customers, shareholders and employees. We function, which is based at our headquarters in the Netherlands. Since 2011, the Global Head of help create a Regarding the debate on the future shape of aim to comply with laws and regulations as well Sustainability reports directly to ING’s CEO. The the financial industry, we support measures as ethical, environmental and social standards. responsibilities of the Sustainability department to make the financial system more robust, We believe that achieving the minimum of include (amongst others): such as higher capital buffers and stricter liquidity requirements, which we are already more sustainable compliance risk management is not sufficient. In order to build and preserve an outstanding • Develops ING’s sustainability vision and strategy • Engages in dialogue with civil society groups future.” implementing to a large extent. At the corporate reputation, we want our employees and other stakeholders; same time, it is important in this respect to to go beyond basic compliance and to act with • Coordinates performance reporting and safeguard the ability of financial institutions to integrity at all times. produces the annual ‘ING in Society report’; finance the real economy. In my view, financial • Provides information to sustainable investors institutions with sufficient capital generation GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE and rating agencies; capabilities and expertise can play a vital role Full details about our governance structure and • Supports our businesses in developing in formulating and arranging the financing our organisation, as well as the qualifications and sustainable products and services; and investment solutions which are needed to expertise of the Executive Board and Supervisory • Sets up internal community development and meet today’s social and economic challenges. Board, can be found on our website at environmental awareness programmes; www.ing.com/cg. The Annual Report 2011 • Manages (inter-)national partnerships; Together with our customers and contains details about financial and non-financial • Manages communication with the ‘ING for other stakeholders, and thanks to the remuneration and ancillary positions of members Something Better Foundation’. professionalism, commitment and dedication of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. of our employees, we are determined to help Progress on our sustainability performance is ING has a network of subject matter experts create a more sustainable future. Therefore, regularly reviewed and formally assessed by our throughout the organisation who shape the we will continue to leverage our resources, CEO and the Executive Board. They in turn inform company’s approach to sustainable business skills and expertise to ensure long-term ING’s Supervisory Board. This ensures support opportunities, risk and community investment. business success by stimulating economic for, and ownership of, sustainability among ING’s These experts support, monitor and ensure development, a healthy environment and a most senior executives. the delivery of our common priorities. Many stable society. other departments across the Group share the POLICIES responsibility for fulfilling our sustainability Jan Hommen We aim to embed clear, practical policies and agenda. These departments include the Chairman of the Executive Board procedures in our business processes across all Environmental and Social Risk department, of our business lines. We have systems that help Corporate Credit Risk Management, Corporate our management to track current and emerging Procurement, Operational Risk Management, risk issues, to communicate them to internal Group Compliance, Human Resources, Corporate and external stakeholders, and to continuously Communications, Public & Government Affairs, improve relevant issues. Risk management Investor Relations and various client-facing teams. involves understanding and delivering on They help to coordinate group-wide initiatives the expectations of our customers and other and submit policy recommendations to the stakeholders. By doing this, we strengthen the Sustainability department, various specialised quality of our key relationships. committees, the Group Executive Board, and the Management Boards Banking and Insurance / Non-financial risk policies and procedures include: Investment Management. For more information, • The ING Group Charter and Framework please visit www.ing.com/cg. • Regulations concerning insider training • Whistleblower procedure • Financial Economic Crime policies 10 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 12 OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES As an international financial institution, ING influences the lives of ING BUSINESS PRINCIPLES many people. That is why we strive to be both profitable and just, and to contribute to positive economic and social change. We can do well only by doing right for all our stakeholders. Our business revolves about people and trust. Being entrusted with other people’s money is a responsibility we take very seriously. Only Each of the four principles is equally important. Taken as a whole, they form our collective conscience. They are the foundation WE ACT WITH INTEGRITY by acting with professionalism and integrity of our strategy, culture and day-to-day work. can we gain and maintain our customers’ Living the ING Business Principles helps us confidence and preserve our company’s make decisions that can stand the test of time. reputation. The ING Business Principles play an important role in this respect. The ING Business Principles were first The Principles are not voluntary suggestions. They are non-negotiable, and every single ING employee will be responsible for living up to WE ARE OPEN AND CLEAR introduced in 1999. They set a global standard them. for the behaviour expected of every employee. The ING Business Principles will enable us The ING Business Principles are refreshed to do what we do best, both today and every five years to ensure their relevance in a tomorrow: to help our customers manage changing environment. their financial future. WE RESPECT EACH OTHER WE ARE SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE 12 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 OVERVIEW OF OUR COMPANY 15 ING is a global financial institution of Dutch origin that currently offers banking, for its Asian insurance and investment information about the financial performance OVERVIEW OF OUR COMPANY management businesses. For the European of ING can be found in the ING Group Annual investments, life insurance and retirement services to meet the needs of a broad activities, ING will continue preparations for a Report 2011. customer base. We are a strong European bank with attractive home market stand-alone future, including the possibility of an IPO. ING will also continue to prepare for TRANSACTIONS WITH THE DUTCH STATE positions in northern Europe and growth options in Central and Eastern Europe the base case IPO for the US insurance and In October 2008, ING received EUR 10 billion and Asia, while creating an optimal base for the independent futures for our investment management businesses. of capital support from the Dutch State. In December 2009, ING repaid a first tranche insurance and investment management operations. ING GROUP FINANCIAL RESULTS 2011 of EUR 5 billion of this amount to the Dutch Despite the challenging market circumstances, State plus a premium. In May 2011, ING was SEPARATING ING BANK AND PROFILE AND BUSINESS STRATEGY term growth potential for the Bank. ING Group’s full-year results improved in a position to repay a second tranche of ING INSURANCE / INVESTMENT ING BANK ING will build on its global presence compared with 2010. The full-year 2011 net EUR 2 billion plus a premium out of retained MANAGEMENT ING Bank is a large international and international network and result was EUR 5,766 million compared with earnings. Consequently, by the end of 2011, ING is separating its banking player with an extensive global capitalise on its leadership position a net result of EUR 2,810 million in 2010. The ING had repaid a total amount of EUR 7 billion and insurance and investment network in over 40 countries. It has in gathering savings, multi-channel 2011 net result includes EUR 1,866 million in principal. Including interest and premium, management operations in order to leading banking positions in its home distribution, developing simple of gains on divestments, of which EUR 995 this amount reached a total of EUR 9 billion. serve the interests of its stakeholders, markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, product propositions and marketing. million was attributable to the sale of our Latin ING aims to repay the remaining EUR 3 increase management focus and Luxembourg, Germany and Poland. American insurance, pension and investment billion when prudent and possible on terms create value for our shareholders. Furthermore, ING has key positions in PROFILE AND BUSINESS STRATEGY management business; EUR 347 million to acceptable to all stakeholders. We believe the widespread demand other Western, Central and Eastern ING INSURANCE / INVESTMENT the sale of ING Car Lease; and EUR 466 for greater simplicity, reliability and European countries and Turkey. This MANAGEMENT million to the sale of Real Estate Investment ING Group and the Dutch State also reached transparency makes this the best is coupled with options outside of ING’s insurance and investment Management. an agreement on 26 January 2009 on an course of action. The separation is Europe which will give ING Bank management businesses include life Illiquid Assets Back-up Facility (‘IABF’). The also part of the restructuring plan interesting growth potential in the and non-life insurance, pensions and Underlying net result for 2011 was EUR 3,675 IABF was designed to cover the portfolios of that was agreed upon with the long-term. asset management. These activities million, up 15.1% from EUR 3,192 million a Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities European Commission in order to are divided into six business lines: year earlier. Underlying net result is derived of both ING Direct USA and ING Insurance obtain approval for support from the The retail banking operations are Insurance Benelux, Insurance Central from total net result by excluding the impact US, with a par value of approximately EUR Dutch State during the financial crisis. focused on delivering simple and and Rest of Europe, Insurance from divestments and special items. ING Bank 30 billion. Under the IABF, ING transferred transparent retail products at low US (excluding US Closed Block recorded an underlying result before tax of 80% of the economic ownership of its Alt-A APPEAL AGAINST THE EC DECISION costs through a multi-channel Variable Annuity), US Closed Block EUR 4,740 million in 2011, down 17.4% portfolio to the Dutch State. Throughout In January 2010, ING filed an distribution approach. Commercial VA, Insurance Asia/Pacific and ING from 2010. This decrease was mainly due 2011, Alt-A market values further recovered appeal with the General Court Banking supports its global clients Investment Management. Investment to EUR 783 million more adverse market compared with 2010, repayments continued, of the European Union against through an extensive international Management (IM) provides a broad impacts in 2011, including EUR 588 million and cash losses remained limited. More specific elements of the European network. range of investment strategies and of impairments on Greek government bonds. information about this, and about the Commission’s decision of 18 advisory services in Europe, the ING Insurance / IM reported an underlying adjustments to the IABF resulting from the November 2009, which had approved Since January 2011, ING Bank has Americas, Asia/Pacific and the Middle result before tax of EUR 314 million, which sale of ING Direct USA in 2011, is given in the state aid received and ING’s been operating as a stand-alone East. was up EUR 1,386 million compared with the the ING Group Annual Report (note 33 to the restructuring plan. In July 2011, oral business under the umbrella of ING EUR 1,072 million loss in 2010. Both years consolidated annual accounts). arguments of the appeal case were Group. In 2011, we began preparations for were heavily impacted by markets and other heard by the Court. The ruling of two initial public offerings (IPOs): one impacts (EUR -1,547 million in 2011 versus the Court was on 2 March 2012. Our ambition is to remain a strong for the US insurance and investment EUR -2,567 million in 2010). The Court partially annulled the European bank with leading domestic management activities, and one for EC decision. ING welcomed this banking positions in attractive, stable the European and Asian insurance ING’s capital position remained strong, judgment. Since 2 March, ING has home markets, as well as a leading and investment management despite the EUR 3 billion repayment to the been in the process of carefully commercial bank in the Benelux businesses. On 12 January 2012, Dutch State in May 2011. ING Bank’s core assessing the full judgment as well and Central and Eastern Europe. ING announced an update on the Tier 1 ratio was stable at 9.6% at the end as its consequences. More detailed We intend to continue to selectively restructuring of the insurance and of 2011, absorbing the EUR 9 billion of information about this appeal transform our various ING Direct units investment management businesses. higher risk-weighted assets (RWA) under the (including the Dutch State’s decision into more mature full-service banking Due to the uncertain economic Capital Requirements Directive III (CRD III). to partly join ING in its appeal) can be models. These initiatives in Europe, outlook and volatile markets, The Insurance Group Directive Solvency I ratio found on page 15 of the ING Group coupled with our positions outside of especially in Europe, ING has decided decreased to 225% at the end of 2011 from Annual Report 2011. Europe, should create attractive longto review other strategic options 230% at the end of 2010. More detailed 14 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 ING’S EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT IN 2011 17 2011 was a tumultuous year. The euro crisis, social unrest in the Arab world, 2011 important new regulatory requirements for financial institutions, and evidence that global warming has worsened are just a few examples. ING takes economic, environmental and social developments into account in managing its business. Many of our stakeholders also sought our views on these issues. This section summarizes how we addressed the most material of these developments. ECONOMIC TURBULENCE CRISIS IN THE EUROZONE SOCIAL UNREST AND INCREASED HEATED DEBATE ON FUTURE OF FINANCE Most importantly, we consider it essential As a result of the European debt For the eurozone countries in INFLUENCE OF SOCIAL MEDIA In response to the financial crisis of 2008 to carefully take into account the fact that crisis, macroeconomic conditions particular, 2011 was a year with two Worldwide social unrest has made and 2009, many national and international some of the measures proposed also come started to deteriorate in the second faces. In the first half there were headlines during the past year. The regulators have taken the initiative to create with a cost to society, e.g. in the form of a half of 2011. Eurozone consumer and still signs of continuing economic Arab Spring uprisings, which erupted a more stable financial system. Last year, the reduced ability for financial institutions to producer confidence declined sharply, recovery. But in the second half, the in Tunisia in January 2011, toppled future of the financial sector continued to be finance the real economy. In the midst of the international trade stopped growing, eurozone’s sovereign debt crisis, members of several autocratic at the forefront of the public consciousness. current economic downturn, this could have companies’ willingness to invest fell which emerged in 2010, deepened, Arab regimes after decades of rule. Financial institutions continued to suffer significant consequences for the return to and employment perspectives started causing a negative knock-on effect The Occupy Movement, which reputational damage due to the bonus growth as well as financial institutions’ ability to deteriorate markedly. Whilst on the economy. This triggered an originated in a park near Wall Street, discussions, government bailouts and the to fund the investments needed to cope with Europe seemed to be sliding into intense debate about the desirability quickly evolved into a movement perception of ‘irresponsible trading’. At ING, major social challenges, in areas like health recession in 2011, the US economy of private sector involvement in with camps in many cities. Rising we recognise the public’s concerns and are not care, education, housing and the transition to showed signs of resilience in the sharing the burden of a Greek public income inequality in both developed only taking action to restructure our company renewable energy. second half of the year. Jobs data and debt restructuring in particular. countries and the developing in response of these concerns, but also playing unemployment rates gave grounds world emerged as an issue of an active role in the debate. These effects would particularly be felt if retail for market confidence and even some ING expressed its willingness significant social tension. In southern banking and commercial banking activities of the housing data was less negative to participate in a voluntary Europe, citizens protested against Throughout 2011, we discussed at length the were separated, as some have suggested. than anticipated. However, the rate restructuring. Its total impairments austerity measures passed by their future of finance, including that of our own We believe that one of the main advantages of growth of the US economy was on Greek government bonds in 2011 governments in response to the crisis company, with regulators, policymakers and of the universal banking model is that it still low in 2011. amounted to EUR 978 million. As a in the eurozone. In London, riots academics. In general, we agree with many enables a financial institution to provide basic result, ING’s total Greek government broke out, reflecting rage at police of the new measures and regulations that products and payment services to consumers By contrast, in many emerging bond portfolio has been written and shopkeepers. have been proposed by these stakeholders at an attractive price and with competitive economies like China, India and down by approximately 80%. (such as higher capital buffers, stricter liquidity rates on savings accounts and deposits. An Brazil, household spending and Many people used the web to express requirements and more stringent regulation independent retail bank would probably face corporate investment stayed at Looking ahead, ING strongly their concerns about the existing for such issues as remuneration policies and a difficult future, due to the relatively high elevated levels and thus fuelled job advocates measures to ensure political and economic structures product development) and are implementing financing costs, the expectation of tighter creation, but this was not enough to increased budget oversight and and the need for change. Social them to a large extent already. capital requirements and diseconomies of quell fears of a further widening of control at EU level. A 2011 study by media, which were instrumental scale. To illustrate this point, the text box on global imbalances. Major imbalances ING’s Chief Economist Mark Cliffe in supporting protests, became a At the same time, however, we have the next page describes the various activities between Asia and the Western world (published on www.ing.com) showed powerful platform for social and concerns that the ultimate and aggregated of a universal bank. and between North and South in that a break-up of the eurozone political action. This also holds true consequences of all reforms are still not fully Europe continue to exist and threaten would cause a severe decline in for the corporate sector, which was clear; that there are too many uncoordinated economic growth, and the stability of European economic growth, which confronted in 2011 with increased additions to regulation; that there is too the global financial system. Looking would affect the Netherlands in public discussions on social media, much focus on short-term measures; and too ahead, underlying sovereign and particular. Therefore, ING considers it e.g. on the desirability of government little focus on how the financial sector can financial system vulnerabilities remain absolutely vital that European leaders intervention in business through contribute to achieving sustainable economic a significant concern. The outlook for rebuild confidence in European changes in regulation, tax policy or growth. For a detailed explanation of these a large part of the global economy integration. contracts. concerns, please turn to pages 13 and 14 of in 2012 therefore seems to be the ING Group Annual Report 2011. somewhat gloomy. 16 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 2011 CHALLENGES IN THE DUTCH ING’s exposure to agricultural DURBAN CLIMATE CHANGE HOUSING MARKET derivatives is extremely limited. CONFERENCE ING’s universal banking model In 2011 Dutch homeowners and We are not involved in proprietary In October 2011, a month before the buyers were increasingly confronted trading of soft commodities and start of the 2011 UN Climate Change As a universal bank, we combine activities to fulfil the g. Advice and services to businesses with challenges stemming from the only managed EUR 12 million of Conference in Durban, South Africa, traditional financial intermediary function (financing the real We offer a wide range of services and products that help our weak performance of the Dutch investments in corn and wheat a group of 285 investors including economy by transforming savings from that same economy) corporate customers to manage their credit risk, market risk, housing market. In 2011, the total futures on behalf of investment ING, together representing more than as well as activities which we carry out to serve the needs of interest rate risk, currency risk and other types of financial number of sold properties fell 7% clients. More information about this USD 20 trillion in assets, published a our larger corporate clients. These various activities can be risk, as this is not a primary business process for them. Some and the average sale price declined topic can be found on pages 52 joint statement entitled the “Global categorised as follows: of the customers’ individual risks are offset within our bank’s 4%, according to the NVM (Dutch and 64 of this report. In response Investor Statement on Climate balance sheet, as diversification generally leads to lower costs association of Real Estate Brokers to SOMO’s study, ING stated that it Change”. It stressed the urgent a. Payment transactions for other risks. and Agents). This underperformance would take appropriate measures if need for policy action that stimulates We aim to provide efficient and secure processing of is generally believed to be caused and when investments in commodity private sector investment into climate domestic payments at relatively low costs. We also process We often act as key partners to export-oriented businesses on the one hand by the adverse derivatives are found to correlate change solutions, creates jobs, and international payments for individuals, businesses and public in their cross-border activities, as our overseas networks economic climate, and on the other with agricultural commodity price ensures the long-term sustainability institutions. are familiar with local regulations and customs. We also hand by the ongoing uncertainty in increases and volatility. and stability of the global economic advise on mergers and acquisitions. Finally, we advise larger the Netherlands concerning currently system. ING has joined the investor b. Managing private savings and companies’ surplus businesses on capital market transactions, for example existing tax facilities. SHIFT IN PUBLIC PERCEPTION community’s call for a well-designed cash managing initial public offerings and bond issues. An REGARDING ENERGY TRANSITION and effectively implemented longWe receive household savings with the aim to manage them inherent part of this type of process is that we sometimes A structural problem in the Dutch The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear term climate change and clean safely and pay customers a rate of interest in return. Surplus also act as investors in this type of security for short periods. housing market is that a number disaster caused by the severe tsunami energy policy. cash of businesses and the public sector is looked after in a of rules, regulations and fiscal tools in Japan in March 2011, caused by a similar way. h. “ALM book”, asset and liability management pertaining to both the rental and severe tsunami, fuelled a significant Many of the above activities are recognised in part on both property market do not interact shift in public perception about c. Lending to private customers sides of our balance sheet. We take positions on the financial very well with each other. As one how governments prioritise public Lending to private customers is one of our core functions. markets in order to address and mitigate the mismatch of the largest mortgage lenders health, safety, security, and natural Mortgage loans are the most significant form of lending to that arises between assets and liabilities. We have various in the Netherlands, and given our environment when determining private customers. In the Netherlands, for instance, 85% of techniques available for ALM using for example, derivatives market intelligence and economic energy policies. the people who own a property have a bank mortgage. and other financial instruments. These day-to-day activities expertise in this area, ING believes on the financial markets are an integral part of all the above it has a responsibility to help restore Although ING does not oppose d. Lending to small and medium-sized enterprises activities. confidence in the housing market. nuclear energy as such, we do (SMEs) In 2011, we produced a position take a very restrictive stance on the SMEs, in particular in Europe, rely almost entirely on lending i. “Trading Book”, trading for customers paper exploring several policy options matter, requiring the highest possible by banks for their financing. SMEs have a relatively high risk The trading book records the bank’s positions in financial which we believe would help stabilise standards with regard to health, profile, which is reflected in relatively high risk costs. Lending instruments. The majority of the bank’s trading activities are the Dutch housing market. We safety and technical design standards, to SMEs also involves a high degree of concentration risk, carried out to serve customers, particularly larger corporate discussed our proposals with relevant including geographical location and which we seek to mitigate through diversification. clients and public bodies. A minority of these activities are stakeholders. possible seismology risk. to maintain a small “stock” to ensure that customers can be e. Lending to larger companies served quickly and at competitive prices (market making). An DEBATE ON COMMODITY Moreover, we are actively stepping Larger companies are less dependent than SMEs on bank example is concluding hedge products for customers who DERIVATIVES TRADING up our efforts to reduce our direct lending but still seek to fulfil their financing needs with banks want to hedge interest rate and/or currency risk. In 2011 ING was confronted with an environmental footprint (for more like ING for about half of their capital expenditure. Large intensifying debate about financial information about this, please turn international companies in particular use more complex j. “Trading Book”, proprietary trading investments in commodity derivatives to page 73). Furthermore, we are forms of credit for financing and our specific expertise on The trading book also records transactions and positions in markets and their impact on food actively engaging with our clients these kinds of instruments. financial instruments that are not directly related to services prices. A report by SOMO, a nonby motivating them to assess their to customers, but predominantly executed to achieve a profit Dutch research and advisory footprint and by providing innovative f. Financing of capital expenditure by the public sector, result, which can then be used e.g. to support activities agency, concluded that excessive financial solutions to help them in particular in the Netherlands that are not viable on their own, such as market making for investments and capital inflow into minimise it (more information can be The Dutch public and semi-public sectors have substantial government bonds. At ING Bank, proprietary trading and the the market can increase agricultural found on page 46). financing needs and rely to a significant extent on the Dutch associated risks were very limited, accounting for less than commodity price increases and banking sector to meet them. Examples are the health-care 1% of total risk-weighted assets (RWA) in January 2012. volatility. SOMO examined the and education sectors and investments for infrastructure and activities of Dutch financial renewable energy. institutions and pension funds in the agricultural derivatives markets. 18 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 20 21 We continuously listen to our different constituencies, the most SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 1995 1996 1997 1998 important of which are customers, employees, supervisors, shareholders, civil society organisations, citizens and regulators. We seek feedback from our stakeholders on LEARNING ABOUT STAKEHOLDER different issues and try to engage them in a EXPECTATIONS constructive dialogue. This enables us to learn As indicated, the way financial institutions which issues are most important to them account for their way of doing business, and to determine how we can best align the remains a subject of constant debate. Banks interests of our business with theirs. and insurance companies are expected to actively involve their stakeholders as they OUR APPROACH TOWARDS STAKEHOLDER (re-)design their business strategies. This is 1999 2000 2001 2002 ENGAGEMENT especially true for financial institutions such Rather than having one-off consultations as ING that received state aid in 2008/2009 around specific topics, we prefer to take an and are currently implementing far-reaching integrated approach towards stakeholder restructuring programmes. engagement. This means that we have an ongoing dialogue about our role in society, However, the expectations of each stakeholder our products and services, our business can vary widely. Shareholders’ priorities performance and other issues. This is done at will usually be different than employees’ or both the business unit and Group level. regulators’. In order to give a clear overview of the diversity of stakeholder views we The instruments we use to conduct this encounter, we asked ‘de Argumentenfabriek’ dialogue include: regular information sessions (the Argumentation Factory), an Amsterdamfor private and corporate clients on customer based agency, to help visualise them based 2003 2004 2005 2006 protection; stakeholder dialogues on topics on several stakeholder dialogue sessions that like financial regulation and corporate were held during 2011. The result is shown on responsibility; representations in various the next two pages. international bodies; roundtable sessions with policymakers and academics; frequent bilateral contacts with regulatory and government authorities, civil society organisations (including non-governmental organisations, labour unions and industry associations); press conferences; frequent conference calls; technical briefing sessions; and roadshows for journalists, analysts, rating agencies and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 investors. We also use surveys, in-depth interviews and focus groups. 20 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT various Thequality …ensure and lowexpectations costs in its basic services of different stakeholder groups This map gives an overview of the expectations that various stakeholders have of ING. The expectations on this map apply to both ING Insurance/Investment Management and ING Bank, with the emphasis on the latter. The …provide products and services that fit their needs. expectations described here have not been checked for consistency. This means that there may be expectations on ow for customers through fair prices and efficient processes. this map that are incompatible with each other. This map was created on the basis of desk research and two thinking usability: flexibility in when and how they do their banking. sessions with stakeholders. ◦ …ensure quality and low costs in its basic services mapexpectations ThisThe gives an overview onofthis map do not the expectations thatexpress the views have various stakeholders of ING itself. of ING. The expectations on this eir money and personal information must be safe with ING. Our thanks go to all the experts to their map applyfor both ING contribution. Insurance/Investment Management and ING Bank, with the emphasis on the latter. The …provide products and services that fit their needs. expectations described here have not been checked for consistency. This means that there may be expectations on ndly both in its personal contact and in its internet…keep services. costs low for customers through fair prices and efficient processes. this map that are incompatible with each other. This map was created on the basis of desk research and two thinking nd to live up to expectations created by its communications. …offer them usability: flexibility in when and how they do their banking. sessions with stakeholders. The expectations on this map do not express the views of ING itself. …guarantee security in their dealings with ING: their money and personal information must be safe with ING. Our thanks go to all the experts for their contribution. …meet the more complex needs of…be customer-friendly both in its personal contact and in its internet services. corporate clients …be a good employer …communicate clearly and to live up to expectations created by its communications. Customers be a strategic partner and to◦ introduce them◦to its network. …do its utmost to ensure their job security. …meet the more complex needs of corporate clients …be a good employer seas activities and share its knowledge about local markets. expect ING to... Customers …implement objective and fair remuneration and employee assessment policies. g and advice for large investments, mergers and takeovers.…be a strategic partner and to introduce them to its network. …handle them with respect …do its utmost and show to ensure their job security. appreciation for their efforts. …assist them in their overseas activities and share its knowledge about local markets. expect ING to... …implement objective and fair remuneration and employee assessment policies. cerning credit, market, interest rate and foreign exchange). …offer them financing and advice for large investments, mergers and takeovers. …strive for diversity and…handle equal chances. them with respect and show appreciation for their efforts. …provide solutions to manage their risks (concerning credit, market, interest rate and foreign exchange). employees …ensure an acceptable workload. …strive for diversity and equal chances. …put customers’ interests first employees …apply a human resources policy …ensure which takes an acceptable into account local circumstances and customs. workload. ◦ …put customers’ interests first expect ING to... …apply a human resources policy which takes into account local circumstances and customs. e customer, even when this goes against the interest of ING. expect ING to... …advise in the interest of the customer, even when this goes against the interest of ING. …be an employer they can erstand financial products and their own financial situation. …bebean proud employer ofthey can be proud of …help them understand financial products and their own financial situation. ut its pricing and what it earns on its products…be and services. transparent about its pricing and what it earns on its products and services. …enable them to contribute to them …enable society and to make to contribute to society andvisible. this to make this visible. …provide lutions even when customers are not doing well financially.solutions even when customers are not doing well financially. financial …operate in a way …operate in a way that makes employees proud. that makes employees proud. ◦ …operate responsibly as a financial institution …operate responsibly as a financial institution What are activities do no harm to people, society or the …ensure …make sure its activities do no harm to people, society or the environment. that its employees are intrinsically motivated to make responsible choices. environment. What are the most important …create sustainable shareholder value …help its corporate clients to produce in a more sustainable manner. ees are intrinsically motivated to make responsible choices. …create sustainable shareholder value corporate clients to produce in a more sustainable manner. the most important expecta tions that …manage its financial risks to minimise the probability of (large) losses. …minimise its operational risks by earning money in an honest way. …manage its financial risks to minimise …generate the probability sufficient returns of (large) and in the longer losses. term ensure growth. expecta …put customers’ interests first tions that stakehol ders have …minimise its operational risks byaearning …implement remunerationmoneypolicyinthat anmotivates honest way. …have a diverse, capable, experienced and stable management. employees to create sustainable shareholder value. …only put products on the market that place customers’ interests first. …generate sufficient returns and in the longer term ensure growth. of ING? …make sustainability a part of its core processes and its reporting. …put customers’…communicate interests first stakehol clearly to make sure that customers understand everything. …make sure its remuneration policy does not stimulate unfair treatment of customers. ders have …implement a remuneration policy that motivates employees to create sustainable shareholder value. …have a diverse, capable, …be open experienced and transparent and stable management. t products on the market that place customers’ interests first. …enable all customers to make well-considered decisions. e clearly to make sure that customers understand everything. of ING? expect ING…make to... of its coreabout parttransparent sustainability a …be processes financialand its reporting. risks and communicate possible losses in a timely manner. …be a financially stable institution expect ING to... …be transparent about the way in which the organisation is managed. tion policy does not stimulate unfair treatment of customers. shareholders …manage financial and operational risks to minimise the probability of (large) losses. …be open and transparent …show how its sustainability policies affect its profitability. …enable all customers to make well-considered…have decisions. a good governance structure which makes all responsibilities explicit. supervisors expect ING to... …be transparent about financial risks and communicate possible losses in a timely manner. …ensure sound internal decision-making processes and to apply these in practice. …be acompany: …be a healthy financially stable to make institution good returns cope with and set aside sufficient reserves toexpect INGfinancial to... setbacks. …be transparent about the way in which the organisation is managed. shareholders …show how its sustainability it will notaffect …make surepolicies rely have toits on state support profitability. operational risks to minimise the probability of (large) losses. …have sufficient capital and liquidity to ensure financial stability. governance structure which makes all responsibilities explicit. supervisors …operate responsibly as a financial institution …refrain from speculative activities using savings of households and businesses. rnal decision-making processes and to apply these in …refrain practice. from activities that result in environmental or societal damage. …seperate its activities that are essential for society from its other activities. nd set aside sufficient reserves to cope with financial setbacks.…base its remuneration policy partly on sustainability criteria. …play a supportive role when shaping the financial sector …know what is going on in society via an intensive dialogue with stakeholders. …make sure it will not have to rely on state support expect ING to... …establish as its main goal: enabling citizens to work and companies to do business. …contribute to society expect ING to... Citizens …have and sufficient capital …show and liquidity awareness toofensure the role financial stability. of the financial sector in the financial crisis when responding to new regulation. …operate responsibly as a financial institution …make time and money available to support civil society organisations. regulators …minimise its bonuses and …refrain from speculative activities using savings of households andcriteria. base them on sustainability businesses. Civil soCiety …play an active role in the public debate on the future of the financial sector. …take a stand on global crises such as climate change and commodity scarcity. organisations …seperate its activities that are essential for society from its other activities. m activities that result in environmental or societal damage.to make their expertise available to society (e.g. in education). …allow employees …explain clearly to the public why it received state support. …take steps to lower unsustainable household mortgage debts. base its remuneration policy partly on sustainability criteria. …be transparent about its philanthropic goals and achievements. …play a supportive role when shaping the financial sector g on in society via an intensive dialogue with stakeholders. expect ING to... …establish as its main goal: enabling citizens to work and companies to do business. …contribute to society Citizens and …show awareness of the role of the financial sector in the financial crisis when responding to new regulation. expect ING to... and money available to support civil society organisations. regulators …minimise its bonuses and base them on sustainability criteria. made by: Information Map © 2012 Civil soCiety …play an active role in the public debate on the future of the financial sector. lobal crises such as climate change and commodity scarcity. organisations …explain clearly to the public why it received state support. make22 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT their expertise available to society (e.g. in education). 23 …take steps to lower unsustainable household mortgage debts. ransparent about its philanthropic goals and achievements. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ING’s positions on issues relevant to its stakeholders EMPLOYEES ISSUE ING’S POSITION The Expectations Map provides an them manage their credit, market, to meet their expectations. But while extensive overview of the issues interest rate and foreign exchange having a thorough understanding of Job certainty Although it is impossible to ensure job security at all times, ING considers it vital to its success that matter to our stakeholders. risks. stakeholder expectations is one thing, to foster an open, safe, inclusive and stimulating working environment for its employees. Anticipating and supporting lifetime employability is considered utmost important at ING. Although this overview is by it is quite another thing to effectively This calls for a timely and continuous focus on employees’ personal development as well as no means complete, it does Accordingly, supervisors and translate these expectations into specific action to boost employability. In the interest of all parties, ING and the employee illustrate the complexity of our regulators expect us to raise capital concrete solutions and match share responsibility that employees’ expertise and skills stay in pace with changing demands. operating environment. Clearly, the buffers and improve our liquidity them with our business strategies. Diversity We believe it is right for the composition of our workforce to reflect that of society and for expectations of our stakeholders are position, while customers expect Particularly relevant in this respect is our people to bring a diversity of talents, beliefs and perceptions to their work. We recognise not always consistent, and sometimes us to provide financial solutions providing insight into how we use that diversity is more than the female/male ratio. It is about hiring people of various races, genders, ages, sexual orientation, physical abilities and personal philosophies. To increase the even contradictory. As a result, our even when they are not doing well or apply their input in designing the level of diversity, a centralised team helps ING businesses create their own diversity plans. See daily business is a continuum of realfinancially. Finally, with regard to solutions that our stakeholders expect page 80 for more information. life dilemmas. financing in light of the climate of us. Opportunities for employees to participate We consider it our responsibility to make a positive contribution to the many communities in change debate, what should be our in and contribute to projects serving social which we do business. We facilitate and encourage our employees to join this mission as For instance, many of our response to a request for finance Based on the Expectations Map and environmental needs they are the cornerstone of the programmes we develop and support. Our global stakeholders rightly emphasise our of a modern and efficient coal fired and our bilateral contacts with our initiatives are complemented with local community investment activities. See page 88 for responsibility to minimise risk. At the power plant if the new one is meant stakeholders, we have identified the more information. same time measured risk-taking is to replace an old and inefficient one? most material issues per stakeholder SUPERVISORS an inherent part of the business of a group. The table below provides ISSUE ING’S POSITION financial services provider. Taking just Notwithstanding these dilemmas, brief explanations of our positions, Product development and product apCustomer suitability is one of the key elements in our approach to achieve a better customer one example from the Expectations we consider it our responsibility to strategies and/or business actions per proval procedures experience. This goes beyond our commitment to comply with consumer protection and Map, servicing corporate clients well carefully weigh the interests of our issue. financial services regulation. To ensure customer suitability, we have taken significant steps to will sometimes requires us to help stakeholders and to do our utmost evaluate our product portfolio and product approval procedures based on sharpened criteria for good customer care. See page 36 of this report for more information. Financial health of the company / ability to Solid earnings and a strong capital and funding position enable ING to support its customers CUSTOMERS withstand unanticipated shocks also in uncertain times. On the banking side the core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial strength, was at 9.6% at the end of 2011, i.e. well above the 9% requirement. ING InsurISSUE ING’S POSITION ance/IM operating results mostly showed improvement throughout 2011. See ING Group Annual Report 2011 for in-depth information on ING’s financial strength. Determination of prices, fees and rates on An important element of our customer suitability approach is our commitment to clearly exING’s products and services plain how rates are determined, what costs are associated with the services provided and how Governance structure ensuring transparGood corporate governance entails a careful balance between the short-term and long-term ING’s rates compare to rates in the market. Our ultimate goal is for all stakeholders to trust ency of responsibilities and competences interests of the company. ING’s aim is to have a governance structure that is transparent and that ING charges a reasonable price (value for money) for its products and services. See page does justice to the interests of all of its stakeholders. See www.ing.com/cg for more 36 and 37 of this report for more information on our customer suitability programme. information. Security of online banking systems ING aims to provide optimal security of client data and of all transactions as well as to ensure Risk management approach and systems Taking measured risks is part of ING’s business. To ensure measured risk-taking ING has fraud protection; for us protecting our clients is just good business. At the same time, it is ensuring that ING effectively assesses and integrated risk management in its daily business activities and strategic planning. We adopt a clear that there continues to be risks online. Therefore, we also encourage our customers to controls risks that may potentially impact ‘three lines of defence’ governance model for risk management, whereby ownership for risk protect themselves. We provide more information on this on www.ing.com. its financial and operational performance is taken at all levels in the Group. The commercial departments form the first line of defence. and / or the wider financial system / The second line of defence consists of the risk management organisation, headed by the ING’s commitment to enhancing its cusOne way we try to improve our customer’s experience is enabling customers to further imeconomy chief risk officer and the corporate legal function. The third line of defence is the corporate tomers’ financial capabilities prove their financial capabilities. We offer insight, tools and programs. See page 35 onwards audit function, which independently oversees and assesses the functioning and effectiveness of this report for more information. of the first two lines. See ING Group Annual Report 2011 for more information. ING’s efforts to ensure that customer Environmental and Social Risk (ESR) Policies have become integral to ING’s risk culture and CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS deposits are not used to finance socially or are a fully integrated part of our business. Environmental and social risks associated with a fienvironmentally harmful activities nancial transaction can be complex and have an impact on both our business and that of our ISSUE ING’S POSITION clients. By implementing ESR standards, we have been improving our business and helping Publication of all loans to companies and While we feel the request for publication of all loans to companies and governments over our clients improve their overall risk profile. See page 46 for more information. governments that exeeds EUR 1 million EUR 1 million conflicts with our legal obligations and duty of care towards our clients, we value the principle of transparency and decided to publish a general sector breakdown of our Remuneration of ING’s Executive Board ING aims to match compensation schemes appropriately against a variety of factors, such as financing activities on page 60 and 61 of this report. and employees the complexity of functions, the scope of responsibilities, the alignment of risks and rewards, and the long-term objectives of the company and its stakeholders. This is all the more imporThe possible correlation between investING is closely following the international debate and actively participating in research studies tant given the changing international standards regarding responsible remuneration. These ments in agricultural commodity futures, and dialogues to gain a better understanding of any possible correlation between the two. If factors differ for each role, line of business and country. ING has operations in over 40 counprice increases and volatility and when investments in commodity derivatives are found to correlate with agriculture comtries and over 97,000 employees of whom around 71,000 are based outside the Netherlands modity price increase and volatility, we will take appropriate measures will be taken by ING. (over 54% of senior management is non-Dutch). See page 52 and 64 of this report for more information. As much as possible for a global financial institution of our size, ING aims to take account of Coal-related financing and investments Coal continues to be an important fuel source in the global energy mix. We do thus not all these differences and also of the standards applied within similar financial institutions in exclude coal as a fuel source. Our project finance utilities portfolio shows a decrease in coal the various countries in which it operates. Since 2008, ING has been continually reviewing and an increase in renewables. and amending its remuneration policies in response to the ongoing review of the financial system and related public debate, as well as in line with applicable regulatory developments. ING’s energy portfolio is shown on page 54 of this report. ING’s active involvement in More information on this can be found on page 83. financing activities that support energy transition is discussed on pages 54 onwards. 24 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS (CONTINUED) SHAREHOLDERS ISSUE ING’S POSITION ISSUE ING’S POSITION Research on ING’s involvement in cluster Our defence policy is an important part of our sustainable approach to financing. Over the Transparency on financial performance of See the ING Group Annual Report 2011 for more in-depth information on the financial permunitions years, the policy has evolved to reflect the societal debate about controversial weapons and ING Group formance of ING Group and its various business lines. arms trade. The policy provides clear guidance on what we believe to be controversial or undesirable business activities. ING will neither finance the production, maintenance or trade Progress in separation of ING Bank and ING The restructuring of ING Group is on track. Our banking and insurance/investment manageof anti-personnel landmines and cluster munitions, as well as depleted uranium ammunition, Insurance / Investment Management ment businesses have been operating as stand-alone companies since January 2011. Further biological and chemical weapons nor provide any financial services to companies involved progress on separation projects and divestments was made throughout 2011. See the ING in these kinds of weapons. More information can be found on page 53 and page 65 of this Group Annual Report 2011 for more information. report. Measures with regard to cost containment See the ING Group Annual Report 2011 for in-depth information on cost containment at Further restriction of our defence policy In 2011, we confirmed that we have not financed the trade of defence equipment to the both ING Bank and ING Insurance /Investment Management. required in light of the Arab Spring countries involved. See page 53 and 65 of this report for more information. ING’s dividend policy ING’s policy is to pay dividends in relation to the long-term underlying development of cash Applying animal-friendly standards to our The catering in our restaurants has been outsourced to a company known for its sustainable earnings. Dividends will only be paid when the Executive Board considers such a dividend apcompany restaurants for employees in the business practices. Our procurement policies are explained on page 74 of this report. propriate. Given the uncertain financial environment, increasing regulatory requirements and Netherlands ING’s priority to repay the remaining outstanding core Tier 1 securities, the Executive Board will not propose to pay a dividend over 2011 at the annual General Meeting. ING intends to Labour conditions in ING’s operations We consider it vital to the success of ING to provide an open, safe, inclusive and stimulating resume dividend payments on common shares when all remaining core Tier 1 securities have working environment for our employees. See page 80 and onwards for more information on been repaid to the Dutch State and Basel III requirements have been met. our efforts to create a better workplace. ING also actively contributes to external reviews and uses insights and recommendations from external reports to make improvements. This was Progress in implementing new Basel III, Financial regulation and accounting standards are in a state of flux, and ING is following the the case for a 2011 report by SOMO about the workplace at ING Bank in Romania. Solvency II and other regulations developments closely. Over the past year, ING Insurance Eurasia has continued the implementation of the requirements of the Solvency II directive. Meanwhile, the Bank has taken further Pig farming Higher animal-friendly standards and organic farming come at a financial cost, which the steps to prepare for the improved regulatory capital and liquidity framework for banks, comaverage consumer is not willing to pay. A forced transition of all pig framers by banks would monly referred to as Basel III. ING is well positioned to operate under these new regulatory thus bankrupt the sector. Therefore, we instead support farmers willing to change by supframeworks once they are in force. This is also reflected in the outcome of the EU capital plying them with best practices and granting favourable interest rates on loans intended to exercise performed by the European Banking Authority, which concluded that ING Bank is achieve higher standards. In 2011, the ING Economics Department published a study about currently adequately capitalised. See the ING Group Annual Report 2011 for more pig farming, which suggested alternative marketing methods and ways to double the share information. of organic farming and other more sustainable alternatives from 15% to 30% by 2020. CITIZENS AND REGULATORS ISSUE ING’S POSITION Desirability of separating retail and comOne of the main advantages of the universal banking model, as illustrated on page 18, is that mercial banking activities it enables a financial institution to provide basic products and payment services to consumers at an attractive price and with competitive rates on savings accounts and deposits. An independent retail bank would probably face a difficult future, because of the relatively high financing costs, the expectation of tighter capital requirements and diseconomies of scale. Measures to improve the stability of the Reforms in the financial sector are of particular interest to ING as a cross-border financial financial system through stricter solvency institution with operations all over Europe and in other parts of the world. Although we and liquidity requirements actively support many of the new regulatory proposals and are implementing them to a large extent already, we have strong concerns that the ultimate and aggregated consequences of all reforms are still not fully clear. We fear that there are too many uncoordinated additions to regulation; that there is too much focus on short-term measures; and too little a focus on how the financial sector can contribute to achieving sustainable economic growth. More information can be found on page 18 of this report and in the ING Group Annual Report 2011. Progress in repayment of the Dutch State See page 15 of this report for a general overview and the ING Group Annual Report 2011 for in-depth information on the current state of affairs with regard to repayment of state aid received in 2008 and 2009. Debate on the future of finance We recognise the public’s underlying concerns. As indicated on the Expectations Map, we are not only taking action to restructure our company, but are also playing an active role in the debate. See page 17 of this report for more information. 26 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 ING FOR SOMETHING BETTER 29 In 2009, we launched ‘ING for Something Better’, a programme that brings OUR VISION ON SUSTAINABILITY together all of our internal sustainability initiatives into one format. The online platform of ING for Something Better, originally created for ING employees, gave them an opportunity to share ideas and best practices, find volunteering work, or donate money to good causes. We have also bundled part of our community investment activities in the ING for Something Better Foundation. In 2011, we further developed the ING for Something Better concept, and improved the website (www.ingforsomethingbetter.com) by including more information about our policies, performance and reporting efforts. The structure of this report is based on the ‘for something better’ concept. BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE BETTER BUSINESS BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL BETTER WORKPLACE BETTER COMMUNITIES We strive to put the needs of our We will be successful in the longFOOTPRINT We consider it vital to the success of We consider it our responsibility customers first in all our intentions term only if our business contributes As the global population continues ING to foster an open, safe, inclusive to make a positive contribution to and actions. This requires us to to economic development, a healthy to grow, the pressure on our natural and stimulating working environment the many communities in which provide products and services in environment and a stable society. habitat and resources becomes for our employees. We also have the we operate. This is why we invest the way our customers want them Social, ethical and environmental more and more apparent. As a ambition to be a top employer, for in our communities and why we delivered: with exemplary service and criteria are therefore strongly result, society finds itself confronted our existing and future employees. work hard to strengthen them from convenience provided at attractive embedded in our financing and with issues such as the scarcity We aim to consistently provide our the inside out. We facilitate and prices. Our customers expect us to investment policies as well as in our of water and food, biodiversity people with the tools they need to encourage our employees to join this be accessible, to respond to their business ambitions. We make sure reduction and climate change. be successful, and to create a work mission as they are the cornerstone queries in a fast and efficient way, that our strategic decision-making Though scientific evidence is not environment that supports their of the programmes we support. We to be open and transparent about is based on financial and nonconclusive about the timing, extent, physical and mental wellbeing. We have chosen to prioritise our global our products and services and to financial performance objectives. and exact consequences, the seek to empower our people to initiatives around the themes children provide knowledgeable, objective We actively leverage our resources, established academic view is that make a positive difference to our & education and financial education and professional advice. These skills and expertise to contribute the warming of the climate system is customers and encourage them & entrepreneurship. These align with expectations go beyond the need to to positive change regarding such unequivocal, man-made and caused to grow, develop themselves and the goal of our business to invest in comply with consumer protection societal challenges as climate by greenhouse gas emissions. Our contribute to society. We pay special tomorrow’s economy by supporting and financial regulation. It comes change, education, healthcare and ongoing assessment learns that attention to creating an inclusive people to plan for a secure financial down to delivering suitable products environmental protection. Moreover, we can further reduce our own corporate culture that embraces future. Our endeavours take and services, via the right distribution we want to meet the growing carbon footprint direct through our differences. We recognise and reward the form of various initiatives, channels and at fair prices or returns. demand for products and services operations and indirect through the individual and collective success, including e-mentoring projects for We are also committed to enhancing that not only generate good financial effects of our business -. Therefore, while taking into account society’s underprivileged children, fundraising consumer financial capability. We returns, but also serve clear social we have invested in eco-efficiency changing expectations with regard to for our global partner UNICEF, and invest in helping customers to and environmental objectives that and we aim to manage our portfolio responsible remuneration. various initiatives promoting financial improve their financial decisionfacilitate the transition towards with this goal in mind. We aim to and business literacy. Our businesses making and to become better a more sustainable economy. mitigate the potential harmful impact also support specific local causes that at managing their finances. We As a result, our research teams of our financing and investment respond to the needs, expectations specifically focus on young people, so actively explore the business case activities, and we actively seek for and employee preferences in their they grow up to be citizens capable for sustainability. To mitigate the opportunities to bridge investment home markets. of making effective and responsible potential harmful impact of our gaps in cleaner technologies and financial choices. financing and investment activities, innovation. we also actively seek opportunities to bridge investment gaps in cleaner technologies and innovation. 28 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 ING PROGRESS REPORT 2011 31 We have been tracking and monitoring our sustainability performance BETTER BUSINESS PROGRESS REPORT since 1995. By evaluating our performance and setting goals for the year Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has audited the progress report with a limited level of assurance. AMBITION ahead, we are able to improve our track record. We aim to minimise harm and contribute to positive change This Progress Report provides an overview of our performance in 2011 GOALS FOR 2011 PROGRESS IN 2011 Goal achieved against the commitments that we have made in 2010. Moreover, we Goal partly achieved Enhance our existing environmental and The ESR framework was integrated in the customer due diligence will set goals for 2012 and beyond. We have structured our Progress social risk (ESR) policy framework and process Goal not achieved Report in accordance with the ‘for something better’ concept that was further embed it in the organisation presented on page 28. ING provided input to Professor John Ruggie for the development of the “Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”, which are based on the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework for Business and Human Rights. BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Training was given on the different sector policies with regard to commodities AMBITION Increase general and customised training to A slight decline in participants that received ESR policy training We provide products and services that are accessible and contribute to the financial wellbeing of our customers employees on ESR policies (350 employees), which is explained in our chapter ‘Better Business’ on page 48 GOALS FOR 2011 PROGRESS IN 2011 Introduce the Net Promoter Score (NPS) By the end of 2011, 38 of ING’s retail business units were using NPS. Around 1 Actively assist our clients to improve their We actively assist our clients to improve their sustainability programme in all ING business units million customers have been polled sustainability performance performance. Examples are given on page 52 (Doing business with Chiquita) and page 58 (ING Calls for ‘Green Delta plan’) Implement Customer Suitability programmes We launched many initiatives within the scope of the Suitability programme (e.g. within all business operations Savings Guideline). ING Bank in the Netherlands has developed short movies Continue to invest in employee recognition The Promoting Integrity Programme rolled out e-learning which were launched on their internet, explaining particular products. See our of the ING Business Principles programmes which enhanced the awareness of the ING Business chapter ‘Better Customer Experience‘ for more intiatives Principles. See chapter ‘Better Business’ for more information Further develop financial education We launched multiple initiatives regarding financial education. See the chapters Increase the underlying (SAM) score for the ING (historically rated as an Insurance company) was again initiatives ‘Better Customer Experience’ and ‘Better Communities’ for more information Dow Jones Sustainability Index included in the 2011 DJSI World Index with the same underlying score as in 2010 GOALS FOR 2012 AND BEYOND Growth of sustainable assets under The decrease of 20% is mainly due to the exit of one large Further develop thought leadership on management by 5% compared to total institutional client from the ‘INI Duurzaam Rendement Fonds’ financial education, e.g. by conducting more assets under management (15% in 2012; international surveys starting year was 2010) Develop and market new sustainable ING IM introduced a new fund; ING Sustainable Credit Fund products and services GOALS FOR 2012 AND BEYOND Maintain an up-to-date ESR policy framework and promote ESR in the sector Actively market sustainable products and services Investigate the consequences of resource scarcity for our clients and assist them in formulating financial solutions 50% of our global project finance equity energy portfolio consists of renewable energy in the coming 12 to 18 months 30 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 PROGRESS REPORT BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT BETTER COMMUNITIES AMBITION AMBITION We actively manage our environmental footprint We invest in tomorrow’s economy by supporting children find their way towards a financially secure and independent future GOALS FOR 2011 PROGRESS IN 2011 GOALS FOR 2011 PROGRESS IN 2011 Further minimise ING’s environmental We have started several initiatives that are aimed at further minimising our Increase the share of employees who The ING Chances for Children Global Challenge had a participation rate of 27.5% footprint environmental footprint, increasing environmental awareness among our participate in the ING Chances for Children workforce (e.g. Earth Hour) and increasing our purchase of green electricity. Global Challenge to 25% (30% in 2013) Develop our own environmental and social Within ING Bank, the department Global Procurement Bank determined criteria Ensure that ING’s voluntary financial We have continued to match the minimum of one child being provided with criteria to assess products and services in for more than 70 product categories and is working to implement these in the contributions match the minimum standard access to education per ING employee through our partnership with UNICEF over 22 cross-border procurement categories procurement processes. At ING Insurance/IM the development of the criteria is still that one child should be provided with in progress. access to education for each ING employee through our global UNICEF partnership Decrease our CO2 emissions by 30% in 2012 In 2011, the absolute amount of carbon emissions decreased by 25% compared (EUR 30 per child) compared to 2007 to 2007 • 2007 = 211 CO2 kilotonnes GOALS FOR 2012 AND BEYOND • 2011 = 169 CO2 kilotonnes However the number of FTEs decreased considerably, due to economic In 2015, at least one million children are circumstances. As a result, the emissions per FTE have decreased only by 2% in the reached through our partnership with 2007-2011 period UNICEF • 2007 = 2,15 CO2 / FTE • 2011 = 2,11 CO2 / FTE In 2015, employee participating in community projects exceeds 30% GOALS FOR 2012 AND BEYOND By 2012, we have increased the share Lower our CO2 emissions by 30% in 2012 of employees participating in the Global compared to 2007 Challenge to 28% of our global workforce Further review procurement processes in We have rolled out new financial literacy order to create more sustainable practices initiatives in 5 new countries in 2012 BETTER WORKPLACE AMBITION We foster an open, safe, stimulating place to work and want to become a top employer GOALS FOR 2011 PROGRESS IN 2011 Implement country specific, customised We continued to implement diversity plans and tracked the results. For examples diversity plans and track progress see the chapter ‘Better Workplace’ on page 82 By 2015, 33% of ING Management Council The share of women on the ING Management Council has increased members are women from 14.9% to 16.2% GOALS FOR 2012 AND BEYOND Increase overall employee engagement as measured by the Winning Performance Culture scan Further embed sustainability in employee onboarding programmes, and ensure sufficient awareness for the issue among new employees Track progress in the implementation of the Top Employer programme. (See chapter ‘Better Workplace’ for more information) 32 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 35 BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Peter Paul Wekking Director of External Relations Since the emergence of the financial crisis in 2008/2009, and Marketing Credit at ING Bank Netherlands restoring customer trust has been ING’s top priority. One of the most important lessons from the events of the past four years is that the needs of customers should always come first. We call this customer centricity. Bringing customer centricity into ENSURING ‘CUSTOMER SUITABILITY’ have evaluated our product portfolio practice comes with its own set It is vital that our customers trust our and product approval procedures of challenges. We need to deliver ability to provide them with honest based on sharpened criteria for good high-quality financial products and and sound advice based on a realistic customer care. services in the way our customers assessment of their needs, interests want them delivered: with exemplary and options. This is what we call ING’s Customer Suitability service and convenience provided and customer suitability, and it is one of Programme (CSP) was first applied at an attractive price. Moreover, our the key elements in our approach to to ING businesses that service retail customers expect us to be available create a better customer experience. customers and later to SMEs and when they need us, to provide Customer suitability goes beyond Mid-corporate clients. All business them with a clear overview of their our duty to comply with consumer units went through the Customer The Customer Suitability Programme (CSP) has been the “These rules state that ING should strive to meet financial situation, to respond to their protection and financial services Suitability Programme in 2011. driving force behind ING’s shift from product centricity customers’ needs throughout all stages of their life, offer queries in a fast and efficient way, to regulations. In essence, customer to customer centricity. It is now fully embedded in ING’s fair value to customers and explain the risks, returns be open and transparent about our suitability comes down to delivering business and provides a framework within which products and costs of our products and services. In addition, we products and services and to provide suitable products and services to are reviewed. regularly assess products, services and sales practices and them with knowledgeable, objective the right customers, via the right only work with professional and licenced distributors.” and professional advice. distribution channels and at fair “The CSP complements the knowledge of our customers prices or returns. To ensure this, we with our expertise. This enables them to make sound CSP has already proved its value. In 2011 ING Bank financial decisions, which are often among the most Netherlands held more than 59 customer meetings and important ones in their lives. In my opinion, there is panels. The feedback from these sessions was used to nothing innovative about the CSP. It is about living up to review all of the bank’s processes. This review immediately what people expect from us.” alerted us to take a closer look at those areas in which our products and services did not meet our Golden Rules criteria. We then fixed problematic products and services. Customer suitability at Nationale-Nederlanden in Spain There is nothing innovative In addition, ING has written a new customer-friendly and sustainable savings policy. As a result, we now proactively In 2011 Nationale-Nederlanden (NN) Spain stepped simple, plain language. Another improvement is about customer suitability. approach customers to advise them on products best up its efforts to put customers centre stage. This had a significant impact on the sales force: NN a new Financial Needs Analysis tool, which helps customers to identify the gap between their current It is about living up to what suited to their long-term needs. Spain improved its processes for recruiting and training to ensure customers are served by advisors financial situation and their goals, and it provides them with advice to bridge the difference over time. people expect from us. ING also changed its claims policy. Employees are now empowered to handle small complaints at their who have the right skills. The tool comes with a standardised sales process own discretion, for example by offering a suitable and interview, which creates consistency across all compensation. “This saves the employee from having to In addition, the company evaluated its processes, distribution channels. One of the biggest challenges of the programme was deal with various levels of managerial approval and gives customer materials, products and services with to define the term ‘suitability’. Therefore, ING first our client a quick solution. It’s what they expect from a the aim of increasing clarity and transparency. formulated so-called Golden Rules. These are noncompany like ING,” says Wekking. As a result, NN Spain significantly simplified its negotiable principles that determine what suitability client communications, with clearer disclosure in means in day-to-day practice. “Customer suitability will now become a way of life and embedded as a part of our company philosophy. As of 2012, we will annually review our services and products in the light of the standards that we want to live up to.” 36 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE ENHANCING THE FINANCIAL their best interests. ING offers insight, to be consumers capable of making CAPABILITIES OF OUR CUSTOMERS tools and programmes to help our effective and responsible financial Another way we are trying to customers improve their financial choices. But we believe we have improve the customer experience decision-making and become better duties to society at large as well. That Customer first in India is by supporting our customers to at managing money. is why we also try to educate adults improve their financial capabilities. from all layers of society about the Our banking and insurance operations in India Financial decisions influence In 2011 we introduced several new most common financial decisions launched several new products in 2010 and 2011 people’s education, career, business initiatives to educate consumers and concerning saving, investing, to meet the changing needs of their customers. The endeavours and family life, all the enhance their insight and confidence insurances, mortgages and pensions. new products were designed from the ground up way into old age and into the next about in their current financial More examples of our initiatives with customer centricity in mind. generation. Given the impact of situation and financial outlook. We in this field can be found in our many financial decisions, ING believes focused in particular on young people Community Investment report (see For example, ING India introduced the ING Zing its customers should have sufficient because good financial habits are www.ingforsomethingbetter.com). savings account. It offers features that were knowledge and confidence in order formed early in life. We want to do previously missing from similar savings products to make financial decisions that are in our part to ensure that they grow up for children, including customisable limits on withdrawals, standing instructions for monthly payments to the account and a debit card with discounts on children’s brands.The account is also connected to kidzzbank.com, a website that educates kids in a fun way about money and Initiatives to enhance financial capabilities across the globe banking. In 2011, ING published a study called Based on this research, ING introduced In the Netherlands, ING researched the other resources about managing money. ING India also optimised its offerings for its business ‘Consumer Resourcefulness’, that several new online tools, calculators financial needs and attitudes of children, Similar local websites include ‘Mijn Geld’ banking customers after recognising that bank explored the financial attitudes and and worksheets to enable customers parents and students in a study called in the Netherlands, ‘Finanz Versteher’ in accounts need to better reflect businesses’ changing behaviour of consumers. More than to calculate their savings goals and ‘Study and Money’. The results revealed Germany, ‘Monnaie Time’ in France, ‘En needs over time. Most account features tend to 5,000 people in ten countries in retirement plans and gain more insight an emerging trend of rising student debt Naranja’ in Spain, ‘SuperStarSaver’ in be based on a quarterly average balance, but Europe, the US, Latin America and Asia into their own financial situation. These amongst the Dutch student community. Canada and ‘Gut mit Geld’ in Austria. companies operating in cyclical industries often have participated in this online survey. 90% of tools are available on many of our local In response, ING launched the online other requirements, for example a temporary need respondents indicated that they wanted websites around the world. platform ‘Villa Pecunia’, which offers ING Direct in Spain held an event called for higher transaction and cash deposit limits. ING to become better at managing their indebted Dutch students various services ‘Open House Days’. Customers were India therefore launched the Flexi Current Account, money. What prevents most of them Another example of a local solution to help them manage their finances invited to visit ING Direct and learn how which gives companies more flexibility. from achieving this is that they either do we developed in response to the better. Since students are more likely a bank works. More than 350 people not know where to start or where to get research can be found in Romania. to be influenced by the behaviour and attended. In the Netherlands, ING For its part,ING Vysya Life introduced needs analysis information. These results were gleaned ING Life Insurance (Asigurari de Viata) views of their peers, the platform is offers a similar format called ‘Financial and risk profiling tools for all new life insurance from a Financial Intelligence (“FQ”) developed an educational programme based on student-to-student knowledge Information Evenings’; they took place 59 policies. These tools help the customer understand test, which was part of the survey.The targeting people aged 18 to 26, as the exchange. times in 2011. Nearly 11,000 customers his or her current cash flows and liabilities, suggest FQ test measured the financial literacy Consumer Resourcefulness study had have visited our local branches for these cash requirements in case of an unforeseen event, of consumers and how this influences indicated that 69% of Romanians had Another consumer education initiative informational events since this format was such as death or a major illness, and determine the their attitude, behaviour and emotional only rudimentary financial knowledge, is the website eZonomics, which has introduced in 2009. level of risk coverage and savings needed. wellbeing. while over 90% wanted to improve further expanded in 2011. eZonomics their capabilities and 40% were actively allows people to ask ING economists ING Direct in Canada launched a new Depending on the responses, consumers seeking for professional support to questions on economic and financial website aimed at educating children about were grouped into one of four achieve this. The programme covered a issues. There is also a popular daily basic financial matters. In the Netherlands, financial literacy knowledge profiles: number of subjects related to financial poll that attracts more than 60,000 we launched an online challenge called excellent, good, basic or poor. The planning and life insurance. Students respondents per day. The polls, ‘Chicks versus Dudes’ that teaches children study recommends respondents from all from 44 universities participated. The and the analysis of the results, are in a fun, competitive way how to manage four profiles do research before taking online portal was visited by 7,100 supplemented by a wide variety of a simple budget. important financial decisions. unique users. easy-to-understand articles, videos and 38 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 BETTER CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE PLACING THE CUSTOMER AT THE NPS to measure the experiences of initiatives to proactively contact External recognition of ING in several HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO their customers. Around 1 million customers, for example by sending countries underlines the added We have introduced the Net customers have completed an NPS periodical e-newsletters; value of NPS as a management tool Dialogues on pensions at Promoter Score (NPS) programme to survey with a remarkable 20% • Claims and surrender process: in 2011. In Slovakia, for instance, Nationale-Nederlanden drive cultural change. NPS involves response rate. we aim to ensure a ‘24 hour a Slovak market research agency immediately acting upon customer pay-out’ in case of a life claim; compared ING Insurance Slovakia’s For most of us, pensions is a difficult topic to understand. Yet feedback about their experience In addition to improving our ability to we have introduced email and SMART life insurance product with Nationale-Nederlanden (NN) aims to keep it simple for its customers of doing business with ING. It is measure our customers’ experiences, SMS notifications once a claim is products of its competitors. The and advisors. Instead of publishing numerous brochures, NN wants more than just a metric to measure NPS yields structural improvements registered, for changes of contact product was considered to be the to stay in touch with its customers at a personal level. Interaction customer satisfaction. It is about to our business, sometimes leading address and a payment method most transparent and innovative is therefore one of NN’s key pillars for creating a better customer stimulating staff to share customer to changes in our business model. In via a call centre; and we are now product in Slovakia. In the Czech experience. Interaction and dialogue are particularly important in input across the organisation and to 2011, NPS resulted in adjustments in enabling customers to submit Republic, the SMART product was light of the 2011 Pension Agreement in the Netherlands, which has use customer feedback as the basis the following areas: requests for smaller claims via Best Insurance Product of the Year resulted in many changes for Dutch citizens. for decision-making. • Products: we have launched new e-mail and ensure partial surrender 2011 during the Bank of the Year investment funds that enable clients within 24 hours or surrender via a competition. In Poland, ING won As part of its 2011 pension campaign, NN organised master classes NPS involves conducting customer to better diversify their risk or phone call; the 2011 Friendly Life Insurance for its advisors to deepen their knowledge of specific pensionsurveys around such aspects as the simplify the fund management of • Customer service: ING agents and Company award for the second year related topics. Also discussed were the best products and services conduct of our staff, how customers unit-linked products; account managers now call their in a row. And in Hungary, ING won a to improve the customer experience. experience our branches, the quality • Accessibility and clarity of customers once a year to find out if Best Brand award after developing a of our products, and the ease of our information: we made annual their needs are being appropriately campaign that educated people about Furthermore, NN launched a new internet portal that gives processes. The answers to the NPS statements easier to understand, met. In the past, the contact the need to do pension planning. employers and their employees up-to-date information about surveys help us determine whether introduced a ‘call-me button’ on with the sales force was more retirement and other financial topics. Difficult topics are explained a client is dissatisfied, has a neutral the ING website, and launched infrequent. in short videos and articles. Employees can use the information and opinion, or is so positive that he or insights gained for their own financial planning. she would recommend ING to friends and family. Dissatisfied customers are In the light of the changing pension environment NN also called back and actively consulted on organised a debate between generations about such issues as a their complaints so that we can take WE GATHERED CUSTOMER FEEDBACK IN 38 BUSINESS UNITS higher retirement age, the effect of more flexible labour markets, remedial action. Neutral customers the needs of the current generation and more. Around 200 are asked what we can improve. LATIN AMERICA* WESTERN EUROPE representatives from different stakeholder groups discussed these Promoters provide input about what • ING Chile Pensions • ING Bank Netherlands topics with a panel of experts, which included representatives we do well so that we can replicate • ING Mexico Pensions • ING Bank Belgium from the Dutch government, pension experts, entrepreneurs this across our businesses. We try • ING Colombia Pensions • ING Bank Luxembourg and professors in risk management and finance. There was to call back customers who have • ING Insurance Peru • ING Direct (UK, Italy, France, Spain, broad agreement amongst the participants that the uncertain participated in an NPS survey within Germany and Austria) economic environment has made it more difficult for individuals 48 hours of their doing business with CENTRAL EASTERN EUROPE and households to plan for the future. Attendees also agreed us. • ING Bank Romania • Nationale-Nederlanden (NL) that private individuals, the government, social partners and • ING Bank Ślaski • ING Insurance Spain the financial sector all share the responsibility for creating a a The surveys have enabled us to • ING Bank Turkey stable and well-financed pension system. Another conclusion improve our internal processes ASIA / PACIFIC was to explore the possibility of standardising pension plans; this and service levels. By embedding • ING Insurance Ślaski • ING Vysya Bank could make the existing pension system in the Netherlands more NPS in our day-to-day business • ING Insurance Romania • ING Direct Australia affordable. operations, we have turned customer • ING Turkey Life centricity into something tangible • ING Insurance Bulgaria • India Vysya Insurance and actionable. By the end of 2011, • ING Life Insurance Greece • ING Malaysia Berhad 38 of ING’s businesses were using • ING Insurance Hungary • China Insurance • ING Insurance Czech Republic • ING Insurance Korea • ING Insurance Slovakia • ING Insurance Thailand • ING Insurance Hong Kong “Every day life is full of economic decisions. With the financial crisis NORTH AMERICA • ING Life Insurance Japan driving home the need for financial education, financial institutions Mark Cliffe, bear a particular responsibility in meeting that need. The challenge is • ING Direct US* Chief Economist at ING • ING Direct Canada * See page 107 for more information to do so in a way that consumers find accessible and engaging. ING’s about divestments local consumer economics initiatives are rising to that challenge.” 40 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 43 BETTER BUSINESS BETTER BUSINESS In our view, sustainability contributes to long-term business success for ourselves and for our customers while contributing towards economic development, a healthy environment and a stable society. ING integrated sustainability considerations and objectives in its business strategies, by actively managing the socio-environmental risks of our transactions and client engagements and stepping up our efforts to contribute to positive change. MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL AND our clients improve their overall risk The department also assists in General policies Sector-specific policies Project-related policies SOCIAL RISK (ESR) profile. ING Bank has a dedicated client engagement related to policy These polices define our minimum These policies deal with These policies (e.g. the Equator Historically, ING has applied high Environmental and Social Risk compliance, and participates in standards; they make sure we are not environmental, labour and human Principles) deal with issues related to environmental and social standards department which advises on stakeholder dialogues with peer engaging with clients or companies rights issues that are specific to project finance, but we also apply in its operations to mitigate risks. business transactions with potential constituents, such as the Equator with activities beyond what we find a particular sector. They guide us them to project-related advisory Policies in this framework were first environmental or social sensitivities. Principles Financial Institutions acceptable. Our general policies deal in our aim to support companies and lending, for both financing formalised in the year 2003 and The department is part of the network. ING’s current set of ESR with a variety of issues which could across these sectors to improve and advisory work. Details on the address issues like human rights, Risk function, and has a strategic Policies is grouped into the following be present in any sector or business their environmental and social application of the Equator Principles protected areas, biodiversity and responsibility to develop ESR Policies categories: activity. performance. (EP) can be found later in this section. ethical dilemmas. The Environmental and facilitate their implementation and Social Risk (ESR) Policies have across ING Group. become integral to ING’s risk culture and are a fully integrated part of our business. Environmental and social risks associated with a financial transaction can be complex and have an impact on our business and that of Sector our clients. By implementing ESR Specific Policies Nuclear (forestry & plantations, standards, we have been improving manufacturing and Energy Policy II our business and we have helped agriculture, natural resources, chemicals) General Policies (animal testing, fur, Equator Small hydro defence, tobacco, gambling, Principles II Policy pornography, genetic engineering, nuclear energy) Equator ING EnvironClimate ING Off-shore ING Bank signed Principles I Business mental Change Business Policy Principles for Principles II Policy statement Principles III Investors in Inclusive Finance (PIIF) Burma/ Launch Oil Palm Mining Human Defence Global Human Climate Defence Fishery Policy for Myanmar ING Business Policy Policy Rights Policy II Voting Rights Change Policy III Policy SMEs in Policy Principles Policy Policy statement statement II Turkey and India 1997 1999 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 44 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 BETTER BUSINESS BANK Diederik Timmer European Director of Managing socio-environmental risks at ING Bank Sustainalytics All ING activities are within the that all corporate policies conform Conservation of Nature (IUCN), scope of our ESR framework. The with international best practice, the Ramsar Convention, and ESR management procedures were but that an individual project may the United Nations Educational, first developed for ING’s Commercial be exposed to risks because of the Scientific and Cultural Organisation Banking activities with the exception specifics of the project and the (UNESCO)); of the defence policy, which has country. If this is the case, it requires • Environmental and social always had a broader scope. In either significant due diligence performance of client and the August 2008, the scope of the ESR and monitoring, or it is considered purpose of the financing; Policies was extended to cover all of beyond our risk appetite. • Involvement in countries defined as ING’s Business Lines. Relevant process ‘high risk’ by ING; changes are to ensure consistent The chart below gives an illustration • Projects with high and medium application of the policies at all levels of how the ESR governance model environmental and social impacts of ING. is applied in practice. For specific (Equator Principles Category A/B). transactions or engagements, the ESR GOVERNANCE MODEL AT ING ING’s Front Office staff first checks In the case of low-risk transactions, BANK whether the engagement is in line our Front Office and risk managers ESR is applied at the client level and with ING’s Business Principles. The proceed with the engagement. the transaction level. Whenever ING second step is to determine whether However, if the transaction is receives a request to offer a product the engagement carries ‘high’ or considered to be ‘high risk’, a further Sustainalytics is a global provider of environmental, social “Shareholder and stakeholder interests must be seen as or service for a client, the ESR Policy ‘low’ risk under the ESR policies. ESR assessment is carried out, often and governance research and analysis. Diederik Timmer, aligned,” continues Timmer. “There is no real discrepancy compliance of all corporate policies When assessing the applicability in close cooperation with ING’s European Director of Sustainalytics, believes that financial between the two. When banks realise this, they will and client activities is verified. When of ESR policies, we focus on the Sustainability department. Based on institutions urgently need to regain the public’s trust by benefit in the long term.” entering into specific business (potential) client as well as the sector the assessment an advice is given on aligning their strategy with sustainability, and creating engagements, another in-depth and country where it operates. The how to proceed. The Executive Board simpler, more personalised products. “Financial institutions need verification takes place. To illustrate criteria used to flag risk business and ING’s highest credit committee this, the risk level of a corporate engagement refer (among others) to: may waive a negative ESR advice. Timmer’s message is poignant and succinct: people don’t engagement with a major client in the extractive industry sector may • Impact on protected areas (as identified by international really trust or believe financial institutions any more. “They see them as institutions that just want to gain from any to be open, transparent and involve a different risk level than a institutions such as the development, at any expense. This is a real problem.” personal.” specific project. It could be the case International Union for the To regain the public’s trust, financial institutions need to be open, transparent and personal. “For a bank, this would mean creating products that are simple to “Investors take sustainability seriously for various reasons understand, with less fine print, and designing products to maintain reputation, to contribute to social and that are truly tailored to an individual’s financial needs.” environmental change, and to create a better investment ESR IN PRACTICE portfolio that creates greater returns with lower risk.” COMMERCIAL Financial institutions should also integrate sustainability VIABILITY into their business strategy. “Financial markets should PROCEED pursue long-term investment objectives that achieve financial returns as well as social and environmental FRONT OFFICE PROCEED change. The most effective approach balances both. WITH LEGAL + COMPLIANCE CONDITION APPROVED Sustainable financial markets should manage the impact BUSINESS PLAN of financial institutions on society. This requires them DECLINE to engage in activities where they can actually bring CONTINUOUS MONITORING about change, for example by investing in microfinance institutions or in companies that contribute to ENVIRONMENTAL + SOCIAL RISK development and innovation.” ASSESSMENT 46 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 BETTER BUSINESS BANK REFINING ENVIRONMENTAL AND Ruggie, who contends that the power. New ING employees also APPLYING THE EQUATOR Currently more than 75 financial 1 January 2012. The revision of the SOCIAL RISK POLICIES AT ING BANK key responsibility of corporations receive training on ESR policies. PRINCIPLES institutions are part of the Association Equator Principles were triggered by Policy refinement is a continuous is to respect human rights. We The Equator Principles (EP) have and use the EP. Together we are a strategic review and experience of process and ever since their initial are now discussing the translation The number of people trained by the become the standard in the working hard to increase this number the last few years. approval, ING’s ESR policies have of this framework into standards ESR department dropped to 350 from financial industry for assessing and by sharing best practices with been extensively adjusted to ensure for practical use by financial 443 in 2010. Because our policies managing environmental and social non-participating banks or talking Topics being addressed in the revision their ongoing relevance to the institutions. are more and more integrated in the risk in project finance transactions. to regulating bodies. The ongoing are: challenges and issues associated with • Different sector policies with system for client onboarding, the The EP are adopted and applied refinement of the EP is something we • Transparency requirements, our clients’ business activities. regard to commodities were need for training has decreased. In voluntarily by financial institutions, aspire to, but this will possibly limit both for clients and EPFI on how further specified and we provided addition, our EP and Sector policies called Equator Principles Financial the ability of new players to enter the EP are being applied and When developing new policies, or training on how to work with these are currently under revision. Once Institutions (EPFI). The EP are the Association. Welcoming new implemented. refining existing ones, we consult our amendments. the renewed versions are available, based on the International Finance financial institutions on board, while • Climate change. internal and external stakeholders, • Our policy framework is currently training will resume. Corporation Performance Standards at the same time continuing to invest • The Ruggie Framework and OECD for example at the roundtable under review with the aim of on social and environmental in further progress, requires a careful standards on human rights. on Responsible Banking and Best making it easier for our colleagues Throughout our organisation, we sustainability (IFC PS) and the balancing act. • The scope of the EP. Practice for Environmental and to use. This process will be finalised have ESR experts who act as the main Environmental, Health, and Safety • Consistent implementation of the Social Governance Teams, which in 2012. contact point for ESR issues in specific Guidelines (EHS Guidelines). Formed ING is an active advocate and user of EP by all EPFI. is organised by the United Nations regions. This ensures a high-quality by the EP Association representatives the EP as we recognise their ability The review will be finalised in 2012. Environment Programme Finance TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING reviewing and assessment process. of the EPFI manage, administer to positively contribute to society. Initiative (UNEPFI). Consultation WITHIN ING BANK The network will be expanded in the and develop the EP. Its goal is also Application of EP requires in-depth Each project sensitive to allows us to enhance our criteria and In addition to developing and coming years. to ensure long-term viability of the research on environmental and social environmental and social risks is helps us to align our policies with applying policies, our ESR department framework. risks. By raising awareness of these reviewed at least annually, depending best-in-class standards. Furthermore, also delivers policy training risks, we support our customers in on any additional conditions set, or the OECD developed new guidelines programmes to our employees. ING is one of the 14 members of identifying opportunities to mitigate significant risks attached to a project. on human rights, and ING During such a training, employees the EPFI Steering Committee. ING them. We only engage with clients The review assesses if the project is coordinates the joint understanding dealing with specific ESR policies get will chair this Committee in 2012. when the basics are in place, and still compliant with the EP and the and translation into bank policies for together for in-depth discussions Together with the other members, aim to assist them in improving given requirements. Some projects the entire industry. on how the policies work, and we play a role in guiding the EP and the standards they apply. We are ‘approved under conditions’, the benefits and challenges of the Association in new directions. We incorporate conditions related to which means the basic elements are In 2011, we implemented the implementing them. participate in several working groups, our Policy framework in the financial in place, but the company still has to following main policy changes: and chair the committee that focuses documentation, making them part of meet some requirements in order to • The ESR framework was integrated Each year, specialists from the ESR on social risks, specifically looking at the commercial relationship. be fully compliant. into the customer due diligence department travel to different all matters related to human rights. processes. ING offices around the world to We aim to incorporate relevant In 2011 the IFC Performance • ING publicly supported the Ruggie provide training on the existing ESR developments, such as the Ruggie Standards were up for their framework, this is a framework framework or on newly developed framework and the new OECD periodical review. ING coordinated developed by the special policies, for example on commodities. guidelines, into the Equator Principles the work that was done on the topics representative to the secretaryIn 2011, training was given in Turkey, Framework. human rights and labour rights. The general of the United Nations on focusing on the Equator Principles new standards became valid on Business and Human Rights, John (EP), the defence sector and nuclear ING will chair the EP Steering Committee in 2012 48 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 BETTER BUSINESS BANK Shawn Miller Chair of the Equator Principles Association Steering Committee EQUATOR PRINCIPLES SCREENING AT ING BANK IN 2011 Managing Director of Environmental and Social Risk Number of projects screened, including outcome Management (ESRM) at Citi AFRICA WESTERN EUROPE 1 Equator Principles Advice 18 Equator Principles Advice Negative Positive Conditional Negative Positive Conditional Infrastructure 1 Infrastructure 1 3 2 Natural Resources Natural Resources 1 1 Other Other Power & Utilities Power & Utilities 1 1111171111 Total 1 Total 15 3 CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE NORTH AMERICA How do the Equator Principles (EP) help a bank become How important is advocacy of the Equator Principles by 10 Equator Principles Advice 11 Equator Principles Advice more sustainable? banks? Negative Positive Conditional Negative Positive Conditional First and foremost, they help banks manage risk. When It is important for the success of the EP that they are Infrastructure 1 1 Infrastructure 1 financing large infrastructure projects, the EP provide a used in all regions and markets worldwide. Many of us Natural Resources 3 Natural Resources 1 credible and effective way to assess and manage risks, including ING and Citi operate in diverse geographies 1 113 1 1 and have intelligent conversations with our clients. Also, outside of our home markets. It’s important that we are Other Other banks have built environmental and social risk policies and competing on a level playing field. It also makes good Power & Utilities 1 Power & Utilities 1111167 frameworks on top of the EP as part of their business. business sense: the EP are about both assessing and Total 5 5 Total 10 1 This has made our investment and lending decisions more managing risk with our clients. I feel strongly that it is the sustainable. duty of the leaders in the EP Association to advocate the use of EP in all our markets. LATIN AMERICA MIDDLE EAST How has the financial crisis impacted the relevance of the Equator Principles Advice Equator Principles Advice Equator Principles? “The Equator Principles make 4 1 Negative Positive Conditional Negative Positive Conditional Throughout the crisis, the EP have been a constant example of success and innovation. Are they perfect? No. good business sense.” Infrastructure 1 Infrastructure Natural Resources 1 Natural Resources Do we recognise there are things that we could do better? Yes. Instead of trying to apply them less strictly, the EP Other 1 Other for financial institutions have tried to make them better. Power & Utilities 1 Power & Utilities 1 Indeed, I feel strongly that applying the EP robustly and Total 1 3 Total 1 consistently helps banks manage their reputation. What is the future of the Equator Principles enhancing their scope or expanding the number of banks that apply Should the EP be made mandatory through governmental them? regulations or any other regulatory body? The number of negative advices based on I don’t think it’s an ‘either or’ proposition. The EP were No. I think the EP have been hugely successful on ASIA / PACIFIC application of the EP has dropped significantly envisaged as a risk management framework for large their own as a voluntary environmental and social risk over the years. Two reasons for this are training infrastructure developments and can’t be applied to every management framework for the finance sector. We need Equator Principles Advice and higher awareness in the front office, 10 banking product or business line. We are, however, trying to continue to challenge ourselves to do better, to be Negative Positive Conditional which help to filter out non-compliant deals from an early stage. Furthermore, ING believes to determine when the EP could be applied in other areas, more open and transparent, and work with our clients Infrastructure that simply turning down a project does not for example corporate loans with known use of proceeds. jointly to solve issues on the ground. Natural Resources 2 2 solve the underlying social or environmental As for the number of banks applying the principles, we issues that may be at stake. For this reason, we Other 1 1 normally decide to proceed with the project have done a pretty good job of bringing in the major Power & Utilities 2 2 under certain conditions and to ‘nudge’ the global project finance banks. Still, we have a long way to client towards EP compliance through close go in South and East Asia. Total 5 5 monitoring during the life of the project. 50 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 BETTER BUSINESS BANK A CLEAR STANCE ON BANKING • ING Bank offers financial solutions A ‘sanity check’ is applied to ensure A CLEAR STANCE ON BANKING civilian aviation through its subsidiary activities. Although our stake in the IN SENSITIVE MARKETS: to companies throughout the the link between the hedge (a IN SENSITIVE MARKETS: DEFENCE Airbus. ING finances EADS, but sector is fairly limited, it is not just AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES commodities’ value chain. This future on a certain commodity) EQUIPMENT we have extensively discussed our numbers that count, particularly not As indicated on page 19 there is an ranges from producers and traders, requested and the business Our defence policy is an important restrictive approach towards nuclear in a sector as sensitive as defence. increasing concern that excessive to transporters and processors of activities of the client. Hedging part of our sustainable approach defence activities, a point of view In 2011, several civil society investments and large capital inflow food products. ING Bank offers is thus not used for speculative to financing. The policy was first well respected by the company. organisations expressed their into the agricultural commodity these clients straightforward purposes, but to give more price drafted in 2003 and thoroughly concerns over any possible financing futures market may lead to volatility financing such as trade finance, certainty to the users of physical revised in 2005 and 2009. Over the Furthermore, the policy sets of defence equipment to the Middle and increase of food prices. Given corporate loans and working goods in the food supply chain. years, it has evolved to better address guidelines for arms trade. It East in light of the Arab Spring. the importance of the subject, ING capital, but also more complex • ING Bank offers commodity social concerns about controversial prescribes that ING will not have In response, we confirmed not to is closely following the international financial structures such as the derivatives to its investment clients. weapons and arms trade. dealings with companies in the have financed the trade of defence debate and actively participating in financing of ships, storage facilities The total exposure to corn and defence sector when there is equipment to the countries involved. research studies and dialogues to and plantations. wheat futures are limited to EUR 8 Our defence policy provides clear evidence that they make arms get a better understanding of any • For clients that are active in the million. There is no exposure to rice guidance on what we believe to be available to countries that are under Another important issue in this possible correlation between the commodities value chain i.e., futures. controversial or undesirable business a weapons embargo, terrorists and regard relates to our financing two. If and when investments in producers and processors of activities. We consider anti-personnel other non-governmental armed activities of trade and export. Banks commodity derivatives are found to food ING provides hedging ING Bank does not trade physical landmines and cluster munitions groups, or when they are used for issue letters of credit and other correlate with agricultural commodity services. Hedging is a useful tool agricultural commodities, controversial, as well as depleted internal repression, serious violations instruments, often in the case of price increase and volatility, to limit uncertainty by reducing or derivatives of agricultural uranium ammunition, biological and of international humanitarian law or international transactions, which appropriate measures will be taken. their exposure to the risk of price commodities for its own account, nor chemical weapons. ING will neither for any other purpose which cannot form the basis for the seller and the ING Bank is present throughout the fluctuations, and is an activity do we invest our proprietary assets in finance the production, maintenance reasonably be considered consistent buyer to do their trade. Our trade commodities’ value chain: which has been done for centuries. these securities/products. or trade of these weapons nor with normal and legitimate national financing activities are also governed provide any financial services to security and defence. by our defence policy, whereby companies involved in these kinds of we check both the nature of the weapons. Also, we do not finance ING BANK’S FINANCING OF THE goods, the supplier, the receiving nuclear weapons. However, we DEFENCE INDUSTRY party and its intended purpose. In Doing business with Chiquita may finance the non-controversial Based on SIPRI (Stockholm 2011, 20 trade financing projects activities of high-tech companies, International Peace Research related to the defence industry were Chiquita is one of the world’s premier producers of bananas a thorough review of the company’s corporate responsibility such as civil aviation activities, if the Institute) reports, the defence approved. Twelve transactions had a and other fruits. Since the 1990s, the company has been efforts. company guarantees that ING funds industry makes up roughly 2.5% civilian purpose (such as hobby and working to improve its environmental performance and the will not be used for nuclear weaponof global GDP. Our lending services sport usage), while eight were trade conditions for its workers. Today, the company’s Latin American During the visit, Chiquita and ING discussed the company’s related activities. A good example to, and investments in, this sector finance transactions from companies banana farms are certified by the Rainforest Alliance and sustainability efforts of the last few years and reviewed of the latter is EADS, a company amount to some EUR 108 million, to governments. comply with international labour standards. supporting documentation. “ING’s team had done their engaged in activities for the French equal to 0.01% of our customerresearch. They asked very probing questions and displayed a deterrent force and a global player in related financing and investment According to George Jaksch, Senior Director of Corporate high level of expertise and personal concern,” he adds. Responsibility and Public Affairs with Chiquita, the company is now developing a company-wide sustainability programme, According to Jaksch, it became apparent that sustainability was mobilising employees to embrace sustainability and making immensely important to ING and to the relationship between Monitoring defence exposure based on SIPRI list purchasing more sustainable. Working with ING is helping both companies. ”Like ING, we look for sustainable, long-term The defence sector is a diverse group of industrial and technology companies with many different activities, ranging from Chiquita to make this transition. partnerships. We were drawn to ING by its business and work ammunitions to speciality vehicles and aircrafts to security technology, often used for both defence and civilian purposes. ethic, fair standards, transparency and the financial strength of We have screened our portfolio to determine which financing ING has provided to the defence sector. Since the definition Since the 1980s, ING has provided guarantees and credit the institution.” of defence is not clear-cut, we made use of the SIPRI Top 100 list to determine our involvement. The SIPRI Top 100 list facilities and has financed the expansion of the company’s is made up of the world’s largest arms-producing companies, based on the revenue derived from their defence-related shipping fleet. From the start of the ING-Chiquita relationship, “We run a very transparent operation and are mindful that activities. Looking at the largest companies on that list, which together are good for 90% of the world’s arm sales, we both organisations discovered they shared a common set of our financial partners are looking over our shoulders and could conclude that at the end of 2011, ING Bank had provided loans to the global defence industry for a total of EUR 108 values, including those involving corporate responsibility (child are beside us as we conduct our business. Our suppliers and million. This is 0.01% of our total loan book. labour, social issues). Then, in 2009, as part of a loan review, key customers ask us all the time about the kind of financial ING asked Chiquita about recent publicity surrounding the institutions we are dealing with, more so over the last three or The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute Top 100 lists the world’s 100 largest arms-producing and company’s ethical standards. This initial review led ING to four years,” says Jaksch. military services companies (excluding Chinese companies), ranked by their arms sales in 2010. The list is based on the host a team from Chiquita in Amsterdam in 2011 to perform comprehensive SIPRI Arms Industry Database, which contains financial and employment data on the world’s major armsproducing and military services companies. 52 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 BETTER BUSINESS BANK Contributing to positive change at ING Bank SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND government’s ongoing dismantlement declined in 2011 from EUR 2.7 billion SERVICES of tax facilities for sustainable to EUR 2.0 billion. We strive to meet the growing investments. As a result, we have demand for products that not only seen a strong decrease in the influx of INCLUSIVE FINANCE generate good financial returns green savings. ING acknowledges the importance Malgorzata Kolakowska but also serve clear social and of inclusive finance. Since 2004 ING President of the Management environmental objectives. We expect this trend to continue has granted loans to Micro Finance in 2012. Decreased tax facilities Institutions (MFIs) in developing Board ING Bank Ślaski, Poland ING Groenbank exemplifies this will result in fewer opportunities to countries, which in turn lend the approach. This Dutch entity, provide a discount on green loans. money to micro-entrepreneurs. Via established in 1996, aims to help We intend to invest in initiatives that ING Vysya Bank Ltd. in India, we our business customers make their do not depend on fiscal advantages also provide direct loans to microactivities more sustainable through and to set up an advisory desk that entrepreneurs and self-help groups. advice and suitable banking products. will allow us to find sustainable With a current portfolio of EUR 53 ING Groenbank is the number two partners for our clients within ING. million, we serve more than 400,000 green bank in the Netherlands. ING Groenbank’s changes reflect micro-entrepreneurs in India. ING Groenbank’s portfolio decreased a wider trend in the industry. (to continue reading, turn to How important is it for ING Bank Ślaski to be included in We also look at best practices and we keep an eye on from EUR 829 million in 2010 to EUR As indicated on page 103, our page 56) the Polish Respect Index? developments in the market. Last year we were proud 648 million in 2011 due to the Dutch sustainable assets under management ING Bank Ślaski has been included in the Respect Index to be awarded first place in the Responsible Companies since it was listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in ranking in the Financial Institutions category. PROJECTS ING GROENBANK 2011 2009. Companies that demonstrate strong performance according to type in the areas of corporate governance, investor relations, How important do you think non-financial performance is in percentages employee engagement, and social and environmental for investors? programmes are included in the Index. We believe our Nowadays, non-financial indicators have become approach to sustainability is our distinctive feature; we increasingly important for investors. A high return on 2011 2010 build relationships with our customers and the community, equity alone is no longer enough to attract them. A City heating 28% 34% and take up actions in favour of the environment. In company needs to communicate transparently, and Green-label greenhouses 23% 22% this way we aim to build solid relationships with key the quality of reporting and the team that answers Sustainable energy (wind & solar) 8% 9% stakeholders, which eventually contribute to higher levels questions from the investor community need to be up to Sustainable construction 12% 12% of trust and a competitive advantage. The Index is restandard. In this respect it is important that a company Nature 10% 11% evaluated every six months, so we really do need to stay observes ethical, environmental and social standards, and International loans 1% 1% focused if we want to stay included. respects employees’ rights. The Respect Index puts a lot Organic agriculture 4% 3% of emphasis on these non-financial aspects. This makes Other projects 18% 8% Total 100% 100% companies with a strong sustainable track record more attractive. “Companies with a strong Can you say something about your key targets for 2012? sustainable track record are Improving our sustainability performance is one of our Exploring and researching the business case for sustainability business objectives. In addition, we want to improve Countering global warming and climate change is one of the Revolution’. The study showed that potential worldwide more attractive.” operational excellence and client centricity, invest in developing more client-friendly solutions and easier and most pressing issues society faces today. There is growing savings from a more efficient use of energy and water and clearer systems for the handling of complaints. We will evidence that there are business and economic reasons to reductions in greenhouse gases and waste could be EUR 1.5 also roll out several satisfaction surveys and continue to intensify investments aimed in a more efficient use of energy trillion, or 5% of global GDP, by 2020. Benelux companies make regular improvements to the quality of our products and water, and a reduction of greenhouse gases and waste. are in the lead in capturing a share of this sustainability Did you need to take specific steps internally to ensure and services. ING is therefore actively advising investors and corporate opportunity. The report predicts they can achieve cost savings inclusion in the Respect Index? clients about the advantages of sustainable business. An of EUR 56.9 billion by 2020 by reducing greenhouse gases We have appointed a corporate social responsibility example was a report by our Western European Equity and the use of energy and water. team, composed of representatives from all of the Research team in April 2011 called ‘The Third Industrial bank’s organisational units. We regularly collect the data related to various initiatives within ING Bank Ślaski, and we continue to invest in our knowledge on the subject. 54 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 BETTER BUSINESS BANK (continued from page 54) sector has the power to encourage We acknowledge the need to the sustainable development of increase transparency, prevent both emerging and industrialised over-indebtedness and continuously economies. As a financial institution, focus on the social performance. we strive to bridge investment One of the steps we took in 2011 gaps in cleaner technologies and to address these challenges was innovation. However, we also call to sign the Principles for Investors upon governments to create (tax in Inclusive Finance (PIFF). The PIFF and legal) incentives for long-term have meanwhile been successfully investments. Christopher Steane implemented at ING Vysya Bank Ltd. Global Head of Lending in India. Below we show how our own energy ING Commercial Banking lending portfolio has shifted. It clearly SHIFT IN ING BANK’S ENERGY exemplifies our commitment to more PORTFOLIO sustainable energy sources. At yearING believes that the global energy end 2011, 33% of the portfolio was sector plays a vital role in combating in renewable energy projects and we environmental challenges such expect to increase that share to 50% as global warming. The energy in the next 12 to 18 months. SNAPSHOT GLOBAL ENERGY PORTFOLIO* “Sustainability can be a that are commercially viable in the long term and make a direct contribution to the issue. business opportunity as well What is next for sustainability in Lending Services? as an environmental and We recently heard the final presentations from the teams social responsibility” and I am very pleased with the results. This project has brought a lot of clarity to our thinking and the Lending Services management team is now considering the detailed recommendations and deciding upon the next How do the issues of sustainability affect ING? steps to be taken in 2012. I am hopeful that by adapting Sustainability, including the effects of climate change, our approach, ING Lending Services can make a greater is a very important concern. In my view, ING does well contribution to sustainability and action against climate in the area of its Environmental and Social Risk Policies, change. which I think are well drafted and well implemented. These policies tell us what not to do and stop us from doing harm. The question I have is: are there ways we can Year 2011, in percentages Year 2005, in percentages approach sustainability and climate change issues more Renewables: positively? Unfortunately, I don’t have the time myself to Renewables: Geothermal 1% Geothermal 0% analyse all the possibilities in what is a complex area, and Waste 1% Waste 0% so I initiated the Lending Services High Impact Team (HIT) ING Commercial Banking Lending Services Biomass 1% Biomass -% Project on Sustainability. ING’s commercial bank provides loan facilities Solar 3% Solar -% to large corporate and financial institution Offshore Wind 1% Offshore Wind -% Wind 20% Wind 1% What is the HIT Project on Sustainability? clients. In addition, the Structured Finance and Hydro 3% Hydro 3% Over a 100-day period of selective and concentrated work, Real Estate Finance divisions provide specialist Gas 50% Gas 60% 20 highly motivated volunteers reflecting the diversity of finance for projects in industries such as power Coal 18% Coal 34% the global Lending Services business worked in two teams. generation, transportation, natural resources and Oil 1% Oil 2% One team addressed the broad theme of “sustainability”, infrastructure, as well as to institutional investors Landfill Gas 1% Landfill Gas -% Total 100% Total 100% including population growth, resources scarcity, pollution, in real estate. waste and biodiversity, and the other team the more *ING Structured Finance Utilities, Power & Renewables specific theme of “global warming”, including climate change mitigation and adaptating to and the transition to a low carbon economy. The challenge for each team was to deliver three new lending initiatives or policy guidelines 56 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 BETTER BUSINESS BANK Claudia Mennen-Vermeule CFO of Green Gas International Solar energy in Italy ING’s involvement in renewable energy has so far included become increasingly selective as a result of the economic wind energy projects across Europe and the US. In 2011, crisis, making it more difficult for green energy plants to we also entered the Italian solar power market with the obtain financing. Nevertheless, ING decided to get involved successful financing of three large-scale projects in Italy for by becoming one of the mandated lead arrangers and AES Solar, a leading global producer of solar power, and Toto hedging banks. Group, a construction company. “Initially, only Italian banks were involved. Once on board, According to Stefano Saglia, Italy’s former undersecretary ING gave the project a distinct international character and, for energy affairs, Italy is firmly committed to solar energy as even more important, credibility. This facilitated discussions part of its 2020 emission reduction goals. With more than with the municipality of Salerno and other parties,” says 12.7 gigawatt (GW), Italy’s solar power market is the world’s Fabio Fritelli, CFO of Toto. “As AES Solar was established to largest. Though technically feasible, the projects are complex become one of the leading global solar power producers, from an authorisation and regulatory point of view. However we value this new partnership on the back of our two solar projects benefit from a 20-year regulated feed-in tariff. Italian projects, knowing that ING is an international player,“ comments Claudio Pisi Vitagliano, head of European Finance The 24 megawatt (MW) Toto Monteboli project in Eboli at AES Solar. was the first in Europe to be realised through a publicprivate partnership, a structure usually reserved for public As the market for solar energy changes, balancing infrastructure projects. So before 30,000 families could use commercial realities with environmental goals is becoming Green Gas International designs, builds and operates muses that for now, the project is based on carbon credits, solar energy, complex negotiations took place between harder. The Monteboli project provides a template for how plants that convert polluting methane waste gas from coal but the next step will be to see how electricity generation owners, banks, suppliers and the municipality. to set up a successful renewable energy project in a shifting mines and landfills into clean energy and carbon credits. can be made part of the equation. economic and regularly environment. Founded in 2005, the company operates around 50 To further compound matters, financial institutions have projects worldwide, with a combined capacity of around 110 MW. Former CFO Claudia Mennen-Vermeule looks for innovative ways to finance these projects. “We make energy from a “Project finance is difficult for small projects because of waste product, improve the the high legal and due diligence costs. We looked into issuing carbon bonds, but that would require support of environment and make an ING calls for ’Green Delta Plan’ various governments and agencies, which would be too complex and expensive. Instead, we came up with other economic profit.” The Dutch government has set a target for 14% of all energy creative and revolutionary ideas.” consumption in the Netherlands to come from renewable ING’s analysis demonstrated that there is still ample sources by 2020. This is an ambitious goal. Significant effort opportunity to make energy production in the Netherlands This led the company to ING. “We initially looked at “The project is major indeed. We will realise emission and investments will be required in order to achieve this more sustainable, for instance by increasing investments in project financing, but the feedback was that it was too reductions of 1.6 million tonnes of CO2 per year. This is objective. This was one of the main conclusions of a study wind energy and biomass. Opportunities to reduce energy small. So Green Gas, together with ING, realised that equivalent to neutralising half a million cars on the roads, published by the ING Economics Department in September consumption lie mainly in the building sector (e.g. through we needed an umbrella facility where we could bring all or 10% of all cars in the Netherlands. In addition we are 2011. better insulation, double-glazing and high-efficiency boilers). the projects together. That would mean negotiating a generating enough renewable energy to meet the needs Co-generation and heat and cold storage are also promising document once, and then bringing in new projects under of a city with 300,000 inhabitants.” According to ING’s economists, global energy demand options in the industrial, real estate and agricultural sectors. that basic framework.” will rise sharply in the coming years. However, 80% of the Mennen is hopeful for the future of her company and for world’s energy needs currently come from oil, coal and The report showed that in order to achieve the government’s This approach was beneficial to both parties. The larger the industry as a whole. “We are a self-financing company gas, which emit a significant amount of CO2. Furthermore, 2020 sustainable energy targets, annual investments of EUR project size made it easier to cover the costs involved, that stands on its own feet. We have shareholders that these resources are finite. ING’s report argued that the share 10 billion are needed versus current investments of EUR 2 and since it was structured through the Netherlands, the are committed to our operations. We make energy from of fossil fuels in the global energy mix must be reduced billion. ING therefore calls for a ‘Green Delta Plan’ to be financing was quite secure. “We have sold the carbon a waste product, improve the environment and make an in favour of renewable energy. In the Netherlands, the agreed between the government, business, lenders and credits forward, so ING doesn’t have a pricing risk on the economic profit out of it.” renewable energy market is growing at an annual rate of knowledge institutions in order to bridge this financial gap. credits.” 13%. However, renewable energy is still a mere 4% of total energy consumption, which is far under the government’s The approach was complex and many risks had to be dealt 2020 goal of 14%. with, so the project took a year to be completed. Mennen 58 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 FINANCE AND TRANSPARENCY BANK People will only entrust their money to us, if responsible finance. We therefore consider it into both the funding sources of ING Bank as ECONOMIC SECTORS 0.5 % they feel that we are committed to managing important to be optimally transparent on where well as the allocation of the funds entrusted to CREDIT RISK PORTFOLIO PER ECONOMIC SECTOR6 TECHNOLOGY their money well. An important factor in this we collect our money from and on what we do us. Moreover, it illustrates the application of our respect is that we are well aware of the with the funds entrusted to us. EP Environmental and Social Risk framework in our The sector overview on the right gives a further increasing levels of expectations amongst our commercial lending activities. specification of the different sectors in which ING Bank customers and in broader society with regard to For this reason the charts below provide insight carries out its corporate lending and investment activities, which account for 26.9% of its total lending 0.9 % AUTOMOTIVE and investment activities (as indicated on page 60). The EP FUNDING BASE ING BANK SEGMENT BREAK-DOWN LENDING & INVESTMENTS specification is based on the NAICS7 classification applied by ING Bank Credit Risk Management in our TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES CREDIT RISK PORTFOLIO PER CLIENT SEGMENT3 1.0 1 % internal measurement methodologies.6 It illustrates, for RETAIL instance, that 0.5% of the Bank’s lending and EP EP The figure below represents the total equity The figure below gives an overview of ING Bank’s lending and investment activities. This investment portfolio (the first element on the right) and liabilities of the 2011 consolidated overview is based on ING Bank's internal credit risk measurement methodologies, relates to the technology sector and 6.2% relates to balance sheet of ING Bank, illustrating the showing our portfolio divided over five client segments. As indicated, the vast majority of funding base of ING Bank. The total funding ING Bank’s portfolio serves the financing and investment needs of households, compareal estate (the last element shown). 1.2 % MEDIA + TELECOM of ING Bank amounted to EUR 961 billion, nies, other financial institutions and governments. For instance, 40.8% is allocated in the EP As indicated before, all our activities are governed by 49.9% of which consisted of customer form of mortgages and other types of loans provided to private individuals and 26.9% of our ESR policy framework. The icons depicted in the deposits. ING Bank’s assets are allocated to meet the financing needs of small and midsize overview illustrate which policy is applicable to which enterprises, large corporations and other commercial enterprises. sector. Note that we have several specific policies 1.3 % UTILITIES EP applying to the different sectors, such as country risk policies, which do not all form part of our environmental and social risk framework. Please see page 44 for CHEMICALS, more information on our ESR policy framework and its practical implementation. 1.4 % HEALTH & PHARMACEUTICALS 3.6 4.8 % % EP EP 6 Please refer also to ING Group Annual Report 2011, page 228 OTHER 7 Please refer to the Glossary for explanation of these terms EQUITY 1.8 % BUILDERS & CONTRACTORS EP 7.5 8.7 2.7 % 0.3% GIIPS 4 % % OTHER FOOD, BANK GOVERN1.9 % BEVERAGES & PERSONAL CARE DEPOSITS MENTS 6.0% BONDS 0.8% NETHERLANDS EP EP 4.9 % ROW5 1.9 % GENERAL INDUSTRIES 11.2 % 18.8 % EP TRADING FINANCIAL 2.2 LIABILITIES2 INSITUTIONS % SERVICES OUR POLICIES ON CGM EP ANIMAL TESTING 12.3 % 26.9 % DEFENCE ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2.5 % TRANSPORTATION & LOGISTICS OTHER CORPORATE EP EP FUR GAMBLING OTHER GENETIC ENGENEERING 4.1% NATURAL RESOURCES 15.5 % 40.8 % 1.6 % CONSUMER LENDING 16.9 % NETHERLANDS HUMAN RIGHTS EP EP BONDS AND CONSUMER NUCLEAR ENERGY LOANS LENDING 39.2% RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES PORNOGRAPHY 6.2 % REAL ESTATE 22.3 % ROW5 FORESTRY & PLANTATIONS EP LABOUR RIGHTS 49.9 3 For more information see the ING Group EP % fourth quarterly report, page 26. (MANUFACTURING/AGRICULTURE) 4 Greece, Italy, Ireland and Spain CUSTOMER 5 Rest of the world NATURAL RESOURCES & CHEMICALS DEPOSITS EP EQUATOR PRINCIPLES 1 For the balance sheet of ING Bank, please see the ING Bank Annual Report 2011, page 16. 2 Trading liabilities are listed under Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss, as 60 stated on page 16 of ING Bank Annual Report 61 BETTER BUSINESS INSURANCE / IM 63 Managing socio-environmental risks at ING Insurance and framework, we have developed a restricted BETTER BUSINESS INSURANCE / IM INTEGRATING ESG FACTORS INTO THE INVESTMENT PROCESS list, i.e., a list of non-eligible companies that Investment Management We believe that integrating environmental, are considered to be the worst offenders social and governance (ESG) factors into the in sensitive areas. In addition, we maintain GOVERNANCE MODEL MANAGING ASSETS Each region has its own dedicated investment process enables us to take into a restricted list specifically for the defence All investment activities at ING are ING distinguishes different types of ESG and SRI investment professionals account factors which are often out of scope sector. The restricted list is applicable to the first and foremost governed by assets that are managed for our own who have extensive experience in of traditional financial analysis, but can have a proprietary assets (i.e. premiums) and the SRI the ING Business Principles. ING account and for third parties. The analyzing ESG data and managing significant impact on long-term performance. funds, while the restricted list for the defence Insurance/IM has taken several majority of ING’s assets are managed sustainable funds and are able This allows our analysts to unlock potential industry is applicable to all assets, both measures to support the practical by ING Investment Management (ING to educate other colleagues in value by identifying opportunities and/ proprietary and third party. implementation of these principles IM). These assets can be divided into our organisation on taking ESG or risks from an ESG perspective, upon across our investment activities. three categories. information into account and which fund managers base their investment EXERTING INFLUENCE BY VOTING 1. Proprietary assets are those that responsible investment. decisions. These criteria are integrated into the Our voting policy states that not only First, ING Insurance/IM applies back insurance contract liabilities. ING investment process for both the proprietary financial, economic and corporate governance the ING Group ESR framework. invests this money in a prudent way Furthermore, ING IM is a signatory assets and third-party assets. Our dedicated information is important in assessing Based on this framework, we have in order to pay future claims under to the European Social Investment SRI funds use the same database but add shareholder value, but also social, ethical and made a list of companies that ING these contracts. The return (profits Forum (Eurosif) SRI Transparency a combined approach of best-in-class and environmental considerations. managed funds and proprietary and losses) is for ING’s own account. Code. Eurosif promotes transparency negative screening based on sustainability assets cannot invest in. To ensure 2.Third party assets are those that on the use of qualitative investment criteria. By voting at general meetings, ING IM Europe universal application across ING, the ING manages for institutional clients. criteria to enable consumers can influence matters, such as director list is fed into the trading software, ING IM selects specific investments (investors) to make a more informed The ESG factors covered include nominations, remuneration policy and the subsequently preventing any trade in based on the investment criteria choice, by clarifying the principles and environmental damage and climate change, issue of new shares. ING has published a the stock of these companies. defined by the client. The return is for processes used by SRI mutual funds in corruption, human rights, health and safety, Global Voting Policy for all asset managers the account of the client. their investment processes. as well as good governance. The analysts have within the company. The principles as Furthermore, ING Insurance/ 3. ING managed funds are investment access to the ESG database. The idea is that expressed in the Global Voting Policy are the IM has developed an integrated portfolios that we offer to retail In addition, a PRI committee has been all analysts can use the ESG data in a ready-tofoundation for ING IM Europe’s voting policy. Environmental & Social Governance clients. The returns made by these set up with representatives from use format. (ESG) model. We collect and funds are for the account of the different regions to monitor and align This voting policy describes how we vote analyze ESG data to enable all of client. A specific group of ING regional PRI initiatives. The members The ESG database includes information on standard resolutions at annual general our investment professionals to managed funds are our SRI funds, are responsible for implementation, on how each company scores on different meetings and extraordinary general meetings make better long-term investment which use sustainability criteria to progress review and feedback to the ESG factors compared to its sector average of our investee companies. The shareholder decisions based on a more holistic determine the investment universe. relevant teams in their regions. The and if there are any structural issues or meetings of our Dutch and Belgian holdings, understanding (financial and noncommittee also provides advice to controversies regarding people, planet and as well as all companies that are held in financial factors) of a company and ING IM’s Responsible Investment (RI) the Management Board Insurance / society. The analysts incorporate these data the Sustainable Equity fund, are individually based on a long-term perspective. In strategy is based on our Investment IM about our positioning and future in their investment cases, thereby looking scrutinised by an in-house proxy voting 2011, we made significant progress Principles, which state that we are initiatives in the ESG and SRI area. at the materiality (i.e. the impact on the committee. In this proxy voting committee in integrating ESG factors in our committed to investing responsibly valuation) for each company that is reviewed fund managers and analysts are represented investment processes by providing and delivering customer-oriented for investment. Fund managers base their in order to ensure a clear linkage between the portfolio fund managers with an investment solutions. decisions upon these investment cases. This our voting activities and investment activities. analysis of companies’ environmental, process is applicable to equities and corporate In several other instances, voting behaviour social and governance performance, Therefore, we follow four clear bonds. A similar procedure is in place for is decided on the basis of advice of external complementing the traditional guidelines: government bonds, whereby instead of using specialists, in particular ISS. In the United financial analysis. • We are committed to the United ESG data on company level, we make use of States, Japan and a number of other In addition, we proactively contribute Nations Principles for Responsible ESG data on country level. countries, shareholder resolutions are often to positive change by offering specific Investment (UN PRI); used to raise ESG issues. ING IM has the policy Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) • We do not invest in controversial RESTRICTED LIST to actively vote on shareholder proposals funds that combine ESR minimum weapons; The basis for our responsible investment that are related to ESG issues relevant to norms, an ESG long term holistic • We actively vote in our customers’ approach is ING’s ESR policy framework. This the company at stake. ING IM supports perspective and specific sustainability best interest; framework consists of a wide range of policies shareholder proposals if we believe they help criteria in both equity and fixed • We offer specialised SRI funds and concerning environmental and social aspects, address significant social and environmental income. tailor-made Responsible Investment such as the defence sector, animal testing and issues that can be material to a company. solutions. gambling (refer to page 69). Based on this 62 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 BETTER BUSINESS INSURANCE / IM At the same time, we take a rational proxy voting) providers. Analysts, A CLEAR STANCE ON INVESTMENT ING Investment Management offers A CLEAR STANCE ON INVESTMENT see page 53 for more information on approach in our analysis of the portfolio managers and ESG MANAGEMENT IN SENSITIVE one commodity fund to retail clients MANAGEMENT IN SENSITIVE SIPRI). We researched the exposure shareholder proposals at hand. specialists have regular meetings with MARKETS: AGRICULTURAL and institutional investors. In 2011, MARKETS: DEFENCE EQUIPMENT of ING Insurance/IM to the group of company management teams. The COMMODITIES the total of exposures to agricultural ING will not invest its proprietary the largest companies that together We are generally supportive of company meeting reports are filed The involvement of ING Insurance/ commodities futures was lower than assets in controversial weapons are good for 90% of the world’s shareholder proposals that seek to in our research database and this IM in commodities is very limited. EUR 15 million. Combined positions companies and will, with the arms-producing sales. We make generate greater transparency and information is accessible to all our We offer commodity derivatives in the commodities corn and wheat exception of discretionary mandates the distinction between proprietary accountability about how companies investment professionals globally. ING solutions and investment funds to futures are roughly EUR 5 million, and and index trackers (see Glossary: assets and third-party assets. address key environmental and social IM also takes part in collaborative our retail and institutional clients, there was no exposure to rice futures. index trackers) and wherever Investments that ING Insurance issues. This also goes for proposals engagements with other investors. to diversify their investment risks. Such funds provide liquidity to the legally possible and independently makes are mostly done by buying that seek to bring an investee The main advantage of such These investments are made by nonderivatives market, making hedging enforceable by ING, ensure customer equity or corporate bonds of large company’s corporate governance into engagements is sharing knowledge. commercial parties and are managed for professional parties possible. funds are not placed in such industrial conglomerates that are line with best practices. One of the organisations with which by ING IM. companies through ING managed active in a wide range of activities we actively engage is Eumedion, ING Insurance/ IM does not trade funds. and sectors, including defence. To PROACTIVE ENGAGEMENTS WITH which acts as representative of the In helping our retail and institutional physical agricultural commodities, determine and narrow down our COMPANIES AND INVESTORS interests of European institutional investment clients to minimise or derivatives of agricultural ING IM’S INVESTMENTS IN THE exposure to the defence activities, Engagement activities are conducted investors in the field of corporate investment risks in their portfolios, commodities for its own account, nor DEFENCE INDUSTRY we used a method that is also used by our own specialists and, to governance in the Netherlands. we provide an investment fund linked do we invest our proprietary assets in The defence industry is a diverse by peers and research organisations. a certain extent, through our to a general commodity index (Dow these securities and products. group of companies with many We multiply our investment in a external (ESG data research and Jones UBS Commodity Index). different activities, ranging from conglomerate with the percentage of ammunitions to speciality vehicles total sales this conglomerate receives to security technology. We have from its defence activities. By doing screened our portfolios to see what so, we have the following defence ESG INVESTMENT investments are made or managed by related exposures: EUR 91 million in ING in the defence industry. Since the proprietary assets and EUR 87 million Proprietary 3rd party Total Defence ESG definition of defence is not clear-cut, in third-party assets as per 31 of restricted list restricted list integration we made use of the SIPRI Top 100 list December 2011 (in total EUR 178 Proprietary assets to determine our involvement (please million). Third-party assets ING managed funds ING Providing Business of advice and Principles II tailor made RI client solutions Launch Launch of Signatory Defence ESG ESR ING Business ING Sustainable to Eurosif Policy integration integration / Principles Equity fund European SRI at ING IM restrictive list Transparency Code Initiation Initiation Signatory Launch of Launch of Launch of ING IM Defence ING Launch of of SRI initiative of independent to the investor Global Voting European ING Sustainable signatory Policy II Business ING Sustainable and dedicated Advisory Board CDP Policy Sustainable Fixed Income to the UNPRI Principles III Credit Fund SRI team mandate Fund 1999 2000 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 64 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 BETTER BUSINESS INSURANCE / IM Contributing to positive change at ING Insurance / Investment Management ING Insurance and Investment ING IM’s flagship ING Sustainable OFFERING TAILOR-MADE RI Management is meeting the growing Equity Fund has been offered since SOLUTIONS demand for products that generate 2000. In 2011, it was the bestING IM offers clients the possibility to good financial returns and serve clear performing Dutch sustainable equity set up separate mandates according social and environmental objectives fund. It also beat the MSCI World to their specific preferences by developing appropriate products. Index benchmark, the most widely with respect to best-in-class and used standard for equity market exclusionary criteria. In addition, we SPECIALISED SRI FUNDS performance in the developed world. provide investment advice relating In 2011 ING IM introduced a new The international equivalent of the to various sustainability-related James Gifford fund called ING Sustainable Credit ING Sustainable Equity Fund is the issues. ING IM aims to further Executive Director of UN PRI Fund. It is a sustainable fixed income Luxembourg-based ING (L) Invest grow its expertise in incorporating fund that invests in euro bonds of Sustainable Equity Fund, which was ESG factors into its mainstream companies that score sufficiently also performed strongly in 2011 and investment process. on ING’s environmental, social has been ranked number one in its and governance (ESG) criteria. By peer group of global sustainable managing this type of fund, ING equity funds on a three-year basis. IM has extended its capabilities in the field of socially responsible fund management. The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Europe the Netherlands and Scandinavia in particular (UN PRI) were created to help integrate environmental, and Australia and Brazil are most proactive. This is in social and governance (ESG) issues into investment part because of the leadership of large institutional asset practices. James Gifford, UN PRI’s executive director since owners in those markets.” their launch in 2003, believes more and more institutions across the world are beginning to appreciate the “The idea that environmental and social issues are core Principles’ value. to how a company runs is more common and deeper in Europe than it is in North America, where these issues “The principles are process-oriented. If they are tend to be more polarised. But this is changing, and we implemented by financial institutions, they will not only have a lot of momentum in North America.” deliver more stable financial markets and more productive economies, but also significantly benefit the environment In Asia, PRI are gaining traction in Japan and Korea, and society.” while India and China have proven more challenging. “By combining risks and opportunities linked to ESG factors with a China is interested in clean technologies and sustainable thorough financial analysis of companies, we are able to take into investment, but the Principles have traditionally been account factors which are often out of the scope of traditional financial “The Principles for focused on how to implement responsible investment Responsible Investment within mainstream assets such as equity and fixed income. analysis. These factors can have a significant impact on long-term performance. The strong track record of our Sustainable Equity Fund significantly benefit the Generally, however, Gifford believes that the PRI have become more widely adopted since 2008. “People shows that ESG management and good fund performance can go hand in environment and society.” recognise that the status quo was not really working. The philosophy behind the PRI of long-term investments and hand. As sustainable investing is moving mainstream, our Sustainable purpose of investment which is to allocate productive Equity Fund can form an attractive core holding in any equity portfolio.” capital to human welfare and to enterprises that deliver The PRI are voluntary and aspirational rather than goods and services to the economy was largely forgotten Nina Hodzic, ESG specialist at ING Investment Management regulatory. They encourage investors to understand before the financial crisis.” emerging risks and opportunities around environmental and social corporate governance factors in a proactive In the future the PRI will focus on regional expansion and way.They are non-prescriptive and encourages depth in asset class implementation, incorporating areas transparency. of fixed income and private equity. “Most PRI signatories come through peer relationships, so it is about financial Gifford notices how different regions have adopted institutions showing leadership within their own markets different attitudes to responsible investment. “Western and setting an example.” 66 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 Paul Laudicina, Managing Partner and Chairman of A.T. Kearney Investigating the impact of cultural influences on retirement planning In the United States, ING Insurance has been serving the Retirement Research Institute commissioned a comprehensive needs of retirement plan sponsors for over 40 years. The study in 2011 investigating the attitudes, behaviours and business supports employers and customers across all preparedness of different American ethnic groups regarding 50 states, with offices and representatives in the local their future retirement. The research shows that while communities where we do business. ING Insurance US is Americans of all backgrounds encounter similar barriers committed to helping Americans achieve their retirement and to saving and planning, cultural differences account for financial goals, and in our view this requires a multicultural disparate experiences among African-Americans, Asians and approach to the country’s diverse communities, through Hispanics. products, service and research. Such an approach is both respectful and business savvy, as multicultural communities According to the study, entitled ‘Retirement Revealed’, all make up about 35% of the market now, a figure that populations found retirement planning to be a daunting The consultancy firm A.T. Kearney last year conducted Based on these outcomes, did you decide to continue expected to increase to 55% by 2050. Many multicultural task. However, Hispanics felt the least prepared, with 54% its ‘Green Winners’ research into companies that your research? communities are growing much faster than the rest of the US indicating they were “not very” or “not at all” prepared. This demonstrate a clear focus on sustainability. The In 2009, we did a similar Sustainability Index study, population. compares with 50% of African-Americans, 48% of whites conclusions of this research strengthens our conviction because we believed that sustainable companies had and 44% of Asian respondents indicating that they don’t feel that further investments in sustainability are justified. Paul better mid-term performance and lower risk, resulting In recent years ING in the US developed its independent prepared , according to ING’s research. Laudicina, A.T. Kearney’s Managing Partner and Chairman in a lower cost of capital. Again, sustainable companies multicultural distribution and we continue to provide of the Board, explains how sustainability driven companies were proven to have a lower weighted average cost of multilingual sales support and service, for example in These results correspond with the amounts saved in outperformed their peers during the financial crisis. capital than their peers. In fact, in 8 of the 16 industries Spanish. In addition, the multilingual field representatives can respondents’ employer-sponsored retirement plans, with we analysed, that gap was greater than half a percentage provide plan enrolment and other services in Spanish. We Hispanic respondents reporting the lowest average balances Why did A.T. Kearney do this research? point. Also, their stock prices decreased by a smaller also offer ING for Life en Español, an interactive online tool in (USD 54,000). This amount was considerably lower than the In the years prior to the financial crisis, many companies amount than their peers from January 2008 through June Spanish about purchasing life insurance. average balance across all groups (USD 69,000). In contrast, were making considerable investments in sustainability 2009. Asian respondents reported having the highest average plan practices and initiatives. Sustainability was high on As part of this service orientation, our US-based ING balances (USD 81,000). consumers’ minds, and businesses were quickly trying Did you expect this outcome? to ensure they had sustainability strategies, sustainable A.T. Kearney has worked with many companies to products and green supply chains. As one of the first establish sustainability strategies tied directly to the major consulting firms to become carbon neutral, operations of their businesses. We suspected there would we were quite interested in testing the value of be benefits to companies that approach sustainability in a these investments and how companies committed to holistic, strategic fashion. Sure enough, these companies sustainability could succeed. have some common characteristics, including a greater focus on long-term strategy, not just short-term gains, strong corporate governance and sound risk management Introducing Socially Responsible portfolios “A less-than-complete practices; and they have a history of investment in green innovations that helps them outperform their competitors. for retirement plan investors commitment to sustainability Do you think sustainable funds will continue to In an effort to provide customers with socially responsible decision-making. They were launched in 2010 by Pax has little payback” outperform others? investment options, ING’s American retirement services World Management and are sub advised by Morningstar The primary take-away from this research is that business began offering ESG Manager Portfolios to Associates. Initially, the portfolios were available only through companies must constantly examine all sustainability participants in many of its defined contribution retirement financial advisors, but in 2011 ING became the first defined What did the study show? practices and determine how genuinely committed they plans. contribution provider in the United States to offer these Our original study was conducted at the height of the are to them. A less-than-complete commitment aimed at funds to workplace retirement plan investors. The portfolios financial crisis and showed that the stock prices of improving public relations, or catching industry leaders, ESG Managers Portfolios are a series of non-proprietary, have now been made available to plan sponsors and companies with a legitimate commitment to sustainability has little payback. But sustainability efforts that are truly multi-manager risk-based asset allocation funds that participants in ING’s education, government, healthcare and outperformed their peers. We looked at 99 companies in transforming the way the business operates should be integrate ESG factors into their investment analysis and not-for-profit market segments. the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and found that in 16 continued and will produce a stronger company delivering of the 18 industries, those companies outperformed their enhanced shareholder and broader stakeholder value. industry averages by 15% during the May-November 2008 period, the height of the market meltdown. 68 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 FINANCE AND TRANSPARENCY INSURANCE / INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT People will entrust their money to us only if responsible finance. We therefore consider it Insurance/Investment Management’s sources of ECONOMIC SECTORS they feel that we are committed to managing their money well. An important factor in this important to be transparent on where we collect our money from and on what we do assets as well as an assets class breakdown of LENDING AND INVESTMENT CREDIT RISK PORTFOLIO 1.3 % BUILDERS & CONTRACTORS its proprietary investments. Moreover, it shows PER ECONOMIC SECTOR6 respect is that we are well aware of the with the funds entrusted to us. the elements we use in screening our propriincreasing levels of expectations of our etary assets on environmental and social risks. The sector overview on the right gives a further customers and in broader society with regard to The chart below gives a specification of ING specification of the different sectors in which ING Insurance/Investment Management carries out its 1.4 % RETAIL EP lending, pre-settlement, money market and investment activities. The specification is based on the NAICS5 FUNDING BASE ASSET BREAKDOWN LENDING & INVESTMENTS classification applied by ING Insurance/Investment ING INSURANCE / IM TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1 LENDING AND INVESTMENT CREDIT RISK PORTFOLIO PER ASSET CLASS2 Management credit risk management in our internal 1.6% TRANSPORTATION & LOGISTICS measurement methodologies.6 It illustrates, for This overview is based on internal credit risk measurement methodologies, showing our instance, that 63.9% of our assets are allocated for EP The figures below represent the equity and ING Insurance total lending and investment portfolio, divided over six asset classes. To be investments in the financial industry and the public liabilities of the 2011 consolidated balance sheet of ING Insurance, illustrating the able to meet the long-term (life insurance) obligations while mitigating risk for our customers, the majority of our funds are invested in bonds (60.1%). ING Insurance/IM’s sector. 1.7 % SERVICES funding base of ING Insurance/IM. Total assets proprietary assets amounted to EUR 191 billion in 2011. As indicated before, all our activities are governed by amounted to EUR 335 billion. By far the our ESR policy framework. The icons depicted in the CHEMICALS, 1.8 largest part (83.1%) stemmed from insurance overview illustrate which policy is applicable to which % HEALTH & and investment policies. sector. ING Insurance/Investment Management invests PHARMACEUTICALS by far the largest part of its funding in listed assets EP 4.2 % (government and corporate bonds, equities, etc.). Its most important instrument in implementing the ESR FOOD, 2.1 % BEVERAGES & framework is a restrictive list: governments and PERSONAL CARE CASH companies breaching our policies will be placed on this 4.5 % list in order to ensure that no harmful investments will be made. ING Insurance/Investment Management can EP 1.4 % BONDS AND LOANS* MORTGAGES only decide to invest or not invest in listed assets; it 2.3 % AUTOMOTIVE + GENERAL INDUSTRIES 4.8 % 1.7 % REAL ESTATE cannot specifically exclude certain activities in which it does not want to invest (a distinction that ING Bank is able to make in lending engagements). EQUITY 5.4 3.6 % % MEDIA + TELECOM + We have several specific policies applying to the TECHNOLOGY 1.7 % PUBLIC EQUITIES different sectors, such as country risk policies, which do OTHER not all form part of our Environmental and Social Risk 5.5 % framework. Please see page 44 for more information about our ESR policy framework and its practical implementation. 4.0 % NATURAL RESOURCES 7.0 % OTHER EP 5 Please refer to the Glossary for explanation of these terms 6 Please refer also to our Annual report 2011, page 261 and 274. 1.9 % OTHER ABS 5 EQUITY 4.2 % UTILITIES 11.1 % OUR POLICIES ON 2.4% CMBS 5 ANIMAL TESTING SECURITIES 83.1 % 6.8 % RMBS 5 2.6% NON US DEFENCE ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 5.2 % REAL ESTATE CUSTOMER POLICIES 4.2% US FUR GAMBLING 14.3 7.1% MORTGAGES 6.9 % % PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS & GENETIC ENGENEERING OTHER HUMAN RIGHTS LOANS 7.2% OTHER NUCLEAR ENERGY 1 For the total balance sheet of PORNOGRAPHY 8.3 % COMMERCIAL + CENTRAL BANKS ING Insurance, please see the 0.6 % OTHER FORESTRY & PLANTATIONS ING Insurance Annual Report 2011, page 15. EP LABOUR RIGHTS 2 Please also see ING Group FINANCIAL NON-BANK 60.1 6.2 26.6 % % quarterly report, fourth INSTITUTIONS (MANUFACTURING/AGRICULTURE) % FINANCIAL quarter 2011, page 41. INSTITUTIONS NATURAL RESOURCES & CHEMICALS 3 Greece, Italy, Ireland and Spain 4 Rest of the world BONDS 24.1 % CORPORATE 1.2% GIIPS3 BONDS GOVERNMENTS 29.2 % GOVERNMENT BONDS 4.9 % BENELUX 29.0 % + PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 70 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23.1% ROW4 71 73 BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT As the global population continues to grow, the pressure on our natural 11 TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS 11 BUSINESS TRAVEL BY CAR / AIR IN Based on coverage of 81.1% FTEs worldwide 20 Based on coverage of 79.9% FTEs worldwide habitat and resources becomes more and more apparent. As a result, N SU In RA th N In kilotonnes 11 CE /IM In millions km 11 In K 2 ou C E 20 N 20 society finds itself confronted with issues such as the scarcity of water and th 0 ou 11 sa /I Ac TE RA sa nd M rF tu N K SU 10 09 N K nd s 20 al WATER / WASTE BA s pe BA IN 20 20 BA IN food, biodiversity reduction and climate change. Though scientific evidence Electricity Car travel 74,2 15 is not conclusive about the timing, extent, and exact consequences, Water (litres) 786the 350 14 69,2 18,3 110,9 110,2 Natural gas 24,8 28,9 31,8 Air travel 140,5 101 established academic view is that the warming ofWASTEthe (kg) climate system is 1,2 Recycled office paper 3,646 1,130 109 Fuel oil 2,1 2,7 3,9 unequivocal, man-made and caused by greenhouse gas emissions. Based 20 11 Other recycled waste 4,381 277 58 District heating 2,5 0,1 5,2 4,2 on these findings, we seek to play our role contributing to the wider In km Air travel 16,9 12,1 30,1 24,9 Car travel per FTE 1,220 decarbonisation of the economy. Total waste recycled 8,027 1,407 107 (incl. office paper) Car travel 18,0 3,9 21,2 17,4 Climate change challenges society 40 67). This chapter focuses on As a result, the emissions per FTE Total use per FTE 3,041 to provide sufficient water, food and our direct footprint and our active decreased by only 2% during this Subtotal 133,5 35,6 energy in a sustainable way. Many of approach to public advocacy. period. 11 10 09 our stakeholders expect ING to have • 2007 = 2,15 CO2 / FTE 20 20 20 * Due to a more accurate calculation of FTEs a clear view on issues such as climate MANAGING OUR DIRECT • 2011 = 2,11 CO2 / FTE TOTAL 169,2 199,0 192,4 change, and to thoroughly consider ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT its direct and indirect impact on the Achieving more efficient use of ING has been operating climate CO2 per FTE 2,1 2,3 2,2 environment. energy and water and reducing neutral since 2007, partly through greenhouse gases and waste efforts to minimise our carbon In our view, countering climate obviously starts within our own emissions and partly through the CO2 extrapolated 211,5 230,5 226,9 change cannot be achieved by business operations. In terms of our purchase of carbon credits to government intervention alone or by global operational footprint, we compensate for the remaining the isolated actions of individuals, calculated our emissions in 2005, emissions. We have purchased carbon businesses or NGOs. It is only when the first year we published our credits from wind farms in China. we jointly set goals, determine Environmental Statement, and have These wind farms have a positive BREAKDOWN OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION actions and commit to results that been reporting on it everPAPER impact on the climate by generating since toCONSUMPTION 11 Based on coverage of 84.1% FTEs worldwide 11 we can mitigate the effects of climate Based several sustainability rating on coverage of agencies. 87.2% FTEs electricity worldwide with hardly any CO2 20 In thousands MWh 20 In tonnes /IM /IM change. The lack of agreement at emissions. They provide electricity 11 CE N 11 CE N 20 20 last year’s UN Climate Conference Our direct footprint consists which would otherwise have been N K SU RA 10 09 N K SU RA 10 09 in Durban illustrates that a unified mainly of paper, energy usage and generated in existing fossil fuel power BA IN 20 20 BA IN 20 20 approach is vital, but not yet a reality. business travel. We take a critical plants. Eco-labelled paper Electricity 144.4 34.4 205.5 201.4 look at our use and procurement 454 110 3.555 3.819 Clearly, this does not release ING of resources essential to Non our dayIn 2011, we eco-labelled paper 736developed 242sustainable 1.054 1.162 Renewable energy 230.4 80.6 332.8 330.6 from its responsibility to do its part. to-day operations, and we have procurement policies, which guide Natural gas Total FSC labelled 3.395 1.264 122.5 5.7 142.8 157.9 There are two dimensions with regard set ambitious targets to reduce our us in screening our suppliers on Fuel oil 8.0 10.4 14.9 to our carbon footprint: first we operational footprint. ForSubtotal instance, by sustainable operations. 4.585 For instance, 1.616 have a direct footprint through our 2012 we aim to reduce our carbon services in our employee restaurants 20 1 1 20 0 1 20 9 0 District heating 24.1 1.6 49.3 39.9 operations; and second an indirect emissions by 30% compared to the in the Netherlands have been Subtotal 529.4 122.3 footprint through the effects of 2007 level. Total office paper outsourced to a company known4.609 6.201 for 4.981 our business. In the past few years, its sustainable business practices and 1 0 9 20 20 20 ING has invested in ways to reduce In 2011, the absolute amount of per FTE for applying most Total use 72,8standards set by51,6 56,0 1 1 0 its direct footprint. We have also carbon emissions from our business NGO’s for example around organic TOTAL 651.7 740.8 744.7 been engaging with our clients, operations decreased by 25% since milk and MSC-certified fish. We have * Due to a more accurate calculation of FTEs, figures have been restated by motivating them to assess their 2007. started to develop and implement Energy used in KWh 7,9 8,3 8,2 own footprint and to minimise it. • 2007 = 211 CO2 kilotonnes these kinds of criteria for all product per FTE Our efforts to improve our indirect • 2011 = 169 CO2 kilotonnes segments. footprint were discussed in the However, the number of FTEs has * Due to a more accurate calculation of FTEs, figures have been restated “Better Business” chapter (page decreased considerably since 2007. 74 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 CO2 extrapolated 211,5 230,5 226,9 BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT BREAKDOWN OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION More than 60% of our business units PAPER CONSUMPTION 11 ADVOCACY Based on coverage of 84.1% FTEs worldwide 11 on the Dutch government to create learn more about the scientific, have implemented our sustainable Based on coverage of 87.2% FTEs worldwide 20 Besides enhancing awareness In thousands MWh 20 favourable conditions for a swift technological and economic issues In tonnes /IM /IM paper policy, and we will continue to 11 CE N in-house, ING also tries to use its 11 CE N transition to sustainable energy and surrounding climate change. This 20 20 encourage business units to purchase N K RA SU 10 09 influence and expertise to put the N K SU RA 10 to reinstate the tax scheme that 09 knowledge shows us the risks and BA BA sustainable paper. IN 20 20 subject of climate change higher IN 20 creates incentives for environmentally 20 opportunities related to climate on governments’ and policymakers’ friendly investments. change for our clients. We support Electricity 144.4 34.4 201.4 Eco-labelled paper 454 110 3.555 3.819 priority lists. This is illustrated by205.5 the the Carbon Disclosure Project Non eco-labelled paper 736 242 Renewable energy fact that230.4 we have signed80.6 the Climate 332.8 We330.6 are an active member of various (CDP), to which ING is a signatory 1.054 1.162 Total FSC labelled 3.395 1.264 Natural gas Change 122.5 Statement of5.7 the Global142.8 organisations 157.9 that support the partner. For the last two years, we Roundtable on Climate Change. need for measures to tackle climate have also hosted the launch of Fuel oil Subtotal 4.585 1.616 We joined8.0 many other banks in 10.4 14.9 change. For instance, we are a the CDP Report on environmental 20 11 20 10 09 20 signing a24.1 District heating statement that 1.6 called on49.3 39.9 of the Climate Change member performance of European companies. the participants of the UN Climate Working Group of the UNEP Finance For an extensive overview of our Subtotal 529.4 122.3 Total office paper 6.201 4.609 4.981 Conference in Copenhagen in 2009 Initiative and the Global Roundtable memberships, partnerships and to reach clear agreements regarding 11 10 on Climate Change. Through our 09 endorsements, please refer to 20 20 20 Total use per FTE 72,8 51,6 56,0 sustainable energy. We also called participation in these forums, we page 101. TOTAL 651.7 740.8 744.7 * Due to a more accurate calculation of FTEs, figures have been restated Energy used in KWh 7,9 8,3 8,2 per FTE 2 accurateING supports of FTEs, figuresEarth have beenHour 11 TOTAL * Due to aCO EMISSIONS more calculation 11 restated BUSINESS TRAVEL BY CAR / AIR 11 R Based on coverage of 81.1% FTEs worldwide 20 Based on coverage of 79.9% FTEs worldwide 20 th AN In kilotonnes /IM In millions km /IM N ou CE At 8.30 pm on Saturday 26 March 2011, ING joined CE ‘Going beyond the hour’ in India CE In K 2 sa /I 11 11 th 0 nd M 20 N 20 N ou 11 sa SU s 20 r Ac FTE millions of organisations and individuals around the globe N K SU RA 10 09 ING Vysya Bank teamed up with JCDecaux Advertising N K SU RA 10 nd tu In 2011, we widened the scope WATER / WASTE BA s IN In pe al BA 20 20 to mark the fifth WWF Earth Hour. This was done by IN BA India to install billboards inside and outside Bangalore IN 20 of reporting regarding our direct plunging offices and homes into symbolic darkness. Lights International Airport which invited passersby to sign on Water (litres) 350 Electricity Car travel 74,2 15,8 87,0 footprint by adding data on our use 786 14 were turned18,3 69,2 of as part of110,9 110,2 a pledge to raise awareness about to the Earth Hour pledge. Thousands of passengers in the of water and production of waste. WASTE (kg) Natural gas climate change 24,8 1,2and the environment, 28,9 and to reduce our 31,8 Air travellounges signed up arrival and departure to support 101,8 140,5 the 223,0 Building on this knowledge, we will 3,646 1,130 109 Fuel oil carbon footprints. A record number of ING business units cause. Special baggage tags were distributed among the Recycled office paper 2,1 2,7 3,9 now look for further improvements in in 25 countries turned off their lights, and undertook all travellers with the message “I support Earth Hour”, helping 20 11 10 20 the years ahead. Other recycled waste 4,381 277 58 District heating 2,5 of other kinds 0,1 creative and5,2 4,2 to make sure inspiring initiatives to spread theIn cause km far and wide. Meanwhile, candlelight Air travel 16,9 12,1 to Earth30,1 Hour had the24,9 their contribution deepest impact. displays were held in a per number Car travel FTE of locations. 1,220 1,000 Total waste recycled 8,027 1,407 107 Candlelight vigils, billboard displays, community count(incl. office paper) Car travel 18,0 3,9 21,2 17,4 downs and mass mailings were used to mobilise employees ING Vysya Bank also launched its first solar powered ATM 2,638 Total use per FTE 3,041 Subtotal 133,5 and customers35,6in the run-up to the event. WWF also at BTM Layout Bangalore. The Bank used Earth Hour to asked participants to “go beyond the hour” and turn their 11 10 09 celebrate its progress over the last two years in reducing 20 20 20 pledges into concrete action. ING took up this challenge, as energy consumption * Due to abymore (258 tonnes 20%accurate of COof2 emissions) calculation FTEs, figures have been re illustrated by an example from ING Vysia Bank in India. and water consumption by 10% (2,500,000 litres) a result TOTAL 169,2 199,0 192,4 that is testimony to the effect of Earth Hour in raising awareness and inspiring action. CO2 per FTE 2,1 2,3 2,2 CO2 extrapolated 211,5 230,5 226,9 BREAKDOWN OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION PAPER CONSUMPTION 11 Based on coverage of 84.1% FTEs worldwide 11 Based on coverage of 87.2% FTEs worldwide 20 In thousands MWh 20 In tonnes CE IM CE IM 11 / 11 / 20 N 20 N K RA K RA BA SU 10 09 BA SU 10 09 N IN 20 20 N IN 20 20 Eco-labelled paper 110 3.819 Electricity 144.4 34.4 205.5 201.4 454 3.555 Non eco-labelled paper 736 242 Renewable energy 230.4 80.6 332.8 330.6 1.054 1.162 76 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Total FSC labelled 3.395 Natural gas 122.5 5.7 142.8 157.9 77 1.264 Subtotal Fuel oil 8.0 10.4 14.9 4.585 1.616 79 BETTER WORKPLACE BETTER WORKPLACE Sarah Keizer Head of Performance Culture We consider it vital to the success of ING to foster an open, safe, inclusive and and Change at ING Group stimulating working environment for our employees. To optimally prepare for the future, we have formulated the ambition to become a top employer. TOP EMPLOYER sought-after employers are more attention to creating an inclusive The operating environment for productive and have significantly corporate culture that embraces financial institutions is undergoing lower employee turnover. differences. We strive to strengthen fundamental changes. Our longour performance culture in line with term business depends not only on We aim to become a top employer the aforementioned objectives, the being resilient to change, but also by consistently providing our ING Business Principles and society’s having the right people. In order employees with the tools they need changing expectations with regard to to attract, develop and retain the to be successful and to create a responsible remuneration. most talented people, both now work environment that supports and in the future, we want to be their physical and mental wellbeing. In this chapter, we show an example recognised as a top employer. We seek to empower our people of how we try to become a top Research shows that top employers to make a positive difference to employer. We also report on the have more engaged employees customers. Also, we encourage them progress we are making based on the who in turn give customers a more to grow, develop themselves and outcomes of our annual employee positive experience. Moreover, highly give back to society. We pay special engagement survey. In your job as Head of Performance, Culture and Change, Are ING’s senior managers assessed on sustainability what are you particularly proud of? targets? “Well, I would have to say the work we have done in the “Yes, in 2011 our Management Council members must area of employee engagement. Each year our Winning include an objective related to sustainability as part Performance Culture Survey provides us with a snapshot of their personal objectives. Additionally, our senior of what our employees are thinking and feeling. This managers are assessed on the achievement of both Training 50+ at ING DiBa year, we were pleased to see that, company-wide, our business objectives and their behaviour as managers. employees are still proud to work for ING and say we are a Management behaviour or how well they live up to the In the past ten years, the number of employees at INGwhereby training takes place at both the office and at good employer. Of course, we also could see the influence ING Orange Leadership behaviours accounts for 50% of DiBa in Germany has grown from 600 to 2,800. During vocational schools. ING-DiBa’s Trainees 50+ went to a thirdof the external environment in the results. But at a time this period, however, very few people above the age of 50 party educational provider once a week, where they received when the entire financial sector is reassessing its role, I am applied for jobs. An internal analysis showed that less than theoretical instruction and were prepared for the exams by proud that ING’s culture and fundamental values seem to “Employees are the engine 5% of applicants were older than 50. Diversity has always the Chamber of Commerce. The practical part of the training be sound.” been important to ING-DiBa and the company strives to was given on the remaining four weekdays at ING-DiBa. have a workforce reflecting different generations to reflect its customer base. Older professionals bring a great deal of Results have been positive so far. The first group of trainees What kind of behaviour does ING expect from its senior management? And have our expectations changed as a of growth.” experience, which can add enormous value in the contact have meanwhile completed their training as Service result of the financial crisis? with customers. ING-DiBa therefore wondered how it could Assistants. Some of them told ING-DiBa that they thought “In 2011, ING relaunched its management behaviour attract a higher number of older applicants. they would never work again. The creation of more mixedmodel and gave it a new name ‘Orange Leadership’. age teams has been a benefit. Combining the experience The model reflects our belief that leadership begins with their final performance rating. We put a lot of emphasis The first thing it did was to add a teaser to all of its new job and know-how of colleagues from different age groups has self-awareness; that managers should behave in line on making sure both what they do and on how they do it ads: “50+ welcome”. Once new employees were onboard, created a true learning organisation and become a valuable with our values and business principles; and that they are part of the performance evaluation.” the company then offered them a specially designed oneasset to ING-DiBa. spend their time setting a clear direction and getting the year training programme called Training 50+ to prepare them best out of our people to achieve sustainable results. for positions in the call centre. And in everything they do, they need to take account of our customers, society and the environment. While the The training programme was piloted at ING-DiBa’s financial crisis emphasised the need for clarity about ING’s Nuremberg location. It is based on the German concept leadership behaviours, we were planning to refresh the of integrated training (Duales Berufsausbildungssystem), model in preparation for becoming a standalone bank. 80 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 BETTER WORKPLACE DIVERSITY diversity plans in order to reflect their celebrate a few significant successes Catalyst for change towards more diversity Diversity is important to ING. We local situation. Since 2000, a Diversity like the appointment of a female CEO believe it is right for the composition Council of senior managers and in Turkey and that of a female board Founded in 1962, Catalyst is the leading non-profit In addition, she says, it is important that organisations identify of our workforce to reflect that chaired by the CEO has given practical member in Germany. organisation aimed at expanding opportunities for women and the case for talent management. “It is more beneficial to pick of society, and for our people to support to our efforts to achieve our business. Its more than 500 members companies, business the best talents from a ‘full deck’, but companies lacking in bring a diversity of talents, beliefs diversity ambitions. To further improve our track record, schools, and associations employ millions of people around women have fewer opportunities. Apart from that, it is critical and perceptions to their work. We One of our diversity goals is for we have introduced various talent the world. Allyson Zimmerman, Director of Catalyst Europe, to mirror the market place and key stakeholders.” recognise that diversity is more than women to make up 33% of our nurturing programmes for diversity. In shares her view about diversity in the financial targets. the female/male ratio. It is about hiring Management Council by 2015. It is the Netherlands, for example, female The third and final way to increase gender diversity is through people of various races, genders, a challenging target, as this figure middle managers receive support According to Ms. Zimmerman, diversity targets are difficult sponsorship. “Sponsorship matters to women and men. ages, sexual orientation, physical stood at 16.2% by the end of 2011. during their transition to senior to meet in all sectors, not just in financial services. ”Even the Sponsoring someone and developing his or her talent is a abilities and personal philosophies. To Furthermore, the number of senior management positions, whereupon best talent management systems are, often unintentionally, leadership trait and should be encouraged throughout the increase the level of diversity in our positions has decreased with the they can take advantage of a more permeated with gender-based stereotypes. This established organisation.” workforce, a centralised team helps recent company restructuring. Still, we intense senior women’s management the ‘male-leader-male-default’ model, based on the leadership our businesses to create their own are very pleased that we can indeed programme. of the organisation, which is often male. Those who are not Looking ahead, Ms. Zimmerman believes that diversity in in the model find it difficult to advance successfully,” says Europe will increase in the coming decade. “The overall Zimmerman. process continues to be slow, but quota legislation combined TOTAL WORKFORCE GENDER BREAKDOWN* MANAGERS OVERSEEING OTHER MANAGERS* In percentage of employees In percentage of employees with slow economic growth across Europe are changing It is, however, possible to overcome these challenges and meet things. They have put the spotlight on efforts to accelerate 11 11 20 20 diversity targets with specific regard to gender. Zimmerman change and galvanise more commitment to diversity in the /IM 11 /IM 11 11 CE 20 11 CE 20 argues that this requires companies to understand the workplace.” 20 N LL 20 N LL K SU RA RA 10 09 K SU RA RA 10 09 business case for diversity, to set the tone at the top, and to N VE N VE BA IN O 20 20 BA IN O 20 20 define goals with accountability throughout the organisation. Female 49.6 49.4 49.6 50.3 50.3 23.8 33.5 27.7 24.6 26.4 Male 50.4 50.6 50.4 49.7 49.7 76.2 66.5 72.3 75.4 73.6 EVALUATING AND ADAPTING OUR in March 2011, the Executive Board III requirements. The amended policy REMUNERATION POLICIES members decided to not accept the for the Executive Board was adopted * The data in the preceding tables was collated and analysed ING aims to appropriately match variable pay for 2010, and to abstain by the annual General Meeting of by Workforce Analytics, ING Group HR. compensation schemes against from any kind of variable remuneration Shareholders in May 2011. a variety of factors, such as the as long as the capital support received complexity of functions, the scope from the Dutch state has not been fully As the financial health of our company of responsibilities, the alignment repaid. continues to be of vital importance, Diversity at ING France of risks and rewards, and the longfinancial targets remain a key element Since its establishment in 2000, ING Direct France has been This injects experience into the workforce, so that younger term objectives of the company Since 2008, ING has been continually in our performance management. At strongly committed to diversity. “We are proud to see that our employees can also learn from the older ones.” and its stakeholders, which is all the reviewing and amending its the same time, however, we continue workforce is reflecting French population diversity. We had no more important given the changing remuneration policies in response to to have an increased focus on longneed to set targets; our achievements in diversity are based “There are formal targets set in France by the banking industry international standards regarding the ongoing review of the financial term value creation, risk and nonon our values of openness and performance. Indeed, more group, which require 40% of managers to be female. In ING responsible remuneration. These factors system and related public debate, financial performance measures to important than a focus on statistics is that managers and HR Direct France, women represent 42% of the management, differ for each role, line of business and as well as in line with applicable improve sustainable business practices, teams who work in recruitment are open to, and actively seek, and our overall representation of women is 55%. This has not country. ING has operations in over 40 regulatory developments. In 2010, reflecting our core values and our diversity. As a leader, I am committed to ensuring that diversity been achieved in a few months; it has been built over the last countries and over 97,000 employees the European Commission issued responsibility to be a steward to society. does not remain a paper construct. It is alive thanks to attitudes 10 years. So, I think it’s fair to say, gender diversity is now in of whom around 71,000 are based the Capital Requirements Directive This translates into non-financial targets and values of the company,” says Benoît Legrand, Country CEO our genes,” Legrand says. Achieving these targets, however, outside the Netherlands (over 54% of III (CRD III), which contained specific related to customers, sustainability, ING France. is just a first hurdle as ING Direct France also has ambitions senior management is non-Dutch). requirements in relation to the operational excellence, managing risk in the area of training and career coaching, in recognizing remuneration of those who have a and leading people. We believe that Legrand adds that each company could be supported by a set parenthood constraints and making the organization a more Clearly, society’s changing expectations material impact on the company’s risk these should be pursued with equal of targets and priorities to cover all aspects of diversity, in line inclusive place for the disabled people and older professionals. have an impact on our approach profile, the so-called Identified Staff. rigour as our financial goals. with company’s footprint, but the point is eventually not target towards responsible remuneration. We From 1 January 2011, the directive had setting but rather getting it rooted in the culture. Diversity He believes it is key to build a living culture and environment are very keen that our remuneration to be implemented into national law. In ING supports its senior managers along cannot be simplified to whether a man or woman is most fostering inclusion for all profiles. “Diversity should not be just policies should not be a subject of 2011, ING’s remuneration policies for this transition in a variety of ways. suited for a job; it also covers for example age or education something that ‘must be done’, but more of a ‘want to do’ as public debate. Therefore, in response the Executive Board and Identified Staff For example, we help them translate background, says Legrand. “The average age of our staff at the it brings each of us, and the company, much further.” to the Dutch public debate on this issue were amended in line with the CRD sustainability goals into personal, moment is 33, so we are looking at attracting older people. 82 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 BETTER WORKPLACE measurable targets. We also bring EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT In 2012, we will work hard to Viewing the business through a woman’s lens at ING US external perspectives in our target We realise that maintaining bring employee engagement setting, e.g. through the introduction employee engagement is more back to previous levels. First, we ING US Insurance has diversity goals specifically tied to businesses and identified specific projects in key areas of the of NPS, making sure that our values critical today now that our company will invest additional resources increasing the number of women in senior management business. We discovered that viewing marketing programmes roles. To aid those efforts, ING in the US conducted a through a woman’s lens benefits all of our customers, our are part of our people’s behaviour. In is fundamentally changing and in clearly communicating ING’s ‘Women’s Leadership Exploration’ (Women’s LEADX). This employees and ING.” addition, we use a 360-degree tool the market continues to be full of strategy, opportunities for career is a leadership development programme that challenged called ‘multi-rater’, which increases uncertainty. ING conducts an annual development, and work processes. female talent at ING to develop recommendations to increase Today, women are the chief financial decision makers in managers’ self-awareness and ensures employee engagement survey called We will devote special attention to profitable sales of all US product lines. The recommendations 65% of American households. This made it important for key management behaviour criteria are the Winning Performance Culture senior management, early career should specifically target the women’s market, in line with the programme to not only respond to women’s professional met within the organisation. scan (WPC) in order to better talents, individual contributors and ING’s American multicultural growth strategy. development needs, but to also explore the opportunities understand the issues important first-line managers. And, as in 2011, offered by this fast-growing segment of the American LIVING THE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: to ING employees and to measure young talents joining ING will receive Research shows that women face different hurdles as they consumer population. work to build their careers than those faced by their male RAISING FRAUD AWARENESS their state of mind. Held for the first two days of training on our values counterparts. The Women’s LEADX initiative was designed In addition to the professional development afforded by ING actively promotes its time in 2005, the WPC survey covers and our sustainability programmes. to address two of the biggest hurdles: limited experience this initiative, participants were able to strengthen their management and employees to topics such as management quality, and lack of exposure to decision makers. Unlike leadership network of ING peers across the different business lines. embrace the ING Business Principles integrity, compliance, diversity, OUTCOMES OF THE WINNING experiences that use case studies to simulate a business Women from various departments (insurance, investments, and to act accordingly. employee pride, brand perception PERFORMANCE SURVEY 2011 challenge, the Women’s LEADX programme presented customer service, distribution, legal, marketing, operations, In percentage Bank Insurance/IM participants with the real challenge of finding ways to and talent development) could strategise on a business and community investment. A concrete example of this was the incorporate a focus on women into the organisation’s challenge. Participants worked together towards expanding Overall Employee Engagement strategic business plans. and improving the outreach to female customers, while development in 2009 of a companyIn 2011, the overall engagement 66% interacting with senior management programme sponsors. wide programme to promote of our global staff decreased from According to Lael Bellamy, Chief Counsel and Chief Privacy integrity. As part of this programme, 69% to 66%. The reasons behind 67% Officer at ING US, the programme was a unique opportunity The recommendations by the Women’s LEADX participants staff was asked in 2010 and 2011 this lower score seem to be related to collaborate with mentors and women leaders throughout received the full approval and support of the US Executive to participate in e-modules on for to uncertainty about the future of I’m proud to work for ING ING Americas. “We developed a keen understanding of the Management team. Efforts stemming from this initiative will instance customer trust and fraud ING and the future of the financial opportunities and challenges faced by our peers and their begin in the US Individual Retirement business in 2012. 75% awareness, which included an industry in general. In particular in-depth explanation of the ING the separation of our Banking and 1 73% Business Principles. The e-module on Insurance/Investment Management customer trust helped employees to businesses continued to be an Extremely satisfied with ING understand the grey area between important theme for our employees GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES* BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE* 75% In percentage of employees In percentage of employees the prescriptive language of the letter in 2011. 20 11 20 11 of the law and the implicit intentions 72% /IM 20 11 /IM 20 11 11 CE 11 CE within the spirit of the law. We also see positive outcomes of the 20 N RA RA LL 20 RA N RA LL K K survey. Most key engagement drivers I would refer a friend or BA N SU IN OVE 20 10 20 09 N BA SU IN OVE 20 10 20 09 family member to work at ING The e-module on fraud awareness remained stable, including employee was followed by dialogue sessions pride. Managers are taking action 68% Asia 10 26 15 9 9 0 to 25 6 5 6 6 6 led by the team manager. Both aimed as a result of last year’s WPC results, Australia 2 1 1 1 26 to 35 35 36 35 37 35 at training staff in detecting potential which are perceived positively by our 66% Belgium 18 1 13 11 11 36 to 45 31 33 32 31 32 fraud and fraudulent behaviour. staff. In addition, the high scores I rarely think about looking Employees also learned what to do on questions about compliance for a new job Netherlands 31 26 30 28 28 46 to 55 21 20 20 20 20 if they are confronted with such a and integrity show that our global North America 6 31 14 13 14 56+ 6 7 7 6 7 48% situation in their daily work. awareness and training programmes Rest of Europe 33 14 27 31 31 in these areas are paying off. OUT IN 55% South and 1 7 6 Mid America** EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE FULL-TIME/PART-TIME* BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT* In percentage In percentage 11 In percentage 1 20 1 20 1 1 20 1 20 1 1 0 09 8 K 11 0 9 K 1 10 9 20 20 20 N M 20 20 BA M 20 20 1 1 20 0 BA I/I 20 1 0 N I/I 1 20 0 Permanent/ Banking 66 69 64 68 Full-time 85.4 92.9 87.7 88.5 88.4 indefinite 97.6 98.0 97.7 97.2 97.5 contract Insurance/IM 67 68 67 71 Part-time 14.6 7.1 12.3 11.5 11.6 2.4 2.0 2.3 2.8 2.5 Temporary ING Group 66 69 65 71 contract * The data in the preceding tables was collated and analysed by Workforce Analytics, ING Group HR. ** Businesses divested in 2011 84 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 87 BETTER COMMUNITIES ol o sch BETTER COMMUNITIES We consider it our responsibility to make a positive contribution to the many communities in which we operate. This is why we are committed to investing in our communities and why we work hard to strengthen them from the inside out. ING Direct Italy lights up Ethiopia’s future We facilitate and encourage our employees to join this mission as they are the ING Direct Italy commemorated its 10th anniversary with dedicated website www.accendiilfuturo.it could click on a cornerstone of the programmes we develop and support. a unique ‘Light the future’ celebratory event. It included a special banner, which resulted in switching on one million series of activities, coordinated with UNICEF, to help raise LED lights on the tower of Filarete at the castle. In the space awareness and funds for disadvantaged children in Ethiopia. of just two weeks, the website was visited by 44,000 people, The goal is to build 50 schools for 7,500 children. while the campaign’s Facebook page received 10,000 posts and shares. Visitors were not asked for money, but We have chosen to prioritise our preferences in their home markets. In this chapter, we will further The campaign combined social media with an innovative demonstrated support for ING’s donations. global initiatives around the core We work with global and local illustrate these activities based on ‘ambient’ approach to marketing: a prototype of an themes children & education partners, customers and employees concrete examples. In addition to the Ethiopian school was set up in the centre of Milan, opposite and financial & business literacy. to strengthen local communities information in this report, we have the Sforzesco Castle. Visitors were invited to walk into the These two themes align with the through financial aid, volunteering also published the ‘Creating Chances ‘school’ and get a feel for it. Meanwhile, to encourage goal of our business to invest in and the sharing of our knowledge for Children’ Report, which describes the public to participate in the campaign, visitors of the tomorrow’s economy by supporting and skills. in greater detail the activities we people to plan for and achieve a have initiated since 2005 to support financially secure future. We do this Moreover, we take action within 72 children worldwide. The report can by offering mentoring projects for hours of a disaster by supporting the be found on our website underprivileged children, raising Netherlands Red Cross to provide www.ingforsomethingbetter.com. funds through a variety of activities emergency relief. However, we also for our global partner UNICEF, work closely with organisations coaching starting entrepreneurs in like UNICEF and the Happy Hearts developing countries, and holding Foundation to provide disaster lectures on how to manage money. stricken communities with the resources they need to rebuild Our businesses also support specific themselves. local causes that respond to the needs, expectations and employee Start of the BiD Launch of Women in employee charity HIGHLIGHTS Business Challenge programme funds in the Netherlands ING Creation of Founding of the Launch ING Launch of the Global campaign Foundation ING personnel ‘We Care Fund’ Disaster Relief Solidarity Prize for the Australia was donation fund in Germany Fund and in Belgium Horn of Africa established partnership Red Cross ING Vysya ING ING main ING China ING ING Hong Launch ING Launch ‘ING ING for ING (incl clients Partnership Foundation employees sponsor of launched Foundation Kong received Chances for Global Something and employees) UNICEF was established start volunteer ‘Stichting Natuur‘ING Insurance USA was ‘The Caring Children and Challenge’ Better donated EUR prolonged for in India activities monumenten’ solarship fund’ founded Company UNICEF Foundation 1,5 mln to Haiti 3 years in the Award’ partnership was established disaster relief Netherlands 1978 1992 1996 1998 2002 2004 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 88 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 BETTER COMMUNITIES CHILDREN AND EDUCATION Second Millennium Development organise events such as auctions and This chart illustrates how our charitable contributions are Children’s education is the bedrock Goal. To date an estimated 68 million raffles. sourced and how they are distributed across different of opportunities in life and better children of primary school age are themes and causes. communities. Good education helps not in school. Especially girls miss out To fully leverage our global scope for children to realise their full potential on access to education. the benefit of our supported UNICEF CUSTOMERS and become productive, caring adults projects, we also give our customers able to raise the next generation. Our ambition is that by the first of the opportunity to donate money, BREAKDOWN OF CHARITABLE AND COMMUNITY Lack of education, by contrast, makes January of 2015 our selected UNICEF particularly during times of disaster CONTRIBUTIONS BY CATEGORY DONATIONS children more vulnerable. For this projects globally will have positively and annual Christmas campaigns. in EUR thousands 2011 2010 2009 2008 reason, we have made children’s impacted the lives of at least one While such large campaigns are very EMPLOYEES education the central theme of our million children in need, providing effective, we also encourage more Children and Education 10.308 10.805 9.489 9.906 community investment programmes. them with access to school, better local and small-scale events. For In 2005, we set up the ING Chances quality education and safer and example, each year our Operations Financial education 1.936 2.936 1.296 1.156 for Children programme, which on healthier living conditions. & IT department in the Netherlands BUSINESS Environment 894 881 291 452 the one hand focuses on children in organises a charity dinner where their (INCLUDING MATCHING far-away countries that live in the RAISING FUNDS suppliers are invited to take part in an PROGRAMME) Welfare & Health 3.937 3.225 2.363 2.914 most disadvantaged circumstances, Instead of just writing a cheque, auction and raise money for a specific and on the other hand supports our collaboration is one of active UNICEF ING Chances for Children Arts & Culture 3.080 5.591 3.816 4.909 children nearby in the areas where participation, equal partnership and project. our employees live and work. the broad involvement of all layers of IN KIND Disaster Relief 954 750 439 2.250 the organisation. ING employees are DONATIONS SUPPORTING CHILDREN GLOBALLY encouraged throughout the year to Other 4.452 2.898 2.947 3.533 To achieve a truly meaningful impact initiate and participate in fundraising TOTAL 25.563 27.086 20.641 25.120 on the world’s most underprivileged activities of their choice. children, ING partners with UNICEF. To stimulate the involvement of our TIME employees, ING matches all employee DONATED Together, we strive to realise the UN’s funds raised and donations towards Second Millennium Development UNICEF. On a business unit level, we Goal, which is to achieve universal primary education for all. ING strongly believes in the value and EURO DONATED TO NUMBER OF CHILDREN efficacy of UNICEF’s way of working, UNICEF INCLUDING WITH ACCESS TO which involves a holistic approach EMPLOYEE AND CLIENT EDUCATION VIA UNICEF to community challenges and the LEVERAGE use of integrated and sustainable In EUR millions In thousands educational solutions, in close cooperation with governments. As 2005 1.05 35 Christmas Campaigns: a virtual mission for UNICEF one of UNICEF’s biggest international 2006 1.95 65 corporate partners, we support In 2011, ING customers and employees in the Netherlands The campaign invited people to download an app from a educational projects in Brazil, 2007 3.76 125.2 and Spain supported Christmas campaigns for UNICEF. In the dedicated site (www.llevalosalaescuela.com). “The microsite’s India, Ethiopia and Zambia. This Netherlands, the “Santa Claus on the road” (de Kerstman technology enables a smartphone to synchronise with a commitment is for the long term: our 2008 3.34 111.4 op pad) campaign was organised by ING Bank Netherlands. computer screen. People can literally see how a child enters partnership, which began in 2005, Santa was sent on a virtual fundraising journey for UNICEF a school as it ‘jumps’ from the computer screen into their was last year extended to 1 January 2009 3.35 111.5 to deliver Christmas e-cards with personal holiday messages. mobile phone. It’s fantastic,” enthuses Consuelo Crespo, 2015. After the campaign went viral, EUR 121,936 was raised chairman of UNICEF Spain. The EUR 0,79 app fee was 2010 3.76 125.2 for UNICEF. The money will be used to send thousands of donated to the UNICEF children’s education programmes The longevity of our partnership 2011 3.54 118.1 children in Zambia to school this year. supported by ING. By early 2012, the campaign had received and the impact we have created for 35,736 visits and EUR 305,947 in donations, which excluded children prove that such an approach In Spain, the ING-UNICEF partnership resulted in the “Take the EUR 10,000 donated by ING Direct Spain. is both sustainable and effective. Them to School campaign” during the Christmas period. Unfortunately, there is still a lot of Total 20.74 Total 691.4 work to be done to achieve the Our target is to reach 1 million children by 1 January 2015 90 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 Nichole Brown Chief Corporate and Foundation SUPPORTING CHILDREN IN OUR In the Netherlands, Nationaleactivities included a lunch session for Partnerships, UNICEF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Nederlanden (NN) became the 1,000 children in the Philippines and ING Chances for Children main sponsor of the ‘Make-A-Wish’ setting up a library at an orphanage in complements its global partnership Foundation. Make-A-Wish fulfils the Romania. with UNICEF withEURO DONATED TO favouriteNUMBER local activities OF CHILDREN wishes of 3-to-18-year-olds aimed at supportingUNICEF INCLUDING children in WITH ACCESS with life-threatening TO diseases. In 2011, 24,433 employees across EMPLOYEEinAND underprivileged communities areas CLIENT NN supports EDUCATION Make-A-Wish VIAinUNICEF many 34 countries participated in the Global where our employeesLEVERAGE and customers different ways, not only through Challenge, meaning more than a live and work. TheInlocal EUR millions programmes financial In thousands support but also by quarter of our total global workforce have seen thousands of ING contributing to realising childrens’ was simultaneously connected employees2005 1.05 involved as volunteers and dreams through 35employees’ skills, through a common purpose. They as donors for local children’s related time and networks. contributed a total of 42,757 hours of 2006 1.95 65 charitable partners. their time in support of children and 2007 3.76 Each year, ING125.2 organises a companyraised EUR 538,350 for UNICEF and We believe partnerships offer great wide campaign called the ‘ING various local charities. 2008 to create positive opportunities 3.34 social Chances for Children111.4 Global change by delivering programmes that Challenge’, which sees employees A more extensive overview of ING’s 2009 the potential help to realise 3.35 of young from around the 111.5world raise funds community investment initiatives people in our communities. This is and volunteer for disadvantaged in the area of basic education are 2010 3.76 125.2 In 2011, the partnership between UNICEF and ING was ING and UNICEF started their global partnership in 2005 why, for example, ING Direct Australia children. The Global Challenge highlighted in our Community renewed for another three years. Nichole Brown, UNICEF’s and have built a solid relationship based on deep, personal started a2011 two-year cooperation 3.54 with activities have118.1 been as diverse as Investment Report ‘Creating Chief Corporate and Foundation Partnerships, sees commitment. “I had the opportunity to travel with the the National Centre of Indigenous our own workforce, ranging from a Chances for Children’ businesses like ING as a natural partner with whom to ING team last year on a field trip; everyone was moved by Excellence that focuses on cultivating charity bazar in Korea to promoting (www.ingforsomethingbetter.com). pursue a shared value: to help build a world in which the what they had experienced and felt it was a privilege to talent and creating opportunities to reading at local schools in Peru, and rights of every child are realised. come and see the work that is being done in the field to Totalfor 20.74 develop brighter futures young Total 691.4 from collecting books for a children’s help to improve the lives of children.” Aboriginal and Torres Straight Islander book bank Hungary Ourintarget to selling is to reach wine 1 million UNICEF’s broad mandate includes immunisation, nutrition, Australians. and chocolates in Belgium. Other children by 1 January 2015 girls’ education, HIV/AIDS prevention and other areas that Renewing the partnership with ING was significant to impact children’s rights. “It may sound cliché, but if you UNICEF. “We don’t have many banking partners globally don’t invest in the younger generation, then there really is and to be able to rely on a consistent partnership with no future. We see children as the backbone of society and ING throughout the financial crisis was very important for vital to the functioning of the economy.” us.” Brown adds that UNICEF and ING now plan to jointly develop initiatives in such areas as entrepreneurial skills and financial literacy for young people. PERCENTAGE OF NUMBER OF FUNDS RAISED NUMBER OF HOURS EMPLOYEE COUNTRIES IN ING'S VOLUNTEERED BY “If you don’t invest in the This would complement UNICEF’s work on the ‘Children’s Rights and Business Principles’. Developed together PARTICIPATION PARTICIPATING IN GLOBAL EMPLOYEES DURING IN ING’S GLOBAL ING'S GLOBAL CHALLENGE ING'S GLOBAL younger generation, then with the UN Global Compact and Save the Children, these principles provide businesses with guidance on CHALLENGE CHALLENGE CHALLENGE there really is no future.” how to incorporate child rights into their business In percentages Actual In EUR millions In thousands operations. “Companies wonder how to deal with child labour, for example. It’s a complex issue that requires 2008 10% 29 986.4 28.6 very comprehensive and multi-faceted solutions.” The 2009 16.2% 33 992.8 35.6 principles have now been finalised and released. ING Brown argues that private sector partners can help UNICEF provided input on the principles in order to make the 2010 20% 38 927.6 32.1 achieve its goal of providing children with access to basic them actionable for private businesses. services. The private sector not only adds financial clout, 2011 27.5% 34 538.4 42.8 but also provides marketing power and fresh ways of thinking. Brown recognises that business have legitimate The decrease in number of countries commercial and brand goals, and argues that the participating in the November 2011 ING Chanches for Children Global Challenge challenge is to find ways to balance them with UNICEF’s was due to several divestments in 2011, programmatic priorities. including ING’s insurance and investment management activities in Latin America and ING’s real estate business. 92 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 BETTER COMMUNITIES FINANCIAL & BUSINESS LITERACY contribute to building stronger In New York, ING worked with supporting NGO-run education GLOBAL APPROACH SUPPORTING THE ARTS We believe promoting financial and communities. We focus in particular the Museum of American Finance programmes does not guarantee that COMPLEMENTED WITH LOCAL ING’s art collection spans seven business literacy is a good way to on supporting children and to provide free visits for 402 local children will stay in school. In order to INITIATIVES countries and more than 15,000 support our customers in achieving adolescents, micro-entrepreneurs students. These students come from come up with a long-term solution, Our global initiatives are works of art, many of which are financial independence. It is a natural and start-ups in both developing and Title 1 schools, which generally research was conducted to better complemented with local community being enjoyed by our employees way for us to support communities by developed markets. Our initiatives are not able to pay for such visits understand financial patterns of these investment activities. We encourage across 1,300 offices. However, we sharing our core knowledge, expertise align with our commitment to themselves. The students participated families that can be crucial to whether our local businesses to set up tailoralso want to share this richness with and skills. promote financial inclusion and in the classroom programmes of a child remains within the education made initiatives and programmes in the world beyond ING, and so in business initiatives in the area of the Museum’s Center for Financial system or not. their local community. 2011 we decided to hand over part Promoting financial literacy for all microfinance. Education. These 45-60 minute of our collection to 60 healthcare supports our aim to further enhance sessions were taught by the museum’s Our ambition is that, by 2015, all ORANGE GOES GREEN institutions that bank with us in the our customers’ financial capability In 2011, ING sponsored a new educators and industry professionals. of our larger business units will be Our ING goes Green programme aims Netherlands. Each institution will so they can make better financial interactive experience called ‘Baas Lessons revolved around topics like involved in our initiatives to enhance to help employees make their own receive between 20 and 60 works of decisions. We believe good financial gezocht’; ontdek de ondernemer in analysing a stock, financial markets the financial and business literacy of working environment greener. Staff art from well-known Dutch graphic habits should be developed at an early jezelf’ (Looking for a boss; discover and banking in America. tens of thousands of children, women are also invited to get involved in the artists so these pieces can be enjoyed age. Children that do not know how the entrepreneur in you) in the Money and small entrepreneurs. preservation of biodiversity and the by patients and staff alike. to manage money can miss out on Museum in Utrecht, the Netherlands. The ING Vysya Foundation in India promotion of a cleaner environment. opportunities later in life. Or worse, The purpose is to encourage piloted an innovative new programme In 2011, for example, 150 Dutch they make mistakes that take a long entrepreneurship among youngsters to provide financial education to both employees and their relatives planted time to undo. This is why we put receiving secondary vocational parents and children who are under trees in one of the Netherlands’ most special emphasis on educating youth education. This initiative fits perfectly the care of NGOs supported by ING cherished national parks. This was about financial issues. with our objective to increase the Vysya. Having witnessed a high rate organised together with ‘Stichting We stimulate business literacy and social and financial self-sufficiency of of school dropouts among children Natuurmonumenten’, a renowned entrepreneurship as they empower this group of young people from low-income families (often Dutch organisation for environmental individuals and their families, expand (www.baas-gezocht.nl). below the poverty line), the ING Vysya protection. their economic opportunities and Foundation realised that financially Women in Business Challenge DiBaDu und dein Verein: EUR 1,000 for 1,000 non-profit The Women in Business Challenge is an online competition Dan: “Becoming a coach in this programme strongly associations in Germany that invites female entrepreneurs based in Africa, Asia, the appealed to me because I always wanted to become an Middle East and Latin America to submit their business entrepreneur myself. Additionally, helping other people This year, ING-DiBa set up a programme called DiBaDu und most votes received a donation. The topics participating plans. Organised by ING and Business in Development (BiD), to achieve their dreams is something I am proud to be a Dein Verein (DiBaDu and your club) to support the volunteer associations are involved with are quite diverse, but most of the aim of the competition is to help women achieve their part of. I thought it was an excellent opportunity to apply work of their fellow citizens. Through the programme, DiBa the associations are active in the field of sports and children/ business goals. ING employees volunteer to act as business my expertise and to hopefully add value to someone else’s sponsored 1,000 non-profit associations with EUR 1,000 young people. coaches for these women, by guiding and mentoring them future.” each. The initiative was supported by the German Ministry in the process of developing their business plan. of Family Affairs. Non-profit associations in Germany were The response was overwhelming: more than 19,000 She continues: “Coaching turned out to be a great learning invited to register on the DiBaDu homepage. Subsequently associations registered within six weeks, and more than Dan Huang, junior portfolio manager in emerging market experience for me. It was an eye-opener, as I got to the public could vote on which association they thought 17.5 million people voted for the association of their choice. equities at ING IM, was one of the coaches who joined know more about another culture and different business deserved the money; the 1,000 associations with the the programme in 2011. She coached 26-year-old Sharon disciplines. I also envisaged myself doing what Sharon was Againe from Uganda. Sharon’s business plan involved doing one day in the future. She inspired me tremendously developing internet marketing for small and medium and her persistence during her project was very impressive.” enterprises in Africa. 94 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95 BETTER COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE CHOICE In 2011, new employee charity funds DISASTER RELIEF We also support emergency relief In addition to the initiatives taken were set up in the Netherlands as When disaster strikes, ING works activities in the case of disasters by ING, we facilitate and encourage well, both for the Bank and for the together with partners to deliver with our global partner UNICEF. our employees’ commitment for ING Insurance/IM. Dutch employees immediate disaster response in the To alleviate ongoing famine in charitable causes, sports, and the arts can apply for a EUR 1,000 donation short run, and disaster recovery in the Horn of Africa, a nationwide in various ways. In several countries, for the charity they are personally the long run. From malnutrition to fundraising campaign was started ING’s local business matches the involved in through either the Bank’s natural disasters, our partners advise in the Netherlands. We used our donations of employees to charitable ‘Echt Goed Doen’ fund or the ‘Wij us on our disaster relief activities and online banking facilities to guide causes, or we support the favourite & de maatschappij’ fund of ING how we can efficiently support them 18,000 of our customers to the causes selected and voted for by our Insurance/IM. Additional funding for in their efforts. national campaign’s website. In staff. In Belgium, ING has a ‘Solidarity special projects in the areas of sports total, we raised EUR 443,285 for Prize’ since 2010 to financially and leisure, nature, healthcare, arts In 2009, we launched the ING UNICEF’s relief work in the Horn of support the causes employees are and culture, education, emergency Disaster Relief Fund and joined forces Africa, which was used to deliver aid active volunteers for, and a similar relief and other volunteering with the Netherlands Red Cross. It to refugee camps, reunite families fund was introduced in Luxembourg initiatives can also be obtained. The is our aim to financially respond to and provide 350 ‘schools in a box’ in 2011. In Germany, we celebrated employee projects are screened and severe disasters anywhere in the so children could continue their the seventh anniversary of the ‘We approved by a special committee world within 72 hours, and to align education. Care’ fund, which is also aimed at of trained employees, and then the response initiatives taken by providing funds for the charitable highlighted online so colleagues our businesses around the world. organisations where our employees can vote for their favourite projects. In 2011, for example, we organised are active volunteers. In 2011, 641 different foundations a global fundraising activity for the and other nonprofit organisations nuclear disaster in Japan. Together received donations and more with our employees and clients, we than 10% of employees in the were able to raise a total of EUR Netherlands voted for a project. A 322,876, of which EUR 50,000 came total of EUR 1,370,000 was donated. directly from the ING Disaster Relief Fund. OVERVIEW ING FOUNDATIONS ING GROUP (THE NETHERLANDS) ING for Something Better Foundation AUSTRALIA ING Foundation BELGIUM ING Mecenaatfonds INDIA ING Vysya Foundation POLAND Fundacja ING Dzieciom ROMANIA ING Foundation “O Lume Mai Buna” USA ING Foundation ING Direct Kids Foundation THE NETHERLANDS ING Foundation “Medewerkers Goede Doelenfonds ING Bank” ING Foundation “Wij en de maatschappij” 96 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 99 PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE ING’S PERFORMANCE ON TWO TOMORROWS The international rating agency Two NEWSWEEK ING was ranked 64th out of 500 in CDP ING is signatory partner of the SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARKS Tomorrows gave us an AA rating the Newsweek Green Rankings based Carbon Disclosure Project, an in its 2011 Value Rating, which is on our environmental footprint, initiative to tackle climate change well above the financial industry the way we manage our footprint, by engaging with world’s largest Our approach to sustainability is shaped by our specific skill sets and average. Two Tomorrows notes that and the transparency of our companies to measure and disclose companies with high ratings are more communications. Last year we ranked their greenhouse gas emissions, expertise as a financial company, by our vision on the future, and by the likely to deliver long-term investment 15th, but according to the ranking exposure to climate change risk, expectations of our internal and external stakeholders. Reviews of our value as a result of their sustainable agencies, the two years cannot be and strategy on water use. This practices. compared because the underlying information is provided to the global work by independent sustainability research and rating agencies allow us to methodology had fundamentally investment community to analyse further improve our strategy and policies to generate more impact. changed. We scored relatively high risk, capitalise on opportunities on disclosure, but there is upward and make investment decisions. DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX SUSTAINALYTICS TRANSPARENCY BENCHMARK potential with regard to our direct ING Investment Management also ING (historically rated as an insurance For the second year running, We were ranked 16th among 500 of environmental impact management. makes use of data on GHG emissions company) was again included in Sustainalytics, a global provider of the largest Dutch companies on the information in its investment the 2011 DJSI World Index, which environmental, social and governance ‘Transparency Benchmark’, which is decisions. identifies the top 10% of Dow (ESG) research and analysis, ranked published by the Dutch Ministry of Jones Index companies in terms ING 1st among 135 financial peers. Economic Affairs, Agriculture and of their economic, ecological and Sustainalytics stated that ING’s Innovation. We were 4th among 28 social performance. Our score was sustainable business practices banking and insurance companies the same as in 2010, which puts us resulted in high performance and risk based on our transparent reporting at the top of the global insurance mitigation in the medium and long on vision and strategy, our proactive industry. ING was removed from the term, but that there was room to approach towards stakeholders and DJSI Europe Index, which looks at improve environmental management our general candour on the subject the leading 20% of Europe’s 600 systems. of sustainability. largest companies. Although we had ING PARTNERS WITH, ING ING IS A MEMBER OF, the same score as in the previous AMONGST OTHER ENDORSES OR PARTICIPANT IN year, we were outperformed by our SUSTAINALYTICS ANALYSIS • UNICEF • The Universal Declaration of Human • United Nations Environmental European peers in the insurance Rights Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Sustainability performance relative to sector • Netherlands Red Cross sector. • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • The Core Conventions of the • United Nations Environmental ING: 81.9% International Labour Organisation Programme Finance Initiative Principles • Nudge FTSE4GOOD Sector: 52.5% (ILO) for Sustainable Insurance Team (UNEP • United Nations Principles for FI PSI) ING Group has been included in the Responsible Investment (UNPRI) • UNEP Finance Initiative Climate FTSE4Good Index since its inception Change Working Group (UNEP • The Equator Principles in 2001 and retained this position in • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) FICCWG) 2011. This is a significant indicator of • The Principles for Investors in Inclusive • United Nations Global Compact ING’s sustainability performance, as Finance (PIIF) • The European Academy of Business in institutional investors are increasingly Society (EABIS) focusing on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices of Governance ING: 93% Social ING: 84% Environmental ING: 72% companies. The index is a valuable Governance Sector: 53% Social Sector: 58% Environmental Sector: 49% ING IS A MEMBER OF, SIGNATORY TO tool for consultants, asset owners, OR ADHERING TO fund managers, investment banks, • The International Petroleum Industry • The International Association of Oil • GHG Protocol facilitated by the World stock exchanges and brokers when Environmental Conservation and Gas Producers Business Council on Climate Change assessing or creating responsible Association • International Marine Organisation • The World Resources Institute investment products and portfolios. • Extractive Industries Transparency • International Convention for the • The World Coal Institute Initiative Prevention of Pollution from Ships, • IFC’s EHS Guideline on Thermal Power • Voluntary Principles on Security and MARPOL 73/78 • The metals and mining institute; Human Rights • The International Hydropower ICMM International Council on Mining • Global Gas Flaring and Venting Association & Metals Reduction Voluntary Standard • The World Commission on Dams 100 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) 103 KPIs KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (1) EQUATOR PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX 11 10 20 20 EN D EN D The Environmental and Social Risk department For 2011, we have reported on the percentage A A YE R YE R reviewed 55 project finance deals in 2011. For of ‘overall employee engagement scores’. For more information please refer to pages 50. this reason, the 2011 score does not reconcile Equator Principles 55 74 with the score mentioned in the 2010 ING (number of projects reviewed) SUSTAINABLE ASSETS UNDER in Society report. Employee engagement is Sustainable assets under management 1,683 2,120 MANAGEMENT based on four subcriteria: ‘I am proud to work (in EUR million) Our sustainable assets under management for ING’, ‘I am extremely satisfied with ING’, Customer satisfaction index (2) 69.3% 69.1% decreased 20% in 2011. The main reason for ‘I would refer a friend or family member to this decrease is that one of the funds in IM, work at ING’ and ‘I rarely think about looking Economic value (in EUR million) (3) a large mandate, has ceased to be included. for a new job’. In 2010, we only reported on Total assets 1,279,188 1,247,005 To read more about our portfolio, please turn the question ‘I am proud to work for ING’. In to page 104. The portfolio of Groenbank also 2011, we saw a 3% decrease in the overall Shareholders’ equity 46,663 40,904 decreased in 2011. This was due to the Dutch employee engagement score, from 69% to government’s decision to reduce tax breaks 66%. For further information please see Total income from continuing operations 55,794 54,105 for investments in ‘green’ funds. For further page 84. information please see page 54. Result before tax from continuing operations 6,109 3,928 DIVERSITY CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX The percentage of women in the ING Net result from continuing and discontinued operations 5,766 2,810 For the Bank business (excluding ING Direct), Management Council increased by 1.3% in satisfaction scores are based on the American 2011. For further information please refer to Personnel expenses: salaries 5,307 5,457 Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), which page 82. is adapted for the financial market and is Personnel expenses: other 2,249 2,235 based on a combination of questions related ING CHANCES FOR CHILDREN Employee engagement index (4) 66% 69% to overall satisfaction, customer delight and The number of children provided with access being an ideal provider. This score is not to primary education decreased by 5.6% Diversity (5) 16.2% 14.9% weighted by market. In 2011, the survey in 2011. However the target that for every (Percentage of women in the was carried out within ING Retail Banking in employee one child is sent to school (EUR 30 international Management Council) the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Romania, per child per year) was hugely exceeded. For ING Chances for Children 118,101 125,175 Turkey and India. In 2011, the Insurance further information please see page 90. (Number of children provided with access to education) business replaced the customer satisfaction Green energy 310,993 332,843 index with the Net Promoter Score system. No GREEN ENERGY (MWh of electricity purchased by ACSI survey was carried out for ING Insurance/ The proportion of energy that ING derived ING that is derived from renewable resources) IM and therefore no comparative figures are from renewable sources in 2011 increased by Dow Jones Sustainability Index (6) 72 72 available. 1%, and now accounts for 63% of our total electricity portfolio. FTSE4Good Index Included Included ECONOMIC VALUE For further information on economic value DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX please refer to ING’s Annual Report 2011. The Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes track the performance of the global (1) The audit firm Ernst & Young has audited the KPIs for reasonable assurance. sustainability leaders. The top 10% of the (2) For the Bank business (excluding ING Direct), satisfaction scores are based on the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), which is 2,500 largest companies in the Dow Jones adapted for the financial market and is based on a combination of questions related to overall satisfaction, customer delight and being an ideal provider. This score is not weighted by market. In 2011 the survey was carried out within Retail Banking in the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Global Indexes are selected as components of Romania, Turkey and India. In 2011, the Insurance business replaced the customer satisfaction index with the Net Promoter Score system. No DJSI World. The ING company score (72) is the ACSI survey was carried out for ING Insurance/IM and therefore no comparative figures are available. underlying SAM’s Research Institute corporate (3) The 2010 figures have been restated to reflect the change in accounting policy, i.e., the move towards fair value accounting for Guaranteed sustainability assessment (1-100). Minimum Withdrawal Benefits for life in the US Closed Block VA as of 1 January 2011. (4) In 2011 we are reporting on the percentage of ‘overall employee engagement scores’. The 2010 score does not reconcile with the score mentioned in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report because it was based on one of the four questions of employee engagement: ‘I am prood FTSE4GOOD INDEX to work for ING’. The 2010 percentage in this report is based on the ‘overall employee engagement score’. This research was carried out by FTSE4Good is a sustainability Index that ING Kenexa. has been included in since 2001. For further (5) We have calculated the diversity figures in 2011 as a weighted average relating to the total members of the Management Council (Insurance information on the indices please see US Management Council, Insurance EurAsia Management Council and Bank Management Council). page 100. (6) The ING company score is the underlying SAM’s Research Institue corporate sustainability assessment (1-100). 102 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 105 SUSTAINABLE ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT To: the management of ING Groep N.V. ASSURANCE REPORT 11 10 09 In EUR millions 20 20 20 Introduction ING Greenbank 648 829 992 Management of ING Groep N.V. has engaged us to issue an assurance report with respect to the Sustainability Report 2011 of ING Groep N.V. .The engagement ING Duurzaam Aandelen Fonds consists of a reasonable assurance conclusion with respect to the Key Performance 66 63 57 Indicators and the reporting processes and a limited assurance conclusion with INI Duurzaam Rendement Fonds 50 511 446 respect to the progress report. ING (L) Invest Sustainable Equity 80 61 55 SUSTAINABLE Management’s responsibility ING (B) Invest Solidarity Mixed/Child Focus EUR 2 2 2 GLOBAL FUNDS Management is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report 2011 ING (L) Renta Sustainable Fixed Income MANAGED BY 20 14 of ING and the information therein in accordance with the GRI principles and ING IM Europe Sustainable Mandate 77 60 43 the documented reporting policy of ING. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of a Enhanced Core Socially Responsible Equity Common Trust 26 23 Sustainability Report that is free of material misstatements, selecting and applying ING (L) Renta Fund Euro Credit Sustainable 209 appropriate reporting policies that include the GRI reporting principles and using measurement methods and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. The SUSTAINABLE choices made by management, the scope of this report and the reporting policy, Sustainable Portfolios 528 517 362 GLOBAL FUNDS including any inherent limitations that could affect the reliability of information, are MANAGED ING Liric SRI Top 50 23 30 34 BY ING PRIVATE set out on page 6 and 7 of the report. BANKING TOTAL EXCLUDING SUSTAINABLE ASSETS Inherent limitations of our assurance engagement EXTERNALLY MANAGED 1,683 2,120 2,028 The Sustainability Report contains forward-looking information in the form of ambitions, strategy, plans, forecasts and estimates. The fulfilment of such information is inherently uncertain. For that reason, we do not provide any ING (L) Climate Focus 10 10 assurance relating to that forward-looking information. ING Thai Global Water Fund 4 5 5 THEMATIC Next to that we have not examined and do not express any conclusion with respect ING Green Focus Fund 1 FUNDS to: Total thematic funds 4 15 16 • the reliability of the information in the Sustainability Report 2011 other than mentioned in the section ‘Engagement and criteria applied’. SUSTAINABLE • the completeness of the number of projects of the Equator principles. GLOBAL FUNDS Westland Utrecht Bank 14 MANAGED BY WESTLAND The references in the report (e.g to the website of ING or to other external websites UTRECHT BANK and documents) are not part of our assurance engagement. TOTAL 1,701 2,135 2,044 Engagement and criteria applied We have performed an assurance engagement aimed to: • provide reasonable assurance that in the Sustainability Report 2011 of ING Groep TOTAL MASTER LIST PRIVATE BANKING / N.V.: SUSTAINABLE FUNDS OFFERED BY ING NETHERLANDS* 292 If no amount appears, this means the fund did not exist that year • the ten Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) as defined on page 102 are, in *The figure represents the total amount invested by private clients all material respects, reliable; and at ING Netherlands in dedicated sustainable investment funds (both ING and third-party funds) • the description in the chapter “about this report” on pages 6 and 7 accurately reflects the reporting processes within ING Groep N.V. (“ING”) in accordance with the reporting principles in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting In total our sustainable assets under Funds managed by IM: Thematic Funds: management decreased by 20% in The decrease is due to a large mandate The risks and opportunities arising Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) and the documented 201. that changed its sustainable investment from global challenges such as reporting policy of ING. strategy and, as a result, ceased to climate change are part of the general • provide limited assurance that the progress report on pages 30 until 33 disclosed ING Groenbank: invest in the ‘INI Duurzaam Rendement investment process of the ING SRI in the ING Sustainability Report 2011 accurately reflects the progress made in Again we saw a decrease in the Fonds’. The ING (L) Renta Sustainable fund range. For this reason the ING 2011 for the goals set for 2011. portfolio of ING Groenbank. This was Fixed Income Fund was renamed ING Climate Focus Fund is no longer due to the Dutch government’s decision (L) Renta Fund Euro Credit Sustainable separately offered to clients. The fund We believe that these criteria are suitable in the view of our assurance engagement. to reduce tax breaks for dedicated Fund. The investment policy, as well was incorporated in the ING (L) Invest green investments. For further as the sustainable criteria applied, also Sustainable Equity Fund in 2011. information, please turn to page 54. changed. 104 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 ASSURANCE REPORT 107 Auditor’s responsibility Conclusions COUNTRY LIST EUROPE THE AMERICAS EUROPE We performed our procedures in accordance with Dutch Based on the procedures performed and considering THE NETHERLANDS CANADA THE NETHERLANDS law, including Standard 3000 “Assurance Engagements the choices made by ING Groep N.V. as reflected in the • ING Bank NL • ING Direct Canada • Nationale-Nederlanden Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial reporting policy, we conclude that: • Bank Mendes Gans CHILE • ING Investment Management NL Information”. This law requires, among other things, • the ten KPIs as defined on page 102 in the Sustainability • Westland Utrecht Bank • ING Chile BELGIUM that we comply with ethical requirements, including Report 2011 of ING Group N.V are in all material BELGIUM USA • ING Insurance /IM Belgium requirements relating to independence. respects reliable; • ING Bank Belgium • ING Bank USA BULGARIA Our responsibility is to express conclusions on the items • the description on page 6 and 7 in the Sustainability • ING Belgium Record Bank • ING Direct USA • ING Insurance Bulgaria (On 16 June 2011, ING announced described above in the section ‘Engagement and criteria Report 2011 of ING Groep N.V accurately reflects the BULGARIA CZECH REPUBLIC it had reached an agreement to applied’. reporting processes within ING in accordance with the • ING Bank Bulgaria sell ING Direct USA, subject to • ING Insurance /IM Czech Republic reporting principles in the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting CZECH REPUBLIC’ regulatory consent) GREECE We have performed the procedures deemed necessary to Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative and the • ING Bank Czech Republic • ING Insurance /IM Greece provide a basis for our conclusions. Our main procedures documented reporting policy of ING; FRANCE ASIA / PACIFIC HUNGARY were: • nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe • ING Bank France AUSTRALIA • ING Insurance Hungary • determining the method used by ING in its reporting that the progress made in 2011 reported on pages 30 • ING Direct France • ING Direct Australia Pensions/IM process to address the reporting principles in the G3.1 until 33 in the Sustainability Report 2011 of ING Groep GERMANY CHINA LUXEMBOURG Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of GRI; N.V, does not accurately reflects the progress in 2011 • ING Bank Germany • ING Bank Shanghai • ING Life /IM Luxembourg • evaluating the acceptability and consistent application for the goals set for 2011. Interhyp AG HONG KONG POLAND of the reporting principles used in preparing the • ING-DiBa Germany • ING Bank Hong Kong • ING Life/IM Poland Sustainability Report 2011; GREECE INDIA ROMANIA • evaluating the reliability of the ten KPIs and the reported Amsterdam, April 26, 2012 • ING Greece • ING Vysya Bank • ING Insurance /IM Romania progress by: HUNGARY JAPAN SLOVAKIA • obtaining an understanding of the design and operation for Ernst & Young Accountants LLP • ING Bank Hungary • ING Bank Japan • ING Insurance Slovakia of the systems and methods used to collect and ITALY KOREA SPAIN process the reported KPIs and progress, including the • ING Direct Italy • ING Bank N.V., • ING Insurance /IM Spain consolidation process; D.A. de Waard LUXEMBOURG Seoul Branch TURKEY • identifying inherent risks relating to the reliability of the • ING Luxembourg PHILIPPINES • Turkey Life KPIs and investigating the extent to which these risks POLAND • ING Bank Philippines are mitigated by internal controls to a limited level; • ING Bank Ślaski SINGAPORE THE AMERICAS • assessing the related internal controls for their operating ROMANIA • ING Bank Singapore On 29 December 2011, ING announced it had completed the divestment of its Latin American effectiveness, relevant for our assurance engagement; • ING Bank Romania THAILAND pensions, life insurance and investment • based on a risk analysis performing additional RUSSIA • TMB management operations in Chile, Columbia, Mexico, Uruguay and Peru. procedures related to the KPIs and progress report, by a • ING Bank Russia combination of: SLOVAKIA USA • interviews with relevant staff at corporate and • ING Bank Slovakia • ING Insurance /IM US business unit level to substantiate the related SPAIN descriptive information in the report; • ING Direct Spain ASIA / PACIFIC • quantitative analyses at corporate and business unit TURKEY CHINA level to assess the quantitative data; • ING Bank Turkey • ING BoB Life Insurance • reconciliations with audited financial statements; UK HONG KONG • detailed review of the data on a test basis at the • ING Bank UK • ING Insurance /IM Hong Kong Group and business unit level, using internal and • ING Direct UK INDIA external sources of information to substantiate the UKRAINE • ING Life/IM India reliability of the information provided. • ING Bank Ukraine JAPAN • ING Life Insurance /IM Japan The procedures performed in order to obtain a limited KOREA assurance aim to verify the plausibility of information and • ING Life /IM Korea probe less deeply than those performed for assurance MALAYSIA engagements aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance. • ING Insurance /IM Malaysia Berhad We believe that the evidence we have obtained is SINGAPORE sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our • ING IM Singapore conclusions. TAIWAN BANK • ING IM Taiwan INSURANCE / IM THAILAND • ING Insurance /IM Thailand 106 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 107 109 GLOSSARY CARBON FOOTPRINT The total amount of greenhouse gasses emitted directly or indirectly through GIIPS Greece, Italy, Ireland and Spain an activity, or from a product, company or person, typically expressed in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide GHG Greenhouse Gasses CARBON NEUTRAL This term effectively means net zero carbon emissions to the atmosphere. ILO International Labour Organisation Achieving carbon neutrality means measuring the carbon emissions for an identified product, service or company, and then balancing those emissions INDEX TRACKER An index tracker is an investment vehicle that is designed to passively with carbon reductions or carbon offsets to reach net zero carbon emissions replicate the performance of a particular market index. CARBON OFFSETTING A way of compensating for emissions of CO2 by participating in, or funding, IPO An initial public offering (IPO), or stock market launch, is the first efforts to take CO2 out of the atmosphere. Offsetting often involves paying time a stock is offered to the public another party, somewhere else, to save emissions equivalent to those produced by your activity NAICS North American Industry Classification System, a system used worldwide to classify business activities of companies and other CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent not-for-profit organisation commercial activities working to drive greenhouse gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by businesses and cities NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS) A management tool that can be used to gauge the loyalty of a firm’s customer relationships. It serves as an alternative to traditional CLIMATE CHANGE Changes in the concentration of the greenhouse gases, which trap infrared customer satisfaction research radiation from the Earth’s surface and thus cause the greenhouse effect OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE BACKED A type of bond or note that is based on pools of commercial mortgages, or SECURITIES (CMBS) collateralised by the cash flows from a specified pool of underlying commercial RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE BACKED A type of bond or note that is based on pools of residential mortgages SECURITIES (RMBS) mortgages, or collateralised by the cash flows from a specified pool of underlying residential mortgages COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Investment activities that promote economic development efforts in distressed communities or for disadvantaged populations through community-based ROW Rest of the World institutions SAUM Sustainable Assets under Management CRF INSTITUTE Corporate Research Foundation Institute identifies frontrunners in the area of HR, leadership and strategy. STAKEHOLDERS Individuals or groups potentially affected by our activities; in sustainable business models the term includes financial shareholders DISASTER RELIEF Intervention aimed at meeting the immediate needs of the victims of a as well as those affected by environmental or social factors. These disastrous event include stakeholders such as our business relations and suppliers, customers, employees, shareholders and society at large DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT The active and conscious development of a corporate culture that accepts certain differences and similarities SRI Socially Responsible Investment strategies add an ESG long term holistic perspective and specific sustainability criteria to ING’s internal ESG Environmental, Social and Governance. This term is used to describe the ESR policy framework. investment process where we gather and analyze companies’ environmental, social and governance characteristics, complementing the traditional financial SIPRI The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute Top 100 lists the analysis to enable better long-term investment decisions. world’s 100 largest arms-producing and military services companies (excluding Chinese companies), ranked by their arms sales in 2010. ESR The Environmental and Social Risk policy framework translates the ING Business Principles and our sustainability approach into practical rules and guidelines STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT A formal process of relationship management through which governing our daily business conduct. companies or industries engage with a set of their stakeholders in an effort to align their mutual interests, to reduce risk and advance EQUATOR PRINCIPLES A credit risk management framework for determining, assessing and managing the triple bottom line i.e., the company’s financial, social, and environmental and social risk in project finance transactions environmental performance FINANCIAL INCLUSION Financial inclusion, also called ‘inclusive financing’ is the delivery of financial TRADING BOOK The assets that are stated in the Annual Report’s consolidated annual services at affordable costs to disadvantaged and low-income segments of accounts as Financial liabilities at fair value through P&L society UN PRI United Nations the Principles for Responsible Investments FINANCIAL LITERACY Knowledge and understanding of financial matters UNEP FI United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) An independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI is a network-based UNEP FICCWG UNEP Finance Initiative Climate Change Working Group organisation that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous UNGC United Nations Global Compact improvement and application worldwide VCU’S Voluntary Carbon Units 108 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 109 110 This Sustainability Report is available as a PDF file on www.ing.com/sustainability and at Copyright © 2012 ING Groep N.V. COLOPHON www.ingforsomethingbetter.com/report Printed in The Netherlands, April 2012 Email: sustainability@ing.com Version 1.0 TEXT & PRODUCTION ING Sustainability, Amsterdam Ilja van Roon, Lucid Communication Diane Baumann, Editorial contributions, Corporate Communications CONCEPT, DESIGN & PRODUCTION Terralemon | www.terralemon.nl PHOTOGRAPHY Portrait Jan Hommen page 8: Marco Sweering Portrait Peter Paul Wekking page 37: Julia de Boer Portrait Diederik Timmer page 47: Julia de Boer Portrait Shawn Miller page 51: Des Willie Portrait Malgorzata Kolakowska page 55: ING Bank Ślaski Portrait Christopher Steane page 57: Julia de Boer Portrait Claudia Mennen-Vermeule page 59: Ilse Boon Portrait James Gifford page 67: Des Willie Portrait Paul Laudicina page 68: Howard Ash Portrait Sarah Keizer page 81: Julia de Boer Portrait Nichole Brown page 92: Bruno Rocha PRINTING Drukkerij Tesink B.V., Zutphen DISCLAIMER This ING Sustainability report ‘ING in Society’ is made for the purpose of informing our stakeholders and to give details of ING’s commitment and performance regarding Sustainability. Nothing in this document is intended to extend or amend ING’s existing obligations to its clients, shareholders or other stakeholders. All policies, procedures, guidelines, statements or anything similar that have been mentioned in this report are intended for ING internal purposes only, and under no circumstance should they be construed as creating any rights whatsoever to third parties. In assessing compliance with any of the policies and guidelines, the standards applied are subjective and any decision in relation thereto remains within ING’s discretion. ING does not accept liability for whatever consequences may result from its not adhering to these policies, procedures, criteria, instructions, statements and guidelines. ING reserves the right to change, amend or A sensible approach to paper consumption, procurement and recycling is a vital part of ING’s care for the withdraw policies, procedures, guidelines and statements at its discretion at any time and can, at its own environment. That is why this report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper with discretion, decide to make available to third parties (details of) policies, procedures, guidelines, statements vegetable-oil based inks without any damaging solvent ingredients. or anything similar that have been mentioned in this report. This document refers, by hyperlinks or other means, to information provided by third parties. The reasonableness, accuracy or completeness of such information has not been verified by ING and © links to other sites do not constitute ING’s approval or endorsement of such sites or their products or CO2 advertisements. ING accepts no liability whatsoever in connection with any such information that has been neutral or will be provided by third parties. Printed with We print Bio ink & varnish CO2 neutrally The copyrights to this document belong to ING Groep N.V. Your use of this document establishes your © Drukkerij Tesink © Drukkerij Tesink agreement not to reproduce, retransmit, distribute, sell, republish, broadcast, or circulate the content of this document without the prior written consent of ‘ING Sustainability department’. © 2012 ING Groep N.V. 110 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111 ING Groep N.V. Amstelveenseweg 500 1081 KL Amsterdam The Netherlands P.O. Box 810 1000 AV Amsterdam The Netherlands Telephone: +31 20 5637763 Fax: +31 20 5768590 Commercial Register of Amsterdam, no. 33231073 ING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011
