PROGRESS REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT STRAUSS GROUP REPORT 2011 Contents 4 About this Report 6 Part One: Our Way • Message from the Group Executive • Strauss Group At a Glance • The Economic Impact of Strauss Group on our Stakeholders • Awards received for CR Activities in 2011 • Memberships and Partnerships 16 Part Two: Dialog with our Stakeholders • Main Achievements in 2011 • Communication Channels with Stakeholders • Online Dialog with Stakeholders • Dialog Meeting with Stakeholders • Acting for the Benefit of Consumers and Employees • Global CR Forum • Dialog with Stakeholders: 2012 Objectives 22 Part Three: Marketplace • Main Achievements in 2011 • Product Responsibility • Advancing Healthy Lifestyles for Consumers and the General Public • Responsible Marketing • Supply Chain • Suppliers • Marketplace: 2012 Objectives 36 Part Four: Workplace • Main Achievements in 2011 • Diversity and Inclusion • Advancing Awareness for a Healthy Lifestyle among Employees • Health and Safety in the Workplace • Workplace: 2012 Objectives 52 Part Five: Social Investment and Community Involvement • Main Achievements in 2011 • Strauss Group's Community Investment Strategy • Implementing the Community Investment Strategy • Examples of Projects to Advance Employment • Our Involvement in Communities around the Globe • Community: 2012 Objectives 62 Part Six: Environment • Main Achievements in 2011 • Environmental Management • Implementing the Packaging Law in Israel • Water Purification in China • Energy from Coffee Waste in Serbia • Environment: Objectives for 2012 and Beyond Corporate Introduction: Responsibility at Strauss Group is not a short-term project. It We are proud to present this annual Corporate Responsibility Report of the Strauss Group, in the format is a way of of a progress update, in the spirit of the GRI guidelines, which reviews progress against our Corporate managing our Responsibility objectives in 2011. business. We In 2011, the State of Israel, the home base of the Strauss Group, experienced social protests of are Driven by unprecedented proportions, at the same time as a public social and economic uprising was taking Responsibility place around the world. and act consistently The field of Corporate Responsibility has become more relevant than ever and our perspectives about to improve the our social and environmental impacts have broadened. Our understanding of our economic impact has way in which also changed: in the past, our focus was on creating value for shareholders, job security, and ensuring we manage an economic contribution for our suppliers and the markets in which we operate around the world; our business today, consumer pricing policy is at the forefront of our considerations. The social protests caused a around the realignment of the content of our dialog with consumers: in addition to considerations of environmental protection and the nutritional value of our products, a new requirement became significant reduce world. the prices of our products and protect the purchasing power of the consumer. We are doing everything to adapt ourselves to this new reality, through working on our prices, packaging, product sizes and 4 more. Our objective to provide greater added value to our consumers is a long-term process which will continue through 2012 and beyond. This also presents us, as a global group, with an opportunity to deepen our dialog with stakeholders and reexamine our responses to meeting their needs. This experience has brought us to include a broader consideration of stakeholder voices in our decisionmaking processes at Strauss Group and has enabled us to deepen the connection between Corporate Responsibility strategy and our core business This year A Progress Report The Strauss Group Corporate Responsibility Report for 2011 is a Progress Report which has been written in accordance with the principles of the global reporting framework of the GRI. This change is part of a process to publish a full GRI report in line with the GRI framework every two years. This Progress Report provides an update in the interim year, thereby maintaining our reporting continuity in a more thorough way, which is more appropriate for the scope of our activity. The Progress Report includes information about our performance versus the objectives we set for ourselves in 2011 and describes the changes from 2011 versus 2010. It contains updates relating to our significant activities in the field of Corporate Responsibility as they affect our core business as a global food and beverages company. Online Reporting This Progress Report, as are all our Corporate Responsibility Reports, is published in full online, on Strauss Group's dedicated CR website cr.strauss-group.com. The website is updated on a continuous basis and provides up-to-date information about our CR activity. Presenting our report online serves to enhance its transparency and accessibility and improve our dialog with stakeholders. Online reporting is designed to encourage interactivity, reciprocity and feedback from the general public. Contents of this Report This Report covers all of Strauss Group activities around the world, except where otherwise noted. This Report presents performance indicators and information relating to the calendar year 2011, and where possible, multi-year data. The business entities which are included in this report are Strauss Group, Strauss Coffee, Strauss Water, Max Brenner and Sabra and all their business divisions and entities. Except where otherwise noted, the quantitative data included in this Report is correct as at 31st December 2011. The monetary amounts included in this Report which are not reported in New Israel Shequels, were measured in locally relevant currencies and converted to U.S. Dollars at the representative exchange rate of 31st December 2011. The data and information in this Report was collated by Strauss Group with the support of PwC Israel, who assisted in processing some of the data. The data in this Report did not undergo accounting audit or external verification. In the case of any inconsistency between data presented in this report and Strauss Group's Annual Report, information in the latter will prevail. We hope you enjoy reading this report. Daniela Prusky-Sion Corporate Responsibility Manager 5 Our Message from the Group During the past year something happened. Social protests grew and overwhelmed many countries all over the world. It seems as though there is no continent in the world which did not experience this. Many countries now face the challenges of managing the impacts of the global socialeconomic protest movement by citizens demanding change. Consumers all over the world signaled that they have lost a basic level of trust in the business sector. Therefore, in today's new world, the burden of proof has been transferred to companies. Businesses are under scrutiny, in all aspects of their behavior, every single day. Strauss Group, as a company operating in many countries around the world, is an active partner in the international business community and a player in this global social and environmental dialog. We at Strauss Group have made Corporate Responsibility a way of life from the day we were founded, we have listened keenly to the public voices that are emerging around the world including in Israel, our home base. This year in particular, even more so than in the past, this sharpened our understanding that that acting from a basis of responsibility, transparency and dialog with all our stakeholders, including employees, consumers, suppliers, local communities, is a very real and mutual need. We see the utmost importance in strengthening the trust of all our stakeholders, and in continuing the journey of continuous improvement which we started so many years ago. We continue to act to strengthen and expand our Corporate Responsibility within the Group and to manage this in a strategic way, while adapting ourselves to this new reality. Over the years, we have evaluated ourselves through the value we create for our shareholders, through job security and the economic contribution which we provide for thousands of employees, and the value we create for our suppliers. Our dialog around Corporate Responsibility was focused on our contribution to protecting the environment, our community involvement and the impact of our products on the quality of life and the health of our consumers. The new dialog created in the past year enriched the discussion and added new dimensions: pricing policy, product solutions and our impact on the purchasing power of our consumers. This insight requires us to adapt in several ways, including in the variety and choice of products we offer and the different types of products we bring to market for specific consumers. This process requires time, for example, in changing product 8 lines, generating efficiencies and reallocation of the resources within our organization. In 2011, we started to embed these processes and now, in 2012, we continue to advance this approach. Our main objective is to add greater value for our consumers. All those We are sure that today, more than ever, the key to our success in the long term is dependent upon our who read this ability to create value for all our stakeholders in a responsible way. We call this Driven By responsibility. Report will As a food company, we understand that we have a responsibility and we choose to act both in accordance with the requirements of law and also from a basis of responsibility to our stakeholders, with all the see that a key resources that we have available. We touch people through the food that our consumers give to their emphasis in children; we are partners in the lives of families and we influence their health, their life expectancy and their total food costs; we use raw materials, water and energy and run distribution operations; we employ the last year people and are responsible for the ability to earn a living for thousands of people around the world. All these things place a great responsibility on the shoulders of our business. has been on Our ability to address the entire spectrum of our impacts within our business environment is more investment important than ever in order to ensure our positive long term relationship with our stakeholders, including in people and the general public – a public with an opinion, a public which demonstrates awareness and influence. This year, our Report presents our progress in advancing a range of activities that Strauss Group has products undertaken in the field of Corporate Responsibility during 2011. The Report is designed to serve all our stakeholders and provide them with a report on the range of impacts across our businesses, so that we can continue to maintain positive and reciprocal connections. All those who read this Report will see that a key emphasis in the last year has been on investment in people and products. Alongside price reductions and discounts on around 50 of our products in Israel, we made significant progress in hiring third party employees as permanent employees of the Group, and improved the low-end salaries of employees alongside a range of other measures as are described in the Report. In addition, we made significant progress in the area of diversity and inclusion, as it is our belief that a diverse company is a better company and is closer to its consumers. We have set ourselves a company-wide target to achieving employment equality between men and women in management by the year 2015. In addition, all the companies in Strauss Group have established specific diversity and inclusion targets, relevant to the local challenges they face. In the area of environmental responsibility, we have continued to make progress and today, the two largest companies in the Group, Strauss Israel and Strauss Coffee, are working towards 5-year targets. Our objectives are to consistently and significantly reduce our environmental impacts and therefore contribute to improving the quality of the environment in the areas in the world in which we operate. Corporate Responsibility is a way of life for Strauss. We are committed to continue to act to embed Corporate Responsibility strategy in all our operations throughout the world, adopting the highest standards of corporate behavior in all the markets in which we are active. We continue our journey, listening and learning continuously and with an aspiration to improve ourselves and our behavior so that we can all live in a fairer and better world. Ofra Strauss Gadi Lesin Mike Avner Chairperson, President and CEO , SVP General Counsel Strauss Group Strauss Group and CR Head 9 • Strauss Group is the second largest food and beverage company in Israel and an international company employing 14,122 employees (of which 1,248 are temporary employees). At the time of publication of this Report (June 2012), Strauss Group operates from 27 production sites in 9 countries. The Group is active in 19 countries and has representation in 15 countries. • Strauss Group has delivered consistent growth over many years and the Group's turnover reached NIS 7.7 billion in 2011, of which 48.9% derives from the Group's global activities outside of Israel. • Strauss Group has 5 core areas of business focus: Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Strauss Spreads and Dips, Strauss Water and Max Brenner. • Strauss Group maintains strategic partnerships with large global companies in fields of food and beverages and retailing and trade (Danone, PepsiCo, Haier and Virgin). • Strauss Group trades on the Tel Aviv 25 Index (TA25), which includes the largest public companies in Israel. Strauss Group has a credit rating of ilAA+ from Standard & Poor's Maalot credit ratings provider and a rating of Aa1 on bonds in circulation from the Midroog Ltd, a credit rating agency accredited by the State of Israel. • Strauss Group's market capitalization was NIS 5 billion at end 2011. Thousand Consolidated Net Sales (in NIS million) 2003 – 2011 Employees Up 12.3% Up 7.6% Up Up 2.0% 4.8% Up Up 15.6% 23.4% Up Up ‫לודיג‬ 8000 13.1% 13.3% %3.21 6000 4000 2000 production International sites in 9 0 Israel 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 countries 10 Strauss Group Income by Geographical Region 2011 Billion NIS Group turnover Europe 20.3% in 2011 Israel Brazil 22.2% About 51.1% USA Billion NIS 6.4% equity value at end 2011 11 Strauss Employees 2009-2011* 2011 12,874 Employees 2010 12,348 Employees 2009 11,659 Employees * Excludes third party employees ** In 2010, Strauss Group purchased Strauss water. Major Business Developments in 2011 The year 2011 was a year of significant investment in business growth in the areas of water and dips, categories which support our commitment to improving the lives of people. Strauss Group Creating Wonders around the World Strauss Group signed an agreement with PepsiCo Establishm to create a new initiative to market and distribute global Dips ent of a fresh dips and spreads PepsiCo-Strauss Fresh Dips & Spreads International. The new company and Spread partnership s is a joint venture between the companies in North with America as part of the Sabra Company. In this joint venture, resources will be invested to develop new technologies and categories, and establishing new production plants and entry into markets in which Strauss is not currently present. 12 Launching marketing the o Water pro f Strauss d China thro ucts in u Strauss Water – partnersh gh our Creating Wonders from Nature ip with • Strauss Water signed an agreement with the Virgin Group for the marketing, sales and service of Strauss Water under , a joint brand in England and in Ireland. In the future, Chinese this activity will be expanded to France, Australia and electronic South Africa. • Strauss Water started to market in China, via the Group's s giant partnership with Haier, the major Chinese electronics brand (For further information see Part Three: Marketplace). Strauss coffee Creating Wonders from Coffee Beans • Strauss Coffee signed an agreement to purchase Ambassador , a premium instant freeze-dried coffee and roasted coffee brand which is sold in Russia, Ukraine and Moldova. The transaction, with an investment of 10.4 USD is a further step in strengthening the position of Strauss as a central player in Russia, which is one of the largest coffee markets in the world. • Strauss Coffee signed an agreement to manage and operate an innovative factory for the production of freeze-dried instant coffee of the Viva Company in Germany. The new coffee factory will supply freeze-dried instant coffee for the Strauss Group subsidiaries in Russia and in East European countries and will assist the Company to support the growing needs of this large coffee market. The agreement was signed at the beginning of 2012. 13 The Economic Impacts of Strauss Group on Stakeholders Our 2010 2011 Million NIS Stakeholders invested in Our Employees NIS 1.311 Billion was paid to 12,350 employees around the world NIS 1.36 Billion was paid to 12,874 employees around the world. corporate (excludes 1,535 contract workers)*. responsibility Our Consumers Sales Income: NIS 6.9 Billion. Sales Income: NIS 7.7 Billion. in 2011 Our Suppliers Payments to suppliers: NIS 4.8 Payments to suppliers: NIS 5.6 Billion Billion (approx.) (approx.) Shareholders Approx. NIS 200 Million in dividends NIS 200 Million in dividends to Nearly to shareholders. Approx. NIS 88 Million in cost of shareholders. Approx. NIS 145 Million in cost of interest interest to credit providers. to credit providers. Government Approx. NIS 147 Million in taxes. Approx. NIS 127 Million in taxes. Authorities Million NIS Approx. NIS 2 Million in financial support from government agencies Approx. NIS 1.3 Million in financial support from government agencies in the form of invested in in the form of grants, corporate tax reductions and Value Added Tax grants, corporate tax reductions and Value Added Tax in preferred areas. infrastructure benefits in preferred areas. to improve The Approx. NIS 9.7 Million financial and Approx. NIS 11.4 Million financial and Communities in environmental which we Work product donations. product donations. performance The Approx. NIS 11 Million invested Approx. NIS 10 Million invested in in 2011 Environment in infrastructures to improve infrastructures to improve environmental environmental impacts in our impacts in our factories and approx. factories and approx. NIS 11 Million NIS 12 Million invested in ongoing invested in ongoing environmental environmental management. management *This figure includes all salaries, national Insurance payments, pension and severance provisions, insurances, and other social benefits. 14 Awards received in 2011 for Corporate Responsibility We are proud of the awards we have received, which recognize our commitment to continuous improvement, and the desire to show leadership in the field of corporate responsibility and our investment in the improvement and expansion of our activities in this field. Strauss Group was the highest ranked Strauss was ranked for the fourth company at the Platinum level in the successive year in the top ten Best Maala Corporate Responsibility Ranking Companies to Work For in the BDI in Israel. Strauss is the only company COFACE annual ranking. Strauss was in Israel to achieve the highest possible ranked in ninth place overall and first ranking (10 points) in 15 of the 16 available place in the consumer goods sector. categories. Memberships and Partnerships TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL the global coalition against corruption ‫בעצמי הביטוח הלאומי המרכ‬ ‫ושיקום מקצועי טק קריירה מטה מ‬ ‫ ישראל המרכז ה‬Manpower ‫לפיתוח כלכלי עולים ביחד ציונ‬ ration of New York ‫קו משווה תבת‬ ‫ ג'וינט ישראל‬,‫מיסודה של תבת‬ 15 Dialog with our Dialog with our Stakeholders Goals Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Deepen and We established a platform to expand our • We significantly expanded our online and consolidate activity and dialog channels using social social media activity (See details in: Dialog dialog with our media in order to deepen our dialog with with Stakeholders Online ). stakeholders our stakeholders: consumers, suppliers, • We launched an Online Charter, which includes communities and government authorities behavior guidelines to assist managers and and more. employees in behaving responsibly online. KEY Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced COMMUNITIES Progress CONSUMERS Channels for CUSTOMERS Dialog with our Stakeholders We maintain an ongoing dialog with our many stakeholders via a range of channels. This dialog, we believe, enables us to GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES learn about their needs and act with transparency. We use a variety of ways to achieve this objective: focused personal meetings with stakeholder groups according to their professional interest (media, suppliers, social organizations and others), use of online platforms to communicate with communities (consumers, social organizations, SUPPLIERS the general public) and we also place AUTHORITIES emphasis on internal communications with employees, both direct and online. Information about our communication channels with stakeholders can be found on the Corporate Responsibility website of Strauss Group. 18 Online Dialog with our Stakeholders 2011 was defined as the year in which we implemented the new strategy not using paper for printing. In contrast to prior years, in which the and policy of Strauss Group for expansion of our online activity. We Corporate Responsibility Report was printed and mailed to a selected see this as a strategic objective which supports our vision of being group of stakeholders, use of online tools for reporting enables access to an organization which acts with transparency and engages in dialog, content for a wide range of readers and provides a platform for reactions, builds trust and openness with our stakeholders. In this context, we thereby deepening our communication and dialog with stakeholders. have completed the following measures: • This year we launched the Strauss Group Blog, Food for Thought. • A dedicated Corporate Responsibility website was established within The blog, whose content is written by Strauss Group managers and the Group website, and includes our full annual Corporate Responsibility employees, is structured around four core themes: innovation and Report and ongoing news which is updated throughout the year. enterprise, people and leadership, managing responsibly and snacks. The site, the first of its kind in Israel, addresses two main objectives : The managing responsibly section is dedicated to content relating 1. A place for dedicated content regarding the range of Corporate to Strauss Group Corporate Responsibility. Responsibility activities that Strauss maintains in Israel and in the • We created a dedicated section of Strauss Group Facebook page, world, in all our subsidiary companies, with full transparency. focused on Corporate Responsibility, for the 75,000 members of our 2. A place for interactivity which, unlike regular websites which are Facebook community. designed to inform, encourages genuine dialog with stakeholders, • We created Twitter account for the activities of Strauss Group through consumers, suppliers, the general public, employees and the which we can strengthen our contact with our stakeholders on a community. global basis. • We upgraded our online interface with our employees creating a Around one year after we had launched the site, it now reflects in real synchronized platform. time the Corporate Responsibility activities of the Group while providing • We launched a dedicated website, My Strauss, in which consumers are opportunities for different groups to react and provide feedback in invited to provide feedback to new products and offer new product ideas a range of ways. In addition, online reporting has the advantage of (For more information, see the section entitled: Our Marketplace ). 19 Upgrading Customer Service In 2011, in addition to our Consumer Call Center, we added channels to improve the efficiency of communication with our customers, as we wish to engage then in dialog wherever they are situated. Our new suite of online channels includes: response to consumers on Strauss Group Facebook page as well as on our different product pages, responding to chat through the corporate website, monitoring of online conversations and management of contacts with consumers through the My Strauss page for consumer queries. The new suite of channels increased the quantity of queries directed to Strauss Group, and resulted in new consumer contacts (including young consumers) who raised more complex dilemmas, which required us to improve our capability to respond. Dialog Meeting with Stakeholders A Dedicated Dialog Meeting with our Stakeholders with the Publication of Strauss Group's 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report. In June 2011, we held a launch event for the Strauss Group online Corporate Responsibility Report, which was designed to encourage dialog with our stakeholders. A range of stakeholders were invited to the meeting: representatives of social and environmental organizations, representatives of government agencies and local municipalities, suppliers, customers, representatives of academic instructions and Corporate Responsibility professionals and more. Discussions took place between these participants and Strauss Group managers in a Round Table format. Participants expressed their views regarding the content of the Corporate Responsibility report and raised suggestions for improvement. This was the first event of this nature in Israel in which a corporation opens its doors and provides a platform for open conversation between managers of the company and stakeholders about the content of their Corporate Responsibility Report. The event was broadcast live on the Strauss Group internet site and on our Facebook page. The general public was invited to respond and send questions to the participants. The presentation of our activities in an open way represented a challenge for Strauss Group and invited scrutiny and criticism. Results of the Dialog Meeting: As a result of the Dialog Meeting, we received feedback which we processed, and identified elements we could progress in a practical way. We shared these with the relevant and some of the recommendations raised by participants were included in our work plans. We continue to update the meeting participants with regard to the implementation of these recommendations. We believe that listening to the insights of stakeholders will enable us to improve. 20 Acting for the Benefit of Consumers and Employees Dialog with As part of the public social protests against the cost of living in Israel in the summer of 2011, against the backdrop Stakeholders: of the global socio-economic protests, our consumers signaled to the business sector their loss of basic trust in business. At Strauss Group, we believe that it is our role to regain this trust through participating in open dialog 2012 with the public. We chose to act on two main levels to assist addressing the challenges of the cost of living in Israel Objectives – with consumers and with our own employees. One of the decisions, was the creation of a Social Board, led by Strauss Group President and CEO and with the participation of the Group’s senior executive. The Board’s vision is to be attentive and close to the Group’s stakeholders, to identify issues that require attention and appropriate policy and to oversee their accomplishment. Hold dedicated Measures for the Benefit of Consumers meetings with • Pricing policy: We reduced the price levels of different categories of products, with an emphasis on food staples. primary stakeholders • Increasing dialog: The protest, which emphasized the need of consumers to increase their communication throughout the year, with food companies, encouraged us to deepen our dialog channels, based on our commitment to Corporate attended by relevant Responsibility. We listen closely to what is being said and identify opportunities for improvement. managers, identifying • Innovation and Product Development: The approach which continues to drive us, even in times of market changes, is that of continuing to create and value and improve the taste, quality and health parameters of our products. core issues Measures for the Benefit of our Employees In 2011, we led open discussions with our employees regarding salary levels, welfare packages, working conditions and the challenges they face regarding of the cost of living. Based on this broader understanding and in order to demonstrate our concern for our employees, we created an action plan which included several elements: Improve the company • Salary Levels: We increased employee salaries, added incentives for in-store merchandisers and instituted a response to the wage-freeze for senior managers. needs of stakeholders • Increasing Welfare Benefits: We obtained improved terms for employee loans from the banks, increased our based on continuous social support, offered subsidies for employee vacations with their families and in some cases, funded vacations for meaningful dialog employees with low-end salaries. We reduced the price of Strauss Group products in the Company store, and we employed employees' children during the summer vacation (in line with laws concerning employment of minors). We also increased the amount of funding for academic study for the children of employees. • Third Party Employees: We reduced to an absolute minimum the number of third party employees that work at Strauss Group, and hired those third party employees which were essential to the company on permanent basis. We reduced the period of time that we employ third party employees to the minimum possible and not Lead a process of more than 6 months. identification and strengthening the connection with new Global CR Forum groups of relevant This is the sixth year in which a meeting has been held for the global Corporate Responsibility Forum of Strauss stakeholders Group to which representative of different groups around the world are invited. This includes people from different departments: Environment, Purchasing, Human Resources, Logistics, Media, Legal, Marketing and representatives from the Strauss Group Executive Team. The 2011 meeting was focused on Corporate Responsibility in the Digital Age . At this meeting, we discussed the connection between online strategy of Strauss Group and the Corporate Responsibility strategy, and learned about the consumer expectations of food companies in the digital age and about the innovative dialog process in 2011, as well as developing the theme of diversity and inclusion. The meeting of the global Forum is held annually, and is the culmination of a full year's activity by the Corporate Responsibility Trustees of Strauss Group. The Trustees are managers who undertake to embed Corporate Responsibility practices in the Divisions in which they work, in addition to their roles in the business. 21 KEY Product Responsibility Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced Progress Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Goals Continue • We have continued to develop products with • We launched Danacol products (designed to reduce improving the optimal nutritional value such as the Activia LDL cholesterol in the bloodstream), carrot snacks, nutritional value probiotic yogurt whole grain series, tahini honey for children and more, as detailed in the rest of our products from whole sesame seeds and hummus with of this section and increase the tahini from whole sesame seeds. variety of products • The Strauss Institute supports the • We updated our Danone Institute Strategy – Strauss we offer to our advancement of knowledge and research in created a new scientific council. The Institute's consumers, while the field of healthy lifestyle. dedicated internet site is being built and will launch emphasizing in May 2012. products with the optimal nutritional • We maintain our longstanding avoidance of • Several achievements in nutritional values of salty value use of trans fats and artificial food coloring snack products (details follow). in Strauss products. Improve labeling • We raise awareness of proper nutrition • We continue to ensure all products adhere to the on product by emphasizing nutritional values on Strauss Packaging Guidelines packages packaging and through our marketing. In • Product labeling information includes allergens 2010, we updated our packs for pasta meals beyond legal requirements. and led campaigns for cottage and soft • Sabra internet site contains relevant information white cheeses. about product contents (allergens, nutritional values, • We continue to update the “Strauss gluten content). Packaging Guide”, outlining the detailed criteria for designing each pack, often exceeding legal requirements. Expand our water • We established Haier – Strauss Water in • Strauss Water launched the Water Maker, with business in order to order to enter the Chinese market, and in Haier in China, a product which offers innovative provide a response Britain we re-launched the T6 device. technological filtration advantages and water to the basic need for heating and cooling. clean and safe water Provide our • Strauss Group policy is for all plants to • We expanded the HACCP (Hazard Analysis and consumers with operate according to international food Critical Control Points) in all Strauss Israel factories quality products safety standards such as ISO9000 quality and for Strauss Coffee Adriatic, Poland and Romania. which are safe standard. • We adopted the leading new international ISO 22000 for use • The dairies which make products for export Standard on food safety in the confectionery division are inspected by the Veterinary Services of of Strauss Israel, as a first stage in the future adoption the Ministry of Agriculture in Israel. of the Standard in all Strauss Israel factories. All • In 2010, Strauss Water adopted the safety products of Strauss Coffee Poland and Romania are standard 5452 for products which come into manufactured in line with this standard. contact with drinking water and ensures • In line with ISO22000 Standard, Strauss Water there is no leakage of metals or poisons. adopted in 2011 the American NSF Standard, which covers treatment of drinking water for products designed for home use. This Standard is the basis for the Israeli Standard 1505, which was adopted by the Company in 1984. 24 SHARE Add a new idea IMPACT Vote and promote ideas ENJOY Meet the ideas that became products Over My Strauss Engaging Consumers suggestions in Product Development and were made Improvement Processes (as of June 2012) Over the years, Strauss has advanced different ways of collaborating with consumers in the development and improvement of our products. In 2011, Strauss stepped up this activity of dialog with our consumers regarding our products, and launched a platform which is highly innovative in Israel – the internet site Over a My Strauss , which is entirely focused on interaction with consumers. This activity was designed to create direct dialog with consumers and deepen our responsiveness to them. The site encourages consumers to influence, suggest new products and provide feedback about existing products and become partners in of a product development, thereby opening up a door for them to the core activity of the Company. To date, over 30,000 suggestions were made (as of June 2012), and over a quarter of a million suggestions and reactions to existing products were recorded. There are 15,000 registered community members. suggestions Every idea which is submitted is open to discussion by the site members, who influence the ongoing development of the idea by Strauss. The popular ideas, and those ideas which are in line with the and reactions Company and Brand Strategies, are routed to the decision-makers at Strauss Group for an initial feasibility to existing assessment. Ideas which succeed at this stage are classified in one of the following categories: Initial products Assessment , Detailed Assessment , About to happen , It's Happening! and Maybe Another Time! All the products launched (15 products) can be found on the website: http://mystrauss.strauss-group.com/in-action My Strauss is also a platform to share with consumers the different considerations, explanations and issues registered which arise as we handle their requests, supported by the Call Center for Customer Service. Queries which are community discussed include issues relating to raw materials of the products as well as the cost of products. members 25 Customer Service Progress Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Goals Provide our • In a satisfaction survey that was • We retained the satisfaction level among consumers. customers and conducted among consumers in Customer satisfaction scores were 4.45 on a scale of consumers with 2010, the consumers scored their 1-5, in terms of regular complaints handling (most of the best service general satisfaction with Strauss the complaints) Customer Service at 4.5 (out of 5). • In 2010, the information • We added new channels to our customer service management system that assists operations designed to expand our communications service representatives when and make the more efficient (more details in the responding to consumers was section Dialog with Stakeholders ). upgraded, in terms of both technology and content. Reduce the • We are attentive to the calls • There was a reduction in the number of consumers number of from our consumers, and where who found a fault in one of our products (7.5% consumer necessary, we make changes in versus 8% in 2010). Additionally, according to a complaints and order to satisfy them. In 2010, survey, 81% of consumers which called the Product incidents of we placed products for sale Call Center with a complaint about product quality, dissatisfaction after delisting in response to continued to purchase Strauss products. consumer demand, we dealt with • In 2011, Strauss Israel conducted several changes, for product technical problems and example: Expansion of a range of products for those highlighted expiry dates where suffering from celiac, Grand Danone products were they were difficult to read. launched (following consumer requests to have a product to share with the family), we differentiated between waffle packs and waffles without added sugar, we changed the Chico product size in order to reduce exposure to air and crystallization etc. KEY ed We reduc salt by Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced Progress Products for h ips People with Special i n T a p u C Nutritional Needs i t h O l i v e oil w Strauss is aware of and responsive to the special nutritional needs of different groups and maintains an ongoing dialog with them and with supporting non-profit organizations, in order to learn of their needs at first hand and provide our best response. We aim to add products on a continuous basis which meet their needs. 26 Solutions for those suffering from Celiac Disease It is important for us to continue to provide solutions for this group which suffers from reaction to wheat protein (celiac disease). We have added gluten-free Kosher for Passover products for those suffering from celiac disease. Also, in our Dips and Spreads Company, Sabra, we offer to celiac sufferers a range of glutenfree products. These innovations assist celiac sufferers to face their daily nutritional challenges. Solutions for People Suffering from Diabetes We collaborate and maintain a strategic dialog process with social organizations which represent diabetic groups in Israel. This was due to our desire to strengthen our knowledge of the needs of diabetics and their special nutritional needs. In 2011, in order to improve possibilities to provide products to meet their needs, we strengthened collaboration and dialog with these organizations. Our objective is to launch the first phase in an action plan for diabetics during the coming year. Measures to Improve the Nutritional Value of our Products Our vision, Creating Wonders our of Basics , drives us at Strauss Group to develop products which Our vision, give consumers pleasure while at the same time enable them to live a healthy lifestyle and improve their eating habits. Strauss Group continuously acts to develop products in new categories in order Creating Wonders to improve the quality of life for consumers. In Strauss Israel, a process is underway to examine the our of Basics , health and nutritional content of all products in each category. The process is coordinated by the Company dietitian and there is an annual discussion with the Strauss Group Executive Team about drives us at Strauss the necessary improvements. Group to develop New Trends in Product Development products which During the last two years we have been able to record three key achievements in the production of give consumers salty snacks, to assist nutritional balance: • Shift to Sunflower Oil: In September 2011, we shifted to using sunflower oil instead of palm oil in pleasure while our process for preparation of Cheetos and TapuChips. Sunflower oil contains 12% saturated fat (a at the same time 70% reduction). In sensoric tests, we proved that there is no difference in the taste that consumers are enable them to live used to. This process of switching oils was achieved in collaboration with our global partner, PepsiCo. • Significant reduction in salt levels: In this process, which has been active for two years, including the a healthy lifestyle purchase of new equipment at a cost of Hundreds of thousands US$, we found a way to significantly and improve their reduce salt levels without affecting taste in our salty snacks. We managed to reduce salt by 40% in TapuChips with Olive oil, and by 9% in TapuChips Natural Flavor. It is our intention to continue this eating habits process with other products. • Converting TapuChips Natural flavor to Gluten-free: During 2011, we separated the production process for TapuChips Natural flavor from other salty snacks and we maintain strict laboratory checks to ensure there is no gluten content in this snack. We use an independent external laboratory to confirm this. 27 C o n s u m e r ’s Q u ality a s u r e s t o Im p r o ve our Me u r P roducts in of Life th ro u g h o Danacol Danacol is a yogurt drink for daily consumption which is designed to lower LDL cholesterol levels in the blood by means of a mixture of phytosterols which has been scientifically proven to reduce cholesterol. The product was developed by the research institute of Danone. Danacol is manufactured in the Strauss Dairy in Israel using innovative technology, and is the only yogurt drink in Israel which offers cholesterol reducing properties. Grilled Roasted Strauss Hummus Salads by Achla Vegetables by Achla These salads contain 30% less fat compared to main We launched a new product range which significantly competitive products and include canola oil, tahini and whole expanded the range of chilled salads available. The dominant grain sesame seeds. ingredient in this range is vegetables which have been grillroasted and not fried. 28 Strauss Water As we were developing products for the Chinese market, we sought a solution for water purification which would meet both cost and quality criteria, given the quality of water in China. In May 2011, Strauss Water in China launched the Water Maker, in the context of our Joint Venture with the major global electronic consumer goods manufacturer, Haier, with whom we have a strategic collaboration. The Water Maker offers innovative technological solutions for purification and water heating and cooling. The product is now being sold in China on a dedicated basis and was developed using MAZE purification technology. MAZE has been developed at Strauss Group for the past five years. The partnership with Haier enables us to gain a deeper understanding of the local population needs in China and to bridge social gaps. In 2012, an additional product will be launched at a lower price point while maintaining high purification levels, in order to expand access to a larger section of the population with lower income levels. Carrot Snacks Morning Drink Suited for Children In an innovative process which included establishing a new factory Strauss's Danone morning drink for children enables kids and providing jobs for additional employees in peripheral areas in to start the morning in a healthy way with a bioyogurt Israel, Strauss created an opportunity to meet consumer needs drink which contains vitamins, minerals and dietary fibers from fresh vegetables without any additives. The product, fresh in a small 150 ml bottle which is appropriate for children. mini-carrots snacks, washed, peeled, cut and ready-to-eat, is a healthy and fun snack, rich in dietary fiber and vitamins. Honey for Children A new healthy range of natural honey for children with a variety of flavors: strawberry, vanilla and natural flavor, in a bottle ideal for children. 29 In Strauss Programs to advance Healthy Israel began Lifestyle for Consumers and the developing General Public a program • In 2011, Strauss Israel conducted a survey among mothers regarding the eating habits of their to advance children. The results of this research assisted the product development teams at Strauss to meet consumer needs at the time of product development for providing best nutritional content. The healthy research showed that 60% of mothers check the list of ingredients on products before deciding to purchase. One of the examples of implementing a request from the general public was the lifestyle in removal of food colors from our chocolate products. children and • In 2011, Strauss Israel began developing a program to advance healthy lifestyle in children and adults using online tools. The program will be launched in 2012. adults using • Similar to the process for launching Danacol and Activia products (see details below), Strauss Israel invests efforts in online media which includes content related to increasing awareness of a online tools healthy heart, cholesterol reduction, convenience and digestion. Similarly, the website advances the Gamadim product range launched in 2011, which incorporates improvements in child nutrition. • On the Strauss Group corporate internet site, on our Facebook page and on our Blog, we publish tips for healthy and balanced nutrition as a service for the general public. 30 KEY Responsible Marketing Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced Goals Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Be meticulous • During 2010, we were meticulous • We launched, for the first time in Israel, a about marketing, about informing consumers in collaboration with Terra Cycle , a company advertising an ethical and responsible way, which recycles the packaging of our salty snacks. and informing especially in our expanding use of • We launched a campaign Documenting Real consumers in a social media. Women with Activia , a functional product to responsible way help slow digestion (more details below). TapuChips Snack Terra Cycle Project In November 2011, Strauss was the first business organization in Israel to join forces with Terra Cycle for a campaign with the TapuChips Division . In this innovative project, Strauss encourages its consumers to collect salty snack packages. Consumers send the packages for recycling or reuse at no charge to themselves. Strauss pays 5 cents for each package received and the money is donated to a social cause selected by those sending in the packages this may be a non-profit organization, youth movement or school. In this way, we encourage the public to take responsibility for the environment in which they live and at the same time, we express our commitment to care for the environment even after our products have left our production lines, through the reduction of waste. The project also enables Strauss to contribute to the local community through the financial contributions made to the selected organizations. Terra Cycle, a global company, manages the collection process and the recycling of packages as well as the routing of donated funds to the selected organizations. The process of recycling is divided between recycling of the products into their constituent raw materials for industry (rubber pellets, for example) or up-cycling, which is for the production of recycled and upgraded products which are environmentally friendly such as: handbags, wallets, pencil-cases and more. Activia In 2011, Strauss placed emphasis on the nutritional values of the functional yogurt, Activia, in order to focus on the healthcare properties for people who suffer from digestive problems. Because of the fact that a high percentage of the population suffers abdominal pain, a bloated feeling or discomfort, we made it our objective to raise awareness about this. The program was designed to offer real women an opportunity stage to focus on the issues that they face, and document their experience during a trial period of using Activia, which offered a solution as part of a change in their lifestyle. The process was supported by a dedicated website in which the public was invited to share experiences and discuss the relevant issues. 31 Corporate Responsibility in the Supply Chain Goals Main Achievements Main Achievements in 2011 Progress in 2010 Increase the scope • In 2010, Strauss • 3,160 tons of sustainable coffee were purchased of sustainable coffee purchased 2,788 from the 4C organization, which account for 5.8% of purchase through tons of sustainable our total coffee purchases in 2011 (excluding Strauss the 4C organization coffee through the 4C Coffee Brazil). This increased our sustainable coffee by 50% each year. organization. We met our by approx. 13% versus 2010. In 2012, the target target and exceeded it by • In 2012, Strauss Coffee Brazil also joined was updated to 20% 24%. the 4C organization. each year Purchase Fair Trade • In 2010, approx. 50% of • In 2011, approx. 50% of our coca was from fair trade cocoa coca was purchased from sources. At the start of 2012, Strauss Group initiated Fair Trade sources by our a process which resulted in one of our major cocoa supplying companies, as suppliers joining UTZ, thus increasing the total part of the organization cocoa purchases of Strauss Group from fair trade UTZ Certified which sources to 90% . establishes standards for growing and fair trade of coffee, cocoa and tea. KEY Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced Progress 32 Suppliers Goals Main Achievements Main Achievements in 2011 Progress in 2010 Develop ways of • During 2010, 50 suppliers • During 2011, 55 additional suppliers passed a evaluating the social (versus 23 in 2009), full evaluation process which includes Corporate and environmental participated in a supplier Responsibility aspects. Strauss is at an advanced performance of evaluation process, stage of computerization of the process, which will our suppliers and including aspects of enable a significant expansion of the number of influence them to Corporate Responsibility. suppliers that will be evaluated in 2012. adhere to social • During the year, Strauss Israel conducts ongoing and environmental evaluations and proactive inspections of Israeli responsibility practices suppliers, with an emphasis on employee rights. Also, an assessment of all strategic suppliers was conducted, including elements related to quality and environmental protection. Strauss Group performs random inspections of salary payments by third party agency providers. • All the Strauss Group business divisions examine supplier complaints, supplier conduct and compliance (including elements not required by law). Continue to conduct • Close to 400 (totaling • Strauss Israel developed a new procedure whereby our relations with 500 to date) Strauss contracting with new suppliers is possible only after suppliers with suppliers have signed signature of the Social Charter and meeting the integrity the Social Charter minimum standards. In 2011, 440 suppliers signed for suppliers, which the Charter (the total is 900 to date). include sections on fair • Purchasing Department employees received training trade, employee rights, in Fair Trade. product responsibility, • We began developing a dedicated Supplier environmental quality Code of Ethics. and more. Support suppliers • We purchase from • At Group level, we contracted with 17,728 suppliers. and service providers suppliers who operate • We made efforts to work with small and large from peripheral in peripheral areas and suppliers who represent diversity in the population areas development areas and and geographic areas, including peripheral areas. we work with companies • Supplier diversity: our Call centerwho employ people with in 2011, Strauss Israel strengthened special needs. its relationship with the Call Yachol company, a social enterprise, the first in the world for call centers, which supports employment of people with physical disabilities. Call Yachol company handles invitations to visit Strauss Visitors Centers in the Dairy Plant in Ahiyud and the Confectionery Plant in Nazareth Illit. We are proud of Call Yachol as a Call Center partner and the occupational opportunities provided for people with disabilities. 33 Quantity of Sustainable Coffee purchased through 4C by Strauss Coffee in relation to Total Coffee Purchases 2009-2011 * does not include coffee purchases from Brazil 3,160 3000 2,788 2000 Coffee and Cocoa from Fair Trade 1,655 Sources and Ethical Purchasing We believe that coffee and cocoa production can be sustainable 1000 only if it enables respect for the human rights and decent living and working conditions for the farmers and growers, their 5.8% families and their workers. Our Purchasing Department insists 4.36% 3% on sustainable production, which is also an expression of our 0 commitment to the environment. Strauss cooperates with the 4C organization (Common Code for the Coffee Community 2011 2010 2009 Association) and purchases sustainable coffee via 4C. Additional Rate of Purchases as a % Tons information about our collaboration with 4C can be found on of total coffee purchases the Strauss Group Corporate Responsibility website. In 2011, approx. 50% of our cocoa purchases were from Fair Trade sources, sourced from companies which are part of the Number of Strauss Israel suppliers which signed international organization, UTZ Certified. This organization the Suppliers' Social Charter 2009–2011 establishes standards for growing and purchasing of coffee, 2011 2010 2009 cocoa and tea. Cargill, one of the cocoa suppliers of Strauss, is a member of the leadership of this organization, and an additional supplier is in the process of joining. The standards which are defined by UTZ Certified include managing and monitoring produce, rights of workers, reducing environmental impacts and more. In 2012, the rate of cocoa purchasing by Strauss from Fair Trade sources grew by 90% with the inclusion of an additional cocoa supplier into the UTZ network. 1000 800 600 400 200 0 The Suppliers' Social Charter By 2011, Strauss had encouraged over 900 suppliers to sign the Number of Strauss Israel suppliers which received an Assessment (including Corporate Strauss Israel Suppliers' Social Charter, which includes clauses Responsibility) 2009 2011 relating to Fair Trade, worker rights, product responsibility and 2011 2010 2009 more. We make continuous progress in this process, in which our suppliers commit to upholding the values which Strauss Group believes in. Supplier Assessment Process By 2011, approx. 130 suppliers of Strauss Israel had participated in a full assessment, including Corporate Responsibility aspects of their operations. We continue this process while expanding 150 100 50 0 the criteria. 34 Marketplace: 2012 Objectives Product Responsibility: 2012 Objectives • Increase the range of products with high nutritional value offered to consumers. • Increase the range of products for consumers with special needs (celiac, allergens and more) • Develop and launch additional products in the field of water to meet the needs of different consumers. • Adopt Standard ISO 22000 in all our factories. Responsible Marketing: 2012 Objectives • Deepen collaboration with Terra Cycle and increase the range of products which contribute to environmental and community causes through this initiative. • Launch an internal Responsible Marketing Charter. Responsible Supply Chain: 2012 Objectives • Strauss has adopted a target for 2012-2015 to increase coffee purchasing through the 4C organization by 20% each year, so that, by 2012, this will be equivalent to 6,500 tons of coffee. • Sign up an additional 400 suppliers to the Suppliers' Social Charter. • Complete the process of computerizing supplier assessments which will enable us to significantly expand the amount of suppliers assessed. • Adopt a process which will enable inclusion of Corporate Responsibility factors in selecting Strauss Group suppliers, beyond the current supplier selection processes. 35 Content With the exception of data otherwise explicitly noted, the data in this section refers to all the Strauss Group units around the world, with 12,874 employees of the Group (excluding third party agency employees). Notes: The distribution of employees in different organization levels was revised in 2011. *  In 2011, Strauss Israel data did not include Yotvataabout 150 employees. ** The growth of around 500 employees in Strauss Group in 2011 versus 2010 is the result of our expansion in Brazil, Russia and Strauss Water. Workplace Goals Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Continue • In the global opinion survey • Strauss was ranked for the seventh consecutive year, as one of the to be a conducted by the Strauss Group Top Ten Best Places to Work for in the survey conducted by preferred among its employees in 2010, The Marker and BDI COFACE. place of 84% of employees said that their • Around 45% of Strauss Group employees are members of work for our job satisfaction at Strauss is “high” Employee Associations which determine their terms of employment employees or “very high”, compared to 79% through collective bargaining. and provide of employees who said this in the • Around 59% of Strauss Group employees are members them with a previous survey. 87% of employees in employee associations. positive and said that they are proud to work at • Strauss Coffee Brazil conducted, for the first time, a comprehensive challenging Strauss, compared to 83% in the employee satisfaction survey. 95% of employees confirm they previous survey. understand how their roles contribute to the Company objectives work • Strauss maintained its ranking as one and 71% expressed a high level of satisfaction and a desire to stay environment of the top ten “the best companies to with the Company. work for” in the rankings conducted in • At Sabra, and in Strauss Coffee, discussions were held to map Israel by the BDI business information all the gaps regarding employee satisfaction. Conclusions were company in conjunction with The communicated to employees and were discussed at the Strauss Marker newspaper. Group Executive Team meeting. • Further discussions were held following the results of the Employee Satisfaction survey in 2010, and work plans to address issues were finalized. All results were communicated to employees. Recruit, • Strauss Israel employs a majority of • Strauss Israel employs a majority of 54% women (an increase of reward and 52.6% women, which is higher than the 2.6% versus 2010). For details of women in subsidiary companies, promote rate of women in the workforce in Israel. see the chart which follows. fairly and • In 2010, 2,208 women were recruited • Around 4,800 employees were recruited in 2011 to Strauss Group, equally to the Strauss Group, compared with of which 43% were women (increase of 7.5% versus 2010). 1,911 women recruited in 2009. • We reviewed salary levels and ensured that there are no employees earning below the legal minimum wage in all countries in which we operate. * Note: Regarding disabilities, we refer to reported cases, because according to the Correction 15 to the Law of Equal opportunity at Work (Israel), and for reasons of employee privacy, we are not permitted to collect data about employee disabilities. Numbers reported are therefore estimates. 38 KEY Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced Workplace (continued) Progress Goals Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Promote the • We have expanded our existing cooperation • We launched a company-wide program on the subject of values of with non-profit organizations, with the aim Diversity and Inclusion (more details below). diversity and of integrating a diverse population into the • Approx. 140 people with disabilities are employed by inclusion Strauss’s workforce. Strauss Group in the • In 2010, we employed approx. 120 • Approx. 9% of Strauss Group employees recruited were employee employees with reported disabilities. over the age of 40 at the time of recruitment (increase of recruitment • Approx. 7% of Strauss Group employees 28% versus 2010). process were over the age of 40 at the time of recruitment. Assist in the • Strauss Israel employees participated in • Our employees around the world participate in training personal professional training totaling more than according to their personal and professional needs. growth 2,000 hours, alongside on-the-job training. • We invested in workshops for employees, for example, and career • The majority of the Strauss employees Spanish lessons, English lessons, training for skill development participated in an annual performance improvement such as computer skills, technology skills of our evaluation and feedback conversation. and project management, professional development such employees as sales, brand management, customer service and more, training in Strauss Coffee, and operational excellence. • Most of Strauss Group employees took part in performance evaluation conversations. • A total of 23,460 hours of training for Strauss Israel managers and employees were recorded in 2011. This is equivalent to 4 hours per employee per year, while middle managers received on average 13 hours per year and senior management, 3 hours. The global average of training hours stood at 10-15 hours per person per year in 2011. Ethics Goals Main Achievements Main Achievements in 2011 Progress in 2010 Embed the • We increase the scope of A range of ethics activities were improved including tools for consultation and Strauss the Ethics Trustees roles reporting of ethical issues such as: Group Code in Strauss Group and • Corporate Responsibility Trustees were responsible for embedding ethics in of Ethics as Corporate Responsibility their divisions part of our Trustees in Israel and • In response to queries routed to our Ethics Hotline , which is accessible to responsibility around the world. most company employees, we conducted investigations, revised procedures, and • We conducted Ethics built coaching programs and published conclusions of our findings. commitment refreshers for most of • There was a global Ethics refresher for all employees in the group, conducted to an ethical the employees in the by the Corporate Responsibility Trustees in their respective divisions. A range and fair Group, and set up an of training tools were developed in response to specific needs in different workplace organizational platform for work types, and sets of dilemmas for the different work units were created, an ethics training program. based on the overall set of ethical dilemmas for Strauss Group. 39 sion: Diversity and Inclu 011 Achievements in 2 c program to • Created a strategi d inclusion advance diversity an in the Group. ide measures • Created company-w and inclusion in the area of diversity s through Diversity and Inclusion re and tracking measu ve l of th e th e le di sc us si on s at Company-Wide Process to Advance Diversity the subsidiary Board of Directors of and Inclusion ugh reporting companies and thro rly basis. The subject of diversity and inclusion was identified as a major element in the human te on progress on a quar capital management processes of Strauss Group. Employing groups from different f • Raised the issue o an sectors backgrounds and with different characteristics, and providing equal opportunity, as advancing women creates a competitive long-term advantage for our business, in our view, as well as for rity. the communities in which we operate. organizational prio y nar We have set a visio We see diversity and inclusion as a key ingredient of our business success, especially in these women target to have 50% times when there are expectations of companies to operate with greater responsibility, ent in senior managem transparency and connection to the local community and the environment. Diversity positions by 2015. and inclusion contribute to creating a better company, makes us more like the diverse consumers we serve and therefore bring us closer to them. This enables us to be in a m for managing • Established a progra ro up -w id e stronger position to attract and retain talent, and also serve as a platform for innovation G th e pr oc es s on a and creativity. When different people share their different life experiences, they create te am, which is basis: The Steering innovative processes and solve problems in new and creative ways. anagers and comprised of senior m up CEO; a ro led by the Strauss G comprised Diversity and inclusion reflect our values and our aspiration to nurture an environment is Working Team, which entatives in which every person has the right to be heard and to realize his or her potential. pr es of managers and re companies of all Strauss Group de di ca te d We understand that a culture of diversity and inclusion is not achieved with ease, and a ar ou nd th e w or ld ; which is led therefore decided to embed this subject both internally, in the way we recruit and ee manage human capital in the organization, and externally, in the way we support Management Committ for Human the communities and local environment of which we are a part. VP by the Strauss Group relating to s Resources; work plan created by In 2011, we finalized a strategy for diversity and inclusion and created an organizational io n diversity and inclus in the Group program to enable this process. A Steering Committee which is led by the Corporate each of the companies e measures. Responsibility Manager develops the strategic direction, and a global working id which include Group-w r training, group agrees the ways in which this strategy should be implemented. We have s fo • Creation of a basi unications. started the process by creating awareness and by advancing diverse groups within m m recognition and co Strauss, generating organizational dialog and awareness, allocating resources and supporting related initiatives. 40 In 2011, Diversity and Inclusion at Strauss Israel focused on the employment of diverse groups Strauss Israel has advanced processes to identify diverse candidates and enable their integration in the job market in line with focused definitions of diversity: Selection and Recruitment Processes which Advance Diversity and Inclusion at Strauss • Mapping opportunities for effective recruitment in different professional roles: The roles in which we can integrate diverse groups were mapped according to the market and organizational possibilities and we identified the geographical areas in which there are high levels of diverse groups from whom we could recruit, and recruitment targets were updated accordingly. • Promotion to senior management: We created an entry point into the organization from which managers can advance to more senior management roles. • Women in senior management roles: We identified roles which serve as a platform to advance women to CEO roles and increased the rate of women appointed to these roles. • Creation of a dedicated recruitment process: This includes partnerships with Employment Agencies which have expertise in recruiting diverse groups. • Increase in the number of diverse candidates in Strauss Israel: Strauss Israel advances strategic collaboration with non-profit organizations which assist in identifying diverse candidates from diverse backgrounds: Ethiopian, Arab and Orthodox. During the recruitment process for management candidates, Strauss Israel invests special efforts to identify candidates with an academic background from the Arab population, Ethiopian immigrants and women for roles in management. • Ensuring appropriate assessment skills for recruiters: Strauss creates different assessment programs which are tailored for the diverse groups of candidates applying for roles at Strauss and has created a new pilot program in this field. For example, all our recruiters have undergone training delivered by professionals and supported by non-profit associations who have expertise in working with diverse people. Sessions are held for sharing the recruitment experiences on a regular basis. • Improvement in the preparedness of managers to recruit diverse candidates: The Human Resources function works on an individual basis with managers in the organization and operates with professional nonprofit associations to remove barriers to diverse recruitment and enable effective induction of more diverse employees. 41 At a Group level, Induction Processes we have chosen to Strauss Israel advances several processes to improve the induction process of diverse new hires in different roles: focus on gender • Personal and professional support for new hires, and also for their managers, which focuses diversity, as on understanding cultural gaps. • Cross-cultural workshops. women make most • Framework for monitoring and management of new hires in a process in collaboration with of the household the Ministry of Trade and Industry. • Accessibility: In Strauss Israel, all measures are taken to ensure full accessibility for all employees. purchase This includes including accessibility considerations in warehouse and logistics planning in decisions and are Shoham, our central warehouse, refurbishing our Visitors' Center in Achiyud with the help a significant group ofof building a professional accessibility expert, including accessibility considerations in the process new offices for Strauss Water in Petach Tikvah, Israel and more. In Elite coffee in of consumers for Petach Tikvah, special parking lots were allocated to people with disabilities and access routes Strauss. Their to the café are maintained. • Work, family and free-time balance: In Strauss Israel and in Max Brenner Israel, we enable integration and employees to work from home in a flexible hours framework. In Strauss Israel, we enable empowerment employees to return from parental leave on a gradual basis and we offer the possibility of a parttime role with one day a week designated for going home early with no late meetings, families in Strauss Group of employees are invited to company vacations, and Strauss Group encourages its employees makes us more to take vacation through office and plant closures at national holiday times. Strauss is in the relevant to women process of developing a formal policy with regard to work-life balance. Also in our subsidiary companies there is a practice of flexible home-working, such as in Strauss coffee in Poland consumers. which enables home working and gradual return from parental leave. Rate of wome In 2011, we employed 44% women. Strauss Group in n in The following charts show the rate 2011 of women employed at different levels in the organization and in the core roles in the company. 42 Rate of women managers in the senior management teams of Strauss Group and company management teams 2010-2011 2010 2011 45% 36% 36% 36% 33% 30% 25% 20% 17% 11% 11% 11% 0% 0% Board of Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Sabra Max Directors Group Israel Coffee Water Brenner Rate of women as a percentage of total employees in Strauss Group 2011 This chart shows the rate 100% of women in the senior management of Strauss 39% Group in 2010 -2011. 44% 44% 51% 48% 50% 54% 56% 46% 52% 56% 61% 49% 0% Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Sabra Max Group Israel Water Coffee Brenner Employees by work level and gender – Strauss Group 2011 100% This chart shows the distribution of employees by work level and gender. As 25% can be seen, the rate of women decreases 38% as the organizational level increases. 46% 50% 75% 62% 54% 0% Senior Middle Employees Management Management 43 Rate of women in Strauss Israel by comparison with the general Israel workforce during the years 2009-2011. 54% 55% 52.6% This chart shows the rate of women in Strauss 47.19% 46.97% 46.98% Israel in comparison to the workforce in Israel* during the years 2009 – 2011. As can be seen, over a period of years, the rate of women employed at Strauss Israel is higher than the rate of women in the general workforce in Israel. General employment figures for Israel are taken from the Central Bureau of Statistics (internet site) 2011 2010 2009 Rate of Women Strauss Israel Rate of Women – General workforce in Israel 44 44% 43% 40% Rate of women as a proportion of total recruits to Strauss Group in 2009-2011 This chart shows the rate of women as a proportion of total employees who were recruited into Strauss Group during 2009 – 2011. 2011 2010 2009 Average salary gaps between Explanation: women and men at different 21% * E mployees are divided into three groups work levels* In 2011, the – employees, middle management and This chart shows the rate of the senior management. This creates a wide gap between women's salaries and men's salaries at the same and very heterogenic group with a wide range of roles which are substantially difference organizational work level in Strauss Israel. different in complexity and seniority. Therefore, our remuneration philosophy between at Strauss is based on comparative salary levels between the market rates for similar the average jobs without gender differentiation. * The average salary which is calculated salaries of for such a heterogenic group does not women and men in senior reflect the existing salary levels for each 3% occupation within the organizational 2% hierarchy. Therefore, an analysis of salary levels of women and men is based on the management average salary in this heterogenic group does not reflect the organizational reality roles was Senior Middle Employees and presents inaccurate gaps which derive Management. Management from the major differences in the nature of the roles and their seniority. * In a sample that we analyzed in Strauss Israel to assess the salary gaps in groups of employees , no significant differences in salary levels were found between men and women, when referring to identical roles. In cases where gaps were found between men and women, there were explanations in most cases relating to length of service and other factors not related to gender. * The gap which is presented in the above graph for the different groups can be attributed to the fact that the roles in which there is a higher proportion of women are generally the roles for which the market rate is lower. versus 12% * We will further state that during 2010 and 2011 there was a change to our methodology in the distribution of roles. A group of employees now contains three organizational levels versus four in 2010; middle management in 2010 now contains 4 management levels versus three in 2010. As a result of these changes, the ability to compare and analyze these results from year to year is not possible. 45 Age Groups Strauss Group 2011 Employee Ages In Strauss Group, employees of all ages are represented. The largest age group is up to age 30 which is 36% of total employees. In 2010, Over age 60 3% this group was 38%. 50-60 10% 40-50 18% 30-40 33% Below age 30 36% This chart shows the split of work levels across the different units in Strauss Group. The chart shows that around 61% of the senior management are between the ages of 40 and 50 (versus 44% in 2010) while 52% of middle management are between ages 30 and 40 (versus 47% in 2010) and 40% of non-management employees are below age 30 (similar to 2010). Employees by Work Level and Age Group – Strauss Group 2011 60% 40% 20% 0% Senior Management Middle Management Employees Below age 30 30-40 40-50 50-60 Over age 60 46 Advancing Awareness for a Healthy Lifestyle among Employees As a food company which aspires to advance a healthy lifestyle among our consumers and the general public, Straus believes that we must first apply these values in our own company. Therefore, Strauss encourages its employees to adopt healthy habits and improve their quality of life. In 2011, we launched a program to advance a healthy lifestyle among our employees of Strauss Israel. The program includes: A program to improve nutritional • Nutrition workshops to support a collaboration with the Ministry of habits and physical fitness for Strauss healthy lifestyle. Health and the National Insurance employees • Personal programs for nutrition Institute. This program trains qualified • Distribution of pedometers and fitness on the basis of checking Health Officers who perform checks • Anthropometric measurements measurements for chronic disease to identify individuals at high risk • Checks to identify risk factors for risk factors before and after physical for the development of heart or chronic diseases before and after activity, including pulse rate, blood blood diseases. Up to 70 employees physical activity pressure, body fat levels etc.). will take part in the program called • Joint fitness workouts. Intervention . This includes: training A program to encourage healthy • Lectures. on nutrition and fitness, exercises lifestyle in cooperation with for physical workouts and a tracking Holmes Place Program to prevent heart program (with blood pressure tests). This program has started in some and blood diseases In addition, ergonomic training will be divisions in Israel and will be expanded In 2011, Strauss joined an program provided for employees as well as a to other divisions. The program has run by the Israel Forum for Prevention smoking cessation program. several elements: of Heart and Blood Diseases in 47 KEY Health and Safety at Work Target Met Significant Progress In Progress Commenced Goals Main Achievements in 2010 Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Act to improve • In 2010, we rolled out a Group-wide • Safety Officers' Forum in Strauss Israel developed a the safety of program of training materials on computerized program for safety training using our our installations Safety at work. SAP network, enabling tracking of training execution. and improve • A comprehensive mapping of ergonomics was the training of conducted at Strauss Dairy at Achiyud and a work employees and program was prepared to resolve safety issues and their awareness continue the process on a gradual basis. of safety • In Strauss Water, a risk survey was conducted requirements including safety inspections of all offices and warehouses. An Emergency Response team was created. • We continued to deliver training to employees on health and safety, including emergency drills, Safety officer training, dealing with hazardous materials and more. • In 2010 we initiated a safety • Activities expanded to include the work of store program in the Sales Division and merchandizers. Training was conducted, risks were appointed a Safety officer and a assessed and new work procedures and incident work plan to embed safe practices. investigation were developed. All merchandizers were issued with protective equipment. Reduce the • As part of our ongoing activity • We continued activity to reduce accidents and in number of workto improve safety, Strauss Israel 2011, the number of accidents which caused more related accidents reduced the number of accidents than 3 lost workdays reduced by 14% versus 2011 in and increase which caused more than 3 lost Strauss Israel and Logistics. preventive activity workdays by 22% in 2010 versus (learning from 2009. experience). Improve • We embedded safety in the • We continued to integrate safety into Operational measurement Operational Excellence program Excellence procedures in the confectionery factory in processes in Strauss operations in Israel and Nazareth Illit and preparation for a similar process at monitoring, achieved our objective of posting Achiyud Dairy was completed. procedures safety measures on 50% of our related to safety control panels. and create a • In 2010 we conducted assessments • A measure for effectiveness of enforcement Group wide of enforcement of safety assessments for safety of hazardous materials was consistent effort regulations, and resolved 72% established and improvement of 19%was noted. as far as possible. of required safety improvements (against an objective of 60%) 48 P r o g r e s s in Safety h Breakthroug ivision in t h e S a le s D fo rm an ce re lating to safe ty at work prove our per ers. ecided to im merchandis In 2011, we d cl u d in g al l the product agement Team e Sa le s Division, in d b ac ki n g of the Man in th pport an tive results, ks to th e co llaboration, su yi el ded im mediate posi Than ange process areness with ivision, the ch ted to raise aw of the Sales D long te rm , h as st ar t of safety h w ill co n finue for the ti n g to th e enforcemen wh ic lly re la stment io n m an ag ers, specifica q u ir ed si gnificant inve all Div is re . The process Sales Divisio n by employees gness of the procedures cludin g th e w ill in t as w el l as resources, in environmen in time and ap p ro p ri ate working es . t to create an g for employe Managemen to su p p o rt safe workin le s Division an d uipmen t with the Sa providing eq as co m m en ce d indic n at io ce ss o f co llaboration w ch ai n s, as an additional Ap ro nt retail process O ffi ce rs o f the differe o rk en vi ro nment. The Safety ur w ty e safety of o ion and Safe f o u r co m m itment to th ag er s o f th e Sales Divis o ns by man ts to the chai experience. included visi an d learning from fety ew of safety inci d en ts subject of sa officers, revi is ad vancing the Sales D iv is io n bring outab h e M an ag e ment of the e m p lo ye e s, in order to T agers and of both man at the level in 2012. b re ak th ro ugh change addition al 49 Safety and Health in the Workplace The following table shows the incidents of accidents at work and the loss of workdays due to absenteeism, in all Strauss Group businesses in 2011, with a comparison to 2010. Business Number of Employees Number of Work Injuries/ Number of Lost Workdays Number of Division Occupational Diseases which caused due to Work Accidents Fatalities dies more than three days absence to Injury or Occupational Disease 2010 2011 2010 2011 Change 2010 2011 Change 2010 2011 Strauss Israel 2,100 2,285 59 (Operations 55 -14% 1,241 1,100 -19% 0 0 – Operations (Operations (Operations – 46, Logistics In addition, and Logistics and Logistics and Logistics – 13) there were employees) employees) In addition, 53 injuries there were causing 55 injuries less than 3 causing less days' work than 3 days' absence. work absence. Strauss 421 430 9 4 -57% 360 104 -70% 0 0 Coffee Poland Strauss 318 273 3 0 -100% 112 0 0 0 Coffee Romania Strauss 239 245 6 2 -68% 31 68 (40 113% 0 Adriatic for injuries caused in 2010) Strauss 471 677 No data 0 0 0 0 0 Coffee Russia and Ukraine Strauss 3,898 4,147 94 67 3,900 3,038 0 1 Coffee Brazil In addition, there were 109 injuries causing less than 3 days' work absence. Sabra 538 530 5 35 633% No data. 512 0 0 Strauss 815 840 31 68 (32 are 113% 687 471 -33% 0 0 Water work injuries) Max Brenner No data. 0 No data. 0 No 0 Israel data. Max Brenner 323 417 No data 19 No data. 0 No 0 USA data. Elite Coffee 490 451 No data 34 No data 128 No 0 data. 50 2012 Workpla Obje ce: ctive Incre Targe s ase th ts fo recru e ited in number of r Maintaini to the th ng a F Expan comp ird party e ai ding the ra any, i mploy r Workplac n l ine w e e e Targe nge o f welf ith re s who wer a re act s o urce n e ts Stren for 2012 in ivities f o r eeds. gthen the ar e mploy ing th e ees. e orga a of Divers Incre n i z ation i ty a ase in al cul nd Inclusio Targe ture t the n umbe d iversi o sup n P r epar ts for 20 r of em ty and i n port h e a l t h a t i o n and S 12 in the a Empo p l o c l u sion. c hecks o f afe rea werin from yees and m , espe process fo ty of Emplo of Health d impro y divers g manage iverse backg agers an c veme ially new h employee ees r e emp rs to p r o u C o n n t i n i r e s loyee r nds. t , an of en inued imp Deve s and oactively m ergon lopin s f omic d subsid g a g mana t r e n g a n a ge o rc e ment l e m entat s . iary c uide book geme thening th of ha ion ompa adapt n t c e i r C o m a t z a rdous nies w ed for apabi ntinu erials ith tra use fo lities. of saf ed polici Raisin ining o r all S ety im impleme es. g awa m anage f senio t r auss's with p rovem n tatio ren r s throu r a n l e g al req e n n Comp ess and cre ghou d middle uirem ts in line any, t ating t the w G e nts orld. roupStren o rais e a dialog w wide on a gthen w arene ss for in the ith traini Impleme basis . profit ing the co a n d d i v e c o ng on ntati o organ nnect i n c lusion r s i t y m p u terize s a f e ty n o f izatio io d mo using the Build ns for n with pro issues . d ing a recru fessio C ontin u le via comm itmen nal no ues i SAP. creati u n it t a n d indu n of saf n on of y for mana ction. ety in tegration a foru g Ope m wit ing divers Excel lence rational Build h the ity – progr ing a sharin pu c for th ommunity g bes rpose of am e purp of Div t pract N a z areth s p e cifica s, ose o e i c e s. I l l it and lly in f deve rsity Offic i m p Achiy loping ers le De ud. new s – for el mentatio velopme kills. ectric n of n nt an ity an e d Embe d thir w proced dding d par ures progr th ty e ams f e safety m mployees or all . empl odule in t oyees rainin of Str g auss Wate r. 51 Social Investment and Social Investment and Community Involvement Goals Main Achievements Main Achievements in 2011 Progress in 2010 Continue • A Corporate Responsibility • Our global Corporate Responsibility Day was in November 2011 with implementation Day took place this year on the theme of Taking Responsibility for the Basic Things . The theme of a focused the theme of diversity and was selected in order to discuss or respod to the basic social issues of community inclusion, in which 2000 our consumers. Several activities took place in collaboration with our investment employees participated community partners. strategy based at all Strauss sites around • 1,572 managers and employees took part in our Corporate on our core the world, in 60 diverse Responsibility Day, (11% of our global workforce) from 49 different business and activities. Strauss divisions in Israel and 9 divisions around the globe, social vision volunteering in around 50 non-profit organizations. • The Corporate Responsibility Day generated 7,860 volunteer hours and a sum of $25,000 in donations. • Around 6,000 individuals were the direct beneficiaries of our Corporate Responsibility Day activities and thousands more benefited indirectly. • Cooperation between the • In collaboration with the Women's Lobby in Israel, Strauss Group Catalyst organization, the launched the Catalyst review in Israel, which checks the rate of women women’s Lobby in Israel in senior management and Boards of Directors in the companies and Strauss Group was traded in the Tel Aviv 100 on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. The purpose initiated regarding gender of the review was to encourage an increase in the number of women diversity and the promotion on the Boards of public companies. of women in business. • From 2011, Strauss Group provides academic grants to advance women from different population sectors. KEY Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced Progress 54 Social Investment Strategy of Strauss Group Advancing Diverse Groups with a Focus on Employment In 2011, we further refined the community investment strategy of Strauss Group. The process of this focus included support from professional non-profit organizations and in consultation with the community and local municipalities, in relation to critical social needs and the way in which Strauss Group can provide a response to these needs. The selected subject was based on our vision for diversity and inclusion at Strauss Group, and we added the significant dimension to create effective strategic community investment: employment. In this way, we defined that advancing diverse populations in relation to employability and access to jobs, through collaboration with professional organization which have expertise in this field and manage related projects, as the community investment of Strauss Group. Goals Main Achievements Main Achievements in 2011 Progress in 2010 Leverage our • In 2010, Strauss Group donated NIS • In 2011, we invested NIS 13.7 Million, of which cash donations were influence to 9.76 million in cash and products for NIS4.3 Million and food products were of a value of NIS 7.1 Million improve the charitable causes. and NIS 2.3 Million was invested in additional community activities. world around Strauss Group invested 10,300 • We invested 13,552 volunteer hours on a Group-wide basis, which us and the lives employee volunteer hours in 2010 has a value of NIS 813,000.** of the people with a value of NIS 591,000*, versus who live in it, 8,459 volunteer hours in 2009 an based on our increase of 22%. activities and • We were successful in realizing the • In 2011, we focused our community investment program in a expertise five-year goal of our Supply Chain more strategic way. We defined that Strauss Group will invest in the “100 Ambassadors” project: in supporting diverse people and communities in relation to Within three years, 105 managers enhancing employability and access to jobs. and employees in the Supply Chain • We maintain constant contact with the professional social have become regularly active in associations in Israel which advance employment for diverse groups. community involvement projects. We support between 10 and 12 major projects per year, through organizations which advance employment diversity and access to jobs for: Arabs, Ethiopians, new immigrants, Orthodox Jews, Over Fifties and more. We reach thousands of people each year, from all parts of society, and assist them accessing the job market. Establish • In 2010 we cooperated in Israel • We established a basis for measuring the effectiveness of our mechanisms to with a professional NGO to community investment and financial donations of Strauss Group. better manage provide guidance at Strauss’s evaluate and sites throughout Israel on measure the improving collaboration with our influence of our community partners. activities and investment in the community * This figure was changed from the figure quoted in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report as the Window to the Future was excluded from volunteer hours according to the organizational definition. ** In 2011, the value of a volunteer hour was changed in order to be more in line with the actual cost of volunteering. 55 Total Investmant Why did we choose to adopt advancing diverse groups in relation to in Social Responsibility employability and access to jobs? 2009-2011 1.This links to the activities of Strauss Group as a large employer, with a diverse workforce and diverse products. 2009 2010 2011 2.This makes best use of our significant strengths as an organization: our people, Million Nis our factories and our organizational power. 3.We connect to our desire to operate in communities which thrive and flourish. We recruit our employees from these communities, and our suppliers. CR Activities 0.5 0.7 0.9 4.Employability and access to jobs is of global socio-economic significance, and relevant to all the markets in which we operate. 5.Through this theme, we can have a significant influence through the long term. Community Activities & Strauss Institute 0.3 0.4 0.6 The target audience of the Strauss Group community investment Monetary Donations 3.3 3.7 4.3 strategy are those groups which do not have equal opportunity to access the job market. Product Donations 6.9 5.6 7.1 Total Cash and In-Kind donations in 2009-2011 Employee 0.5 0.6 0.8 Volunteering 3.2% 11.4 Million NIS 2011 TOTAL 11.6 10.9 13.7 2.2% 9.76 Million NIS 2010 2.4% 10.53 Million NIS 2009 Rate of Contribution as a Proportion of Million NIS Total Profit Before Tax 56 Hilde Strauss Women Advancement Scholarhips Ceremony Implementing our Social Investment Strategy Among our community partners in Israel The Community Investment Strategy is implemented in three ways: together with whom • Cash donations: We make cash donations to non-profit organizations, institutions and communities. we fulfill our social Strauss Group takes care to follow through with its community partner organizations and the projects investment strategy: the Group supports over a long period of time which is usually at least three years, in order to create commitment towards the organization and the best basis for collaboration. Olim Beyachad • In-Kind Donations: We donate food products and management time of senior managers in Strauss Group. Kav Mashve • Employee Volunteering and Community Projects: Volunteering is a main value of Strauss Group. The Group encourages ongoing volunteering and involvement with the community in all the different 50+business units in Israel and around the world and sets targets for volunteering, providing financial and Na Lagaat management support to advance this objective. AJEEC As part of our implementation of our Community Investment Strategy, we have increased our work Jasmine with the key non-profit organizations in Israel who work to advance diverse employment. As part of this process, we have created collaboration between Strauss Group Human Resources function, Fidel our factories and the overall Corporate Responsibility program at Strauss Group. This is because Economic we believe that collaboration between the different divisions in the company and our non-profit Empowerment for partners will create synergies which will assist us in advancing our objectives. This approach will Women Association strengthen the non-profit organizations and also provide benefits for Strauss in terms of greater professional knowledge of the local communities in which potential Strauss employees are located. Abraham Foundation Long Term Projects which Advance Diversity in Employment which were Progressed in 2011 • Employment of rehabilitated prisoners in the Logistics Center in Zerifin, in the confectionery factory in Haredic College in Nazareth Illit and in the Salad Factory in Carmiel. Jerusalem • Employment of rehabilitated employees in our Max Brenner Factory and in our roast coffee factory in Lod. • Employment of disabled children in our Logistics center in Zerifin. Yedid • Employment of youth at risk as part of the Window to the Future project in our confectionery factory Be’Atzmi in Nazareth Illit and in our Achiyud Dairy. • Employment of income-supported women in our Strauss Group head offices. Ha’meshakem 57 Upgrading our Social Investment Management Infrastructure This year, we continued to invest in the development of an infrastructure which will enable us to become more professional in managing the community investment of Strauss Group. • We continued to provide professional training for our community leaders who are responsible for the relationship with their divisions and local community partners and manage volunteer activity in their business units, in addition to their regular jobs. • We increased our internal communications in order to recognize the good work of many individuals and encourage others to take part. • For the first time, we enabled all employees in the company to take part in the selection of the outstanding business unit for volunteering of 2011, in a voting process based on clear criteria including the level of social influence and ongoing involvement. Examples of Employment Projects: Scaling of Window to the Future Model A social-business project in partnership between Strauss and the office for Youth Advancement at the Ministry of Education. In 2011, we replicated this model, which provides employment opportunities and personal mentoring to youths at risk in Strauss factories. The project, which began in the confectionery factory in Nazareth Illit about 8 years ago, has become popular and was adopted also at the Achiyud Dairy, which absorbed youths from Acre and the surrounding areas. As a result of this successful program, we intend to adopt this model in other factories in Israel. We Talk Work Strauss created collaboration with the non-profit association Yedid ( Friend ) as part of our community investment policy in the area of advancing diverse employment. As part of this collaboration, a group of women living in the area of Petach Tikvah, where Strauss Group headquarters are located, participate in a program of 22 meeting under the theme of We Talk Work , with the objective of training women to improve their employability. The training includes a range of subjects: job search skills, writing resumes, succeeding in job interviews, computer course, and empowerment and employment rights. In addition, the participants will receive personal mentoring for a period after completion of the training program, with the intention of helping them find appropriate roles. Ultimately, this program is designed to assist the participants in upgrading their socio-economic position in the community. 58 Community Investment Employee Volunteering The following chart shows the volunteer hours of Strauss in our Core Business Group employees in the years 2009 – 2011. Advancing the Quality of Life for our Consumers As part of our aspiration to know the needs of our consumers, Strauss Group acts to improve the health of our consumers via our community donation activities. Therefore, we created strategic relationships with leading 2011 13,552 Volunteer Hours organizations and institutions which advance initiatives for the benefit of those with special nutritional needs. In this context, Strauss supports and funds research which is led by the Center for Food Allergies of the Assaf Harofe Medical Center, on the subject of allergies. The research focuses on 2010 10,300 Volunteer Hours Baked Milk as a means of treatment for those suffering from an allergy to milk protein. In addition, Strauss invests in the development of special tools which assist diabetic sufferers. 2009 8,495 Volunteer Hours Annual Meeting for Training and Recognition of Community Leaders and Community Partners *There is a difference versus the volunteer hours reported in 2010 This year, as every year, we held a recognition event for our which were presented in the Corporate Responsibility Report for 2010 Community Leaders from Strauss Group workforce who lead because of a change in the calculation basis for volunteering. our local community efforts and our community partners from all over Israel with whom we work throughout the year. The event included lectures, a ceremony for granting certificates of recognition and an experiential workshop on the subject of strengthening community-business relationships. 59 We Acknowledge our Volunteers! Prize for the Outstanding Business Unit in Community Activity The Instant Coffee Factory in Zefat and the Salty Snacks Division won the prize this year, which they donate to their community partners. Gadi Lesin, President and CEO, Strauss Group, and Michael Avner SVP and CLO, granting the Outstanding Volunteering Business Unit Award. Community Involvement in Communities around the World • Sabra USA: Involvement in several projects throughout the year, including distribution of food and clothing to needy people and participating in sporting events to raise money for charitable causes. • Strauss Coffee Brazil: Support for national sports competitions to encourage a healthy lifestyle. • Strauss Coffee Poland: Involvement in several social projects for kindergarten and school children in low-income communities, including refurbishment, provision of equipment, social activities and factory tours. • Strauss Coffee Romania: Collaboration with several community organizations which support children. In December 2011, a handicrafts fair was held to showcase the handicrafts of the Strauss Romania employees and partner community organizations. All the products at the fair were made by the employees themselves and the community partners. The handicrafts were sold and all the proceeds went to support an orphanage and other community causes. • Strauss Coffee in Russia and Ukraine: Support for children at risk in different projects. • Strauss Commodities, Switzerland: Ongoing support for environmental projects and elderly people. 60 Global Social Responsibility Day 2011 Social Investment: 2012 Targets • Adopting measurement and evaluation of the strategic effectiveness of community investment in three key projects. • Involvement of additional sites and business units in significant volunteer activity with community partners. • Continued strengthening of the management infrastructure of our community investment activity. • Expansion of professional training and coaching for Strauss Community Leaders and Community Partners. • Support for capacity-building with Community Partners: cash donations, dedicated training programs, mentoring and management development. 61 Environmental Management Goals Main Achievements in 2011 Progress Reduce energy consumption • Reduction of approx. 2.5% in energy consumption in Strauss Israel per ton of product (electricity Kwh and fuel in 2011 versus 2010. consumption per ton of • Energy production from coffee bean combustion in the Zefat factory in 2011 product) in the business units yielded approx. 89,000 Gj (gigajoules) of energy, which is a very significant and at the Group’s sites in output for such a project. line with targets. • Energy generation from coffee bean shells in a new biomass tank in the Strauss factory in Serbia yielded approx. 2,600 Gj in 2011. Strauss Israel – reduce the • Strauss Israel: Reduction of waste per ton of product by 22% from 2009 to 2011. quantity of waste per ton of product by 42% between 2008 and 2014. Strauss Israel – reduce • Strauss Israel: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per ton of product by approx. greenhouse gas emissions 22% versus 2008 levels. per ton of product by 28% between 2008 and 2014. Reduce water consumption • Water consumption per ton of product at Strauss Israel reduced by approx. 7% in per ton of product by 20% 2011 versus 2010. Combined with the reduction achieved between 2008 and 2010, between 2008 and 2014. we confirm that we have achieved 80% of our strategic multi-year target versus the 2008 baseline. • In Strauss Israel, a guide to water management at Strauss Group sites has been developed and two additional sites are piloting the guidelines. Reduce pollutants in the • Despite our production growth in 2011, as a result of the activities of the Group to waste water at reduce waste-water pollutants, in 2011 there was an absolute reduction in COD Strauss Group sites. generation by approx. 742 tons and an absolute reduction of approx. 203 tons per year of BOD. Build production and • In 2011, construction commenced for the new logistics center in the center of distribution sites with low Israel, which integrates several energy-efficient projects and greenhouse gas negative environmental reduction initiatives. impacts. *In 2012, Strauss coffee established multi-year environmental targets which are detailed in the following section of this Report. KEY Target Met Significant In Progress Commenced Progress 64 Managing our Impact We continue to demonstrate our commitment to the environment. In our sites, in Israel and around the world, we undertake many activities to reduce our environmental impacts. Two examples are the Strauss Israel biomass energy generation system in Serbia and the water filtration and purification system in the Targets Strauss Water production facility in China, about which we provide further details later in this chapter. The efforts which Strauss invests in the environment are manifested in the targets we set ourselves. 2008-2014 In 2008, Strauss Israel undertook multi-year targets to reduce the Company's carbon footprint, water consumption and waste generation per ton of product by 2014. In practice, as a result of intensive efforts and many efficiency measures within the Group, Strauss Israel achieved these targets by the end of 2011. Therefore, we have decided to update the targets and establish new, more ambitious goals in order to continuously improve our environmental performance. Measure Prior Target 2008-2014 New Target 2008-1024 Water Carbon Footprint per ton of product -15% -28% Consumption Cubic Meters of Water per ton of product -20% -22% Reduction KG waste per ton of product -15% -42% (per ton of product) Progress on Strauss Israel Targets GHG Emission Reduction Reduction of Water Usage per ton of product per ton of product 28% 22% By 2014 By 2014 GHG Emissions 22% Reduction Reduction by additional 2010-2011 18% (per ton of product) 2% 20% Reduction by 28% updated 2009-2010 Reduction by additional 8% 22% updated target 2010-2011 additional 7% target for reducing 11% for GHG water usage Emissions 12% per ton of Reduction by per ton of product 2009-2010 additional product 2008-2014 2008-2014 Reduction by 6% Waste Weight 12% 2008-2009 5% Reduction 2008-2009 Reduction by (per ton of product) 5% 65 The water purification syste m Implementing the Packaging established in Law in Israel Strauss Water In March 2011, a new Packaging Law was approved in Israel, which requires manufacturers and importers in China, allows to report on the quantity of packaging and establish targets to recycle packaging materials. Accordingly, in 2011, Strauss Israel started to make the necessary preparations to adhere to these new requirements. us to deal with These preparation included logistics activities to identify and measure all forms of packaging used by the Group. As an additional measure, considering future implications of this law, Strauss Israel started to review changes to packaging in order to introduce more environmentally friendly packaging materials with lower weights. liters of recycled One example of this new approach is a development with Strauss pasta products. In the past, pasta water per hour, units were shipped in an outer carton. In order to reduce the carton content, a new plastic stand for the pasta units was developed which displays the units at the point of sale in a standalone unit which and results in a does not require an outer carton for shipping. The plastic stand remains at the point of sale and can be g in meaningful savin used several times. The significance of this is a major reduction in pasta packaging materials and, as a result, a reduction in the amount of waste generated by this product. r the factory’s wate In 2012, Strauss Group plans to continue to review all possible technologies and materials that will enable consumption. packaging material reductions and more environmentally friendly packaging options while continuing to ensure maintenance of product quality standards. Water Purification in China Strauss Water is now beginning a strategic process to adopt environmental management systems in line with International Standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18008 in sites around the world. As part of this process, many projects are currently underway which conserve natural resources. One such project is in the ENG factory in Shenzen, China. During the construction of the Strauss Water production unit Family and Premier Units, there is a need for clean, purified water for the purpose of testing the products in the final stage of production. A new water purification system was therefore established at the site for all production systems. This purification system contains: • Pre-filtration • A reverse-osmosis based system with a capacity of 3 toms water per hour • UV water purification • Additional filtration before water use in production 66 In addition to the filtration and purification activities, the new Progress on Strauss Israel Targets process enables used water to be recycled and re-used again Reduction of Waste Weight per ton of product and again in the production and testing phases. The water which is drained off from the production lines is sent back 42% for purification and filtration and then flows back for use in production. This system handles 2,650 liters of recycled water per hour, delivering significant water savings for the factory. Energy from Coffee By 2014 Bean Waste in Serbia 42% updated target for As a result of a successful project with the biomass tank reduction of Reduct 22% installation in the Strauss Group instant coffee factory in Zefat, waste weight ion by a 2010-2011 ddition in which waste from coffee beans is used to provide steam for per ton of al 1% 21% product production operations, we decided that our coffee factory in 2008-2014 Serbia should also install a biomass tank for the same purpose. Replacing the current tank which is powered by natural gas, Reduct ion by 21% 2009-2010 a new biomass tank was installed, using chaff (coffee bean waste generated during coffee roasting). The coffee chaff and parts of wooden pallets, which were used for transferring waste to landfill, are now used as fuel for the new biomass tank to produce heat for the factory. At the end of 2011, the new tank was commissioned and has already enabled a reduction in energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions at the factory. In 2012, we expect that the biomass tank will yield an energy reduction of 340 CO2e in the Serbian coffee factory versus consumption levels in 2011. The biomass project is a candidate for the prestigious AUREA award, which is granted for projects which have economic potential and lead to new social or environmental benefits. As of today, the coffee factory in Serbia uses the coffee bean waste fuels for powering the plant. The former boiler tank is used only for reserve power. We intend to attempt to recreate the success of this project in different factories around the world. 67 For the first time 5-Year Environmental Targets for Strauss Coffee During 2009, the Strauss Group coffee company started measuring and monitoring its environmental impacts and in 2010 and 2011, the measurement and reporting system was improved significantly. This was the result of our belief that it is our obligation to protect and care for the environment must be an integral part of our activity throughout the Group, and specifically in a leading company such as Strauss Coffee. In 2011, it was decided that Strauss Coffee would deliver a major improvement in environmental performance, and new targets and measures will be established. 68 ental ar environm m itte d to multi-ye : Coffee com in four eas ar p lan s for 2010, Strauss line of 20 10 and 2011, In our work ase ed using a b h w ere establish ption targe ts w hic y c o n s u m e d u c t i o n of energ R o f p r o d u c t by 10% per ton e n h o u s e g ases of gre Reduction duct by 15% ro per ton of p r c o n s u m p tion e d u c tio n of wate R d u c t by 5% o f p r o per ton o f w a s t e s ent c r e a s e p r o portion t o n of In li n g p e r recyc for reuse or % 15 product by ets for each targ pport deliv ery of these ve loped to su has been de A work plan ye a r plan. this mu lt iyear within 69 Envionmental Impact Data 2010 2011 Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group activity activity activity in activity activity activity activity in activity in Israel around the Israel (Not around the in Israel around the Israel (Not around the (including world (not including world (not (including world (not including world (not Index Strauss including Strauss including Strauss including Strauss including Water Israel) Water Israel) Water Israel) Water Israel) & Elite Absolute & Elite Relative & Elite Absolute & Elite Relative Coffee) values Coffee) values Coffee) values Coffee) values Absolute Relative per Ton Absolute Relative per Ton values values product values values product per Ton per Ton product product Landfill Waste 11,500 3,357 11,049 3,775 (Ton) Annual Waste Recycled Absolute data presented in 2,762 2,019 6,361 7,734 Waste (Ton) Waste Ton units Relative data presented in Waste Reused Ton units per Ton product Waste/Animal 39,961 2,055 37,901 4,031 Feeding (Ton) Total Waste 54,223 7,431 0.24 0.04 55,311 15,540 0.24 0.08(1) (Ton) Indirect Electricity Energy consumption 356,192 126,417 347,761 112,580 Consumption (GJ) LPG (GJ) 256,450 31,480 259,990 29,908 Annual Natural Gas 0 413,503 0 403,040 Energy (GJ) Consumption Fuel Oil (GJ) 135,762 0 140,796 0 Absolute data presented in Diesel (GJ) 50,491 43,882 49,675 47,226 Direct Energy GJ units Petrolium (GJ) 114,563 22,762 89,455 28,072 Consumption Relative data presented in Natural Gas 0 576 0 GJ units per Vehicle (GJ) Ton product Ethanol (GJ) 0 725 0 1,175 Coffee 86,520 0 88,739 2,578 Residues (GJ) Total Energy Total Energy Consumption 999,978 639,344 4.25 3.74 976,415 624,578 4.15 3.11 Consumption (GJ) 70 2010 2011 Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Strauss Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group activity activity activity in activity activity activity activity in activity in Israel around the Israel (Not around the in Israel around the Israel (Not around the (including world (not including world (not (including world (not including world (not Index Strauss including Strauss including Strauss including Strauss including Water Israel) Water Israel) Water Israel) Water Israel) & Elite Absolute & Elite Relative & Elite Absolute & Elite Relative Coffee) values Coffee) values Coffee) values Coffee) values Absolute Relative per Ton Absolute Relative per Ton values values product values values product per Ton per Ton product product GHG Indirect GHG Emissions emissions Ton CO2e 71,832 14,126 70,542 12,301 Absolute data (SCOPE 2) presented in Direct GHG CO2e units emissions Ton CO2e 38,836 30,142 37,620 29,847 Relative data (SCOPE 1) presented in CO2e units per Total GHG Total Ton Ton product 110,668 44,268 0.47 0.26 108,161 42,148 0.46 0.21 emissions CO2e Annual Water Consumption Water Absolute data presented in Consumption 1,206,182 254,931 5.29 1.49 1,158,102 280,576 4.91 1.40 Cubic Meter units (Cubic Meters) Relative data presented in Cubic Meter units per Ton product Annual Sewage Pollutants COD 2,648 8 1,906 16 (Tons per year) BOD 1,397 92 1,194 173(2) Absolute data presented in Ton Pollutant units TSS 693 28 1,295 74 Annual Air Pollutants SOX 137 0.86 130 1.98 emissions derived from NOX 80 12.8 82 9.6 production processes only (Tons per year) Absolute data presented in Ton PM 24 4.1 21 5.6 Pollutant units Environmental issues runing 10,000,000 1,513,000 9,150,000 3,260,318 Annual Environmental costs Investments (Nis per year) Environmental 9,780,000 2,500,000 8,500,000 1,282,781 Projects costs 1) The reason for the higher values is the expansion of the data gathering formation from the Group's facilities around the world. 2) The reason for the higher values is the improvement and expansion of the data gathering formation from the Group's facilities around the world. 71 Thank you! We would like to thank Strauss Group employees and managers who contributed to compiling the information and data for this Report, and for providing complete and credible data of our activities for our stakeholders. We thank you, the reader of this Report, and invite you to visit Strauss Group website www.strauss-group.com, where you can find our Corporate Responsibility Reports from previous years, and wide-ranging information about our Corporate Responsibility activities, which are continuously updated. The site was designed to be interactive and user friendly, enabling reaction to each item of content, the possibility to offer suggestions and improvements and make contact with Strauss regarding any aspect of our activity. This report is an additional expression of our transparency and our desire to receive feedback to support our continuous improvement. We hope that this Report will assist in improving our dialog with all stakeholders and serve as an additional tool for us to become a better company. We thank the consultants who assisted us in writing this Report: PwC Israel for editing the report and assistance in collating information. Sher Consultants for developing the Environmental Data included in this report. Studio Merhav for the graphic design of the Report. Our Contact Details: Daniela Prusky-Sion, Corporate Responsibility Manager Strauss Group Hasivim 49, Petah Tikvah, 49517 Israel Daniela.sion@strauss-group.com
