Social Responsibility Lodam report on social responsibility 2012 Table of contents Lodam’s Statement 2 values Table of contents 3 Lodam electronics 4 Lodam and social responsibility 5 UN Global Compact 6 Environmental responsibility 8 Copyright © 2012 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Lodam’s energy-efficient products 12 Statement Professionalism Condensing unit controller 13 a competent and reliable Case: Test of BITZER cooling technology 14 business partner which Heat pump controller 15 For the past three years, Lodam has experienced Lodam develops and produces innovative and keeps its promises and delivers quality. Lodam Star Cool controller 16 unprecedented success. Revenue has more than energy-saving electronic components and controls doubled and the number of employees has increased for cooling, heating and air handling. Our product Case: Tests of Star Cool reefers 16 by 50% in just one year. An important concern during solutions support our customers’ goals of improving People responsibility 18 these achievements, however, has been ensuring that efficiency and reducing the environmental impact of People responsibility goals 22 growth takes place in a responsible manner. their products. Supplier responsibility 24 As you will learn from this report, Lodam has always Lodam’s products are produced in Asia, the USA Inclusiveness Supplier code of conduct 25 individualism with respect taken a very responsible and serious approach to and Europe. As will appear from this report, Lodam’s for diversity, driven by Case: Floods in Thailand 28 running its business and to its surroundings, incluresponsible approach is global, and we work closely humour and job happiness Anti-corruption 30 ding the environment. Therefore, this first report on with the individual production companies within the and preparedness for chanFinal words and facts 31 corporate social responsibility (CSR) is not packed areas of working conditions, the environment and ges. Ver. 1.0 10.05.12 with news, but merely outlines the efforts and results human rights. Our goals and actions 32 we have achieved so far. This report reflects our efforts in the above areas. It In line with our focus on conducting our business also describes some of our goals for the next year. responsibly, we joined the UN Global Compact Among other things, we will focus on introducing Good business initiative in March 2012. Joining the UN Global Comand implementing Lodam’s CSR policies in our supacumen pact is a commitment to the initiative’s ten universal ply chain. sound business practices in principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the all daily decisions, both interenvironment and anti-corruption. We are proud to release Lodam’s first report on nally and externally. corporate social responsibility. At Lodam we are well One of Lodam’s goals is to become one of the Top aware that this is the first step on a long journey to 3 places to work in Denmark in 2013 – in the Danish becoming even more socially responsible. It is an “Great place to work” competition organised by the ongoing process, and with our annual CSR reports Great Place to Work® Institute. To achieve this, we we invite all our stakeholders to follow our work, focus strongly on our employees, and we are dediefforts and results. cated to this issue on a daily basis. One of Lodam’s main values is having an inclusive work environment. Lodam Management That includes accommodating employees who need special employment conditions, and we assist people wanting to return to – or enter – the job market. Furthermore, we teach our employees about striking Kristian Strand Henning Højberg Kristensen a healthy work-life balance. CEO CTO 2 Kristian Strand, CEO Henning Højberg Kristensen, CTO3 Lodam in short: • A Danish company owned by the German company BITZER. • Lodam produces electronic control devices for OEM products within the HVAC&R* industry. • Products are developed in-house and produced by global partners. • Our export share is about 85%. * Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning & Refrigeration Lodam electronics Lodam and social responsibility Lodam has extensive knowledge and know-how Mission: Lodam has always been a responsible company – in Based on our core values, Lodam strives to act as a about developing, producing and implementing Energy efficiency through intelligent controls relation to our employees and our surroundings, and responsible company in all contexts. innovative and efficient electronic climate control Our mission is to be a leading global developer of we are aware of the impact we have as a company solutions. Lodam’s most important asset is its staff energy-saving electronic controls for cooling, heatboth on the environment and on the communities of Professionalism includes a responsibility for produin the form of more than 70 dedicated employees ing and air handling. We strive to offer innovative which we are members, locally and globally. Social cing innovative electronic energy-saving climate who work either at our modern facilities at our headand cost-effective solutions, enabling our customresponsibility has always been an integrated part of solutions and for caring for the global environment. quarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, or at one of our ers to consistently outperform their peers in energy our daily operations – and it always will be. site offices in Asia or Europe. Employee satisfaction efficiency. Inclusiveness includes our social responsibilities for is important to preserving an inspiring and creative We have now taken the logical step of including CSR our employees as well as our local communities. environment and the commitment which is essential Vision: in our strategy development and our communicato securing the future development of innovative Our vision is to be the preferred company in the tion to our stakeholders. Good business acumen includes our responsibiand energy-efficient solutions. eyes of our customers and employees lity to act in an ethical and responsible manner in • Lodam wants to improve customer satisfaction, Consequently, we joined the UN Global Compact our dealings with our business partners and their In 2007, Lodam became a member of the BITZER as measured in our annual surveys, by having initiate in March 2012. The Global Compact covers: employees. Group, one of the largest groups in the global refria Net Promoter Score (NPS) of more than 25 in • Human rights geration and air-conditioning industry. The extensive 2013. • Labour market access afforded by this move has strength• In 2013, Lodam wants to be a Top 5 supplier as • Environment ened Lodam’s network and provided the company evaluated by our customers. • Anti-corruption with the application knowledge needed to develop • Lodam wants to be one of the Top 3 places to Ref. page 6. even more energy-efficient, reliable and innovative work in Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the products. Great Place to Work® Institute. Lodam’s CSR partnerships and networks: Lodam’s control solutions are important and reliable Values: • UN Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org • Cooperation agreements with University of integrated parts of our partners’ total systems – and • Professionalism a competent and reliable • Project Zero, www.projectzero.dk Southern Denmark and Aalborg University help create a perfect climate for humans as well as business partner which keeps its promises and • Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdproject.net • Lean Energy, www.leanenergy.dk optimised storage conditions for foods and other delivers quality. • Great Place to Work® Institute, • KVCA (The Danish Cooling Cluster) commodities. • Inclusiveness individualism with respect for www.greatplacetowork.dk (in Danish) • Member of Mechatronics Cluster Denmark, diversity, driven by humour and job happiness • CO2 neutral websites, www.mechatronicscluster.com (in Danish) Today, Lodam’s innovative climate control solutions and preparedness for changes. www.CO2neutralwebsite.com • Member of Dansk Ventilation, are used around the world, for instance in the follow• Good business acumen sound business prac• Cultural and sports sponsorships: “Kultur i Syd”, www.danskventilation.dk (in Danish) ing areas: tices in all daily decisions, both internally and Sønderborg Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Sport and • Confederation of Danish Industry (Dansk Indu• System controllers externally. Dybbølhallen stri), www.di.dk • Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) • Member of SET (Sønderborg Erhvervsog Turist• Industrigruppen Sønderborg • Transport center), www.set-sonderborg.dk (in Danish) 4 5 UN Global The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of Compact influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption: The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic The ten principles of the United Nations Global policy initiative for businesses that are committed Compact: to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Human rights rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Overall, the Global Compact pursues two complerights; and mentary objectives: 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human 1. Mainstreaming the ten principles in business rights abuses. activities around the world 2. Catalysing actions in support of broader UN Labour goals, including the Millennium Development 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of assoGoals. ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The UN Global Compact incorporates a transparen4. the elimination of all forms of forced and comcy and accountability policy known as the Communipulsory labour; cation on Progress (COP) policy. The annual posting 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and of a COP is an important demonstration of a partici6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of pant’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and employment and occupation. its principles. Participating companies are required to comply with this policy. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary apIn summary, the UN Global Compact exists to assist proach to environmental challenges; the private sector in managing increasingly complex 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater envirisks and opportunities in the environmental, social ronmental responsibility; and and governance realms, seeking to embed markets 9. encourage the development and diffusion of and societies with universal principles and values for environmentally friendly technologies. the benefit of all. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Source: www.unglobalcompact.org 6 7 Environmental responsibility Lodam has two ways of influencing the environment, Packaging Transport/shipping Air and heating locally and globally. When it comes to packaging, we focus on the enThis is an area with scope for improvement. Due to The indoor climate is very good at Lodam. We have One area is our workplaces, where we develop, test vironment in many ways, for instance by not using the financial crisis and a shortage of components, four air-handling and ventilation units as well as heat and produce our products and services, and where any unnecessary material, by minimising the use of we have in some cases been forced to use air exchangers and cooling for all installations. a lot of daily activities take place. We use electricity plastics and by using wooden pallets. freight. The entire building is heated by water-borne floor for lighting and running computers, we use water for The fill packaging material that we use is biodegradHowever, we are constantly trying to optimise our heating. The heat comes from our own heat pumps making coffee and cleaning, we use natural gas for able, and we have used it for about six years. It is, of transport activities. For instance, we bundle ship(ground-to-water), which we have developed and heating etc. course, antistatic so as to protect our products. ments and make them larger. We try to avoid produced ourselves. They produce heat with a COP The other area is our products. The purpose of When we receive parts and components from repacking and transhipments, and we leave items at (coefficient of performance) optimisation of apour products is to reduce energy consumption for suppliers packed in bubble wrap, we reuse the the production sites until they are to be used (manprox. 4, which is very good. When more capacity is end-users, while at the same time securing a perfect packaging. Any plastic wrapping to be discarded aged warehouse). Also, we make bulk deliveries and required to heat the facilities (e.g. in winter), we supclimate for humans and optimised storage condiis disposed of in an environmentally correct mantry to use only the packaging which is necessary. plement with natural gas. tions for foods and commodities. ner. If articles we receive from partners are packed Generally speaking, we have created the optimum At Lodam, we aim to act responsibly in both these on plastic pallets, we make sure that the pallets are Noise conditions for using as little energy as possible, just areas. returned for reuse. Lodam complies with all noise regulations. Most like the products we develop for our customers. Furthermore, all cardboard packaging materials are of our facilities consist of offices, and at two of our In this section, we describe a number of activities which reused, if possible. locations, in particular, the noise level can be very CO2-neutral website influence the local environment, i.e. our headquarters high. At one of these locations, a laboratory, noise Lodam’s website, www.lodam.com, is CO2-neutral. in Sønderborg, Denmark. On page 12 you can read Waste measuring equipment has been installed. Next Lodam participates in the climate initiative “CO2about our products and how they save energy. We reduce the environmental impact of Lodam’s to the measuring equipment is a box of earplugs, neutral websites”. The carbon emissions from both waste by sorting, recycling and disposing of waste in which the employees are required to use whenthe website and the users of the website have been Environmental inspection an environmentally correct manner. ever the noise level is too high. At a second of our neutralised by the development of new renewable The local Danish authorities inspect the local Waste includes paper, cardboard, plastic, glass, locations, a large motor and a generator, which we energy sources, various CO2-reducing projects and companies to ensure that they comply with environbatteries etc. However, also metal and plastic from use for testing our products, are sited, and hearby the purchase of certified CO2 offsets, which are mental regulations governing the minimisation of PCBs are sorted. All hazardous waste is disposed of ing protectors are available and must be worn at all cleared by the relevant government institutions. Ref. pollution. Due to the nature of Lodam’s business, in a correct manner. times near the motor. The motor and the generator www.CO2neutralwebsite.com. inspections are only carried out every three years. All employees are instructed in the various sorting are located in a basement at Lodam. Originally, the and handling procedures. motor and the generator were meant to be placed November 2008: 1 remark (paper sorting handled outside the building, but out of consideration for incorrectly). the neighbours, Lodam chose to move them to the March 2012: 0 remarks basement. Acoustic panels have been mounted on the walls The next inspection is due to take place in 2015. in offices where coustic environment needed to be improved, and phone culture procedures have been introduced. 8 9 Energy consumption The table below shows our energy consumption The Lodam headquarters actually consist of sevefor the past three years relative to floor area and ral buildings as the facilities have been extended number of employees. in step with the company’s growth over the years. 2009 2010 2011 One 400 square metre extension was built in 2008 kWh per m 2 110 152 127 according to energy category 1 principles (which is the best category). It has intelligent light control in kWh per employee 5601 6801 5485 all rooms, water-borne floor heating, a ventilation system based on heat recovery and a glass facade Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with approx. 1,000 with low-energy triple glazing. In 2010, approx. 1,000 square metres. During the period of construction, our ground heat system was switched off. square metres of production area were added, also constructed with a strong focus on energy conservaBelow we show our CO2 emissions, also relative to tion and a healthy indoor climate. floor area and number of employees. As part of our company culture, we take a common2009 2010 2011 sensical approach to energy consumption, i.e. we Tonnes of CO2 per 0.040 0.043 0.050 m2 turn off the lights when leaving a room, we do not Tonnes of CO2 per 2.043 1.921 2.167 leave the water running unnecessarily etc. Most of employee the equipment used for developing our products Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates to natural gas, switches off automatically or goes on standby. which is weighted more highly in the CO2 emission calculations. The above CO2 calculations are made via a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. ProjectZero Lodam participates in ProjectZero. ProjectZero/Bright Green Business is the vision for Our goals for 2012 are to reduce the process flow turning Sønderborg, Denmark, into a vibrant ZEROas much as possible, among other things by reuscarbon city by year 2029, creating sustainable ing energy from our product tests, and to split the growth, CleanTech competencies/clusters and many measuring of our energy consumption into energy new jobs. Ref. www.projectzero.dk. used for product testing and energy for our ordinary facilities and activities. Furthermore, we intend to plan further initiatives aimed at protecting the environment at the Lodam headquarters in Sønderborg. 10 11 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Condensing unit controller Refrigerated display cabinets in supermarkets using less energy Lodam develops innovative control solutions for Condensing units With the Lodam condensing unit controller, our How does the Lodam condensing unit controller climate system applications. Today, the solutions are Lodam condensing control solutions are used for clicustomers are in total control of their condensing save energy compared to other products? used all around the world, for instance in the followmate control in condensing units for supermarkets/ units delivering cooling to one or more evaporaing areas: convenient stores, domestic and cooling storage tors – thereby optimising their systems to save • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs facilities. both energy and money. The condensing unit through intelligent capacity control using a freSystem controllers controller can be tailored to any condensing unit. quency inverter. It ensures that the temperature • Heat pumps Air-handling units is at the specified level. This can be done very • Condensing units Lodam air-handling control solution is key to creatThe Lodam condensing unit controller solution is accurately. • Air-handling units ing perfect comfort and climate for people – e.g. in sold as a kit, containing the PCB, a control display homes, industrial buildings and schools. and the necessary sensors. The Lodam controller • The Lodam controller controls the speed of the Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) is an important part of our customers’ condensing fans that condense the refrigerant. This ensures • Compressor protection Inverters units, which are typically installed out-of-doors, that the condensing pressure is exactly at the • Inverters Lodam’s inverter solution electronically controls e.g. outside a supermarket, and control the necessary level, also taking the outside tempecompressor capacity to match actual cooling temperature in the refrigerated display cabinets rature into consideration. Transport demands by changing the compressor speed. The inside the supermarkets. • Reefer containers result is better part-load performance, thus saving • Also, it is possible to use the heat for room heat• Truck & Trailer Units energy and cutting CO2 emissions. ing. Accessories Furthermore, as the condensing unit runs more Heat pumps Multiple accessories are available for all Lodam constably with a Lodam controller, thus ensuring a more Lodam heat pump controllers ensure COP (coeffitrollers to add extra value to the solutions: innovaconstant temperature, the quality of the products in cient of performance) optimisation of individual systive and user-friendly user panels with colour disthe refrigerated display cabinet is much higher than tems and add knowledge about additional aspects plays, remote communication devices, sensors and without a stable temperature. Another benefit is less such as anti-legionella control of domestic hot water. data loggers, web modules and Windows-based food waste. The controllers can be used in both domestic and multi-tools for communicating with the controllers. industrial heat pumps. 12 13 Case: Heat pump controller Test of BITZER cooling technology vs conventional technology Controlling domestic hot water and heating The purpose of the test was to show that using Another benefit of the BITZER cooling solution is Lodam’s heat pump controller makes it possible How does the Lodam heat pump controller save BITZER’s cooling technology, which includes Lodam that temperatures remained stable, which prolongs to gain total control of domestic hot water and energy compared to other products? controllers, saves energy and thus money, making food shelf-life. The solution takes up less space heating for domestic comfort. The optimised up for the slightly higher initial investment costs. because each unit has more capacity, which means control ensures low energy consumption and is • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs fewer units and less maintenance. Furthermore, they combined with a user panel for easy operation. through intelligent capacity control via the freThe test was conducted in 2011 in Thailand. Tesco, make less noise, and it is even possible to control quency inverter. the global supermarket chain, was due to open the noise level, e.g. low noise during the night out of Furthermore, you can remotely control and monitwo new express stores situated 5-6 km apart, on consideration for neighbours. tor the heat pump via the Internet, and download • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which the outskirts of Bangkok. The stores are completely a data log for service and diagnostic purposes. saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. identical. One store was equipped with BITZER However, the test also made it clear to BITZER and cooling technology, while the other was fitted with Lodam that the initial cost still carries more weight in • Pre-programmed outside temperature compenconventional cooling equipment supplied by one of some markets than saving energy and protecting the sation curves adapt to the fastest control/better our colleagues/competitors. Energy consumption environment in the longer term. However, this is only comfort. was measured daily for a period of one week. the case in certain parts of the world, and Lodam devotes considerable efforts to convincing buyers in • The controller can be used for heat pumps with The test showed that the BITZER technology rethese areas that saving energy is important. air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat duced energy consumption by more than 25%. sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is Furthermore, it proved that the BITZER technology possible. maintained the exact set point temperature in all counters at all measuring times. 14 15 Lodam Star Cool Controller Reefer container operators depend on reliable and Case: Tests of Star Cool reefer economical equipment. with Lodam controller Maersk Container Industry produces the Star Cool When food is transported over long distances, reefer container, which features a controller develespecially delicate food such as fruit, the conditions oped by Lodam. The Star Cool reefer container inside the reefer container are very important to controller meets the increasing demands for high ensuring the delivery of fresh food to consumers. quality and low operating costs, easy and userHowever, protecting the environment and saving friendly functionality and optimised serviceability. energy have become important issues as well. In fact, customers using Star Cool reefer containers have cut operating costs and energy consumption The feedback from the reefer container market is by an average of 30%, but savings of up to 50% are that using Star Cool reefer containers instead of possible compared to using conventional reefer reefer containers with conventional technology recontainers. duces the energy consumption by about 30-50%. The Star Cool controller features a unique humidAnother way of illustrating the impact is that, given ity control system, which minimises weight loss and the time an average container spends travelling, guarantees even higher product quality upon deliveach reefer container saves 1 tonne of CO2 emisery. Furthermore, the Star Cool controller sets new sions a year. In Q1 2012, about 100,000 reefer standards for user-friendliness and safety. containers fitted with Lodam controller software are in operation. Lodam’s cooling control solutions cater for a range of applications: Note: The Star Cool reefer containers have many • Reefer containers more eco-friendly advantages over and above the • Truck & Trailer Units cooling system. For instance, the walls of the Star Cool reefer containers are insulated with SuPoTec® foam, which is an eco-friendly insulation solution that is virtually ozone-neutral. Ref. www.starcool.dk. 16 17 People responsibility Lodam wants to be an outstanding workplace. The Pole Position programme An inclusive work environment A few examples of inclusiveness: Consequently, Lodam is continuously launching Lodam is actively engaged in activities and initiaInclusiveness is one of our values; this also means • A young man who was tired of school was activities aimed at improving both the physical and tives aimed at keeping our values alive. An internal that we accommodate employees who need special working in production at Lodam and became the psychological work environment. project known as the Pole Position programme employment conditions, and we assist people wantinterested in the world of electronics. He was purports to initiate activities which will help us reach ing to return to – or enter – the job market. encouraged to finish secondary school, while Our vision is to be one of the Top 3 places to work in our goal (of being one of the Top 3 places to work continuing to work at Lodam in his spare time, Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the Great Place in Denmark in 2013) and integrate our values even Examples of special employment arrangements are: and having a mentor at Lodam. He will finish his to Work® Institute. more deeply. • Flex-job employment exams in 2012. • Sheltered employment • A young jobless man on sick pay with back Lodam is already known both locally and nationally The Pole Position project is an HR programme • Employees from minority groups, with e.g. lanproblems was offered a part-time training job at for being a unique and outstanding workplace. As which supports Lodam as an outstanding workplace guage difficulties Lodam. After four months he took up a regular a natural and integrated part of their daily work, all through the launch of ongoing activities targeted at • Work placements and similar forms of employjob as a technician at Lodam, working full-time. employees assume responsibility for their own work the physical and psychological work environments. ment • A woman had been suffering from stress for environment and that of their colleagues, thus con• Employment subject to salary refunds almost a year and was dismissed from her job tributing to the shared experience of Lodam being Activities include: • Trainees etc. with another company while on sick leave. She an outstanding place to work. • Well-being measurements and benchmarking • Senior employment terms started a training job at Lodam working 10 hours • Dialogue-based and committed project plans a week. Her weekly working hours were graduIn this section, we describe some of the many activi• Employee development and training (via Lodam Having an inclusive work environment means that ally upped, and after six months she took up a ties we have initiated to get to where we are today. Academy, an internal training programme) each and every employee employed under one of regular job at Lodam, working 30 hours a week. • Cultural influence through special programmes the above arrangements is regarded as a member • A former manager from another company in Lodam’s values and activities regarding meeting culture, highof the Lodam team. When asked directly or as part the local area decided to retire. However, he Our values, which we have formulated and lived for performance teams etc. of one of the well-being surveys conducted, they all became bored and in need of challenges. He many years, and which influence everything we do • Inspiring physical environment feel just as equal, important and included as their now has a part-time job at Lodam as a building and all the decisions we make, are: • Employee policies and values colleagues. inspector. • Professionalism a competent and reliable • Leadership training and development business partner which keeps its promises and • Social and cultural activities, where employees Lodam’s inclusive approach is also evident in the delivers quality. and sometimes also their families meet for high number of students who do their final projects • Inclusiveness individualism with respect for informal get-togethers, across organisational and theses at various levels at Lodam, and in the diversity, driven by humour and job happiness boundaries and despite age differences and difnumber of trainees that Lodam takes on. Some are and preparedness for changes. ferent educational backgrounds etc. trainees for a few weeks or months, others for a • Good business acumen sound business praccouple of years. tices in all daily decisions, both internally and externally. 18 19 Work-life balance is our continued focus on developing and introduProfessional opportunities at Lodam Physical work environment Work-life balance – striking a balance between cing new benefits which are relevant to the needs Offering our employees challenges and opportuniA number of specific measures are designed to working life, private life, family life, hobbies and of our employees and their work-life balance. The ties for personal as well as professional growth is ensure an attractive physical work environment at other activities – is another focus area in the Pole general response from Lodam’s employees is that important for Lodam and goes hand in hand with Lodam. Position programme. It is the firm belief of Lodam they feel appreciated and cared about. our values. Consequently, we give priority to training that employees with a good work-life balance work and education and offering a variety of opportuniIn addition to the more obvious elements, such as better, are happier and contribute more to our valties. the right tools, a comfortable temperature, sufficient ues. Therefore, Lodam has made a number of tools Management and leadership room etc., Lodam maintains high safety standards by available to help employees get their work-life balNone of the above would be possible without a As mentioned above, Lodam has an internal training having procedures, signs, instructions etc. in place. ance right. In cases where employees are knocked keen focus on the part of the management and the programme known as the Lodam Academy. Under In many areas we exceed the statutory requirements. out of balance, for whatever reason, Lodam is ready various levels of managers at Lodam. this programme, all employees have a personal deto offer help and individual assistance. velopment plan. It is a triennial plan, which comprisFurthermore, Lodam offers health insurance to all From the Great Place to Work® survey, it is clear es personal and professional development, training employees with health insurance cover for partners At Lodam work-life balance is about that the employees have great faith and confidence and educational activities. The plans are evaluated and/or children as an optional extra. All employees • Both the employee and Lodam being flexible in their superiors. and updated every year. and their family are covered by travel insurance. • Flexible working hours and focused working periods Another very important focus area at Lodam is the Lodam also offers other challenging opportunities The physical health of our employees is influenced • Number of tasks to match the available time continued development and training of managers for its employees, for example by the psychological work environment as well as • Family conditions, e.g. being a parent and helping them to realise their leadership poten• Working abroad for a time other factors, for example in connection with stress. • Special hobbies and a chance to spend time on tial. Particular focus is on communication and situ• Changing positions between departments Lodam has an emergency procedure which is folthem ational leadership. • Team leader or manager appointments lowed if employees find themselves in need of • Holidays and leisure time immediate assistance, for example from a psycholo• Health gist, who can be called in at very short notice. Some of the more specific tools include a work-life balance course for employees and their partners as well as an annual personal planning course. Furthermore, Lodam makes a number of benefits available to its employees. These benefits are not all that different from the benefits offered by many other companies. However, what is special at Lodam 20 21 People responsibility goals The following goals are outlined to show the Pole Position programme’s capability for strengthening employee well-being, motivation and satisfaction, and thus Lodam’s ability to retain its employees and recruit new employees. Description Goals 2012 Comments No. of employees 1 January 2012: 65 An increase Expected increase, as at 1 January of 25% 2013. Staff turnover Below 3% Measured as the number of retired employees compared to the average number of employees. Sick leave Not to exceed This goal applies for 2012 and beyond. 1.8% No. of physical injuries 0 Maximum action will be taken to prevent the injuries from happening again. No. of psychological injuries, e.g. stress 0 Maximum action will be taken to prevent the injuries from happening again. Below are three goals which relate specifically to our Below are three goals which relate specifically to our 2013 goal of being one of the Top 3 places to work in Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Lodam will improve in all the areas of the Great Place to Work® survey, but the three goals set out below have our specific attention. Description Goals 2013 Comments Significantly improve the management’s skills Above 90% KPIs have been made for each departto manage and delegate the work ment for 2012 as well. Significantly improve the employees’ experiAbove 90% KPIs have been made for each departence of team and family spirit ment for 2012 as well. Significantly improve the employees’ experiAbove 90% KPIs have been made for each departence that their colleagues work just as hard ment for 2012 as well. as they do. 22 23 Supplier responsibility Supplier code of conduct Lodam’s products are produced by skilled manufacWith some suppliers Lodam has taken action in relaLodam has prepared a supplier code of conduct that We pay a great deal of attention to dialogue and turers in Europe, Asia and the USA. Our suppliers tion to some of the working conditions, such as the is to be implemented during 2012. It is to be signed communicating with our suppliers and to building are manufacturers of electronic products and have lighting and safety standards. and complied with by all our main suppliers during relations. We hope that by placing these requirebeen carefully selected based on quality, conformity 2012. It will also become part of our general terms of ments upon our suppliers, they will become better with specifications and the like. However, the workWe also check pay levels (ensuring that the workers sale and delivery. suppliers, more attractive workplaces and ultimately ing conditions for their workers are also an aspect are not paid less than the minimum wage), and we contribute to improving the working conditions in considered by Lodam. Our goal is that the work look into staff turnover levels. As Lodam strives to select suppliers who are comgeneral for other companies in the local areas. must be performed under reasonable and orderly mitted to maintaining high ethical standards, we working conditions considering the country where So far, we have not checked and documented the expect our suppliers to share the fundamental prinThe specific requirements set out in the code of conthe supplier is located. We respect local and cultural above systematically. Our goal for 2012 is to inciples of the UN Global Compact initiative, whether duct are described on the following pages. conditions, but the working conditions have to be corporate the checklist into our quality assurance signatories or not. acceptable. For some suppliers, this has resulted in system and include the visits in our auditing plans. working conditions of a higher standard than those Furthermore, targets will be specified for each area. The supplier code of conduct comprises the followoffered by other suppliers in the same area. ing specific areas: Another area we want to look further into is the use • Remuneration and employment conditions We visit our main suppliers several times a year. of solvents, the discharge of waste water and the • Working hours Sometimes the visits are scheduled, sometimes disposal of waste in general. • Freedom of association and the right to collecunannounced. The purpose of the visits is to inspect tive bargaining working conditions, including: • Discrimination • Lighting and workplace conditions (tables, • Harassment and disciplinary measures chairs, stools, working postures etc.) • Child labour • Levels of monotonous work • Forced labour • Exhaustion equipment • Health and safety • Safety equipment • Environment • Child labour • Corruption and bribery • Noise and hearing protectors • Varnishing cabins (which we have specifically Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply required) with all relevant national legislation and regulations. • The location of the soldering • Canteen facilities • Sanitary arrangements • Dormers and residential quarters • Leisure activities and recreational conditions 24 25 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination If a child is found working, the supplier must act Environment We expect the supplier’s hiring and employment in the best interest of the child, and any measures We expect the supplier to meet all relevant local Remuneration and employment conditions practices (including promotion, training and rewards) taken must aim to improve and not worsen the and national environmental regulations and to strive We expect the supplier to comply with all legislation not to be discriminatory on the grounds of race, child’s situation. to minimise damaging effects to the environment. and regulations governing pay and working hours, colour, ancestry, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to minimum pay, overtime expression, sexual orientation, age, physical or menForced labour Corruption and bribery pay, sick leave, piece rates and other elements of tal disability, health condition, pregnancy, political Forced, bonded or indentured labour or involuntary We expect the highest standards of integrity in all compensation. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, prison labour is not to be used. business interactions. The supplier must not engage union membership, marital status, citizenship status in any form of corrupt practices, including extortion, Working hours or veteran status. Health and safety fraud or bribery, whether direct or indirect. We expect the supplier not to require employees We expect the supplier to provide safe and healthy to work more than 60 hours per week including Harassment and disciplinary measures working conditions and take appropriate precauovertime, or more than the limits on regular and We expect the supplier not to use or permit the use tionary measures to protect employees from workovertime hours allowed by local law, whichever is the of corporal punishment or other forms of mental related hazards and anticipated dangers in the lower. Workers must be entitled to at least one nonor physical coercion, disciplinary actions or sexual workplace. working day in every seven-day period. harassment. The supplier must comply with all applicable local Particular employees with unusual working condiChild labour legislation and regulations to prevent accidents and tions may be exempted from this general requireWe expect the supplier to ensure that no person is injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurment when covered by specific national or internaemployed at an age younger than 15 (or 14 where ring in the course of work or as a result of the operational legislation; however, in the course of 12 weeks the law of the country permits) or younger than the tion of the employer’s facilities. no employee must be required to work more than age for completing compulsory education in the an average of 60 hours per week, including overcountry of manufacture where such age is higher We expect the supplier to continuously improve time. than 15. working conditions and reduce workplace-related risks and hazards by e.g. setting targets and conFreedom of association and right to collective The supplier must protect young workers of legal ducting appropriate training. bargaining working age, up to the age of 18, from any type We expect the supplier not to prevent employees of employment or work which, by its nature or the and other workers from associating freely with any circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to lawful workers’ association or collective bargaining jeopardize their health, safety or moral. association of their choice. 26 27 Case: Floods in Thailand 2011 Severe flooding occurred during the 2011 monsoon season in Thailand. Beginning at the end of July and triggered by the landfall of Tropical Storm Nock-ten, flooding spread through the provinces of northern, north-eastern and central Thailand along the Mekong and Chao Phraya river basins. In October, floodwaters reached the mouth of the Chao Phraya and inundated parts of the capital city of Bangkok. Flooding persisted in some areas until mid-January 2012. The flooding also affected Lodam’s suppliers and the workers in the Pathum Thani area. Workers were unable to get to work, and others were unable to leave the plant. The floods not only influence the physical existence, but also the economic existence of the people in the affected areas. Lodam did its best to help the people at the suppliers’ plants. We were present ourselves and helped with all kinds of practical things at the works, for example ensuring the supply of food and water for the people stuck at the plants. Also, we made considerable donations to the suppliers’ workers funds to help the workers resume their normal lives. During the floods, Lodam had to move the affected production to other suppliers in order to meet our contractual obligations towards our customers. However, when our usual suppliers were able to resume production, we immediately returned with orders, thus preventing the loss of jobs due to the floods. 28 29 Anti-corruption Final words and facts Corruption is defined by Transparency International Our internal policy regarding gifts is as follows: During 2012, Lodam will draw up a number of CSR Facts: as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” Gifts to and from external partners must respect goals that are both quantifiable and relevant. Some a reasonability principle, where they do not funcof these goals have already been introduced in this Date of issue of this communication on progress Lodam strives to maintain strong ethics standards tion as a means of persuasion for someone to do report. (COP): 10 May 2012 and to be a company of good standing and integsomething which is dishonest, illegal or represents a rity. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy is based on the breach of confidence. We would also like to stress that we will do our best Company name and address: UN’s Convention against Corruption as well as our Gifts from Lodam, including business partner care, to ensure compliance with the requirements which Lodam electronics a/s obligations according to the tenth principle of the are thus based on the reasonability principle. We our suppliers are asked to meet, but that we cannot Kærvej 77 UN Global Compact initiative: Businesses should do not give individual Christmas gifts, but we may guarantee such compliance. We will visit and audit DK-6400 Sønderborg work against corruption in all its forms, including give gifts to show our appreciation of special efforts, our suppliers, and conduct both scheduled and unextortion and bribery. also based on the reasonability principle. Moreover, announced audits. And, as we have done so far, we VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 we prefer to give gifts to a group of people instead will help our suppliers to comply with the requireWith the supplier code of conduct (ref. pages 26-27), of just one person (for instance to an entire departments. Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 with which our suppliers have to comply, we ensure ment, and not only the departmental manager). that our closest external partners work against corThe gifts that Lodam or a Lodam employee may One important target for 2012 is that all Lodam No. of employees on date of issue: 76 ruption as well. receive are accepted only if they comply with the employees will be informed about our CSR activireasonability principle; if not, they are returned. ties, targets and policies. The level of awareness will Management: From From the Supplier Code of Conduct: Furthermore, all the gifts received are donated to be measured – as part of our employee satisfaction Kristian Strand, CEO “Corruption and bribery. Lodam’s Christmas lottery, in which all employees survey. Henning H. Kristensen, CTO We expect the highest standards of integrity in all participate. business interactions. The supplier must not engage Partnership project Board of Directors: in any form of corrupt practices, including extortion, Lodam has never experienced any incidents of Another initiative that we are currently working on Peter Schaufler fraud or bribery, whether direct or indirect.” corruption. However, a goal for 2012 is to formally and planning to accomplish in 2012/13 is the estabChristian Wahlers register incidents, if any, and to instruct employees lishment of a partnership project with a partner that Michael Bauer Furthermore, we include a clause in our suppliers’ at Lodam of our policies in this area. General instruchas activities in the areas of the world where Lodam Rainer Grosse-Kracht contracts which further commits our suppliers to tions will be issued to all employees once a year, is present. Jens Andersen working against corruption, as the anti-corruption and special instructions will be issued to employees The best way for Lodam to be socially responsible is policy also applies to our suppliers’ partners. for whom this may be particularly relevant, i.e. sales to focus on our core business – of developing and Date of signing the UN Global Compact: managers, purchasing officers and others with a lot producing energy-efficient products. By support13 March 2012 of external contacts. ing a partner with a sponsorship, we will be able to ensure professional assistance in areas outside Lodam’s normal working sphere. It is a condition This report has been printed using environmenthat the partner’s activities adhere to the UN Global tally friendly ink on FSC certified paper in a limited Compact principles. number of copies. Ref. www.fsc.org. 30 31 Our goals and actions Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Human rights Labour Labour Environment Anti-corruption 2012 actions (May 2012 May 2013) 2012 actions (May 2012 May 2013) Human rights Environment Anti-corruption (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) to which the individual activities relate) Introducing and implementing Lodam’s CSR policies within our supply chain: Awareness and implementation of Lodam’s CSR activities and policies by Lodam a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. employees. b. Include the supplier code of conduct in our general terms of sale and delivery. a. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®). b. Information (via information meetings, intranet etc.). Incorporating CSR in relation to our suppliers into our quality assurance system: a. Incorporate the checklist regarding areas to evaluate at our suppliers’ facilities, No. of employees: Expected increase of 25% (Jan 1, 2012 to Jan 1, 2013). including both announced and unannounced visits in the auditing plans. b. Specify targets/initiatives within every area of the checklist. Staff turnover below 3%. (Measured as the number of retired employees relative to Initiatives within the areas of use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal the average number of employees.) of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities. Sick leave not to exceed 1.8%. This goal applies for 2012 and beyond. Prepare plan for further initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the headquarters in Sønderborg. No cases of physical injuries. (In case of injury, maximum action will be taken to Communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: prevent the injury from happening again.) a. An annual general instruction to all employees. No cases of psychological injury, eg. stress. (In case of an injry maximum action will b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts be taken to prevent the injury from happening again.) (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Significantly improve the management’s skills to manage and delegate work: Above 90% (measured by Great Place to Work® Institute in Denmark). Energy consumption goals: a. Reduce the process flow as much as possible, e.g. by reusing energy from proSignificantly improve the employees’ experience of team and family spirit: duct tests. Above 90% (measured by Great Place to Work® Institute in Denmark). b. Split the measuring of energy consumption into energy used for testing of our Significantly improve the employees’ experience that their colleagues work just as products and energy for our ordinary facilities and activities. hard as they do: Above 90% (measured by Great Place to Work® Institute in Denmark). Look for a partnership project with an organisation that works with the UN GLobal Compact principles in one or more areas where our main suppliers are situated. 32 33 Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption 2013 goals (and beyond) Our vision is to be the preferred company in the eyes of our customers and employees: Lodam wants to improve customer satisfaction, as measured in our annual surveys, by having a Net Promoter Score (NPS) of more than 25 in 2013. In 2013, Lodam wants to be a Top 5 supplier as evaluated by our customers. Lodam wants to be one of the Top 3 places to work in Denmark in 2013 – as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. 34 35 Lodam electronics – Efficient energy control for better living Copyright © 2012 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Ver. 1.0 10.05.12 Lodam electronics a/s Tel. +45 73 42 37 37 lodam@lodam.com Kærvej 77 Fax +45 73 42 37 30 www.lodam.com 6400 Sønderborg Denmark
