SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Creating value for people and nature Contents SCA at a glance ......................................................... flap ❯❯❯ CEO’s message .............................................................. 2 n Sustainable strategy Outlook ............................................................................... 4 Strategy .............................................................................. 6 New sustainability targets ......................................... 8 Delivery on targets ..................................................... 10 Stakeholder dialogue ................................................ 11 Materiality analysis .................................................... 15 n Economic value Economic value ........................................................... 16 Shareholders ................................................................. 18 Sustainable innovations .......................................... 20 Stakeholders ................................................................. 22 Sustainable business ................................................ 23 n Value for nature Value for nature ............................................................ 26 Climate and energy .................................................... 28 Fibre sourcing and biodiversity ........................... 32 Water usage .................................................................. 36 Product safety .............................................................. 39 n Value for people Value for people ........................................................... 40 Code of Conduct ........................................................ 42 Supply chain ................................................................. 45 Health and safety ........................................................ 46 Employee relations .................................................... 49 Community involvement ......................................... 53 n Control and assurance Sustainable governance ......................................... 56 Environmental data .................................................... 58 Social data .................................................................... 66 About this report ......................................................... 67 Assurance report.......................................................... 68 Global Compact Report .......................................... 69 GRI Index......................................................................... 70 Glossary .......................................................................... 72 Addresses About this report SCA publishes a separate sustainability report each year. The report describes the environmental, social and economic perspectives of SCA’s sustainability ­initiatives, and is aimed at specialist audiences with an interest in SCA’s sustainability performance, ­including analysts, investors and NGOs. As of 2008, SCA is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The sustainability report represents the Group’s Communication on Progress, describing SCA’s work to address the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, working conditions, the environment and anticorruption. The Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, level A+, are applied in this report, and the GRI content index (pages 70-71) provides a cross-reference to the indicators included in the report. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. All data in this report has been collected over the calendar year 2011, and covers the SCA Group, including wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. For further information regarding the sustainability report and its reporting principles, see page 67. SCA at a glance SCA is a global hygiene and paper company that develops, produces and markets personal care products, tissue, f­orest products and packaging solutions**. SCA has sales in more than 100 countries under many strong brands. SCA creates value by fulfilling the needs of customers and consumers in a spirit of innovation, through ­continuous ­efficiency enhancements and with a clear desire to contribute to sustainable development. In 2011, SCA had annual sales of SEK 106bn and about 44,000 ­employees. Share of net sales (Share of Group) Personal Care, 23% Tissue, 36 % Packaging, 25 % Forest Products, 16 % Total Group: SEK 105,750m Share of operating profit (Share of Group) Personal Care, 27 % Tissue, 32 % Packaging, 20 % Forest Products, 21 % Total Group: SEK 9,224m Excluding items affecting comparability. Personal Care Packaging** The business area comprises three prodSCA is a full-service supplier of packaguct segments: incontinence care, baby ing solutions and offers both transport diapers and feminine care. Production is and consumer packaging. SCA operates conducted at 29 facilities in 24 countries. one innovation centre and 16 design Products are sold in more than 100 centres. Production is conducted at countries throughout the world. about 110 facilities in 20 countries. Products are sold in 36 countries in Europe. Tissue* Consumer tissue consists of toilet paper, Forest Products kitchen rolls, facial tissue, handkerchiefs Production comprises publication and napkins. In the Away-From-Home papers, pulp and solid-wood products, (AFH) tissue segment, SCA delivers and is conducted at 18 facilities in three complete hygiene concepts to com­ countries. Products are mainly sold in panies and institutions. Production is Europe, but also in Asia, North Africa conducted at 45 facilities in 18 counand North America. tries. Products are sold in some 80 countries throughout the world. * In November 2011, SCA announced the acquisition of Georgia-Pacific’s ** In January 2012, SCA announced the divestment of the packaging operation ­European tissue operations, with annual sales of approximately SEK 12bn. – excluding the kraftliner mills in Munksund and Obbola, Sweden. The sale is The acquisition is expected to be fully completed during the second quarter expected to be fully completed in the second quarter of 2012. of 2012. Regarding the French part of the packaging operations, DS Smith has made a formal offer to acquire this business. This process is subject to an information and consultation procedure with the relevant works councils and will be treated separately. Europe (including Africa) 2011 2010 Employee age distribution Asia Pacific 2011 2010 Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm1) 81,300 81,773 % 50 Net sales, SEKm1) 8,291 8,884 % 50 Employees 32,408 33,363 40 Employees 3,251 3,998 40 Women, % 25 24 30 Women, % 45 41 30 Salary costs, SEKm 12,600 12,619 20 Salary costs, SEKm 988 1,041 20 Social security costs, SEKm 3,605 3,616 10 Social security costs, SEKm 98 54 10 0 0 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Americas 2011 2010 Employee age distribution SCA Group total 2011 2010 Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm1) 16,159 16,308 % 50 Net sales, SEKm1) 105,750 106,965 % 50 Employees 8,038 7,980 40 Operating profit, SEKm 3,548 8,677 40 Women, % 32 29 30 Operating profit, SEKm2) 9,224 9,608 30 Salary costs, SEKm 1,458 1,994 20 Earnings per share, SEK 0:78 7:90 20 Social security costs, SEKm 432 627 10 Earnings per share, SEK2) 8:34 8:89 10 0 Employees 43,697 45,341 0 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Women, % 27 26 0−20 21−30 31−40 41−50 51−60 60+ Salary costs, SEKm 15,046 15,654 Social security costs, SEKm 4,135 4,297 1) Net sales for SCA’s recycling business were reclassified to other income, with retroactive adjustment for 2010. 2) Excluding items affecting comparability. Highlights 2011 • New sustainability targets and ambitions for people and nature take sustainability to the next level. • New lime kiln at Östrand pulp mill in Sweden reduces carbon ­dioxide emissions from fossile fuels by 80%. • Training campaign for SCA’s Code of Conduct for all 44,000 employees across the globe. • New supplier standard implemented in hygiene operation. All ­suppliers to comply with SCA requirements by 2015 at the latest. • New, comprehensive wind power collaboration with Norwegian company Fred.Olsen Renewables with potential to generate 2 TWh. Recognition SCA was named one of the world’s most ethical SCA is included in Dow Jones SustainSCA is included in the Carbon DisSCA has been listed on the FTSE4Good com­panies by the Ethisphere Institute. ability Index, one of the world’s most closure Leadership Index. ­global sustain­ability index since 2001. prestigious sustainability indexes. In WWF’s Environmental Paper ­Company Index SCA became a UN Global Compact SCA is a member of World SCA is listed on the Global Challenges 2011 SCA scored best both in the tissue and member in 2008. ­Business Council for Sustainable Index. containerboard categories. Development (wbcsd). SCA is a constituent of the Kempen/SNS SRI SCA is a constituent of ECPI ­indices. SCA is included in Nordic SustaiSCA is included in OMX GES Universe and is approved for inclusion in the nability Stars Sweden top 25. ­Sustainability Nordic and OMX GES Kempen Sense Fund. ­Sustainability Sweden. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 1 CEO’s message We are raising our ambitions It has been confirmed many times that SCA’s sustainability work is world class. However, this is no reason for us to rest on our laurels, rather we must continuously improve and seek new, innovative approaches. During the year, we developed a number of sustainability ambitions and targets that will add to our value creation and make us even more successful. We live in a changing world, giving rise to both challenges and opportunities. A long-term sustainability programme combined with customer and consumer insight and innovation provides us with a solid platform to leverage business opportunities and successfully tackle challenges. Sustainability has long been embedded in SCA’s way of working and in the Group’s strategy for growth and value creation. It is the most surefire way to spark innovation, boost our competitiveness, strengthen our brand, win customers, and attract a talented workforce. In short, sustainability is a tool for achieving long-term growth while making a positive contribution to the environment and society. Setting clear targets helps SCA deliver on its sustainability ambitions, a link we made even stronger in 2011. For our products and services to remain relevant for our customers and end-consumers, we need to not only meet but also exceed their expectations for more sustainable solutions that improve quality of life and contribute to the economies in which we operate. Engine of innovation Innovation is central to SCA’s growth going forward. Sustainability is a major engine in that process, in everything from how we manage forests to how we develop hygiene products and services from that resource. We are harnessing innovation to achieve sustainability ambitions by tackling our climate change impacts on three fronts: setting targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, tripling the production of forest-based biofuels, and increasing investments in wind power. SCA Energy, part of the SCA Forest Products Group, is developing 2 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 CEO’s message our production of renewable energy, which will help make us less reliant on fossil fuels and open intangible returns that come from new contracts and lasting customer relationships. It is difficult to “Setting clear targets helps up an avenue for new business opportunities. In put a price on customer loyalty but it is one of the SCA deliver on its sustain­ yet another example of sustainable value creabenefits that comes from sustainable value creation, in December 2011 our pulp mill in Östrand in tion. ability ambitions.” Sweden made the switch to forest-based biofuels As a signal that we are on the right track, SCA to power its new lime kiln, which will cut carbon finds inspiration from the many external acknowlJan Johansson, President and CEO dioxide emissions from fossile fuels by 80% a edgements of our approach. SCA is included in year. the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index. For Rising standards of living in a growing number the fourth consecutive year, we were ranked as of countries demonstrate that when people have one of the world’s most ethical companies by the more income they seek to improve their quality of US-based Ethisphere Institute. SCA is also in the life – and hygiene products are a top priority. Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, for corpoLooking through a sustainability prism, we see rate disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions and that delivering high-quality products designed climate change strategies. with care for nature are only part of the equation. In 2008, SCA became a signatory to the UN In a country like China, with an aging population Global Compact because it is a given for us to and inadequate health resources to meet its promote responsible business practices. With needs, incontinence care involves more than supcomplex challenges before us, we certainly do plying products. It requires solutions that address not have all the answers. Pursuing sustainable the need for shared knowledge, specialised trainvalue creation for long-term growth is, we believe, ing and improved infrastructure – a holistic the most promising path forward. approach that paves the way for new business models in emerging markets. A long-term perspective Our employees engagement and commitment are key to the success of SCA and our sustainability initiatives. To think and act sustainably, from product development to how we communicate with our stakeholders, drives the business forward. Jan Johansson, President and CEO Sustainability means thinking long term and delivering results. The value of sustainability includes such areas as a significant cost reduction impact, from more efficient production and reduced material and energy costs, to the more SCA Sustainability Report 2011 3 Sustainable strategy | Outlook Changing world, new opportunities Global macro trends, ranging from population growth and rising living standHealth and hygiene: As health services struggle to meet increasing demands from ageing and ards to pressure on resources and climate change, are rapidly changing the growing populations, protecting health and business landscape. Addressing these challenges offers opportunities for hygiene through improved standards and better innovation and growth, and provides greater resilience in an uncertain future. products becomes essential. The challenge of feeding a hungry planet underscores the need to Larger and greyer: The global population will Higher living standards: Improved economic reduce food waste and the importance played by reach nine billion by 2050. We are also getting conditions around the world are presenting new the role of packaging in securing the safety of its greyer; over the next ten years, the number of possibilities for consumers, particularly in the contents. people over the age of 65 will increase by 33%. emerging markets of Asia and Latin America. This creates demand for incontinence and other Those with less spending power want the same Energy usage: Energy supply has become a strapersonal care products needed by an ageing access to hygiene products, freedom of choice tegic issue in most countries in the world. Global population. and level of well-being as those living in develwarming has led to a strong movement to replace oped markets. fossil fuels with renewable energy. 4 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Outlook | Sustainable strategy Climate change: The climate issue is one of the Forest stewardship: Each year, about seven milSustainable consumption: Consumer lifestyles most critical environmental and social issues faclion hectares of land is deforested, or about 0.2% have a strong impact on the environment and ing the world today. Governments are setting carof all forested areas. Illegal logging and timber society. A shift in attitude and behaviour is driving bon reduction targets and the private sector is from controversial sources threaten the world’s innovation of products, services and business expected to play its part. This highlights the forests and biodiversity. It makes it of utmost models to meet demands for sustainable conimportance of efforts to reduce carbon emissions. importance to control the origin of wood raw sumption. Smart packaging solutions reflect the material. shift from a throwaway to a back-to-nature sociWater scarcity: By 2025, the UN predicts that Sustainably managed forests not only constiety. two thirds of the world’s population could be livtute one of few renewable resources, growing foring in areas of water stress. Access to water is ests also sequester carbon dioxide and mitigate critical for industry, agriculture and food producclimate change. tion. Tunnare för ökad rörels SCA Sustainability Report 2011 5 Sustainable strategy | Strategy The SCA Sustainability Effect Care and respect for people and nature are It means we constantly challenge ourselves absolutely central to SCA’s way of working. to deliver solutions that make a difference to This is the lens we use to look at the world everyday life. And we have found that it is – from the big ­picture right down to the finer amazing what you can achieve when living points of harvesting a forest, ­testing a new our values of respect, excellence and innovation or designing a new diaper. responsibility. E CO N OM Y LE NA OP TU PE RE 6 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Strategy | Sustainable strategy Raising the bar on sustainability Sustainability is an integral part of SCA’s operations and the company’s order to shape an outside-in perspective. The strategy process resulted in clearly defined ambi­strategy for growth and value creation. In 2011, SCA raised the bar on its tions and an increased number of targets (see sustainability ambitions, further strengthening the link to the company’s page 8–9), underscoring the growing business ­business strategy. case for sustainability. While the ambitions describe the long-term vision, the targets are speFor SCA, sustainability is about creating value for the risks that arise from a strong focus on ecocific and measurable and represent the milepeople and nature – value that benefits customnomic, social and environmental responsibility. stones on the road to achieving the ambitions. ers and consumers, employees and shareholdSustainability excellence contributes positively to Measurability is prioritised at SCA to promote ers, as well as the environment and the communibusiness operations by strengthening competitransparency, meet stakeholder expectations and ties in which SCA conducts operations. The sustiveness, reducing costs, making SCA an attracto drive the sustainability programme forward. tainability strategy is based on the company’s tive investment and employer and strengthening New targets and KPIs will be added as the core values of respect, excellence and responsithe brand. sustainability strategy evolves, while other targets bility, and represents a way of working that is In 2011, SCA seized the opportunity to that have already been achieved will be finalised. deeply engrained in the company’s DNA. strengthen the link to the business by applying a This approach will create value, drive innovation Sustainability is also a business approach; strategy process that was future-oriented and and further integrate sustainability into business one that generates long-term shareholder value that examined global trends and considered the operations. by embracing the opportunities and managing views of internal and external stakeholders in People ambitions We build our position as one of We improve hygiene standards We support women’s empowerWe drive resource efficiency the most trusted companies in the worldwide with our hygiene solument and their freedom to particithrough our packaging solutions world, delivering sustainable tions. For the millions of existing pate fully in society – socially, by securing product protection growth and value for our stakeusers of our products and sereducationally and professionally – and content integrity in the distriholders. vices, and for the billions of across the world by giving them bution chain, at the same time ­people in emerging markets, we access to and education about supporting brand and consumer develop innovative solutions that hygiene solutions. communication. make it easier to live healthy, ­sustainable lives. Nature ambitions We deliver sustainable solutions We combat climate change and We care for the forests with all of with added value for our customminimise our impact on the envitheir bio­diversity and we are comers based on safe, resource-effironment through a combination of mitted to managing and utilising cient and environmentally sound new innovations and technolothem responsibly. We aim to sourcing, production and develgies, efficiency gains, consumer ­maximise the benefits our forest opment. initiatives and carbon sequesterhave on our ecosystem, climate, ing in our forests. customers and society, through a combination of innovation, efficiency gains and wise and longterm management. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 7 Sustainable strategy | Targets Making it count In 2011, SCA extended the number of sustainability Sustainability targets demonstrate how ambitions are met on the ground. The targets on these pages are considered the most relevant to SCA’s busi­targets to create a stronger link to the business and to ness and its stakeholders, and reflect the drivers with the greatest influence fully capture the value derived from strong economic, on the company’s future growth. social and environmental performance. Targets are about accountability. They aim at measuring how a number of factors contribute to social and environmental responsibility. From the people perspective, this includes implementing strong health and safety standSustainable Hygiene Code of Employee innovations solutions Conduct Health & Safety target target ­target ­target 1. We will deliver better, safe and 2. We will make our knowledge 3. Our SCA supplier standard will 5. Our aim is zero work place environmentally sound solutions to about hygiene available to custobe used to drive shared values and ­accidents, and we will decrease our customers. We strive to con­ mers and consumers and ensure priorities through our supply chain. our accident frequency rate by tinuously improve resource effiaccess to affordable, sustainable We will use it in all our supply chain 25% between 2011–2016. ciency and environmental perforhygiene solutions to help them lead contracts by 2015. mance considering the whole lifea healthy and dignified life. In mar4. We will maintain compliance cycle for new innovations. kets in which we operate we will: with our SCA Code of Conduct. All • Provide information on hygiene our employees will receive regular matters around our products and training in the code. services • Strive to implement education programmes for girls, women and caregivers • Strive to offer the best value for consumers making hygiene solutions affordable to everyone pages 20-21 pages 23-24 pages 42-45 pages 46-48 8 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Targets | Sustainable strategy ards, improving knowledge of and access to better environmentally sound sourcing, production and develhygiene solutions, raising supplier standards and holdopment, and how the company minimises its impact on ing employees to the requirements of the SCA Code of the environment and contributes to climate change Conduct. action. A combination of innovation, efficiency gains and From the perspective of nature, the targets track how long-term management are part of the strategy for SCA delivers sustainable solutions that provide added reaching these targets. value for customers from safe, resource-efficient and Climate & Fibre sourcing Water energy & biodiversity target target target 1. We will reduce CO2 emissions 4. We will achieve and maintain 6. We aim to achieve water sus­ from fossil fuels and from pur­ our target of zero fresh fibre-based tain­ability and we will reduce our chased electricity and heating by material from controversial water consumption in water-­ 20% by 2020, with 2005 as ­sources*, including pulp and constressed regions by 10% by 2015, * Controversial sources are defined as: – Illegally logged timber. ­reference year. tainerboard. with 2010 as reference year. – Timber from forests with a high conservation value. 2. We will triple our production of 5. We will preserve the biodiversity 7. All SCA pulp and paper mills will – Timber from areas where human rights or biofuels from our forests by 2020, of our forests. A minimum of 5% of employ mechanical and biological ­traditional rights of indigenous people are being ­violated. with 2010 as reference year. our productive forestland will be water treatment plants by 2015. 3. The production of wind power set aside from forestry in our ecoon SCA forest land will increase to logical landscape plans and a 5 TWh by 2020, with 2010 as further 5% will be set aside as part ­reference year. of our consideration for nature in our managed forests. pages 28-31 pages 32-35 pages 36-38 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 9 Sustainable strategy | Targets Delivery on existing targets Establishing targets and following up results is a key part of SCA’s sustainability programme. While a number of new sustainability targets were adopted last year, the Group already had four established long-term targets for carbon dioxide emissions, water usage, fresh fibre sourcing and Code of Conduct compliance. The results for 2011 for these four targets are presented below. Climate & Fibre Water Code of energy sourcing Conduct ­target target target target We will reduce CO2 emissions We will achieve and maintain our We aim for water sustainability and We will maintain compliance with from fossil fuels and from purchatarget of zero fresh fibre-based we will reduce our water conour SCA code of conduct. All our sed electricity and ­heating by 20% material from controversial sumption in water-stressed employees will be regularly trained. by the year 2020, with 2005 as ­sources, including pulp and conregions by 10% by the year 2015, reference year. tainerboard. using 2010 as a reference year. All SCAs pulp and paper mills will employ mechanical and biological water treatment plants by the year 2015. outcome 2011 outcome 2011 outcome 2011 outcome 2011 % 2005 2011 2020 • A  ll deliveries of pulp to SCA’s % 2010 2011 2015 • L aunch of a new training cam0 facilities meet the Group target. 0 paign for Code of Conduct. –2 –5 • A  ll of SCA’s wood-consuming –4 • C ode of Conduct assessments –10 units are reviewed by indepen–6 were performed in Malaysia and –15 dent auditors and meet the –8 Russia. Business Practice audits –20 Target requirements of the Group –10 Target took place in Central ­America and ­target. Greece. At year-end 2011, carbon dioxide • S  CA’s packaging operation has By year-end 2011, water usage in • Implementation of the global emissions had declined by 7.3% in control of the origin of more than water-stressed regions declined supplier standard in the hygiene relation to the production level. 95% of the kraftliner used by the by 0.1%. Of the Group’s pulp and operations. business unit. paper mills, 43 are equipped with • D  evelopment of corresponding mechanical or biological wastewastandards in packaging and forest ter treatment facilities. products operations. pages 28-31 pages 32-34 pages 36-38 pages 42-44 10 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholder dialogue | Sustainable strategy Finding common ground SCA continuously strives to improve dialogue with its Open and continuous dialogue helps the Group gain an understanding of stakeholders’ expectations and raises employee commitment, thus improv­stakeholders to address key areas of its business. The ing the long-term conditions for a successful business. Group has daily contact with customers, consumers, This dialogue is primarily conducted in the business units, since they ­suppliers, investors, NGOs and official bodies in order to have contact with customers, consumers, suppliers, local authorities and integrate their expectations and views into the company’s local NGOs. However, dialogue with investors and international NGOs, the EU commission and other important international or global stakeholders approach to doing business. takes place at Group level. Many of the issues initiated by stakeholders are addressed in this report. Stakeholder group 2010 activities Key areas How do we address the issues (page number) Customers Customer surveys Carbon footprint CO2 target (28) Seminars Ecolabelling Sourcing target (32) Human rights compliance Code of Conduct assessments (43) Fibre sourcing FSC certification (35) Implementation of supplier standard (42) Life Cycle Assessments (31) Business Practice Reviews (43) Sustainability impact in customer relations (23) Consumers Consumer surveys Impact of products on people and LCAs including carbon footprint (31) Consumer research nature, for example, carbon footProduct Ecolabels (25) print, ecolabelling Eco actions (www.libero.se/eco-actions, www.libresse. com, www.tena.com) Product safety (39) Chemicals (39) www.girls1st.se (13) Employees All employee survey Talent management Diversity survey (50) Training Performance management All employee survey (14) Workforce planning Job portal (49) Compensation and benefits Code of Conduct training (43) Corruption Tree Pool Project (55) Health and Safety Investors SRI questionnaires ESG integration into business CO2 target (28) One-on-one meetings ­strategy ESAVE (28) Telebriefings Energy efficiency Risk analysis (AR 58) Analyst interviews Risk management Code of Conduct Assessments and Business Practice Roadshows Reviews (43) Field visit Inclusion in sustainability funds and indexes (20) Suppliers Supplier audits Raw material sourcing Sourcing target (32) Supplier questionnaires Supplier guidelines and standards (45) Supply chain assurance (45) Sedex reporting (45) NGOs Ongoing dialogue Forest management Dialogue with NGOs, such as WWF and the Swedish CO2 emissions Society for Nature Conservation (14) Energy utilisation FSC commitment (14) Water supply Society Participation in industry initiatiSCA’s dialogue with society Dialogue with Sami communities, municipalities, etc. (14) ves and standardisation bodies Community involvement Membership in organisations (14) Ongoing dialogue Activities to break taboos surrounding incontinence (53) Community involvement Sponsorship (53) Public affairs (14) SCA Sustainability Report 2011 11 Sustainable strategy | Stakeholder dialogue Inspired solutions through dialogue Dialogue and engagement with a wide spectrum of stakeholders adds value to the results on its website http://www.scapackaging.com/c/industrial-uk. Being transparent about the business, builds trust, and provides a vital outside-in perspective to help strengths as well as weaknesses supports a culSCA better address areas of mutual concern. ture of improvement. More than 200 nurses and caregivers took Below are some examples of SCA’s stakeholder relationships are managed by specific business part in the first TENA (SCA’s incontinence care dialogues. units. In all cases, SCA seeks to meet or exceed brand) Empowering the Elderly forum held in customers’ expectations and to gain insight into Kuantan, Malaysia. This was the first in a series of Customers the issues that are important to them. forums whose objective is to provide caregivers SCA has a broad product portfolio and therefore In order to gauge customers’ assessments of and the general public with basic knowledge in a diverse range of customers, both end consumSCA, customer satisfaction surveys are conelderly care. They are organised jointly by TENA, ers and customers, such as retailers, companies, ducted and followed up by all business units. the Malaysian Healthy ­Ageing Society and the distributors, printing houses, healthcare instituSCA Packaging in the UK conducted a survey in department of medicine at the University Putra tions, etc. With such a varied customer base, 2011 among 260 of its customers and published Malaysia. Hear it from our stakeholders Nick Sakiewicz, CEO and Operating Partner, Philadelphia Union and PPL Park “We’re extremely proud to feature SCA’s sustainable paper products at PPL Park. Environmental sustainability is very important to our organisation and our fans. We couldn’t have a better partner to help us fulfill our responsibility to maintaining a green stadium.” (PPL Park is a football stadium located just outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the US. PPL Park is home to the Philadelphia Union, a Major League Soccer club. PPL Park was one of SCA’s first US customers to be equipped with the Tork Elevation line and also uses the full line of Tork Xpressnap ­dispensers). Pia Prytz Phiri, Regional Representative for UNHCR’s (UN Refugee Agency) Regional Office for the Baltic and Nordic countries, Stockholm “The majority of forcibly displaced people in the SCA was quick to respond to the appeal of the world are women. Stripped of the protection of UN Refugee Agency for the massive and urgent their homes, their government and often their needs in the Horn of Africa. In a few weeks’ time family structure, females are often particularly vulonly, 1.6 million sanitary pads donated by SCA nerable. As the global protector for refugees, an were shipped from Europe and reached refugee important part of UNHCR’s work is to ensure women who had fled conflict and famine in women have equal access to protection, basic Somalia. goods and services as they attempt to rebuild UNHCR relies entirely on donations to assist their lives. Supplying refugee women with saniour humanitarian relief efforts. With the backing of tary material is of critical importance to their leaders in the business world such as health and hygiene, productivity, well-being as SCA, we can restore hope, safety and well as dignity and confidence. dignity to millions of refugees. 12 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholder dialogue | Sustainable strategy Consumers SCA’s feminine care brand Libresse launched a SCA’s numerous consumer hot lines and comIndepth consumer insight is crucial for business global online communication platform, www. plaints handling procedures also provide valuable success and SCA has a well-developed system girls1st.se. It is a community dedicated to first input to the company’s operations. to achieving this. It includes quantitative market time experiences – such as the first kiss, the first research as well as consumer visits in people’s menstruation – and has largely been developed Investors homes to learn about their lives and interests. for consumer-generated content, interaction and SCA regularly meets with financial and SRI (Social In 2011, SCA conducted an online reputation sharing. One objective is to remove taboos surResponsible Investors) investors at investor and brand survey in nine countries with 1,000 rounding the human body, relationships and teenevents, road shows and in one-on-one meetings. respondents in each country. It revealed relatively age life in general. In 2011, SCA participated in SRI conferences in low knowledge of the SCA brand. Among those In the US and Canada, TENA has introduced a Paris and London. The Group also arranged for who were familiar with SCA, the company gained conversation couch at events to encourage interSRI analysts to visit its forest products operations positive scores on care for the environment and action with women and to provide a platform for in Sundsvall, Sweden. ethical issues. discussing bladder weakness. Camilla Nathhorst Odevall, European Socially Responsible Investments, Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management “For investors looking particularly at ESG (Enviof Sweden. The renew­able energy from these turSCA is also aware of its responsibilities ronmental, Social and Governance) issues, there bines will be sold both internally and externally by towards its staff on health and safety issues. It are many reasons to be positive towards SCA. the joint venture. recognises that it needs to offer a challenging and The company is responsive to environmental and External demand from NGOs on how to run rewarding working environment in order to recruit social demands and has turned them into a comSCA’s forests was early recognised as a way forand maintain the best talent. Its anti-corruption petitive advantage. ward. Adopting an environmentally friendly work and commitment to product safety have The vast need for energy in the pulp and paperapproach has since proven to be a highly effecgiven the company a high rating regarding stakemaking process made it ­natural for SCA to work on tive marketing tool. Today, the majority of SCA’s holder issues. reducing costs and start evolving in line with envipaper clients demand FSC (Forest Stewardship An area for improvement for SCA, finally, is in ronmental demands as early as the mid-1990s. Council) certified products. SCA continuously Corporate Governance. This could be achieved SCA has continued to work on reducing its carbon audits its suppliers in such areas as the origin of through a higher degree of independence of the footprint ever since. One of its largest projects is the raw material, certifications, environmental Board of Directors and its committees, the realisation of six wind parks in a joint venture performance etc. Through this process, SCA has as well as the ­application of the one with Norwegian company Statkraft. Up to 400 reduced the number of pulp suppliers dramatishare – one vote principle. wind turbines are planned on SCA land in the north cally in recent years. Carl Lindqvist, EWC (European Works Council) President, SCA “The EWC structure that we have built up within SCA, with EWCs at both Business Unit and SCA level is a good set-up for information and consultation between management and employee representatives. SCA has a long tradition of employee participation and compared with many other companies, the SCA-EWC agreement is in the forefront. ­However, it is important that we in this area, like in all parts of the business, strive for best in class. The dialogue and exchange of ideas and opinions are important. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 13 Sustainable strategy | Stakeholder dialogue Employees in constructive dialogue with the Sami communiments in many countries. This has important The 2011 Group-wide employee survey perties and has taken the initiative to develop joint implications for how the company engages with formed by SCA had a response rate of 82%. It seminars intended to increase mutual underpurchasers and governments. showed a high level of employee engagement standing of the needs and priorities of the parties Another key area for SCA is energy and enviand commitment while leadership, innovation and to aid long-term planning of land use. ronmental policy and legislation. Given Europe as customer orientation did not score quite as high. China is faced with a challenge arising from SCA’s main market and the European Union’s The results have been cascaded down in the the rapid aging of its population ­coupled with leading role in developing environmental regulaorganisation and the business units have develinsufficient healthcare resources to meet the tion, the majority of the company’s efforts are oped specific action plans in areas identified for needs of the elderly. In late 2011, SCA organised directed towards EU Institutions. The EU Emisimprovement. a seminar under the title “Providing Health sions Trading System, the EU Waste Directive and Through Effective Nursing for the Elderly” jointly emerging policies concerning sustainable conNGOs with the Chinese Ministry of Health (MOH), in Beisumption and production are some relevant topSCA continuously engages in a dialogue with jing. Swedish Minister for Children and the Elderly ics. such NGOs as the World Wide Fund for Nature Maria Larsson was invited to join leading Chinese SCA also works to actively communicate with (WWF) and the Swedish Society for Nature Conexperts to create a platform to share academic decision makers in countries where new strucservation (SSNC). knowledge and practical experiences among tures are being built. Examples include the develSCA participated actively at FSC’s (Forest experts from both China and Sweden. The aim of opment of new service models for elderly care Stewardship Council) General Assembly in Indothe exercise was to further strengthen the relaand the prescription of incontinence care prodnesia. One topic on the agenda was the standard tionship with the Chinese MOH and to facilitate ucts in countries where such benefits were not for Controlled Wood, meaning control requirecooperation in the area of elderly healthcare offered in the past, for example in Eastern Europe ments on wood raw material in products FSC cerbetween the two countries in the future. and the Asia Pacific Region. tified as Mixed Sources. To ensure that no controThrough a series of Hygiene Matters Reports, versial wood is used in FSC-certified products, SCA aims to raise awareness of the connection Memberships the Controlled Wood standard will be reinforced. between hygiene, health and well-being. In 2011, SCA is a member of a large number of associaThis is significant for SCA, since the majority of its the focus of the report was “Women and tions that discuss issues linked to the Group’s sales of FSC-certified products go under Mixed Hygiene,” a topic that is closely related to the business: SCA currently holds the Presidency of Souces.SCA participates in the working groups Group’s Personal Care business. The report was EUROPEN (The European Organization for Packwhose mission is to execute the decision. activated in the UK, Germany, China and France aging and the Environment) and is a representaIn conjunction with the UN Climate Change via PR campaigns and media events. tive in ECR Europe (Efficient Consumer Conference in South Africa, COP 17, SCA particiResearch). Other examples are CEPI (Confederapated with accredited observer status. The conPublic affairs tion of European Paper Industries) through ference offered valuable opportunities to interact Public affairs is supporting SCA to understand national associations including the Swedish Forwith negotiators and other stakeholders. and position itself with the external environment. est Industries Federation, FSC International and SCA has been a member of the Global ComIt may include consulting with governments, polthe Swedish branch of FSC, PEFC International, pact since 2008 and participates in local neticy makers, non-governmental organisations and EDANA (European Disposables and Nonwovens works such as the Global Compact Nordic Netother stakeholders on future legislation and policy Association), ETS (European Tissue Symposium), work. or monitoring changes in the business and exterCITPA (International Confederation of Paper and nal regulatories. Board Converters in Europe), FEFCO (European Society For issues of specific importance to the comFederation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers), SCA regularly conducts discussions with affected pany, SCA works directly in cooperation with regIWA (International Water Association), CGF (Conparties on matters that impact both broader sociulatory and public bodies. Examples include the sumer Goods Forum) and Eucomed (Medical etal challenges, and local communities. wind power projects in central Sweden and Technology), the European branch organisation Sami communities utilise a large part of SCA engagement with healthcare systems to support for incontinence products and other medical forestland in northern Sweden to graze reindeer. the development of sustainable incontinence care technology products. SCA is also active through SCA engages in dialogue with the communities to programmes. For example, The World Health the appropriate trade associations in standardisafacilitate the use of land that is shared by forestry Organization (WHO) has classified incontinence tion activities in ISO (International Organization and reindeer herding and consults regularly with as a set of diseases. An important consequence for Standardization), and CEN (European Comthe Sami communities before undertaking haris that SCA’s TENA products are classified as mittee for Standardization). vesting operations in the region where reindeer medical devices in the EU and other parts of the In 2012, SCA became a member of the World roam. SCA believes that it is important to engage world and are therefore reimbursed by governBusiness Council for Sustainable Development. 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Materiality analysis | Sustainable strategy Materiality analysis In 2010, SCA conducted a materiality analysis to investigate the sustainability highest in the 2008 survey. Significant importance was also attached to Product quality and safety criteria that the Group stakeholders deem the most important. The sustain­ as well as Emissions to air and water in both ability criteria included in the study were chosen in accordance with such surveys. ­governing documents as the Global Reporting Initiative, Global Compact and The greatest differences between the two SCA’s Code of Conduct. The study was a repeat of the materiality analysis that surveys were in Occupational health and safety, which was considered significantly more imporSCA conducted in 2008 and the purpose was to see if any changes had taken tant in 2010 than in 2008, and Environmental place in the values of the stakeholders. performance of products, which was weighted heavier in 2008 than in 2010. A total of 940 customers, suppliers, investors, differences are within Biodiversity and Climate The results from this study seem reasonable media, NGOs and SCA employees participated change, which external interests considered and relevant and have provided SCA with support in the study. Respondents were asked to assess were more important than did internal, as well as in its work to prioritise the content of the sustainthe importance of various sustainability issues. in Management/employee relations and Workability report and in future sustainability initiatives. The participants were divided into external and force training and development, which the interinternal stakeholders and their responses were nal interests assigned higher priority than the weighted and submitted for materiality analysis. external. Results in 2010 illustrate that internal and Human rights was the area valued highest by external interests largely coincide. The major both groups in 2010 and this area was also valued Topic 1 Child labour, forced labour or other human rights issues 2 Customer service 3 Product quality and safety 4 Emissions to air and water Very important 1 5 Management/employee relations 3 6 Energy and raw material consumption 5 8 2 7 Use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing 4 Significance to internal stakeholders 8 Occupational health and safety 9 Diversity and non-discrimination 13 9 12 7 11 6 10 Corruption and bribery 10 14 15 11 Environmental performance of products 16 18 17 12 Waste management 13 Workforce training and development 22 19 14 Economic performance 21 24 15 Transparency 20 26 23 16 Talent attraction and retention 27 Somewhat important 17 Climate change 25 29 28 18 Risk and crisis management 19 Certification – environmental, quality and 31 health & safety 30 20 Transport 32 21 Supply chain management 22 Adherance to competition legislation 23 Biodiversity 24 Community relations 25 Corporate governance 26 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Somewhat important Very important 27 Performance management systems e.g. EMS Significance to external stakeholders 28 Active stakeholder dialogue 29 Investment and procurement practices 30 Membership of international organisations A materiality analysis highlights the issues that stakeholders believe are important. In the analysis, stakeholders e.g. Global Compact were divided up into internal (employees) and external (customers, suppliers, investors, media and NGOs). 31 Public affairs and lobbying One conclusion is that the views of internal and external stakeholders are well matched. 32 Use of GRI indicators / GRI reporting Strategy Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Control and assurance Social responsibility SCA Sustainability Report 2011 15 Tork helps SUNS kick Metricon Stadium, home of Australian rules football club Gold Coast SUNS, aims to become Australia’s greenest sports stadium. While solar panels account for 20% of the Stadium’s energy requirements, sustainability goals the focus on sustainability stretches to every little detail. Tork’s tissue solutions in toilets are a perfect fit for the concept. “SCA helps us to minimise our environmental footprint through sustainable production as well as recyclable products and packaging,” says David Bennett, Metricon Stadium Manager. Economic value Economic value creation By conducting its business operations in a responsible Measuring the company’s economic footprint is valuable to way, SCA contributes to economic development in society understand its impact and contribution to societies in and delivers greater economic value creation for its stakewhich it does business. While some metrics are tangible, holders. such as payment of taxes, and numbers of people The financial value creation generated by SCA benefits a employed, other aspects – such as the benefit of investrange of stakeholders, both directly and indirectly: customment in skills and training – are more difficult to quantify. ers and consumers, through high-quality products; SCA also continuosly develops new KPIs to capture more employees, through wages and other benefits; the state intangible assets. and municipalities, through tax revenues; suppliers, SCA will continue to focus on ways to map its role in through payments for delivered goods and services, and strengthening the economies in which it is present and to shareholders, through dividends and share price appreciaquantify the business value of sustainable value creation. tion. SCA’s involvement in community projects contributes This requires fresh thinking on new business models, to local economies. As a major employer in many regions, already underway in some emerging markets. Leveraging SCA helps these communities develop economically. new opportunities is a way to build on the value of SCA’s Taking the long-term perspective of sustainability also knowledge and investments, and the contributions it delivers business value to SCA, by stimulating innovation in makes to society locally and globally. product development, strengthening the company’s ­reputation and brand, building employee engagement and ­earning customer satisfaction. Sustainable Hygiene innovations solutions pages 20-21 pages 23-24 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 17 Economic value | Shareholders Making the business case for investors Sustainability is of increasing importance to investors, particularly those who organisation’s strategy, governance and financial performance and the social, environmental and screen for ­Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) indicators, helping to economic context in which it operates. build the business case for sustainability. SRI investors: growing impact Sustainability offers a competitive edge and Surveys conducted by SAM (Sustainable Asset Sustainability performance ranks high among thereby creates lasting value for investors. For Management), among others, show that com­ investors in the SCA share. Major institutional example, SCA’s investments in environmentally panies that integrate ESG in their business are investors (such as certain pension funds) often efficient technology reduce production costs, more successful than companies who do not take add environmental and social parameters to their strengthen relationships with customers who such factors into account. This has sparked a risk analyses, while a number of sustainability share the same priorities, and help to build longgrowing interest even among mainstream finanfunds have a strategy of only investing in compaterm confidence among the Group’s consumers. cial analysts in sustainability factors, even if nonnies that are among the best from an environmenA prime example is the marked increase in financial parameters are also included in tradital, social and economic perspective. The propordemand for certified tissue products (FSC and/or tional analyses. A 2011 report by KPMG found tion of investors who examine SCA from a susPEFC) in recent years. Until about ten years ago, that the combined effects of the financial crisis, tainability perspective amounted to 21% ( 23) at FSC-certified tissue products were largely concerns about scarcity and the pricing of natural the time of the 2011 survey (covering 2010 data). unheard of, but today, they completely dominate resources, and energy security were changing the SCA is included in 83 (87) European sustainability the market in countries such as the UK. As one of way shareholders value the management of ESG funds, making it one of the most frequently occurthe world’s largest suppliers of FSC-certified as a driver of long-term business value. ring companies in these funds. products, SCA’s ability to deliver certified prodA barrier for some traditional analysts is that SCA is assessed annually by several ranking ucts clearly enhances SCA’s competitiveness. ESG factors are often not quantified and compainstitutes. The company has been included in the rable. This is changing through the development Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) four Non-financials rising in importance of key performance indicators (KPIs) and reporting times during the last seven years. The DJSI are the Traditional indicators alone are insufficient to get methods, an area in which the Global Reporting first global indexes tracking the financial perfora true picture of a company’s value. ESG (EnviInitiative (GRI) is becoming the foremost standard. mance of the leading sustainability-driven comparonment, Social, Government) performance indiOther ongoing initiatives include Intergrated nies worldwide. Based on the cooperation of Dow cators are therefore increasingly important in Reporting, an approach to corporate reporting Jones Indexes and SAM they provide asset maninvestors’ assessments. with the aim to demonstrate the link between an agers with reliable and objective benchmarks to Percentage of SCA shares owned by investors Key figures (including the packaging operations held for sale) with sustainability screening 2011 2010 2009 % SEK EUR2) SEK EUR2) SEK EUR2) Net sales, SEKm/EURm4) 105,750 11,719 106,965 11,221 109,358 10,324 25 Operating profit, SEKm/EURm 3,548 393 8,677 911 8,190 773 20 Operating profit SEKm/EURm1) 9,224 1,022 9,608 1,008 9,648 910 15 Operating margin, % 3 8 7 Operating margin, %1) 9 9 9 10 Profit before tax, SEKm/EURm 2,258 250 7,561 794 6,546 618 5 Profit before tax, SEKm/EURm1) 7,934 879 8,492 891 8,004 755 Profit for the year, SEKm/EURm 607 67 5,592 587 4,830 456 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Profit for the year, SEKm/EURm1) 5,920 656 6,281 659 5,906 557 Source: European Business School Earnings per share, SEK 0.78 7.90 6.78 Earnings per share, SEK1) 8.34 8.89 8.32 About 21% of SCA shareholders have evaluated SCA Cash flow from current operations per share, SEK 9.09 10.53 16.36 in terms of its sustainability performance. Dividend, SEK 4.203) 4.00 3.70 Strategic investments, incl. acquisitions, SEKm/EURm –2,893 –321 –2,920 –306 –3,082 –291 Equity, SEKm/EURm 61,291 6,857 67,821 7,538 67,906 6,577 Return on capital employed, % 4 8 7 Return on capital employed, %1) 9 9 9 Return on equity, % 1 8 7 Return on equity, %1) 9 9 9 Debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.60 0.51 0.60 Average number of employees 43,697 45,341 49,531 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. 2) See footnote 1) on pages 69 and 73 in the Annual Report for exchange rates. 3) Proposed dividend. 4) Net sales for SCA’s recycling business were reclassified to other income, with retroactive adjustment for 2010 and 2009. 18 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Shareholders | Economic value manage sustainability portfolios. SCA is one of pation in SRI conferences and roadshows as well Operating profit, excluding items affecting comfive Swedish companies listed in the DJSI 2011. as a field trip with SRI investors to the forest prodparability, totalled SEK 9,224m (9,608). Operating Since 2001, SCA has been listed on the FTSEucts operations in Sundsvall, Sweden. profit, excluding items affecting comparability 4Good, an index measuring earnings and perforand exchange rate effects, was in line with the mance among companies that meet globally recDown to the numbers preceding year. Higher volumes combined with ognised norms for corporate responsibility. SCA generates value for shareholders through price hikes and cost savings offset SEK 3.2bn in For the second consecutive year, SCA has dividends and share price appreciation. Normally, increased raw material costs. qualified to be included in the Carbon Disclosure about one-third of cash flow from current operaLeadership Index. The index recognises compations, after interest expenses and taxes, over a Expansion in emerging markets nies with the best reporting practices and perforbusiness cycle is used for dividends. During the In 2011, 76% of net sales were generated in mance to tackle carbon dioxide emissions, and past ten years, the dividend has increased by an Europe, SCA’s primary market. The largest marclimate change. The Carbon Disclosure Project average of 3.7 annually. The Board has proposed kets in terms of sales are Germany, the UK and acts on behalf of 551 institutional investors – with a dividend of SEK 4.20 (4.00) for 2011. the US . USD 71tn (64) in assets under management – The closing price on the Nasdaq OMX StockSCA prioritises growth in its hygiene operawhich use the survey as an evaluation tool. holm for SCA’s B shares was SEK 102.00 tions, primarily in emerging markets, such as For the fourh consecutive year, SCA was (106.20). This corresponds to a market capitalisaAsia, Latin America, Eastern Europe/Russia and named one of the world’s most ethical companies tion of SEK 72bn (74). Since the beginning of the Middle East. Sales in these markets rose 8% by the Ethisphere Institute in New York, US. Ethis2011, the share price fell 4%, while the Nasdaq (8) in local currencies in 2011. Sales in all of SCA’s phere reviewed thousands of companies to OMX Stockholm fell 17% during the same period. emerging markets account for 18% (18) of the establish a list of 110 companies that surpassed Over a five-year period, the SCA share generated company’s total sales, compared with 8% in their industry peers in the area of responsible a higher total yield than its peer group. 2001. business. At year-end 2011, SCA had 81,513 (81,772) In 2011, SCA acquired the Brazilian hygiene SCA is also listed in several other indexes registered shareholders. The largest owners are products company Pro Descart, which gave the such as the German Global Challenges, the Industrivärden AB, Handelsbanken and Norges company a presence through Latin America. Pro Swedish OMX GES Sustainability Indexes and Bank Investment Management. Descart has a number two position in Brazil’s the company has achieved pass status in the SCA’s net sales amounted to SEK 105,750m incontinence care market. Dutch Orange SeNSe Fund. (106,965). Sales rose by 4% in local currencies SCA also acquired 95% of the Turkish comThere was substantial interest in SCA by SRI compared with 2010. SCA increased its sales in pany San Saglik, Turkey’s second largest pro(Socially Responsible Investment) parties in 2011. all business areas and strengthened market posiducer of incontinence care products and 50% of SCA regularly holds meetings and keeps in contions for its global brands TENA (incontinence Komili, the fourth largest producer of baby diatact with this group as part of its investor relations care) and Tork (AFH tissue). pers and feminine care products in Turkey. work. Activities during the year included particiImpact of non-financials on company valuation Energy efficiency Income statement Largest shareholders GHG emissions Sales % of votes % of shares Emissions to air / soil / water Cost of goods sold AB Industrivärden 29.13 10.04 Raw materials Gross operating profit Handelsbanken* 14.08 4.88 Waste SG&A expenses Norges Bank Investment Water usage ­Management ** 6.61 5.03 EBITDA Staff turnover Skandia 2.46 0.62 Depreciation & amortisation Training & qualification Alecta 2.08 1.48 EBIT Absenteeism rate SEB* 1.47 2.27 Interest expense Fatalities & injuries AMF – Insurance and Funds 1.11 2.48 Pretax income Litigation risks Swedbank Robur funds 0.93 2.04 Income taxes Corruption Second Swedish National Net income Pension Fund 0.75 1.13 Revenues from new products R&D expenses Afa Insurance 0.63 1.4 Capacity utilisation ** Including funds and foundations. Source: Euroclear ** According to disclosure notice on 10 June 2011. Derived from work by EFFAS, The European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 19 Economic value | Sustainable innovation Innovation drives long-term profitability SCA aims to deliver better, safer and environmentally sound solutions to its ­customers. To achieve this, sustainability is an important pillar of the company’s New TARGET innovation process. Sustainable innovations We will deliver better, safe SCA’s sustainability strategy requires that all new Innovation highlights 2011 include: and environmentally sound solutions to our innovation connects to the company’s sustainaSustainable packaging ­customers. We strive to continuously improve bility objectives. Its target underscores that the Research estimates that every year, as much as resource efficiency and environmental perforresulting product or service should aim for one third of all food produced for human conmance considering the whole lifecycle for new improved resource efficiency and environmental sumption is lost or wasted along the value chain. innovations. performance of its predecessor, based on a life SCA Packaging, in partnership with the Frauncycle approach. As of 2012, performance against hofer Institut in Freising, Germany has developed this target will be measured in the innovation proan innovation at the forefront of identifying methcesses across the company, starting with the ods to help reduce this waste. hygiene operations. The Fresh fruit+ packaging aims to slow fruit In practical terms, sustainability-driven innoand vegetable ripening through an ethylenevation can take many forms, from creating everabsorbing agent located on the corrugated board more efficient operations, helping to reduce used to manufacture fruit and vegetable trays. resource use along the value chain, replacing fosEthylene is a naturally occurring gas that triggers sil resources with renewable resources or develthe ripening process in certain fruits and vegetaoping business models that improve the lives of bles. ‘base of the pyramid’ consumers (low-income Still in a prototype phase, additional testing consumers). will be necessary before going to market to ensure that the product is compatible with existInnovation model ing product safety regulations. The German PackIn total, SCA invested SEK 832m (713) in research aging Awards recently recognised Fresh fruit+ in and development in 2011, corresponding to 0.8% its prototypes category and it is also a candidate (0.7) of total sales. for a Worldstar Award. SCA’s innovation process is deeply embedded in the Group’s strategy and business model Improving lives in China and is based on trends in the business environSCA launched its hygiene Innovation Centre in ment, insight into customer and consumer Shanghai, China in 2011 with the objective of requirements and technological progress. The building on Chinese consumer insight and transinnovation-related processes are continuously lating them into innovations. TENA Belt is the first honed and streamlined. product to come out of the Centre, an incontiTo measure the innovation strength and its nence care product with a rensable belt. TENA financial impact, SCA began monitoring a number Belt leads to a carbon footprint reduction of 25% of innovation-related performance indicators in compared to the previous TENA product and pro2010 among all four business areas. vides greater dignity for the patient and lessens SCA’s packaging business monitors several the burden on caregivers. TENA Belt will also be factors: the share of total sales that is attributable launched in other markets. to products that are one year old or less; how Baby diapers are becoming progressively thinner, profitable products are and how many of the cusmore comfortable and efficient, at the same time tomer-wide development projects result in orders. as their environmental footprint is becoming New products account for about one-third of smaller. In 2011, Libero launched thinner baby sales and an even larger share of profit. diapers in Russia and the Nordic region. SCA has consolidated all of its renewable energy operations in a business division – SCA Energy that also focus on innovation in fields such as biocomposites, bioenergy products and biochemicals. 20 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Functional and comfortable incontinence care contributes to dignity and quality of life. In 2011, SCA’s Innovation Centre in Shanghai developed TENA Belt, an incontinence care product focusing on skin comfort. As the name suggests, it comes with a separate belt that Human dignity keeps the pad in place and simplifies the application for the caregivers. Since the belt is washable, it can be used several times and its carbon footprint is 25% lower compared with a previous TENA product. TENA Belt will be launched in several countries in 2012. Economic value | Stakeholders Building value in every interaction SCA has an important role to play in its value chain: creating opportunities for When entering an emerging market, SCA often does it through joint ventures. The combination suppliers and employees, synergies for customers, economic value for society. of deep market knowledge, through keeping local management and SCA’s knowledge in techBoosting local suppliers Investing in people nology, economics of scale, etc. is generally The company strives to maintain transparent and SCA generates value for its employees through favourable. long-term relationships with its suppliers to guarboth the wages it pays and the competence antee high quality as well as financial stability for development opportunities it offers. Raising customer value both parties. In 2011, employee salaries totalled SEK SCA has a range of customers – from end-conSourcing represents the single largest 15,046m (15,654), and social security costs sumers of SCA products, to business-to-busiexpenditure item for SCA – corresponding to amounted to SEK 4,135m (4,297). As a principle, ness customers that include retailers, distribu71% (70) of sales. In 2011, the Group purchased the Group pays competitive remuneration to its tors, printing houses, and healthcare institutions. raw materials and services for some SEK employees and follows local wage structures, SCA’s practices and products help business-to77,197m (75,961). Many input goods, such as assuming that these terms are not below internabusiness customers reduce their risks and add paper pulp, electricity and chemicals, are global tionally established rules for minimum salaries value to their brand. By jointly pursuing product commodities and are largely purchased centrally, and reasonable compensation. efficiency and innovation targets, SCA and cuswith the aim of achieving economies of scale. The Group also contributes to pension plans. tomers are delivering high-quality products that Forest raw materials are goods that are almost SCA has both defined-contribution and definedfulfil and exceed consumers’ needs and expectaexclusively purchased locally, however. Nearly all benefit pension plans. The most significant tions. of the fresh fibre acquired and used in the Sweddefined-benefit plans are based on the period of ish mills and packaging units are purchased from employment and employee salaries at, or just Contributes to national economies local suppliers. This provides substantial ecoprior to, retirement. The total net cost for penSCA also contributes to local communities by nomic contributions to local suppliers and the sions in 2011 amounted to SEK 358m (320). For paying taxes and employing people in the couneconomy to which they belong. further information, see Note 26 in the SCA 2011 tries in which the company is active. In 2011, SCA Increasing suppliers’ skill sets also adds Annual Report. paid SEK 961m (1,255) in income taxes globally. value. SCA trains and supports suppliers in For many people based in emerging markets, In addition to income taxes, SCA also pays prophygiene operations and among forest contracworking for SCA can be an important financial erty taxes, payroll overheads, pension taxes, custors, where SCA supports the suppliers with guidguarantee for themselves and their families. In toms duties, energy taxes and indirect taxes. ance in such areas as quality, environmental per2011, 12,339 (13,052) were employed by SCA in formance and Code of Conduct. Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America, receiving SEK 1,563m (1,404) in salaries. Created value by stakeholder 2011 Taxes paid, 1% (SEK 961m) Interest paid to creditors, 1% (SEK 1,290m) Dividend to shareholders, 3 % (SEK 2,898m) Employee social security costs , 4 % (SEK 4,135m) Remaining in the company, 7 %* (SEK 7,536m) Employee salaries, 13 % (SEK 15,046m) Suppliers, 71 % (SEK 77,197m) * Current expenditures, restructuring costs, strategic investments and acquisitions. 22 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable business | Economic value Building the business case, inspiring confidence Across all markets and business units, a proactive approach to sustainability generates value for SCA – by creating opportunities for growth, building trust New TARGET and relationships and increasing efficiency. Hygiene solutions We will make our knowledge about It is increasingly important for customers that the Another example taken from the survey described hygiene available to customers and consumers products they purchase have a minimal impact on how SCA secured a contract for TENA Wet Wipes and ensure access to affordable, sustainable the environment, are safe and efficient, and confrom a state-owned hospital in Singapore. The hygiene solutions to help them lead a healthy and tain no hazardous materials. They also are seektender committee declared that it had been dignified life. In markets in which we operate we ing proof of the working conditions under which it impressed by SCA’s continuous improvement will: is produced. Delivering on these expectations, activities in the sustainability area while competi• Provide information on hygiene matters around and being able to validate it, grows SCA’s busitors only talked about price. our products and services. ness. These are key ways that sustainability work • Strive to implement education programmes for helps build on long-term relationships right along Green buildings look at procurement girls, women and caregivers. the value chain and builds confidence in the A green-building movement is taking off, in part • Strive to offer the best value for consumers Group’s consumer brands. because of pressure to reduce energy consumpmaking hygiene solutions affordable to everytion and other environmental impacts but also one. Towards better quality of life because building operators have found that going One of the targets of SCA’s sustainability strategy green is good for business, with increases in prois to make knowledge about hygiene available to ductivity, less absenteeism, and improved worker customers and consumers in all its active markets health. This has been the case for the Empire and ensure access to affordable, sustainable State Building in New York, where building mansolutions to help them achieve a healthy, dignified agement have embarked on a programme to life. This entails a range of activities that help make the structure more environmentally sound. build markets for SCA, including information on As part of that process, management looked at hygiene matters, education programmes for girls, procurement, particularly at the bathrooms used women and caregivers, and affordable hygiene by thousands of people who work in the building, solutions that offer the best value to consumers in and millions of tourists who visit each year. To all markets. In many cases, the company’s susensure that paper products were part of the green tainability approach and performance is the decistrategy, the building management turned to sive factor in a customer’s selection of SCA as a SCA’s Tork brand, made from 100% recycled supplier. content. Sustainable procurement helps buildings The crucial importance of sustainability for earn recognition from third-party verification sysbusiness was confirmed in a survey carried out in tems like Leadership in Energy and Environmental autumn 2011 in which 400 SCA employees with Design (LEED), developed by the US Green Buildcustomer contacts responded to questions about ing Council. how sustainability influences customer relationEducational institutions are among those ships. A full 41% stated that they had experileading the way to pursue green strategies. In the enced situations in which SCA’s sustainability case of Tulane University in New Orleans, it was activities had played a decisive role in the outstudents, members of Tulane Environmental SCA deliveries of FSC-certified publication papers come of contract negotiations. Some 65% Action League (TEAL), who, in the process of trytonnes reported that sustainability is very important or ing to find a way to improve the environment of 600,000 important for customer relationships. their campus, discovered that the university was 500,000 A business-critical factor that was frequently getting its toilet paper from a large paper manu400,000 mentioned in the survey and demanded by cusfacturer that sourced its products from old300,000 tomers, related to SCA’s broad portfolio of FSCgrowth forests. TEAL launched a campaign to 200,000 certified products and forest holding. In 2011, find a better alternative, which led them to SCA’s 100,000 SCA’s sales of FSC-certified publication papers Tork brand. The students persuaded the univer0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 rose by 35% and deliveries of FSC-certified pulp sity to make the switch to Tork. Today, that deciby 27%. sion is helping the university meet its goal of havDeliveries of FSC-certified paper rose by 35% in 2011. ing its buildings LEED certified. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 23 People with reduced hand strength, due to disabilities or just age, often have difficulties operating hand hygiene equipment. This group is also one of the most vulnerable to infections caused by poor hand hygiene. When developing a new Tork foam soap dispenser, this The right to insight was given special consideration. Product testing was conducted in collaboration with the Swedish Rheumatism Association wash your hands (SRA) and the innovation process resulted in an easy-to-use foam soap dispenser with low push resistance. The dispenser has received the SRA accreditation “Easy to use” and is ADA (Americans with ­Disabilities Act) compliant. Sustainable business | Economic value Changing construction habits China: taking the long view ing a service called TENA Solutions that includes The use of wood instead of concrete or steel in By investing in the education of nurses in China four parts: resident well-being, working atmoshouse construction is an effective way of saving as part of a long-term project to increase knowlphere, budget, and environment. The TENA perenergy and reducing carbon dioxide emissions, edge regarding incontinence among the elderly, son performs an assessment of a nursing home and wood houses are expected to grow by 30% a SCA is contributing to the development of a and can thereby show how the right product mix year for the next five years. In France this is stronger skills base while at the same time estaband care leads to lower costs and lower environreflected in new environmental guidelines for the lishing a strong presence in a rapidly growing mental impact. building sector which will increase the demand for market. The project, aimed at the Chinese healthIn 2011 SCA, in partnership with Econ Healthsolid-wood products. As of 1 December 2011, the care sector, was launched in 2009 and is being care Group, introduced a new home-nursing proconstructors must incorporate 35 cubic decimeconducted at hospitals in a number of Chinese gramme that offers professional incontinence tres of wood per square metre of floor space when cities, including Guangzhou, Shanghai and Nancare guidance and other services to elderly from building homes. This could create opportunities jing. At the end of 2011, 6,000 nurses had com200 families in Shanghai. For cultural reasons, for SCA that sells 200,000 m3 solid-wood prodpleted the educational programme. elderly people prefer to stay at home rather than ucts to France a year. in residential homes. China’s ageing population in New business models combination with a growing middle class opens Verified in North America SCA is developing new business models to meet up huge growth opportunities. Tissue is in general easily biodegradable in municthe needs of consumers in every income cateIn Italy, SCA’s feminine care brand, Nuvenia, ipal and composting facilities. A greater number of gory. In emerging markets, such as Latin America, entered into a partnership with the association of cities across North America are introducing comSouth­east Asia and the Middle East, SCA is gynaecologists, Associazione Ostetrici Ginepostable waste systems, such as those in San adapting the product offering and distribution to cologi Ospedalieri (AOGOI). AOGOI’s clinical Francisco and Vancouver, which promise to low-income earners, with the ambition to estabtests of Nuvenia show that the products are lessen the burden on landfills. It is important that lish a strong presence at an early stage of ecoallergy tested and kind to skin. Nuvenia is the first napkins on offer are deemed organic matter and nomic development. Even at a daily income of hygiene product in Italy that has been third-party are safe to compost in large-scale facilities. USD 2–3, people can buy more than just the most verified for its high quality and, since this entitles SCA is the first Away-From-Home manufacbasic products, and hygiene products are often Nuvenia to label packaging with AOGOI’s certifiturer to attain certification on its line of napkins prioritised. cation, this partnership is significant in building from the Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI), Within this business model, SCA sells packs consumer confidence. one of the largest independent compost certificawith fewer products in each one to make them tion groups in North America. The BPI certificamore accessible for people living on a low perInvestments yield more efficient operations tion verifies that all Universal and Advanced Tork day budget. For low income consumers, a comOver the past five years, SCA has made major napkins, including custom print, can be safely bination of affordable and high-quality products is investments that have generated considerable disposed of and quickly biodegrade in municipal important. Since many people in emerging marimprovements in both efficiency and environmenand commercial composting facilities. kets buy from the local store, SCA distributes its tal performance. When investments are evaluTork Universal and Advanced napkins also product also to small family-run stores in remote ated, their economic as well as environmental carry the EcoLogo™ and Green Seal™ certificaareas. effects are taken into account. During the 2007– tions to provide an even higher standard of cost In another example of a new approach to meet 2011 period, investments totalled SEK 42bn. effective, sustainable product solutions. specific market needs, TENA in Europe is launchEconomic implications of climate change SCA participates in the EU Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS). The In the third phase of the EU ETS due in 2013, carbon dioxide allocasystem’s second five-year phase began in 2008. To date, SCA has an tions will be based on best available technology which will probably annual emission rights surplus of about 20%, corresponding to result in a deficit in carbon allocations for SCA. approximately 300,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions annually. The EU’s efforts to reduce emissions from fossil fuels and promote The market price for emission rights (corresponding to one tonne renewable energy production have led to a rise in demand for biofuel. of carbon dioxide) amounted to about EUR 15 per tonne the first half This increases the price of wood raw material and may in the future of 2011 and then continuously decreased down to below EUR 7 per increase competition for important raw materials needed for SCA’s tonne. The EU ETS also affects SCA through increased electricity production processes. SCA’s own extensive production of biofuels prices. constitutes a business opportunity and the Group’s forest holding also represents a competitive advantage. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 25 Mission: To fight climate change, SCA has established an ambitious carbon dioxide target. One example of our efforts to reduce carbon emissions is the investment we made at the Östrand pulp mill in a new reduce emissions lime kiln, which was inaugurated in November 2011. The lime kiln is the first in the world to substitute fuel oil for wood powder and the fuel pellets that Östrand uses to grind to wood powder are made from sawdust from SCA’s sawmills. By switching to the new lime kiln, Östrand will reduce its carbon footprint by 80% and its costs by SEK 50m annually. Value for nature For care of nature, a holistic approach SCA’s environmental responsibility extends across the entire value chain, from forest management and efficient use of energy, water and other scarce resources in ­production to protection of biodiversity. SCA’s ability to influence all aspects of the value chain offers significant ­opportunities to contribute to sustainability goals, while also building a robust business case for investing in strong environmental management. Careful conservation of scarce natural resources is central to SCA’s business strategy and important for meeting stakeholders’ expectations for responsible, long-term growth. Resource scarcity and other environmental problems make action more urgent than ever. From a 360-degree approach to tackling climate change, to meeting high standards of forest stewardship and responsible sourcing, the aim is to ensure confidence in SCA’s products among a wide range of stakeholders, including customers, investors, business partners, environmental organisations and other segments of society with a stake in responsible care of nature. Climate & Fibre sourcing Water energy & biodiversity pages 28-31 pages 32-35 pages 36-38 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 27 Value for nature | Climate and energy Climate sense SCA’s takes a 360-degree approach to managing its climate change impacts and is setting targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, triple the use of TARGET ­forest-based biofuels and increase investments in wind power. CO2 emissions We will reduce CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and from purchased electricity Combined heat and power In November 2011, NZI National Sustainable and heating by 20% by 2020, with 2005 as One of the most efficient ways to maximise fuel Business Network Awards gave SCA the Judges’ ­reference year. energy output is to use a combined heat and Commendation award for the Trailblazer Large power (CHP) plant. Also known as co-generation, and Corporate Business category. The judges Outcome 2011 CHP generates both electrical power and heat – were impressed by how well sustainability is which can be used to create steam or hot water. embedded in day-to-day business operations at % 2005 2011 2020 Construction of Aschaffenburg’s new SEK 550m the Kawerau plant. Harnessing geothermal 0 combined heat and power (CHP) plant is on track, energy for production was one of many sustaina–5 and a trial run is scheduled for the first quarter of bility initiatives that contributed to the plant’s win. 2012. The CHP plant will use gas to generate –10 both electricity and steam and is expected to run Forest as a carbon sink –15 at an impressive 90% efficiency rate. Surplus Active and responsible forestry management to electricity from Aschaffenburg will be exported to promote tree growth provides an important car–20 Target the grid, and although the CHP plant will increase bon sink. Young trees that are growing fast the site’s gas consumption, overall direct carbon absorb more carbon dioxide than older trees that At year-end 2011, carbon dioxide emissions had dioxide emissions will reduce by 10% due to will eventually die and release the carbon they declined by 7.3% in relation to the production enhanced efficiency . stored in their life. Therefore it is effective from a level. climate change perspective to manage forests for Going geothermal in New Zealand a high growth rate and to substitute more carbon SCA’s tissue plant at Kawerau, New Zealand, has intensive fuels with renewable fuels and materials been using geothermal steam from the ground for from the forest. drying since September 2010. Steam is an imporSCA’s forests have a net growth of 1%, which tant part of the process for manufacturing kitchen corresponds to a net amount of carbon dioxide rolls, napkins and toilet paper. The introduction of absorbed every year in the region of 2.6 million geothermal steam allowed the plant’s carbon tonnes. This is equivalent to the total amount of dioxide emissions from fossile fuels to decline by fossil-fuel based carbon dioxide emissions 37% and its gas use by 72% in October 2010 to ­generated by the Group’s production facilities. 2011. SCA is exploring the possibility of using geothermal steam to also generate electricity for the plant. SCA Activities to combat climate change Key ways SCA reduces its carbon impact include: Renewable energy: SCA has significant and growing investments in generating wind power and has set up SCA Energy to explore business Forestry: Forests owned by SCA absorb 2.6 million tonnes of carbon opportunities in renewable energy, including forest-based biofuels. dioxide, net, every year, and growth exceeds harvesting by 20%. Sustainable products: SCA has reduced the carbon footprint for Forest-based biofuel: SCA is a major supplier of biofuels to Swedish hygiene products by reducing resources in the supply chain. municipalities, companies and households. In 2011, deliveries of biofuels was 3.2 TWh. Biofuels account for 45% (43) of the Group’s entire fuel consumption. Energy efficiency: Work to increase efficiency and reduce fossil fuel use through ESAVE projects and much larger investments is a constant agenda item at SCA. 28 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Climate and energy | Value for nature Taking advantage of operational efficiency used fresh air from outside. Recycling the hot air Shipping SCA combines its major investments in energy from one drying process and reuse it in the other SCA traffics three RoRo vessels (Roll on Roll off) infrastructure and efficiency with ESAVE, a proresulted in a 10% reduction of energy consumptransporting goods from the north of Sweden to gramme that focuses on production-based savtion. This equals to annual savings of EUR the UK and the Netherlands. These vessels have ings. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 600,000 and 3000 tonnes of carbon dioxide a fill factor of nearly 100% for the southbound transport is also a priority. annually. journey, but also for the northbound journey the For lasting results, successful ESAVE projects ships are filled to about three-quarters. Competitive advantage rely on more than intelligent investment in techSCA’s container transportation activities are Since its launch in 2003, ESAVE, SCA’s operanology. Educating people to stimulate long-term increasing rapidly and now amount to about tion-based energy efficiency programme, has behaviour change is an equally important part of 200,000 tonnes annually, in comparison with the completed over 1,700 projects that have generthe equation. A performance management sysRoRo vessels one million tonnes. The share of ated an estimated accumulated SEK 700m tem to cascade goals from the corporate and container transportation activities will rise even reduction in energy spending annually. business unit level down to the shop floor is an further with SCA’s cooperation with a Russian SCA’s target for the ESAVE programme details important tool. Additionally, SCA conducts regushipping company, Delta Shipping Lines. Starting a total specific energy saving corresponding to a lar reviews of ESAVE performance at all levels of in 2012 it will result in a very high fill rate as well as 14% reduction in energy consumption per prodthe organisation to drive further improvement. less emissions per tonne transported. uct tonne 2010-2020. In 2011, 360 projects were The achievements of the ESAVE programme implemented, resulting in a reduction of carbon have not gone unnoticed. In 2011 SCA was dioxide emissions by 54,000 tonnes and a 1.7% awarded first prize in the German energy effireduction in energy consumption per product ciency award scheme run by the German Energy tonne, which is in line with the overall target. Agency’s Initiative Energie-Efficienz. And in SweSCA’s strategy to make investments in energy den, SCA was a finalist in E-Prize, the Swedish saving is designed to deliver financial savings and energy efficiency award organised by Veckans a competitive advantage. By staying one step Affärer, a business magazine. ahead, the Group will reap benefits from investing now amid rising energy prices and the probability Reducing transport emissions “SCA’s strategy to make of medium term climate change-related regulaSCA’s Swedish mills have signed up to the Swedtion around the world. Funding for new ESAVE ish Forest Industries Association goal to reduce investments in energy projects has already been earmarked for those carbon dioxide emissions by 20% per transshowing an attractive payback time. ported tonne by 2020, with 2007 as a baseline. ­saving is designed to Typically, projects save electricity through effiThe company works continuously to reduce ciency improvements in pumps, compressors, emissions from transport, especially road hauldeliver financial ­savings and fans and lighting. Regarding fuel, approaches to age, which accounts for approximately 19% (25) reducing consumption include optimising the use of the total volume transported. It is often the only a competitive ­advantage.” of recovered heat to supply process steam and means of moving timber from the forest to the mill space heating, and maximising the efficiency of and for delivering the final product to the cusdrying hoods. tomer. Alternatives such as rail and sea emit less One example is the ESAVE initiative in SCA’s carbon dioxide than road haulage and account tissue site in Manchester, England. Its tissue for 5% (6) and 76% (70) of SCA’s total volume machine has two drying processes which both transported. Electricity consumption 2011 Fuel consumption 2011 From national grids, 73% Natural gas, 51.1% Own production, 27% Biofuel, 44.6% Oil, 3.3% Coal, 0.7% Electric boiler, 0.3% Electricity consumption 2011: 9,163 GWh Fuel consumption 2011: 77,816 TJ fuel The majority of SCA’s electricity, 73%, comes from A total of 51.1% of SCA’s fuel consumption comes from national grids, while 27% derives from electricity natural gas and 44.6% from biofuel. Oil and coal account produced in the Group’s co-generation plants. for a mere 3.3% and 0.7%, respectively. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 29 Value for nature | Climate and energy Investing in renewable energy SCA Energy, part of the SCA Forest Products business group, is charged with developing SCA’s production of renewable energy. Besides wind power, SCA New TARGETs Energy produces refined and unrefined forest-based bio­fuels and is also tasked Bio fuels with exploring new business opportunities in the renewable energy area. We will triple our production of biofuels from our forests by 2020, with 2010 as Optimising wind assets Forest-based biofuels reference year. As Europe’s largest private landowner with its terSCA’s forests are in themselves a significant ritory in Northern Sweden, SCA has access to a renewable energy resource and from a climate Wind power valuable wind resource that can deliver renewable impact perspective are preferable to fossil fuels. The production of wind power on SCA forest land energy and a source of income to the company. Sawdust can be dried and compressed to make will increase to 5 TWh by 2020, with 2010 as SCA is taking a three-pronged approach to wind high-value pellets, typically for use in households ­reference year. power: leasing land to wind farm developers, and other small units. Community energy and developing joint partnerships and undertaking its CHP plants are equipped to burn a greater variety own projects. of lower cost forest-based biofuels such as SCA’s largest wind farm initiative is a partnerunprocessed logging waste. In 2011 SCA supship with the Norwegian company Statkraft. plied 3.2 (3.5) TWh of forest-based fuels, of which A joint venture called Statkraft SCA Vind AB 0.8 (0.9) TWh comprised processed fuel pellets (SSVAB) was formed in 2007 and leases land for and 2.4 (2.6) TWh was unprocessed. “SCA is taking a threewind farms from SCA. SSVAB has been granted Tree stumps could make an important, and permission to go ahead with six of its seven currently untapped, contribution to the forestpronged approach to wind planned wind farms. Their generating capacity based biofuel supply. Careful extraction is essenwill be about 2 TWh of electricity per year. tial to minimise disturbance to soil and waterpower: leasing land to wind ­Construction work started on two wind farms ­during 2011 and the first turbines will be in operacourses. Only certain sizes of stumps are suitable – small ones are not viable and large ones are left farm developers, developing tion during 2012. as dead wood for insects, fungi and other organjoint partner­ships and underSCA has also started a venture with the isms. SCA is currently testing machinery and ­Norwegian company Fred.Olsen Renewables. methods for removing medium-sized stumps with taking its own ­projects.” The joint company, FORSCA AB, will be applying minimum damage to soil and hydrology. for permission to build 3–5 wind farms on SCA land with a total generating capacity of 2 TWh. The energy will be sold to the grid. With growing experience of wind farm development behind it, SCA has started an initiative to develop two wind farms on its own, with a potential 1.2 TWh generating capacity. SCA may invite partners at a later stage or carry through the projects on its own. Replacing oil with biofuel The Östrand pulp mill will cut its carbon dioxide emissions from fossile fuels by approximately 50,000 tonnes or 80% per year when it switches to forest-based biofuels to power its new lime kiln. The kiln, which came into operation in December 2011, allows the annual production of pulp to increase by 10,000 tonnes per year and replaces the two old ones that were fired with fuel oil. The old kilns consumed 17,000 m3 of fuel oil annually and the switch to the new kiln corresponds to a SEK 50m reduction in energy cost. 30 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Climate and energy | Value for nature Designing for sustainability Lowering carbon dioxide emissions at facilities is an essential part of SCA’s TENA Flex is an example of product innovation that offers both social and environmental ­climate change strategy. At the product level, a resource efficient supply chain improvements. The incontinence product is and innovative design help minimise ­climate and other environmental impacts designed with a belt and ergonomic features for throughout the life cycle. easier changing by users and healthcare staff. The comfortable fit and improved function means Life cycle approach Clean production less leakage and that in turn reduces the number Life cycle thinking has been central to the way Since the raw materials dominate the environof times clothes and sheets need to be changed SCA designs hygiene (tissue and personal care) mental life cycle story of personal care products, and washed. Sustainable innovation leads to satproducts since the 1990s. The approach is supminimising waste when manufacturing is the key isfied customers, staff and users, and a smaller ported by an analytical methodology called Life way to lower both emissions and resource use. environmental footprint. Cycle Assessment (LCA) that examines environBetween 2005 and 2011, waste sent to landfill The story behind the Libero open diaper is mental data from every phase of a product’s life, from Europe fell by 83%, and in North America by similar. By choosing the right materials and from the extraction of raw materials to produc76%. Gennep in the Netherlands achieved a zero designing in a smart way, SCA reduced the tion, transport, use, recycling and finally disposal. waste to landfill target. weight of the diaper by 40% between 1987 and Armed with this information, SCA and its Decarbonising energy is important too, and in 2011. As a result, fewer resources were used, designers focus their attention on addressing the February 2011 SCA flicked the switch on its green more efficient transport was possible and less areas where the climate and overall environmenelectricity supply at the Oława Personal Care waste generated. In the same timeframe its cartal impact of materials and products are greatest. plant in Poland, whose power is generated by the bon footprint fell by 49%. LCAs are helpful when selecting raw materials Suwałki Wind Park in the north east of the counThe table below shows changes to the carbon and suppliers, for deciding on manufacturing try. footprint of a range of European personal care methods and to steer product development. For tissue, the key life cycle environmental products between 2008 and 2011. The results impact is energy use at the manufacturing stage. are third party verified by the IVL, the Swedish Active sourcing SCA has measures in place to reduce carbon Environmental Research Institute. For personal care products, raw materials dioxide emissions through the ESAVE proLighter products mean less waste to landfill. account for the largest share of the environmental gramme. In Mannheim, Germany, SCA is explorSCA works continuously to reduce the weight of life cycle impact. Accordingly, engaging with suping using more biomass for steam production. its personal care products. Incinerating hygiene pliers of raw materials to maximise their efficiency products is a good alternative to landfill since is very important. SCA’s 2011 global supplier Sustainable solutions 25-80% of the material in personal care products standard gives them clear requirements on qualUnderstanding the customers and the consumers and up to 100% from tissue products is renewable. ity, product safety chemicals, environmental of SCA’s products helps to find solutions that Reduction of Carbon footprint, impacts, forestry practices and compliance with work better, are safe to use and reduce environProduct 2008–2011, % SCA’s Code of Conduct, and they are audited mental impact, including greenhouse gas emisTENA Flex 7 against these criteria. Following the audit, supplisions. Tork Xpressnap is an innovative example of TENA Lady 17 ers receive a request for information about their a dispenser that dispenses one napkin at a time. TENA for Men 3 TENA Pants 7 resource use and emissions, and this is used in This is a hygienic solution and it leads to at least TENA Slip 11 SCA’s Life Cycle Assessments. Suppliers are 25% less consumption. To control the right conTENA Comfort 6 encouraged to set goals for improving their persumption is an excellent way to improve the enviLibero open diaper 16 formance. ronmental performance. Libero Pants 8 Feminine thin towel 18 Feminine panty liners 7 Clean production Sustainable solutions Active sourcing SCA Sustainability Report 2011 31 Value for nature | Fibre sourcing Responsible use of wood SCA’s wood sourcing policy has a clear position: to source wood only from non-controversial sources. SCA is using a global supplier standard to verify TARGET suppliers performance. Fibre sourcing We will achieve and maintain Target 100% controlled wood pulp and publication papers can be purchased as our target of zero fresh fibre-based material, In 2005 SCA set a target to control the origin of FSC certified products. SCA is the world’s largest including pulp and containerboard, from purchased fresh-fibre based materials, including supplier of FSC certified forest industry products ­controversial sources. pulp and containerboard. The goal is to safeguard and demand has been steadily increasing in all that zero wood fibre in an SCA product originates fields. Outcome 2011 from controversial sources. Controversial sources SCA works with forest certification schemes • All deliveries of pulp to SCA’s facilities met the are defined as: that are demanded by customers and supported Group target. • Illegally logged timber. by important stakeholders. Some customers • All of SCA’s wood-consuming units are • Timber from forests with a high conservation demand products certified to the Programme for reviewed by independent auditors and meet value. the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) to the requirements of the Group target. • Timber from areas where human rights or the FSC and therefore the Group’s forests are certi• SCA’s packaging operation has control of the traditional rights of indigenous people are fied to both standards. origin of more than 95% of the kraftliner used being violated. by the business unit. Pulp The target applies to wood fibre from SCA’s own SCA requires suppliers of pulp to ensure that they forests as well as fibre, pulp and containerboard have ­reliable systems and documented procebought from suppliers. All SCA’s mills using fresh dures in place to enable adequate control of the wood fibre are FSC Chain-of-Custody certified, supply chain and traceability of the origin of wood which implies that all uncertified timber meet raw materials. FSC’s Controlled Wood standard. Today, SCA has Discussions with suppliers include reviewing 100% control of the origins of wood fibre and their plans to increase the share of the wood they pulp, while 95% of containerboard is derived from buy from certified forests. Certification schemes controlled sources. SCA expects to achieve accepted by SCA are FSC, PEFC as well as the 100% control in 2012. Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) and the Canadian Standards Association (CSA). Global standards for sourcing All pulp purchased by SCA is from controlled In January 2011 the tissue and personal care sources. Certification schemes are designed to businesses launched an updated global supplier suit different markets. Fluff pulp bought for Eurostandard which will further strengthen the control pean personal care products is purchased from system (see also page 45). SCA’s packaging and the US and Sweden, from suppliers that are FSC forest product’s operations are adopting similar Chain-ofCustody certified, whereas the majority global supplier standards. of the pulp bought for the European tissue business has FSC and/or PEFC Chain-of-Custody Forest certification certification. In the Asia Pacific business, pulp is The management of SCA’s own forests has been purchased according to the same standards as in certified to the FSC standard since 1999. Partly, Europe. as a result of this all SCA’s solid-wood products, 32 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Fibre sourcing | Value for nature Containerboard Recovered fibre SCA’s carbon dioxide emissions from own SCA’s packaging operations comprise both conSCA is a major user of recovered fibre, with the production and absorption in SCA’s forests tainerboard paper production and conversion of material accounting for about 40% of fibre use. M tonnes the paper in corrugated operations into finished SCA is one of Europe’s largest collectors of recyEmission 3 packaging solutions. The containerboard paper cled fibre. Certain parts of SCA’s production are 2 production takes place in six paper mills, two entirely based on recovered fibre, such as the US 1 fresh fibre based kraftliner mill and four recycled tissue operations. 0 fibre based testliner mills. All six mills hold FSC However, the use of recovered fibre requires –1 Chain-of-Custody certification. The corrugated regular additions of fresh fibre since fibre can only –2 converting operations takes place in 110 plants be used five to seven times before being –3 Absorption across Europe. expended. SCA’s packaging operations use approxiThe net uptake of carbon dioxide in SCA’s forests corremately 75% recovered fibre and 25% freshfiber in sponds to the carbon dioxide emissions generated by all of the Group’s production, about 2.6 million tonnes. their products. About 50% of the kraftliner is sourced from SCA’s two kraftliner mills in Sweden. Both kraftliner mills are to 100% supplied with wood raw material from the SCA Skog operations also holding FSC Chain-of-Custody certifi“The standard requires supcation. This means that all fresh fibre based paper from SCA’s own kraftliner production completely pliers of pulp to ensure that fulfil the SCA Group target on responsible fresh fibre sourcing. The remaining 50% are sourced they have an environmental from several external kraftliner paper suppliers. Today more than 95% of SCA’s Packaging’s management system in fresh fibre based paper (kraftliner) sourcing meets the SCA Group target on controlled sources. place and that all the fibre What remains for less than 5% of the volume is they provide is from condocumentation verifying the origin from non-controversial sources. trolled sources.” With the continued implementation of the SCA Packaging central Paper Supply Platform for external paper sourcing combined with the Packaging Supplier Standard SCA estimates it will meet 100% compliance in 2012. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 33 Biodiversity is a measure of the health of ecosystems. Preserving the biodiversity of our forests is a prioritised sustainability target for SCA. We care for owls One example is the creation of “diversity areas” where at least half the designated space consists of SCA land set aside for nature conservation purposes or managed to enhance the prospects for biodiversity. Dead wood of pine trees, which is a habitat for insects and wood fungi, is one example of a scarce commodity. That is why we leave more than one tree in ten from harvesting, to die from natural causes. Old pine trees may with time become suitable nesting trees for ural owls. Forest management | Value for nature A growing natural resource As Europe’s largest private forest owner, SCA takes its dual role as business leader and guardian of an important natural resource seriously. All its forests New TARGET are certified in accordance with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standard. Biodiversity We will preserve the biodiversity of Commitment to biodiversity left to die from natural causes. These trees our forests. A minimum of 5% of our productive To demonstrate its commitment to biodiversity, become part of the forest’s natural cycle, providforestland will be set aside from forestry in our SCA has set a target to: ing food for insects, fungi and woodpeckers. eco­logical landscape plans and a further 5% will • Set aside a minimum of 5% of productive The forests excluded from harvesting due to be set aside as part of our consideration for ­forest land in ecological landscape plans. biodiversity preservation correspond to a market nature in our managed forests. • Set aside a further 5% to show consideration value of approximately SEK 200m annually. for nature in managed forests. More planting than harvesting SCA’s forests provide about half of the total wood For more than 50 years, SCA has kept forest consumed by SCA. The rest comes from Sweden inventories to provide information for calculating Keeping standards high (39%), Central Europe (12%) and the Baltic sustainable yield. They show that SCA’s forests The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is responsi­States (4%), and SCA controls that all of these have a net growth of 1%. Today, SCA harvests ble for the toughest forestry management standsuppliers meet the FSC Controlled Wood Standpre-World War II forests, where often the most ard in the world. SCA’s forests have been audited ard as a minimum. valuable trees were harvested and the rest were annually by FSC since 1999, and have been Of the 2.6 million hectares owned by SCA, left to regenerate naturally after felling. From the awarded repeated certification since that year. 2 million hectares are managed for timber pro1950s onwards, SCA managed forests more The FSC audit for 2011 resulted in one Corduction. The remaining 600,000 hectares comactively, planting seedlings after harvesting and rective Action Required (CAR) relating to the way prise less fertile forest and bogs, and provide nurturing them as they grew. As a result, the contractors manage hazardous waste, such as habitats for a range of plant and animal species. standing volume of living trees in SCA’s forest has used hydraulic oil and lubricants. SCA stipulates Ecological landscape plans are one of the increased by 40% since World War II, while its that hazardous waste must be handled in line with tools used for managing SCA’s 2 million hectares growth rate has more than doubled thanks to the company’s policies, and SCA developed of productive forest. They deliver programmes for active management. plans for corrective action to encourage contracidentifying and setting aside forests with high This long-term investment will pay dividends. tors to comply. The plans were carried out by conservation values and for restoring the natural In about 30 years, the post-World War II forests January 2012. qualities that historical approaches to land use will be mature enough to harvest, delivering 20% In 2011 SCA’s forest management was certihave made rare. A minimum of 5% of SCA’s forest more wood than is currently available. fied to the PEFC (Programme for the Endorseis set aside for the preservation of biodiversity Forest plants or seedlings are also an imporment of Forest Certification) standard for the first and excluded from felling. The emphasis is on tant part of SCA’s business. Over 90 million seedtime. As some of SCA’s customers demand PEFC areas of high conservation value, and these may lings were produced in 2011, 35 million for SCA’s certified products, the Group now audits the be managed actively to enhance biodiversity. For own forests while the rest will be sold to Swedish, management of its forests against both the FSC instance, a broadleaf forest can be regenerated to and to a lesser extent Finnish, forest owners. and PEFC standards. All forest management encourage woodpeckers and insects, or certain activities have achieved ISO 14001 certification parts of the forest burned, as can happen in since 1998. nature, to allow species that depend on charred SCA Skog is working to minimise disruption to wood to flourish. the forest floor and watercourses during harvestAn additional 5% or more of the productive ing. Solutions such as using light, transportable forests are set aside to preserve biodiversity. Typbridges to protect watercourses is one solution. ically this means that trees with a high value to “More than one tree in ten nature are left uncut, as are edge zones bordering watercourses, lakes or peat bogs. This helps to growing on land that SCA ensure a varied local environment, makes valu­ able sources of food available and provides nestmanages for timber proing trees for birds of prey. duction is left to die from All in all, more than one tree in ten growing on land that SCA manages for timber production is natural causes.” SCA Sustainability Report 2011 35 Value for nature | Water usage Providing relief for water stress Water is a priority for SCA because pulp and paper mills use large volumes. The Group has set new targets for reducing water usage in water-stressed TARGET areas, and for ensuring that only high quality, treated water leaves the mills. Water We aim to achieve water sustainability and we will reduce our water New water targets technologies since minimisation has been at the ­consumption in water stressed regions by 10% Clean water is a core environmental priority for top of the agenda for all ten mills for many years. by 2015, with 2010 as reference year. All SCA SCA. Important aspects of water management Ensuring high quality wastewater is important pulp and paper mills will employ mechanical and include where it comes from, how much is used to SCA. Of the Group’s 45 mills, 43 already use biological water treatment plants by 2015. and the quality of wastewater. The implementaboth mechanical and biological effluent treattion of the Group’s 2005–2010 water targets ment. The two remaining mills are situated in Outcome 2011 resulted in a reduction of water usage by 12.0% Colombia and Ecuador. Mechanical treatment % 2010 2011 2015 and a drop in the organic content of wastewater removes sludge, while biological treatment of 35.4%. To follow up, SCA has set two new fiveextracts the organic substances that affect the 0 year water targets from 2010. They are to: Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical –2 • Reduce water consumption in water-stressed Oxygen Demand (COD) of the wastewater. –4 areas by 10% by 2015. –6 • Ensure that all SCA’s pulp and paper mills Mostly surface water –8 employ biological and mechanical effluent Responsible use of water is as much about its –10 water treatment by 2015. source as the volume extracted. Drinking water Target derives largely from groundwater reservoirs that SCA uses large volumes of water in pulp and replenish slowly when surface water seeps By year-end 2011, water usage in water-stressed paper production and in 2011, used 232 million through the soil to be stored. It is likely that regions declined by 0.1%. Of the Group’s pulp m³ of water, the majority drawn from surface human populations will rely increasingly on and paper mills, 43 are equipped with mechanical sources. groundwater in the decades to come. For this or biological wastewater treatment facilities. The majority of SCA’s mills, corresponding to reason, only 12% of the water SCA extracts is more than 95% of the Group’s water usage, are from groundwater, while the majority used in prosituated in areas where water is abundant. A duction facilities comes from surface water. recent Water Profile by IVL, the Swedish Environmental Research Institute, shows that the forest Water footprint industry in Sweden, though water intensive, does As water becomes increasingly scarce in some not restrict water for other users. regions, the idea of a water assessment tool or SCA is focusing its efforts on water in areas of ‘water footprint,’ a cousin of the ‘carbon footwater scarcity. Combining globally recognised print,’ is taking off. This analytical approach methodologies for water assessment from the allows the amount of water needed per kilo or Food and Agriculture Organisation, the World tonne of product to be calculated by taking Resources Institute and the University of New account of all the water it needs during its lifecyHampshire with SCA’s own knowledge, ten mills cle. The methodology can also be applied to (Lucca tissue and packaging in Italy, La Riba, companies, regions or countries as a way of illusPuigpelat and Mediona in Spain, Box Hill in Austrating their water use. In SCA’s view, the value of tralia, Cajica in Colombia, Monterrey and Sahagun the water footprint at the product level is complex in Mexico and Flagstaff in the US) have been idenand difficult to make comparable because access tified that have limited access to water. The target to water varies dramatically around the world. The to reduce water usage by 10% in these mills by same product could be considered water inten2015 is challenging – ap­proxi­mately half already sive in a dry country, and water extensive in a wet consume very little due to existing water-saving one. 36 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Accessible water resources are distributed extremely unevenly between regions. That is why SCA focuses on reducing water usage in such waterstressed regions as Mexico, Colombia, Spain, Italy and The scarce resource Australia. SCA’s greenfield tissue site in Mexico is an excellent example of how we ensure that we avoid using more water than is absolutely necessary and we have also installed a first-rate water treatment plant at the site. Value for nature | Water usage Water regulation around the world Like the European Union, SCA believes that water managing the water in its locality, so the price is likely to rise significantly. “There is every reason to set is best managed at district level. This allows for SCA is monitoring water-related regulation targets in areas of water the unique characteristics of each district, organaround the world, and particularly in countries ised around river basins that may cross national such as the US, Australia and New Zealand. The scarcity, and this is where boundaries, to be taken into account. The EU’s Group is participating actively in the development Water Framework Directive encourages all stakeof an ISO standard for water footprint. SCA is SCA is focusing its efforts.” holders to be involved in river basin management able to offer experience and advice to legislators plans and requires that all water in the EU should on subjects such as how various production and achieve a ‘good’ status by 2015. Industry is treatment methods affect water usage, product expected to play a part in paying for checking and quality and emissions to watercourses. Improved water treatment in Austria In October 2011, SCA installed a new anaerobic waste water treatment process, including a cooling tower and biogas treatment, in its tissue plant in Ortmann, Austria. The existing facilities dated back to 1989 and were at the end of its capacity. The new water treatment process has so far lived up to expectations, reducing the COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) emissions to the nearby river by 20–30% and the target is to reduce emissions by 60-70%. The plant produce almost 100 m³ of biogas per hour that will be used in the energy process in the tissue mill. The investment amounted to SEK 40m. 38 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Product safety | Value for nature A strong safety net SCA has deep knowledge and keen awareness of the importance of h ­ andling Ensuring product safety Product safety is extremely important and SCA chemicals carefully. Products safety is vital when working with packaging and works with consumers, customers, trade associtissue used in the food industry and hygiene ­products that come into close ations and legislatiors to ensure that its products contact with skin. comply with necessary standards. Product safety requirements vary between business units, and Safe use of chemicals REACH stipulates that suppliers pass on infor­ each one is responsible for the safety of its own Chemical management is a prioritised area for mation about hazardous chemicals sold via products. SCA and the Group is careful to ensure that any Safety Data Sheets (SDS) – a practice long estabThe process starts with the global supplier chemicals it uses are effective, handled safely lished in chemicals handling. The electronically standard. It specifies requirements for quality, and result in the lowest possible impact on peostored SDS are updated with additional informaproduct safety, environment, chemicals and Code ple and nature. The company monitors all relevant tion such as exposure scenarios and passed of Conduct. It also lists chemicals of special conlegislation and its implications worldwide. It has along the supply chain to ensure that users (SCA) cern so that suppliers are aware of which subdeveloped internal procedures to ensure that are informed at every stage. stances should be avoided. both health and environmental concerns are inteParticularly hazardous substances identified The most demanding standards are for food grated into the activities of mills and factories on by REACH are called Substances of Very High packaging, personal care and tissue products. a daily basis. Concern (SVHC). These chemicals are publicised The product safety assessment process involves Amongst the most important legislation via the European Chemical Agency’s Candidate collecting relevant data from suppliers and then affecting how chemicals are managed at SCA is List. SCA closely monitors changes to this list to undertaking chemical analyses and toxicological the European REACH (Regulation, Evaluation and ensure all products are fully compliant. There is tests for personal care products. The product Authorisation of Chemicals) regulation. It covers also other legislation that focuses on chemicals, also undergoes a safety check taking into the use of chemicals and their effect on occupasuch as food contact legislation. account the consumer user group, applicable tional health and safety, consumers’ safety and SCA takes particular care regarding packaglegis­lation and likely uses. the environment. ing and tissue for food and products that are in SCA is a user of large quantities of certain close contact with skin such as tissue and perindustrial chemicals for pulp and paper making. sonal care products. For instance, it ensures that All chemicals used shall be registered by suppliall the board leaving mills is suitable for food ers producing or importing more than 1,000 packaging, even if it is destined to become boxes tonnes per year, as required in the first phase of containing electrical goods or furniture. Similar REACH. The next phase requires suppliers to regstandards apply to tissue and personal care prodister anything over 100 tonnes of chemicals manucts. ufactured or imported per year by 1 June 2013. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 39 We want to ensure that our own and our supplier’s operations comply with our Code of Conduct regarding health and safety, working conWe want proof dition, child labour and respect for human rights. Our Code of Conduct assessments are one way of ensuring compliance. In 2011, assessments were conducted in Malaysia and Russia, both of which indicated alignment with SCA’s Code of Conduct. Value for people A values-based approach A strong corporate culture built on SCA’s core values of respect, excellence and responsibility, and high standards within business ethics, labour practices, health and safety, and human rights infuse SCA’s approach to social responsibility. SCA’s Code of Conduct is the foundation on which SCA’s employees and its suppliers are expected to meet rising stakeholders’ expectations for how a ­sustainable business should be run. Training and management systems underpin the ambition and translate objectives to action. Every aspect of conducting business – from strategy development to day-today decisions – must reflect the company’s values within social responsibility. Companies are increasingly expected to contribute much more to society than products and services – from respect of human rights for employees and throughout the supply chain, to zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. SCA’s supplier standard, for example, drives shared values and priorities through its supply chain. The complexity and global span of SCA’s business makes it even more crucial that all its interactions and relationships are managed responsibly to create a positive impact on society. Code of Employee Conduct Health & Safety pages 42-45 pages 46-48 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 41 Value for people | Code of Conduct Living by the Code The Group’s Code of Conduct helps bring SCA’s values to life and ensures that the company’s actions are aligned with universal standards of good TARGET business practice. Code of Conduct We will maintain compliance with the SCA Code of Conduct. All our employees will As a cornerstone of the Group’s governance sysMapping and managing risks be regularly trained. tem, the SCA Code of Conduct outlines expectaSCA focuses its efforts on the areas where it can tions for maintaining high standards of health and make the greatest difference. Annually, the comOutcome 2011 safety, employee relations, respect for human pany applies the insights of Transparency Interna• Launch of a new training campaign for Code of rights and anti-corruption work. It also undertional and Amnesty International, the foremost Conduct. scores the importance of building strong and NGOs on anti-corruption and human rights, and, • Code of Conduct assessments were pertransparent relationships with local communities, to a degree, Maplecroft, a global agency that formed in Malaysia and Russia. Business and implies a high level of integrity in business monitors political, economic, social and environ­Practice audits took place in Central America conduct. International standards such as the UN mental risks, to map markets most susceptible to and Greece. Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights, ILO human rights and corruption violations. • Implementation of the global supplier standard Core Conventions and the OECD Guidelines for About 22% (20) of the Group’s sales currently in the hygiene operations. Multinational Enterprises have influenced the derive from countries with an elevated risk of cor• Development of corresponding standards in Code. ruption and 1% derive from countries with an elepackaging and forest products operations. The Code sets a baseline level of compliance, vated risk for other human rights-related chalwhich every employee and each SCA partner is lenges. expected to uphold. SCA targets specific operations for training According to SCA’s materiality assessment and audits. The choice is based on four criteria: (see page 15), concerns relating to health and if the facility is located in geographical areas safety, employee relations and anti-corruption deemed most vulnerable to non-financial risks, the basis, helps the company maintain its high standhave been identified as the aspects of the social size of the operations’ turnover, if the business has ards. The system is based on relevant Global agenda most relevant to the company. Separate recently been acquired, and if there are indications Reporting Initiative Indicators (GRI) – the most training material and audit protocols have been of non-compliance at a facility (see also page 43). respected framework for non-financial reporting. designed for Code of Conduct compliance – covTo date, about 71% (66) of SCA’s operations in Using GRI indicators not only facilitates risk manering human rights, employee relations and health risk-identified countries have been audited for agement, but also streamlines the sustainability and safety – and Business Practice Reviews, Business Practice compliance. reporting process. which tackle compliance to global SCA policies What gets measured gets managed. SCA’s such as for anti-corruption and internal control internal reporting system, which centrally collects regulations. data from every operation on at least an annual Snapshot: Code of Conduct In place since 2004, the Code of Conduct is inspired by SCA’s core • Business Practice: to compete fairly when pricing its products and values of respect, excellence and responsibility. Aligned with universal services, with zero tolerance for all forms of corrupt and unethical standards of business conduct as defined by the UN Declaration of business practices. SCA expects the same behaviour from its suppliHuman Rights, ILO Core Conventions and OECD Guidelines for ers as from itself, a process driven by its supplier standard. Multinational Enterprises, the Code serves as a compass on individual • Human Rights: to ensure compliance with human rights, with and collective behaviour when employees are making business deciintense focus on preventing child and forced labour. sions or are faced with ethical dilemmas. • Community Relations: to contribute both directly and indirectly to the societies in which it operates. Here’s a snapshot of the Code’s key ­ingredients: • Communication and data privacy: To ensure open communication, • Health and safety: to continuously improve health and safety and while taking into account commercial confidentiality and respect offer employees a safe work environment. for individuals’ rights to data privacy. • Employee Relations: to foster a corporate culture where all employees are treated with respect, without discrimination and where they The Code applies to all SCA employees, ­operations and distributors. can exercise freedom of association. It is available in 20 languages at www.sca.com. 42 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Code of Conduct | Value for people Raising awareness An updated e-learning module and training than 18,000 employees had completed the trainIn line with the Group’s people targets, all employ­material for face-to-face training has been transing, the target being 24,000. ees are to be regularly trained on Code of Conlated into some 20 languages and will comprise a duct compliance and sound business practices, global awareness campaign and refresher course, Reporting non-compliance including how to counter corruption, bribery and which will continue until year-end 2012. Sometimes, training, education and audits are not unethical behaviour. This takes the form of faceenough. It is also important to have the systems to-face and online training provided at regular Communication and information security in place to report situations of possible non-­ intervals, and to all new employees. To date, SCA also continued its Group-wide training, initicompliance. All employees are encouraged to about 98% (97) of employees have received inforated in 2010, to raise awareness on the imporcontact their managers, HR and legal departmation and training, which includes guidelines on tance of information management and data secuments or, if relevant, their union representative, human rights and corruption. rity. Improper processing of, for example, cusif they wish to report a situation of potential violaWhile the Code sets the scene, guidelines tomer-related information, price information and tions. Additionally, an intranet grievance procegive it context. Rolled out in 2010, Code of Conintellectual property rights, could result in a negadure form, which can be submitted confidentially duct guidelines specify both how to meet SCA’s tive impact on SCA, both financially and to its is available online and in Asia, a third party-operexpectations and what employees and other reputation. The training is primarily provided ated Code of Conduct helpline is also in place. stakeholders can expect of SCA. through an e-learning tool. At year-end, more Guidance at heart of monitoring Code of Conduct and Business Practice compliance is monitored Audit findings through separate audit procedures, yet with a shared purpose: to In 2011, week-long BP audits were conducted at SCA’s operations in guide local operations in how to improve their practices. Greece and Central America while Code of Conduct audits took place Code of Conduct audits, previously called Human Rights Assessat facilities in Malaysia and Russia. ments, are conducted by cross-functional teams led by the Internal The BP audits addressed SCA’s relationships with customers, disAudit department. They address both Code compliance and ethical tributors and authorities and were based on interviews with managers behaviour, and review internal operations and local procurement proin different functions. Both BP audits concluded that business praccedures. tices in Greece and Central America are in line with SCA’s Code of Ongoing since 2005, the audit process was fine-tuned in 2010 and Conduct and there were no indications of any breach of the Code. The SA8000, the global social accountability standard for decent working audits also demonstrated a risk turned into opportunity – findings conditions, now serves as external guidance for implementing and show SCA’s reputation for ethical behaviour was regarded as a busiauditing Code of Conduct compliance. In total, 20 SCA employees ness advantage for the company in both countries. from a range of Group functions have been trained by assurance firm The Code of Conduct audits indicated alignment to the Code, polSGS to audit according to SA8000. To date, the revised procedure has icies and the SA8000 standard, while also revealing some areas for been applied to three sites. improvement. The Code’s audit of one Russian operation, for example, found compliance to ten of 12 SA8000 chapters and pointed to Sound business practices areas of improvement in overtime and safety measures. Action plans The Internal Audit function has carried out eight Business Practice were developed in conjunction with the audit and signed by the local (BP) audits since its launch in 2008. The audited units account for management. about 15% of SCA’s total business and 71% of operations in riskIn Malaysia, management were unable to demonstrate that they defined areas. The audits consist of a paper trail review and interviews comply fully with the need to pay a living wage. Management has with individuals holding managerial, sales and purchasing positions undertaken to independently establish what the local living wage is in who are potentially exposed to issues such as corruption and unethitime for the follow-up audit in the second quarter of 2012. cal business practices. Audit findings are reported to the Board through the Audit Committee. Following the audit, each unit is expected to deliver a timeline for remediation; follow-up audits only occur in extreme cases of noncompliance. Where necessary, evaluations are performed together with a third party. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 43 Value for people | Code of Conduct Violations In 2011, a total of 27 cases (eight) of violation of Reporting ethical performance along the value chain “To date, about 71% (66) the Code of Conduct were reported. Six were SCA’s Code of Conduct is based on the same of SCA’s operations in riskcases of business practice and corruption; eight universal business practices shared by other of discrimination; and the remaining 13 ranging trusted companies. It is therefore in line with the identified countries have from internet misuse to a breach of SCA values. In expectations of SCA’s customers. all cases, disciplinary actions were taken or the To complement SCA’s Code and to increase been audited for Business employment of staff members involved was tertransparency and build trust in the company’s minated. The increase in cases reported comapproach, SCA is also a reporter of the Supply Practice compliance.” pared with the preceding year was due to operaEthical Data Exchange (Sedex). Sedex helps tions in Asia capturing 20 violations from its hotinform customers of company performance, risks line, from minor violations such as internet misuse and approach in a format that is both comparable to a more serious violation of discrimination. and easy to use. A majority of SCA facilities curSCA views all forms of violations to the Code rently report into the online system and SCA of Conduct very seriously and consistently takes expects its suppliers to do the same. appropriate measures when such events occur. In one case of corruption in 2011, an employee Joint ventures requested a fee from a vendor to work with SCA. The company encourages its joint ventures and The vendor reported the case to SCA Human partners, such as distributors, to also apply the Resources and an investigation took place. Folsame rigour to their Code of Conduct work. lowing the internal review, the employee was disSCA is involved in a number of joint venture missed and to ensure that all employees were operations. Each of these joint ventures is manaware of best business practice, a reminder was aged by a local Board comprising SCA representsent out providing the necessary information. atives and its partners. Issues relating to compliOne case of discrimination involved misuse of ance to their Code are regularly addressed at their email. An employee sent colleagues inappropriBoard meetings, and in cases of serious nonate emails with offensive language. These emails compliance, reported directly to SCA. were forwarded to the local works council which Tackling the challenge of maintaining high reported it. The mailings subsequently stopped standards among distributors requires SCA to following disciplinary actions from the employee´s leverage its influence in a more indirect way. supervisor. Another case involved misuse of the A best practice example of the company’s Internet, where the employee involved was repriapproach is from Costa Rica, where it developed manded and communicated that a repeat offense training to raise awareness of SCA’s values, stratwould lead to dismissal. egy and codes among distributors Wamase and Coarsa. 44 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Supply chain | Value for people Spotlight on supply chain SCA’s supplier network is becoming increasingly complex and global. To ­confront that challenge, Group-wide sourcing procedures seek to ensure that New TARGET SCA’s products are manufactured with respect for people and nature. Supplier standard Our SCA supplier standard has Managing the supply chain responsibly is an inteChina, currently considered a high-risk area been developed with suppliers to drive shared gral part of the sustainability strategy. SCA’s because low enforcement levels to national envivalues and priorities through our supply chain. We objective is to ensure Group-wide supplier alignronmental and labour practice laws. will use it in all supply chain contracts by 2015. ment to its Global Supplier Standard by 2015. Three suppliers were selected for two-day Today, about 95% of SCA’s major supplier audits on compliance to the Standard. These contracts include criteria on social responsibility audits represent 30% of the purchasing spend in and the environment. The increase can partly be China for the hygiene operations. Although no explained by the implementation of the revised major non-compliance was identified, audit findglobal supplier standard in the hygiene operaings have uncovered cases regarding working tions. All potential suppliers are screened on perhours, health and safety and freedom of associaformance before approval and regularly followed tion and are followed up within six months. The up on compliance. Approximately 20% of the audited company must submit evidence that the company’s general auditing process covers issues are corrected, and the lead auditor will human rights and environment related issues. determine whether additional action is required. No contracts with major suppliers were declined or terminated due to violations during 2011, which is considered a last resort alternaThe Standard defined The Global Suppliers standard addresses issues “Today, about 95% of tive. of quality, product safety, environment, chemicals SCA’s major supplier To increase Group-wide alignment on responand the Code of Conduct, and is designed to sible sourcing, SCA’s supplier standards underreflect SCA’s commitment to the ten principles of ­contracts include criteria went a revision in 2010, aimed at building a threethe UN Global Compact. Purchasing departpronged platform, with: ments are responsible for implementation. on human rights.” • Compliance to the Global Supplier Standard. Although the standard is applied globally, it • Performance disclosure through Sedex (the will vary slightly for each business to take into world’s largest database for sharing ethical account the different issues relevant to their value supply chain data). chains. SCA’s other business units are in the pro• Audits of suppliers located in high-risk areas. cess of adapting the global standard. The packaging operations started rolling out to major supFor the Hygiene business, which has been rolling pliers at year-end 2011 and Forest Products will out the updated standard since January 2011, launch its in 2012. progress was made in all three areas. At year-end, all major raw-material suppliers had included criTraining teria on Code of Conduct compliance in their In 2011, about 100 hygiene staff members undercontracts. Of the hygiene operation’s 235 major, went face-to-face training in the supplier standglobal suppliers 64 reported performance through ard. In addition, presentations to raise awareness Sedex in 2011, the first year suppliers were and secure acceptance among suppliers have requested to register. been developed. Key raw materials and merchanAs in its own operations, SCA applies a riskdise suppliers in Asia were trained in how to meet based approach to monitoring its supply chain. In these changing expectations. 2011, there was particular focus on auditing in SCA Sustainability Report 2011 45 Value for people | Health and safety Towards a safe and healthy workplace As a company engaged in businesses relating to health and hygiene, and with high standards for workplace safety, ensuring the well-being of its employees is New TARGET of vital importance to SCA and its stakeholders. Employee Health & Safety Our aim is to have zero work With its large share of production facilities and health and safety and making the target relevant place accidents, and we will improve our accident forestry operations, safety plays a crucial role in to all aspects of the business. A critical incident ­frequency rate by 25% between 2011 and 2016. operational management. SCA is working report system was finalised this year, scheduled towards a vision of achieving accident-free facilifor launch in 2012, and incorporates Group-wide ties. In light of this, the company defined the tardata on each serious incident, covering prevenget of decreasing its accident frequency rate by tive actions taken, recommendations to other 25% between 2011 and 2016, compared with SCA sites and contact details for further informa2011 performance. tion. Safety first Surveying the safety landscape not result in absence from work are tracked. The Every SCA facility has procedures in place to In order to better understand performance and following key performance indicators apply for all deliver on the commitment to creating safe workpractices in use during 2011, the target’s benchoperations: places. These procedures aim to identify, address mark year, SCA conducted a survey to map the • Number of Lost Time Accidents (LTA): acciand reduce risks, as well as improve safety management systems of every facility. dents that cause an employee to miss the next awareness and reduce site downtime. The comFindings include that 28% of SCA’s operaregularly scheduled work day/shift. pany also has a long tradition of monthly reporttions have been certified according to the • Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA): number of ing of its performance on Group level. OHSAS18001 standard and remaining respondwork shift/ days lost due to an LTA. All management systems applied within SCA ents indicated that they have an alternative certifi• Accident Severity Rate (ASR): The DLA in relainclude comprehensive safety awareness traincation programme in place. SCA plans to work tion to LTA. ing, targets, risk identification, continuous perfortowards one standard, OHSAS 18001, in the • Incident Rate (IR): LTA in relation to number of mance monitoring, and employee representation future. employees. on joint health and safety committees. Some 94% • Frequency Rate (FR): LTA in relation to hours (94) of the total workforce is represented on such Training worked. committees. A proactive mindset that encourages individual • Fatalities. responsibility has informed training programmes. Policy defines a common platform This approach helps shift the focus to accident Performance SCA’s Group Health and Safety policy defines prevention. All new employees and contractors Almost all health and safety performance indicahow the company manages these issues across have undergone a safety induction programme tors demonstrated an improvement in 2011 comits operations and among all employees. Followand training in fire safety and first aid. pared with 2010. The accident frequency rate (FR) ing international standards such as OHSAS declined 15% (increase: 14%), while the accident 18001, the policy’s objective is to ensure that its Measuring and monitoring severity rate (ASR) fell 7% (14%). practices meet stipulations of national legislation Key safety indicators are the basis of the Group’s SCA is also saddened to report that on 29 and reflect the Code of Conduct. approach to risk identification and they inform the August 2011 an accident at one of its corrugated Since 2009, SCA has a reference team with process for continuous improvement. Both danbox factories in the Czech Republic claimed the responsibility for company-wide coordination of gerous occurrences and minor accidents that do life of one of its employees. The 60-year-old Incident Rate (IR) Accident Severity Rate (ASR) Safety statistics 2011 Lost Time Accidents 492 2.0 30 Days Lost 11,070 25 Accident Severity Rate 22.5 1.5 20 Incident Rate (incidents/100 employees) 1.3 1.0 15 Frequency Rate (incidents/million hours worked) 7.1 10 Fatalities 1 0.5 5 More safety statistics on page 66. 0.0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 46 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Workplace wellness programmes are becoming more and more widespread with the bottom line: healthy employees tend to be happier and The wellness effect more productive employees. For a company in the business of improving lives, the well-being of employees is an important way of demonstrating that SCA is walking the talk. SCA Americas has conducted an employee health programme since 2008 including regular health checkups, early detection of health risks and promoting a healthy life style. The business unit has identified diabetes as a crucial issue and supports employees in the highest risk category. Value for people | Health and safety maintenance worker was conducting repairs in a Health in focus Programmes to raise employee awareness waste-water pit. SCA’s investigation indicated For a company in the business of improving lives, The company has a policy in place since 2009 on that the cause of the accident was that a pump’s the well-being of employees is an important way Blood-borne viruses (BBVs) and includes such electrical system had not been activated autoof demonstrating that SCA is walking the talk. activities as local and national management trainmatically at the time of the repair. Measures to improve health range from ing. Supporting information material is available in Investigations have been conducted by both improved ergonomics, non-smoking campaigns, local languages, and on the Group intranet. company representatives and civil authorities, the work-life balance to training and counselling on Employees trained in first aid have received latter of which is still ongoing. how to deal with serious diseases, as well as the advice on how to identify and safely manage importance of nutrition and responsible drinking. related risk situations. Focus on slips, trips and falls Each business unit is responsible for designEmployees Group-wide are also engaged in Small incidents can have huge consequences. ing a wellness programme that is most relevant to two focus areas – raising awareness on the health Slips, trips and falls are the cause of some 20% of its operations. SCA Americas identified diabetes hazards of smoking and preventing slips, trips all accidents in the Group. In a bid to reduce such as a crucial issue and additional medical support and falls. incidents, a Group-wide evaluation of measures is on hand to support employees in the highest taken locally was performed in 2011 to spread risk category. SCA’s European tissue and perbest practice and reduce risk. sonal care operations have revamped menus in their canteens to reflect better nutrition. In 2012, a new Group-wide wellness campaign will be launched to further raise awareness. 48 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Employee relations | Value for people Engaged employees build value SCA’s approach to its employees generates value for its business, demonstrated The results from the survey has been cascaded throughout the organisation to drive improvein high employee retention rates, loyalty and engagement. As markets expand, ments and to develop action plans per division a greater global outlook will tap more diverse resources to meet changing times. for the new year. SCA adapts the way it conducts business to local need to strengthen competencies in consumer Performance management reviews markets and national legislation. At the same insight and marketing, particularly in emerging All individuals should know how they contribute time, the company is united by common goals, a markets. to the success of the company. Employees mutual ambition and shared values. SCA is The company’s approach to recruitment aims should have at least two performance reviews a 43,697 (45,341) people strong; three quarters of to find the right person, at the right place, at the year with their manager. For many employees, its staff are based in Europe and two thirds are right time and at the right cost. Part of this equaeach of these sessions is based on a Group-wide blue-collar workers. tion aims to understand and meet tomorrow’s performance management review system that SCA seeks to create the same mindset, culemployees; another is to develop a talent planclarifies what is expected and defines new objecture and expectations, regardless of where their ning process that pinpoints the most appropriate tives moving forward. It also encourages employemployees are located and what they work with. people. ees to contribute to the development of their The company is working towards this objective The Job Portal, which announces all available workplace as well as providing feedback against through a more global approach to human jobs within SCA, is an important aspect of recruitSCA’s core values. Through this uniform process, resource management and constructive engagement. It is being used extensively during the managers clearly connect each individual’s conment with unions and employees. ongoing restructuring process for the hygiene tribution to business results. In 2011, 70% (68) of organisation. Launched in 2009 on the Group’s employees participated in performance reviews. Setting the scene intranet and www.sca.com, the portal brings local Launched in 2011, an online system has been SCA is growing and shifting focus. It is expanding talent to the attention of relevant functions, and implemented in all business groups at managemarkets in emerging markets – with acquisitions gives more employees the opportunity to shape ment level. Managers receive training on how to in Mexico in 2010 and Brazil and Turkey in 2011. their own career. It also promotes a more efficient conduct successful reviews and SCA also In Australasia, SCA divested 50% of its operaand transparent recruitment process. A total of 45 informs employees on the process and its purtions to Pacific Equity partners. The newly formed countries have joined the portal and 1,213 (1,086) pose. The system can be applied at other comjoint venture affects 1,500 SCA employees in positions were thereby filled in 2011. pany levels and it will be launched globally in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji. 2012. The company is also reorganising its global All-employee survey hygiene operations, which employs 25,000 peoSCA is a performance-driven company. The Leadership management ple, to allow for a more global perspective and year’s activities focused on building systems to In order to integrate the same holistic thinking on greater efficiency. measure progress through insight. This inclusive leadership across the company, the Global In 2011, SCA announced the acquisition of approach includes the launch of an all-employee Leader­ship Platform is built on four pillars and Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue operations. If engagement survey, and the Global performance 12 capabilities, and is based on the Group’s core this is successfully concluded, it will be one of the review process was applied more broadly for ­values of respect, excellence and responsibility, biggest acquisitions SCA has made to date. It will employee reviews. as well as strategies. SCA managers performance add around 5,000 employees, and 15 production While business units have conducted is rated according to the platform. sites in seven countries to SCA. employee engagement surveys in the past, 2011 In 2011 SCA developed a new Group leaderAt the beginning of 2012, SCA announced the saw the first Group-wide survey. Results show ship development programme to help managers divestment of its packaging operations, affecting that SCA’s people feel a strong affiliation to their better drive value creation. To date, 90 managers 12,000 employees. DS Smith has made a formal employer. The response rate was 82%, higher have participated in the programme. In addition, offer to acquire the French part of the packaging than the objective of 75%; 83% expressed that the Leadership Academy helps mid-level managoperations. This process is subject to an informathey saw a long-term future with SCA, and ers become better leaders. Since its inception in tion and consultation procedure with the relevant thereby have a vested interest in its progress. Its 2004, about 350 managers have completed the works councils and will be treated separately. global turnover rate of 12% (9) is low for the programme. industry. Strategic planning At the same time, the survey pointed to the Training and development SCA’s markets are evolving fast, and it is imporneed for improvement in leadership, performance Although leadership management is driven globtant that the right competencies are in place to management and feedback. SCA is working to ally, most employee development activities are meet them. Strategic workforce planning, based raise the bar on all of these components. local. The average number of training hours for all on an analysis of trends and drivers, points to a employees in 2011 was 19 (18) hours. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 49 Value for people | Employee relations Organisation and talent planning 28% to 26% among the 1,000 most senior include severance pay, early retirement schemes, SCA needs a steady supply of employees ready ­managers. and financial incentives to those who find work and able to step up and assume greater responsiIn 2011, 44 (42) nationalities were represented before the end of their termination period. Supbilities. The global Annual Organisation and Talent among the 1,000 most senior executives, of port services include individual career counselReview process ensures that each business units whom 21% (20) were women. Among the 300 ling, workshops – ranging from supplying practihas a continually updated succession and talent most senior executives, 31 (24) nationalities were cal know-how to support in change management plan. Similarly at Group level, a corresponding represented and 16% (16) were women. – and administrative support. Local employers process encompasses SCA’s top 300 managers Progress towards better representation is are often engaged to help find employment and is led by the CEO. measured in diversity reports and is monitored in opportunities. the talent review process. Encouraging greater In Linselles, France, the closure of a diaper Diversity strengthens competitive edge diversity is also part of the Leadership Platform plant was completed in July 2011, affecting 280 The lion’s share of SCA’s staff is male, with strong and is built into all managers’ job descriptions. people. The plant was one of the main employers representation from Sweden, particularly in top in the region. By year-end, 80 employees had management. Increasing diversity is therefore a Restructuring and reorganisation found new jobs or had begun long-term educakey strategic issue for SCA. In competitive terms, During periods of restructuring, the company’s tional programmes. SCA sold the factory premgreater diversity provides more insight into confocus is to provide support to employees affected ises to new company, which plans to provide 50 sumer requirements and how SCA can meet by organisational changes. This is done primarily positions in the first year and 150 in three years’ expectations throughout the global marketplace. through transparent and early discussions with time, also offering new opportunities for SCA An essential element of the Group’s Code of unions, and in the development of a social plan, employees. Conduct is to ensure that all employees are tailored to assist employees in finding new Speedy integration of new employees is also treated fairly and with respect – regardless of age, opportunities. an important part of the acquisition process. Integender, ethnicity, religious belief or any other perA top priority is to notify employee representagration is well underway for the Brazilian hygiene sonal characteristic. tives at an early stage of restructuring as per SCA products company Pro Descart, which was purpolicy, national legislation and collective agreechased in September 2011. Compliance to the Management diversity survey ments. The average notice period for employees SCA Code of Conduct was an important part of SCA conducts an annual survey of its top managin the SCA Group, which varies per country, in the due diligence process. ers to measure progress on diversity. connection with organisational changes is five SCA’s Code of Conduct was translated into During 2011 the share of females among top weeks. Thereafter a social plan, organised and Brazilian Portuguese and distributed among all 100 managers increased from 16% to 24%. implemented locally, is developed for each operaemployees. Within the first 30 days, top-level The percentage of Swedish nationals among the tion. managers were trained in Code compliance and a 300 most senior managers fell from 34% in 2010 Typically, the plan contains job search assistown hall meeting with all employees introduced to 32% in 2011, while the figure declined from tance, training and other support. It may also the Code and core values. SCA’s top management diversity SCA’s top management diversity Employees survey, top 300 managers 2011 survey, top 1,000 managers 2011 Total Number of employees 43,697 Swedish, 32% Swedish, 26% Temporary employees 1,216 German, 15% German, 15% Part-time employees 1,635 British, 8% American, 9% Employees leaving the company 5,207 American, 8% British, 9% Employee turnover 12% Italian, 5% French, 5% French, 4% Italian, 5% Dutch, 4% Dutch, 4% Mexican, 3% Mexican, 3% Austrian, 3% Belgian, 3% Other, 18% Other, 21% In total 31 nationalities In total 44 nationalities SCA’s top 300 managers by gender 2011 SCA’s top 1,000 managers by gender 2011 Employee age distribution SCA Group 2011 Men, 84% Men, 79% –20 years, 2% Women, 16% Women, 21% 21–30 years, 18% 31–40 years, 27% 41–50 years, 30% 51–60 years, 20% 61– years, 3% 50 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Numerous studies support the idea that there is a link between employee satisfaction and customer satisfaction, productivity, and financial results. It is common sense. When people feel great about Listening to our the place where they work they perform better. In 2011 SCA conducted its first all employee survey with a high response rate (82%). inner voice SCA scored high on engagement while leadership, innovation and customer orientation did not score quite as high. The results have been cascaded down on business unit level and will be followed up with specific measures. Value for people | Employee relations Freedom of association and collective tee (JAC). JAC comprises union and managewide), the Swedish Paper Workers’ Union (which in bargaining ment representatives and meets three times a this context represents all the Swedish trade SCA has a long tradition of healthy union relations year. The JAC meetings include regional updates unions) and SCA’s European Works Councils. and recognises the right of all employees to join that provide all participants a chance to share and The Global Framework Agreement commits unions. The level of engagement and the existlearn from best practice and discussions around SCA to report on how it manages social responsience of formal collective bargaining arrangetopics such as health and safety and organisability within its operations. Based on the Code of ments vary from country to country, but on avertional structure. An open and honest dialogue Conduct, the areas covered by the agreement are age, about 68% (70) of employees at SCA sites maximises employee engagement and also reviewed bi-annually in a joint meeting between are covered by collective bargaining agreements. improve business results. signatories. SCA conducts formal employee consultation Union representatives also contributed to the In 2011, areas of discussion covered labour processes in many markets. One of the largest completion of the Code of Conduct guidelines, practices and collective bargaining and the parrepresentative groups is the SCA European updated Code of Conduct training material and ticipants were informed about SCA’s global stratWorks Council (EWC), which represents about the formulation of SCA’s policy on information egy and its CSR initiatives. No indications had 30,000 SCA employees. The relationship is built security and individual responsibility, in order to been received that any violations of the agreeon a collaborative approach, with regular schedensure that the company does not infringe on the ment had occurred. uled meetings. SCA updates representatives on integrity of employees. the Group’s development, earnings, Code of Conduct, health and safety, organisational issues Global framework agreement and the sustainability strategy, engaging them SCA has an ongoing global framework agreement and allowing employees to prepare for change. with the International Federation of Chemical, In North America, SCA and the United SteelEnergy, Mine and General Workers’ Union (ICEM, workers (USW) formed a Joint Advisory Commitrepresenting more than 20 million members world52 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Community involvement | Value for people Action at the grassroots Reaching out through education, partnerships and donations is a powerful way In a first phase, 40,000 hygiene kits were dis­ tributed with the aim of increasing the number. for SCA to make a difference in people’s lives, from school programmes in South Co-branded Red Cross and SCA, they contain America to partnerships with the Red Cross and donations of feminine care feminine care products, soap, shampoo, handproducts to Ethiopian refugee camps. kerchiefs, body lotion and other essentials. In New Zealand, SCA’s toilet tissue brand Community involvement serves not only as a link Product donations Purex is the official sponsor of the Red Cross for between SCA and issues closely related to the SCA contributed to the efforts of the UN refugee 2011. A share of sales was directed to Red Cross company – such as the value of forests, the agency (UNHCR) in Ethiopian refugee camps by initiatives, with sponsorship of both marketing importance of women’s and children’s health and supplying 1.6 million feminine care products to campaigns and an annual Wear Red Day appeal, the taboos related to incontinence – it also builds Somali women and girls forced to flee their aimed at raising awareness of heart disease. trust in SCA’s approach to doing business. As a homes because of civil war and drought. In emerIn 2011, for the fourth consecutive year, SCA’s major employer in many countries, the company gency situations, women comprise a particularly Sorbent brand partnered with the Cancer Council therefore seeks to play an active role in the comvulnerable group and sanitary products are cruAustralia to support Daffodil Day, donating AUD munities in which it conducts operations. cial for their health and dignity. The feminine care 150,000, which will be used to fund vital cancer SCA’s approach takes different forms – rangproducts had a value of about SEK 400,000. research, prevention and support services. Sorbing from financial contributions, cause-related A three-year partnership with Oxfam Novib in ent has contributed more than AUD 580,000 marketing and product donations to volunteer South Sudan, which aims to improve hygiene since starting the partnership. work and partnerships with local, national and conditions in schools, entered its second year. As In Malaysia, SCA’s baby diaper brand Drypers international organisations and companies. part of the agreement, SCA’s consumer tissue entered into a partnership with the National The company’s sponsorship policy creates a brand Edet is supporting the partnership by buildAutism Society of Malaysia. All financial donashared approach to sponsorship activities. It is ing latrines. SCA’s AFH brand Tork is installing tions made by Drypers in 2011 and 2012 will go to based on SCA’s values, business priorities and other sanitary facilities, including hand-washing a cultural centre where autistic children will have vision of improving the quality of everyday life, sinks, and providing soap and hygiene lessons in the opportunity to involve themselves in creative and sets out a framework for all community initiaschools. SCA’s feminine care brand Libresse is activities such as arts and crafts, music and tives. While the guidelines are determined at providing sponsorship for girls in the form of drama. Group level, the creative process and decisionproducts and educational scholarships. making often take place at the local level. This Thailand’s worst flooding in 50 years affected Financial donations approach provides the employees with the scope the lives of millions. In addition to donating In collaboration with the Japanese business partto be innovative and enterprising while also conDrypers baby diapers to an emergency relief cenner, Unicharm, SCA donated SEK 100,000 to the tributing to the company’s social responsibility tre on the outskirts of Bangkok, SCA employees Red Cross emergency teams in Japan to support objectives. also donated time and funds to aid flood victims. relief efforts following the earthquake and tsuA web-based system registers all projects and Personnel in Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines nami in March 2011. their value, making it possible to track project and Thailand raised SEK 30,000 for the cause, a SCA’s tissue brand Zewa supported the development, identify themes and share experidonation that was matched by SCA. “Safehouse” campaign to help in the establishences. ment of shelters for women and children who are In 2011, the company collectively invested Partnerships victims of domestic violence in Serbia. Zewa approximately SEK 24m (35) in community relaSCA has entered into a long-term partnership donated EUR 0.12 for each sold package of Zewa tions, with initiatives in the hygiene business with the French Red Cross, based on aiding the Deluxe toilet paper, or in total SEK 225,000. accounting for the predominant portion. The country’s homeless and encouraging employee amount corresponds to 0.3% of SCA’s operating involvement. The partnership includes the distriAwareness-raising campaigns profit. The decline compared with the preceding bution of hygiene kits, sponsoring an educational SCA believes that disseminating knowledge and year was due to unusually large donations to road show for teenagers, information actions for educating customers, consumers and care proemergency projects in 2010. However, the number the elderly and internal involvement among SCA viders in hygiene issues in an important task. This of projects increased from 135 to 296. employees, including first-aid training, fundraisis carried out through a large number of initiatives Some highlights of community involvement ing and volunteer work. across the globe, for example, in the form of in 2011: parental education programmes, puberty and SCA Sustainability Report 2011 53 Value for people | Community involvement menstruation education for young women, and programmes are run by SCA’s feminine care standing of how it is to be old. By donning special teaching preschool children the importance of brands, Nosotras and Donnasept. suits that simulate an aging body, participants washing their hands. About 5–7% of the world’s adult population gained an insight into how much more compliTork’s “Clean hands” hygiene education prosuffer from incontinence. As the world’s largest cated daily life becomes in later life and how simgramme in Russia received the “Best for Chilsupplier of incontinence care products through ple tasks, such as brushing your teeth or going to dren” quality award from the Russia state. The the TENA brand, SCA has worked for many years the toilet, become more difficult. programme was launched in 2010 and, since to generate greater awareness concerning inconthen, a large number of preschool children have tinence and to break the taboos that surround this Volunteering completed the course. condition. SCA supports the biannual Global In December 2011, employees at SCA’s US head SCA’s South American baby diaper brand Forum on Incontinence, a conference that office in Philadelphia organised a volunteer day. Pequeñin performs ongoing educational proattracts participants from across the globe. Over the course of three hours, 130 SCA staff grammes to raise children’s awareness of the For the fifth consecutive year TENA organised members worked for various organisations such importance of hygiene. The initiative includes the “For a full life” race/walk in Mexico. More than as Share (food distribution), The Salvation Army entertaining and engaging school programmes 5,000 people, most of whom were over the age of and the Eliza Shirley Shelter (shelter for homeless and a home kit of products and information mate50, participated in the event. women), and donated SEK 9,000 to each of the rial. Since its inception in 2006, 28,000 children More than 200 nurses and care providers parplaces at which they had volunteered. and 450 preschools have taken part. ticipated in the first TENA Empowering the Elderly In June, 100 of the most senior managers in Several school programmes are under way in seminar in Malaysia. The aim was to educate care the North America operations gathered for a manLatin America directed at teenage girls to educate providers in matters concerning elderly care and agement meeting. They chose to spend three them about what happens to their bodies during the event was arranged by TENA in collaboration hours doing volunteer work while also donating puberty and menstruation. In Bolivia, Colombia, with the Malaysian Healthy Ageing Society and SEK 25,000 to each of the places at which they Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, Chile, Peru University Putra Malaysia. had volunteered. and Puerto Rico, more then 1,500,000 girls have In the Netherlands, TENA enabled politicians, completed the programmes since their start. The care specialists and journalists to gain an under54 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 2011 was the UN International Year of Forests, and SCA took an active role through its Tree Pool programme for employees across Europe to brighten up Trees bring joy their communities with a lasting gift. As Europe’s largest private forest owner, it is critical we demonstrate our comto society mitment to the environment. The programme is also a great vehicle for employees to engage with local communities and spread the SCA sustainability message. The Tree Pool programme supports employees in planting trees where they live, providing their communities with a piece of nature. Participation in the programme has been even greater than expected and trees have been planted around Europe in all kinds of locations, from kindergartens to sports clubs, ­community ­centres and town centres. Control and assurance | Sustainable governance Sustainable governance The main purpose of all governance at SCA is to guarantee the Group’s Environmental governance Water management network: The network ­commitments to all of its stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, ­analyses the impact of the EU’s Water Framework lenders, the community and employees; commitments that are expressed in Directive on SCA’s operations. It also establishes the company’s business objectives and strategies. the Group’s future aspiration level for reductions in emissions and water usage. Governance of sustainability work Committee. These committees draft proposals FSC network: The network’s responsibility is to SCA’s Corporate Senior Management Team bears for policies and principles for governing the sus­ disseminate information on the subject through­ the overall responsibility for the control of SCA’s tainability work, in addition to objectives and out the organisation, and to coordinate the business in the environmental and social area. action programmes at Group level. They also Group’s position and activities in relation to FSC. SCA has a corporate staff unit in charge of coordinate and follow up the Group’s initiatives RMS network: Responsible for compiling infor­ sustainability, led by the Senior Vice President and objectives in the environmental and social mation and making calculations and presenta­ Sustainability, who reports to the CEO and is a area. The committees include members of all tions relating to the use of resources and environ­ member of the Corporate Senior ­Management business groups and representatives of Corpo­ mental data. Team. A part from the environmental, social and rate Sustainability, Human Resources, Environ­ Other Group-wide networks with a distinct economic aspects, the staff is also responsible ment, Communications and Public Affairs. connection to SCA’s environmental work include: for SCA’s Public Affairs. In close collaboration Responsibility for implementation rests with with the Business Unit Presidents, the approved the operational organisation. A number of ESAVE network: Coordinates the Group’s strategy and objectives are broken down into environ­mental networks and corporate social approximately 1,700 projects that aim to reduce specific targets and activities to ensure compli­ responsibility task forces work horizontally across SCA’s energy consumption and environmental ance with the Group’s objectives and business SCA’s different business units to guarantee a con­ impact. plans. sistent approach. Responsibility for the manage­ Energy network: Based on the Group’s strength, The SVP Sustainability chairs the Environ­ ment of specific issues rests within the relevant size and extensive energy consumption, the net­ mental Committee and the Social Responsibility business unit. work focuses on identifying cost-efficient solu­ tions and synergies in connection with energy sourcing. Emissions ­trading is another important area. Corporate Governance at SCA Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditors committee Remuneration Chairman of the Board Audit committee committee Board of Directors Internal audit President and CEO Executive Vice President Global Business Corporate Staffs Services (GBS) Business Group Presidents SCA SCA SCA AFH SCA SCA SCA SCA SCA Incontinence Consumer Professional Forest MEIA Americas Asia Pacific Packaging Care Europe Goods Europe Hygiene Europe Products Global Hygiene ­Category (GHC) Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations Global Hygiene Supply Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations 56 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainable governance | Control and assurance Governance of social responsibility management responsibilities with regard to inter­ gets is presented on pages 58-63 in the Annual In 2009, SCA introduced a new organisation for nal control. There is also a separate Internal Audit Report 2011, together with an account of how governing its social agenda. Work related to function at SCA that works to continuously evalu­ these risks are managed. social responsibility is based on SCA’s Code of ate and improve the effectiveness of SCA’s Conduct and is supervised by the corporate sen­ ­governance processes, risk management and Corporate Governance Report ior management team. Activities are conducted internal control. SCA’s Internal Audit organisation The complete Corporate Governance Report is by a number of task forces consisting of repre­ contributes to the maintenance of high standards available on SCA’s website www.sca.com and in sentatives from all business units. These are of business practice and is involved in the moni­ the 2011 Annual Report. divided up into the areas of Health and Safety, toring of Code of Conduct compliance through Employee relations, Business ethics, Human such activities as Business Practice Reviews (see rights, Community relations, and Communication page 43). As support in its work, the Internal Audit and Data Privacy. The task forces ­propose issues unit has a number of steering documents and pol­ of focus for SCA within each of their respective icies. For example, competition legislation guide­ areas, and are responsible for the implementation lines are updated every third year and, in 2011, of these. anti-corruption guidelines were ­developed. In addition to the above task forces, SCA has a group responsible for GRI reporting. Risk and risk management SCA is exposed to a number of risks with the Controlling and monitoring potential to exert a greater or lesser material In addition to the company’s auditors, the com­ impact on the Group. The responsibility for longpany’s operations are subject to external reviews term and overall management of strategic risks and monitoring by, among others, the Swedish follows the company’s delegation scheme, from Financial Supervisory Authority and the Nasdaq the Board to the President, and from the Presi­ OMX Stockholm. dent to the Business Unit Presidents. SCA’s own control systems include segrega­ A description of the most significant risks that tion of duties in critical processes and defined impact SCA’s ability to achieve established tar­ SCA’s sustainability governance CEO and Board of Directors SVP Sustainability Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Committee Steering Committee CSR Reference Group SCA Group Networks SCA Group Networks SCA Sustainability Report 2011 57 Control and assurance | Environmental data RMS SCA operates an extensive system of gathering and presenting data for individAny excess electricity produced at an SCA facility that is not used internally is supplied to ual production facilities and entire business units. The Resource Management the national grid. In 2011, SCA delivered 351 System (RMS) allows SCA to analyse data describing how the company uses GWh of electricity to the national grid. energy, water, transport and raw materials, and to monitor waste and emission SCA supplies secondary heat derived from levels. ­effluent hot water to district heating systems, mainly in Sweden, which is an effective way of The RMS data is used for internal control and to improve quality and function as well as in pack­ saving energy. In 2011, SCA delivered heat to monitoring, external benchmarking and as a tool aging with superior protective qualities. ­district heating systems equivalent to 26,385 m3 for evaluating acquisitions and major invest­ SCA is one of Europe’s largest collectors and of fuel oil. ments. This year’s RMS data includes one new users of recycled fibre. The diagram to the right tissue mill and two new personal care plants. One shows the raw material distribution of SCA’s Transport paper mill and one personal care plant were products. Raw materials are transported to SCA’s produc­ closed. tion plants and finished products are delivered to Water SCA’s customers. SCA uses external suppliers for Resources SCA’s water supply is presented in the chart Raw most of its transportation needs. SCA’s use of This section describes SCA’s use of raw materi­ materials, energy and discharges. The figures transportation is equivalent to 43.3 billion tonneals, water, energy and transport in 2011. stated are totals for surface water, groundwater kilometres. Sea freight accounts for the greatest and municipal water systems. SCA’s total water portion of SCA’s transport and the remainder con­ Raw materials intake is 232 Mm3. sists of road and rail. Transportation of SCA’s raw A typical SCA product is made from various types materials and products uses the equivalent of of wood fibre. It also contains small amounts of Energy 13,372 TJ of fuel and electricity. inorganic and fossil organic materials. Energy use includes purchased energy (heating, Renewable raw materials (fresh fibre and electricity and fuel) supplied to production units, Emissions re­cycled fibre) account for the largest share of energy generated from wood, liquor, bark, sludge The company’s total emissions are determined by the material used in an average SCA product. and waste paper, and electricity generated on fuel consumption, which in turn is determined by Inorganic materials (kaolin clay and calcium site. A large portion of the energy used by SCA the level of production. Changes in production vol­ carbonate) are used as filler and coating pigment comes from the incineration of wood residuals umes over the past few years, measured in tonnes in certain types of paper in order to satisfy cus­ and from on-site co-generation of electricity. The and m3, are shown in the tables that present Group tomer quality requirements. Synthetic materials energy data figures stated therefore include both emissions in 2009, 2010 and 2011. are used in highly absorbent hygiene products a fuel component and an electricity component. Distribution of water supply Distribution of transport usage Emissions from transport, CO2 ktonnes Surface water, 85% Ship, 75.9% 1,200 Ground water, 12% Truck, 19.3% 1,000 Community water, 3% Rail, 4.8% 800 600 400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 Distribution of electricity supply Distribution of fuel supply Emissions from transport, NOX and SO2 tonnes Internal hydro power, 0.2% Biofuel, 44.6% 20,000 Co-generation, 26.5% Oil, 3.3% Grid supply, 73.3% Electric boiler, 0.3% 15,000 N-gas+LPG, 51.1% Coal, 0.7% 10,000 5,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 NOX SO2 58 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental data | Control and assurance Emissions to air Air emissions from transport Distribution of raw materials Air emissions comprise emissions from all com­ A large portion of SCA’s air emissions is gener­ bustion units at SCA’s production sites, including ated by transport, rather than the company’s pro­ % fossil fuel and biofuel emissions and emissions duction activities. Transport emissions are not 100 from purchased thermal energy. When energy included in the tables “Raw materials, energy, and (primarily thermal energy and/or electricity) is emissions” on page 60, but are presented in the 80 supplied to an external facility, air emissions are diagrams below. 60 reduced in relation to the energy amount delivered and the reduction is distributed among SCA’s Emissions to water 40 main products. SCA’s effluent water is divided into cooling water Three chemical compounds are measured and process water. Cooling water has simply 20 and reported in relation to air emissions: NOX, been heated and is not contaminated in any way. 0 SO2 and fossil CO2. The total volume of discharged process water is Tim lp Co ca Co Ca re The stated CO2 figures may differ somewhat 127 Mm3. This water is treated using methods be r Pu Pu bli nt ain rru ga on rs ) Pe uff al tio er (F l from those reported to local authorities under the similar to those employed at municipal wastewa­ n pa bo a Tiss ue te d pe rd EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). This is ter treatment facilities. The figures for 2011 refer rs Fresh wood fibre Inorganic material because the countries participating in ETS use to process water emissions. Recycled fibres Organic fossil different limits and definitions for their calcula­ The emissions to water stated in the tables tions, while SCA calculates and presents RMS comprise COD, BOD, suspended solids, AOX, data according to a separate set of rules. A global P and N. Methods of measuring differ in some company such as SCA, with operations on sev­ respects. All SCA production of bleached chemi­ Solid waste eral continents, needs a single set of rules for cal­ cal pulp employs Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) pro­ The solid waste reported by SCA is waste that is culating data to enable uniform reporting and cesses. The stated AOX data refers to treatment sent to landfill, recycled waste and hazardous monitoring of emission levels. of incoming raw water. waste. Recycled waste refers to materials that Carbon dioxide emissions from SCA’s fossil can be used as raw materials in other industries, fuel consumption corresponded to 2,483 ktonnes such as the cement, brick-making and construc­ and purchased electricity to 1,688 ktonnes during tion industries. The main types of recycled waste the year. are ash, sludge, organic waste and plastics. ­Hazardous waste is primarily waste oil as well as organic solvents, batteries and strip lights. Air emissions, NOX Air emissions, SO2 Air emissions, CO2 fossil tonnes tonnes ktonnes 5,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 2,500 1,500 2,000 3,000 1,000 1,500 2,000 1,000 500 1,000 500 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Water effluents P, N Water effluents COD, BOD and suspended solids Distribution of solid waste tonnes tonnes ktonnes 700 40,000 1,500 600 1,200 500 30,000 400 900 20,000 300 600 200 10,000 300 100 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 P N COD BOD Susp solids Landfill Recovery SCA Sustainability Report 2011 59 Control and assurance | Environmental data Environmental data Raw materials, energy and discharges Forest Products Packaging Tissue Products Personal Care SCA Group Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Production Paper and pulp ktonnes 2,429 2,430 3,876 4,014 2,483 2,504 8,787 8,948 Personal Care products ktonnes 545 536 545 536 Timber and solid-wood products 1,000m3 2,006 2,040 2,006 2,040 1. Raw materials Wood/sawmill chips* ktonnes 3,798 3,876 789 692 432 408 0 0 5,019 4,976 Purchased pulp* ktonnes 99 106 0 0 1,033 1,029 342 332 1,475 1,467 Purchased paper ktonnes 0 0 0 0 62 46 0 0 62 46 Containerboard* ktonnes 0 0 1,936 2,084 0 0 0 0 1,936 2,084 Recovered paper ktonnes 941 933 1,653 1,668 1,662 1,688 0 0 4,257 4,289 Inorganic material ktonnes 379 362 14 13 0 0 0 0 393 376 Organic fossil material ktonnes 13 13 15 21 3 5 271 247 301 286 Water Mm3 95 93 47 48 90 90 0 1 232 231 2. Energy Electricity Internal hydropower GWhe 15 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 14 Co-generation GWhe 1,216 1,258 706 716 504 502 0 0 2,426 2,477 Grid supply GWhe 2,479 2,467 729 749 3,102 3,076 411 408 6,721 6,699 Total GWhe 3,711 3,739 1,435 1,465 3,606 3,578 411 408 9,163 9,191 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 16,527 17,122 13,774 13,485 4,392 4,237 0 0 34,694 34,844 Fossil fuel TJfuel 9,927 10,455 9,362 9,905 23,367 23,910 204 248 42,859 44,519 Electric boiler/hood TJfuel 100 88 8 25 156 170 0 0 263 283 Total TJfuel 26,554 27,665 23,143 23,415 27,915 28,317 204 248 77,816 79,645 of which co-gen. TJfuel 8,730 8,942 3,844 3,826 3,263 3,386 0 0 15,838 16,154 3. Discharges To air NOX as NO2 tonnes 1,333 1,425 1,516 1,500 1,695 1,762 20 25 4,564 4,712 SO2 tonnes 461 453 198 264 457 855 0 0 1,116 1,572 Dust tonnes 89 185 89 97 138 297 0 0 316 579 CO2 fossil ktonnes 587 626 543 587 1,341 1,371 12 14 2,483 2,598 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 143 138 148 161 1,246 1,246 151 140 1,688 1,684 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 1,671 1,761 1,427 1,388 550 525 0 0 3,648 3,675 To water COD tonnes 11,769 11,634 9,778 11,162 8,965 8,224 0 0 30,512 31,020 BOD tonnes 849 717 2,629 2,737 1,517 1,380 0 0 4,995 4,835 Suspended solids tonnes 634 585 2,555 3,701 1,584 1,171 0 0 4,773 5,458 AOX tonnes 7 9 4 6 2 3 0 0 13 19 P tonnes 28 25 27 38 32 24 0 0 87 87 N tonnes 221 229 129 230 220 254 0 0 570 713 Effluent water Mm3 41 39 23 21 64 62 0 0 127 122 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 18,580 16,092 12,866 14,286 337,284 338,796 2,069 2,283 370,799 371,457 Recovery tonnes 300,079 311,716 157,530 154,892 688,577 642,495 55,607 54,240 1,201,793 1,163,342 Hazardous tonnes 55,853 48,067 822 1,039 1,230 897 32 80 57,937 50,083 * Partly internal deliveries. 60 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Personal Care Total Gennep Hoogezand Gemerskà Hôrka Drummondville Bowling Green Te Rapa Personal Care Mölnlycke Falkenberg Springvale Guadalajara Selangor Ecatepec Calia Rionegro The Netherlands The Netherlands Slovakia Canada US 16 plants Olawa Veniov Sweden Sweden Poland Russia Malaysia Australia New Zealand Mexico Mexico Colombia Colombia 2011 Grades Production ktonnes 4 77 88 87 45 29 6 33 28 63 6 4 22 10 24 18 545 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grid supply GWhe 5 48 37 78 36 31 9 27 27 42 9 1 22 8 17 14 411 Total GWhe 5 48 37 78 36 31 9 27 27 42 9 1 22 8 17 14 411 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fossil fuel TJfuel 13 0 27 77 16 28 25 3 9 5 0 0 0 0 1 1 204 Electric boiler TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 13 0 27 77 16 28 25 3 9 5 0 0 0 0 1 1 204 of which co-gen. TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 1.3 0 2.7 7.7 1.6 2.8 2.5 0.3 0.9 0.5 0 0 0 0 0.1 0.1 20 SO2 tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dust tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 fossil ktonnes 0.8 0 1.5 4.3 0.9 1.6 1.4 0.2 0.5 0.3 0 0 0 0 0.1 0.1 12 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 0.2 2.1 14.0 29.1 23.0 6.8 2.7 4.4 13.9 27.5 7.9 0.2 10.0 3.7 3.0 2.5 151 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 To water COD tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 BOD tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Suspended solids tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AOX tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 P tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Effluent water Mm3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 0 0 0 0 279 145 0 289 117 15 532 N/A 331 222 0 139 2,069 Recovery tonnes 139 7,287 5,665 9,997 5,308 7,059 1,059 3,649 3,460 2,215 659 228 3,140 1,144 2,218 2,382 55,607 Hazardous tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 11 0 8 5 0 0 N/A 1 2 1 3 32 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 61 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Tissue Mannheim tissue Mannheim pulp Mannheim Total Friesland Witzenhausen Jönköping Chesterfield Oakenholt Manchester Drammen Prudhoe Stembert Kostheim Neuss Ortmann Germany Edet Germany The Netherlands Orleans Germany Le Theil Sweden Sweden Norway UK UK UK UK Belgium Germany Germany Germany France France Austria 2011 ti,gp, Grades ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti,gp bsi pp,bsi ti ti ti ti,nw ti ti ti ti Production ktonnes 98 16 17 89 26 55 48 68 286 215 323 93 105 29 6 63 27 131 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 95 155 250 22 0 0 0 0 0 83 Grid supply GWhe 134 20 24 135 34 49 108 76 308 0 308 99 140 28 11 62 80 62 Total GWhe 143 20 24 135 34 49 108 76 403 155 558 121 140 28 11 62 80 145 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 562 70 0 0 0 0 0 0 66 3,692 3,757 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Fossil fuel TJfuel 168 61 60 1,124 261 472 588 474 1,679 2,335 4,014 868 672 191 41 357 451 1,346 Electric boiler TJfuel 71 0 85 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 801 130 144 1,124 261 472 588 474 1,744 6,027 7,771 868 672 191 41 357 451 1,349 of which co-gen. TJfuel 40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 874 224 1,098 0 0 0 0 0 0 492 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 57 9 4 57 6 43 19 32 64 524 588 9 29 19 1 19 45 48 SO2 tonnes 2 2 0 3 3 0 0 0 14 294 307 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dust tonnes 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 41 41 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 fossil ktonnes 11 4 4 63 15 26 33 27 135 91 226 49 38 11 2 20 25 75 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 5 1 1 61 15 22 48 17 133 0 133 42 60 12 4 6 7 10 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 72 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 145 327 472 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 To water COD tonnes 384 107 142 135 E/T 33 E/T 56 260 4,248 4,508 123 81 E/T E/T 34 E/T 255 BOD tonnes 88 36 N/A 4 E/T 4 E/T 21 61 204 265 7 5 E/T E/T 11 E/T 16 Suspended solids tonnes 76 18 39 15 E/T 7 E/T 3 58 194 252 1 3 E/T E/T 3 E/T 21 AOX tonnes 0 0 0 0 E/T 0 E/T 0 0 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 0 E/T 0 P tonnes 1 0 0 0 E/T 0 E/T 0 3 9 11 1 0 E/T E/T 0 E/T 1 N tonnes 17 3 5 0 E/T 0 E/T 1 19 65 85 5 9 E/T E/T 1 E/T 10 Effluent water Mm3 4 0 1 2 1 0 1 1 4 12 16 1 1 0 0 0 1 4 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 0 2 32,093 10,946 155 0 15 183 102 102 203 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recovery tonnes 40,336 18,104 1,259 52,946 53,726 5,051 7,569 4,221 45,204 33,135 78,339 77,577 3,777 299 2,428 3,914 1,204 112,062 Hazardous tonnes 27 3 0 1 0 17 18 50 14 452 466 37 132 22 2 24 0 29 ti = tissue paper reels and/or uc = uncoated fine paper tissue consumer products rc = recycled pulp nw = non-woven mp = market pulp gp = grease-proof paper E/T = external treatment pp = packaging paper N/A = data not available bsi = bleached sulphite pulp 62 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental data | Control and assurance Total South Glens Falls Tissue Products Svetogorsk Kawerau Mediona Altopascio Menasha Monterrey Sahagun Uruapan Cajicá Medellin Box Hill US Lasso 36 mills Sovetsk Lucca 1 Collodi Barton Flagstaff New Zealand Valls Russia Italy Mexico Pisa Spain Spain Russia Italy Italy US US US Mexico Mexico Ecuador Chile Colombia Colombia Australia ti, ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti uc, mp ti ti ti ti ti ti 139 36 26 32 125 41 25 163 55 188 76 54 40 38 23 43 30 41 54 61 2,483 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 63 0 32 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 0 0 0 0 0 0 504 145 33 43 40 55 36 3 273 64 321 104 77 75 40 37 72 59 56 120 79 3,102 145 33 43 40 117 36 36 273 64 321 104 77 75 84 37 72 59 56 120 79 3,606 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,392 733 240 297 285 1,335 283 413 1,278 463 1,692 785 488 659 941 205 464 220 513 777 147 23,367 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 156 733 240 297 285 1,335 283 413 1,278 463 1,692 785 488 659 941 205 464 220 513 777 147 27,915 0 0 0 0 754 0 275 0 0 0 0 0 0 604 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,263 73 24 26 27 142 17 34 37 0 73 17 49 66 4 21 22 2 23 43 15 1,695 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 36 4 1 97 0 0 457 0 0 1 4 0 0 0 4 1 42 0 0 0 0 3 7 0 26 3 0 138 41 13 17 16 75 16 23 72 26 95 44 27 37 53 16 33 12 41 44 13 1,341 43 10 14 13 21 14 1 139 33 163 53 35 34 18 0 27 10 10 147 16 1,246 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 550 20 0 555 E/T E/T E/T E/T 643 652 N/A N/A E/T 60 54 377 108 153 484 E/T E/T 8,965 N/A 0 67 E/T E/T E/T E/T 47 13 75 254 E/T 24 28 187 27 57 282 E/T E/T 1,517 2 0 170 E/T E/T E/T E/T 112 54 71 159 E/T 12 20 89 14 306 138 E/T E/T 1,584 0 0 0 E/T E/T E/T E/T 0 0 0 0 E/T 0 0 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 2 0 0 10 E/T E/T E/T E/T 1 2 3 0 E/T 1 0 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 32 2 0 61 E/T E/T E/T E/T 18 1 N/A 0 E/T 0 1 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 220 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 8 0 8 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 64 206 85 22,783 14,543 299 151 25 137,003 4,624 20,342 0 2,181 2,015 3,678 19,847 47,320 12,996 4,247 468 873 337,284 7,898 2,764 30,954 142 1,057 477 507 182 35,740 1 2,742 20,644 34,251 49,944 286 473 20,840 16,141 239 484 688,577 56 29 4 0 32 11 26 17 0 31 1 18 22 50 60 0 43 5 0 0 1,230 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 63 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Packaging Total De Hoop Corrugated board Containerboard Aschaffenburg Witzenhausen EPS Europe Packaging Munksund 52 plants 12 plants Obbola The Netherlands Germany Germany 6 mills Europe Lucca Sweden Sweden Italy 2011 Grades kl, wtl kl, tl tl, fl fl tl, fl tl, fl,wtl fl Production ktonnes 323 416 333 353 326 375 2,127 1,737 12 3,876 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Co-generation GWhe 181 110 123 148 136 2 700 6 0 706 Grid supply GWhe 125 211 5 2 2 167 511 202 16 729 Total GWhe 306 321 128 150 138 169 1,211 208 16 1,435 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 5,550 4,239 0 369 3,513 35 13,705 49 20 13,774 Fossil fuel TJfuel 308 365 2,457 2,647 57 1,617 7,452 1,760 149 9,362 Electric boiler TJfuel 8 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 0 8 Total TJfuel 5,865 4,604 2,457 3,016 3,570 1,652 21,165 1,810 168 23,143 of which co-gen. TJfuel 763 462 698 1,282 572 35 3,811 33 0 3,844 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 393 261 102 365 166 32 1,320 179 17 1,516 SO2 tonnes 92 28 0 1 3 0 123 51 24 198 Dust tonnes 44 29 0 1 4 0 77 12 0 89 CO2 fossil ktonnes 25 29 138 148 3 91 433 101 9 543 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 7 9 2 1 1 65 84 60 4 148 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 578 451 0 40 349 2 1,420 5 2 1,427 To water COD tonnes 5,597 2,929 247 244 207 263 9,487 291 0 9,778 BOD tonnes 2,073 402 14 19 10 22 2,540 89 0 2,629 Suspended solids tonnes 1,214 1,185 16 34 11 64 2,524 31 0 2,555 AOX tonnes 3 1 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 4 P tonnes 5 17 1 1 1 3 27 0 0 27 N tonnes 23 76 6 8 4 12 129 0 0 129 Effluent water Mm3 10 7 2 1 1 2 22 0 0 23 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 2,552 218 38 0 0 7,122 9,930 2,589 346 12,866 Recovery tonnes 15,158 29,908 21,889 36,968 16,477 33,490 153,890 3,280 360 157,530 Hazardous tonnes 83 80 35 47 56 81 382 439 2 822 kl = kraftliner wtl = white-top liner tl = testliner fl = fluting E/T = external treatment N/A = data not available 64 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Forest Products Total Pulp and paper Forest operations Forest Products Laakirchen Aylesford Ortviken Östrand Austria 4 mills 8 mills Sweden Sweden UK 2011 solid-wood Grades np, lwc bk, ctmp sc np products Production ktonnes 886 491 529 377 2,283 146 2,429 1,000 m3 2,006 2,006 Energy Electricity Internal hydro power GWhe 0 0 15 0 15 0 15 Co-generation GWhe 50 436 412 318 1,216 0 1,216 Grid supply GWhe 2,038 53 188 30 2,309 170 2,479 Total GWhe 2,088 489 615 348 3,540 170 3,711 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 2,420 12,152 0 399 14,972 1,555 16,527 Fossil fuel TJfuel 421 900 4,242 4,135 9,697 229 9,927 Electric boiler TJfuel 68 0 0 0 68 32 100 Total TJfuel 2,909 13,052 4,242 4,534 24,737 1,817 26,554 of which co-gen. TJfuel 221 1,837 2,147 4,526 8,730 0 8,730 Discharges To air NOx as NO2 tonnes 172 702 108 254 1,235 97 1,333 SO2 tonnes 27 414 0 3 445 16 461 Dust tonnes 20 36 0 5 61 28 89 CO2 fossil ktonnes 30 70 238 232 570 17 587 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktonnes 89 2 31 13 135 7 143 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 241 1,237 0 52 1,530 141 1,671 To water COD tonnes 4,172 5,738 962 818 11,689 80 11,769 BOD tonnes 125 620 36 32 813 36 849 Suspended solids tonnes 282 206 55 90 633 1 634 AOX tonnes 1 5 0 0 6 1 7 P tonnes 3 17 3 4 27 0 28 N tonnes 81 120 2 18 221 0 221 Effluent water Mm3 13 15 7 5 41 0 41 Solid waste Landfill tonnes 411 20 0 12,719 13,150 5,430 18,580 Recovery tonnes 38,924 54,308 168,361 34,511 296,104 3,975 300,079 Hazardous tonnes 301 399 62 54,795 55,557 296 55,853 np = newsprint sc = SC paper lwc = LWC paper ctmp = chemical thermomechanical pulp bk = bleached kraft pulp N/A = data not available SCA Sustainability Report 2011 65 Control and assurance | Social data Social data 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of employees 43,697 45,3411) 49,531 51,999 50,433 of whom female, % 27 26 27 29 25 Employees leaving the company 5,207 4,269 5,768 7,511 6,852 Employees joining the company 4,809 4,262 3,832 6,255 7,202 Age distribution, % –20 years 2 2 2 3 2 21–30 years 18 18 20 20 19 31–40 years 27 28 29 29 30 41–50 years 30 30 29 29 29 51–60 years 20 19 18 17 18 60– years 3 3 2 2 2 Employee turnover, % 12 9 2) 12 14 – Academic degree or similar 14 16 15 13 15 Competence development, cost per employee 19 18 14 9 3) – Diversity: Nationalities, top 300 managers 31 24 27 28 31 Nationalities, top 1,000 managers 44 42 41 39 44 Female managers of top 300 managers , % 16 16 13 12 10 Female managers of top 1,000 managers, % 21 20 20 19 16 Women, of total number of Board members and senior executives, % 16 14 18 14 14 Health and safety Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 492 569 564 685 770 Days Lost (DLA) 11,070 13,810 15,947 16,181 15,812 Accident Severity Rate (ASR), % 22.5 24.3 28.3 23.7 20.5 Incident Rate, % 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.8 Frequency Rate (FR), % 7.1 8.3 7.3 8.5 9.5 Fatalities 1 1 2 0 34) Sick leave, Swedish companies, % In total 3 3 3 4 4 Men 3 3 3 4 4 Women 3 4 4 5 6 Of which 60 consecutive days or more 37 44 45 45 48 Code of Conduct Business Practice Reviews Central America, Italy, Mexico Russia 3 reviews, N/A Greece Eastern Europe Code of Conduct assessments Malaysia, Russia Mexico – – China, Singapore, Malaysia, Costa Rica, Greece, Spain, the Czech Republic and Hungary 1) The personnel reduction of 4,200 persons is attributable to the divestment of the Asian packaging operations. 2) Excl. the divestment of the Asian packaging operations. 3) Training hours for 2008 and 2009 are reported in accordance with different systems. 4) Two SCA employees and one entrepreneur. 66 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 About this report | Control and assurance About this report This report describes SCA’s sustainability initiaData collection The data is reported both internally and externally tives from an environmental, social and economic Data provided that relates to environment, health at the mill level, business group level and for the perspective. SCA publishes a sustainability report and safety at SCA’s plants and mills refers to the Group as a whole. each year. For the fourth consecutive year, SCA 2011 calendar year. These figures include the SCA All business groups report information to ABS, has prepared its report in accordance with the Group, wholly owned subsidiaries and subsidiarincluding salaries, pensions, absence due to illGlobal Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines, ies in which SCA owns at least 50% of the comness, education levels, skills development costs level A+. pany. If SCA’s ownership of a plant or mill is 50% and other information related to employees. The The Sustainability Report and the Annual or more, the entire facility is included. Newly social GRI indicators are reported through the Report should be viewed as a single unit in which acquired businesses are integrated when they ABS system. information may be provided in either report or, have been part of the Group for one calendar year. At the beginning of 2012, a position as Direcwhere appropriate, in both. Corporate goverCertain data is presented for comparison, meantor of Sustainability Reporting was established to nance is an example of a subject that is referred ing adjustments for acquisitions and divestments further strengthen reporting procedures in the to briefly in the sustainability report but a more are eliminated. area of sustainability. detailed description is provided in the Annual The results of the Group’s CO2 target and Report’s corporate governance section. water target are adjusted each year in relation to The content of the Sustainability Report production levels. Other data is reported in absofocuses predominantly on issues that SCA and lute figures. No significant changes have been its stakeholders regard as important for the commade since the preceding year. pany and its environment. The information is primarily compiled from When adjustments have been made comSCA’s RMS system (described in more detail on pared with earlier reports, a note is appended page 58) and the Group’s accounting system, ABS. directly beside the text or table. The RMS covers more than 170 production sites, covering virtually the whole company's enviGRI ronmental impact and resource utilisation from During 2011, SCA collected data on 30 social production. Each unit reports the following data to performance indicators recommended by the GRI the system: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI indi• raw material consumption cators cover SCA manufacturing operations and • incoming and outgoing shipments most office locations, but do not include central• production volumes ised corporate functions or employees of joint • energy consumption broken down by hydro­ ventures. electric power, co-generation and power from The entire sustainability report has been the grid reviewed by PwC. In the past, only parts of the • fuel consumption broken down by biofuels, social and environmental data were reviewed. fossil fuels and electric boilers More detailed information about SCA’s work on • air emissions, including data on fossil and bioenvi­ronmental and social issues is available at genic carbon dioxide www.sca.com • water emissions • solid waste SCA Sustainability Report 2011 67 Control and assurance | Assurance report Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To the readers of the Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) Sustainability Report 2011 We have been engaged by the management of Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting c. reconciliation of financial indicators on page 18 Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) to Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sus­ with SCA’s Annual Report for the financial year perform an examination of the SCA Sustainability tainability Report, as well as the accounting and 2011. Report for the year 2011. The Board of Directors calculation principles that the company has and Executive Management team are responsible developed and disclosed. We consider these cri­ We consider the evidence collected during our for the company’s activities regarding environ­ teria suitable for the preparation of the Sustaina­ examination to be sufficient and appropriate in ment, health & safety, social responsibility, and bility Report. order to support our conclusions listed below. sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in Review procedures Conclusions accordance with applicable criteria. Our respon­ The main procedures of our review have included Our conclusion based on our review sibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustaina­ the following: Based on our procedures performed, nothing has bility Report based on our examination. a. update of our knowledge and understanding of come to our attention that causes us to believe SCA’s organization and activities, that the information in the SCA Sustainability The scope of the examination b. assessment of the outcome of the company’s Report which has been subject to our review has We have performed the assurance engagement in stakeholder dialogue, not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustaina­ c. interviews with management at group level and accordance with the above stated criteria. bility Reports issued by Far. The objective of an at selected business units in order to assess if audit is to obtain reasonable assurance that the the qualitative and quantitative information Our conclusion based on our audit information in the Sustainability Report is free of stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, In our opinion, the information in the SCA Sus­ material misstatements. An audit includes exam­ accurate and sufficient, tainability Report which has been subject to our ining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the d. examination of internal and external docu­ audit has, in all material respects, been prepared quantitative and qualitative information in the ments in order to assess if the information in accordance with the above stated criteria. Sustainability Report. A review is mainly limited to stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, making inquiries of personnel responsible for sus­ accurate and sufficient, tainability issues, and applying analytical and e. evaluation of the design of systems and pro­ other review procedures. Hence, the conclusion cesses used to obtain, manage and validate Stockholm, 21 February 2012 based on our review procedures does not com­ sustainability information, prise the same level of assurance as the conclu­ f. analytical procedures of the information stated sion of our audit. Since this assurance engage­ in the Sustainability Report, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ment is combined, our conclusions regarding the g. assessment of the company’s declared appli­ audit and the review will be presented in separate cation level according to the GRI guidelines, sections. h. assessment of the overall impression of the Our assurance engagement includes exami­ Sustainability Report, and its format, taking nation of the following areas, with the purpose of into consideration the consistency of the either providing reasonable assurance (hereafter stated information with applicable criteria, referred to as audit) or limited assurance (hereaf­ i. reconciliation of the reviewed information with ter referred to as review): the sustainability information in the company’s Anders Lundin 1. Our review has included all pages in the Sus­ Annual Report for the financial year 2011. Authorised Public Accountant tainability Report. 2. Our audit is limited to the following information: Audit procedures a. financial indicators on page 18, Our audit has included the following procedures: b. environmental data regarding water, grid a. evaluation of design and functionality of rele­ supply, biofuel, and waste to recovery on vant internal controls within the systems and page 60. processes used to collect, manage and vali­ date information on the selected indicators Our assurance, reasonable or limited, does not during the reporting period. Fredrik Ljungdahl comprise the assumptions used by the company b. reconciliation of reported information with Expert Member of Far or whether or not it is possible for the company to internal and external source documents, and reach certain future targets described in the performing detailed tests of the selected indi­ report (e.g. goals, expectations and ambitions). cators regarding water, grid supply, biofuel, The criteria on which our examination is based and waste to recovery on page 60 in the Sus­ are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting tainability Report, and 68 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Global Compact Report | Control and assurance Global Compact Report SCA became a member of the United Nations UNGC and GRI cross reference table corporate citizenship initiative, Global Compact, The following table shows how performance in in July 2008, joining a network of more than 8,700 relation to each UN Global Compact principle can businesses and other participants from more than be reported via a number of Global Reporting Ini­ 130 countries in promoting ten core principles in tiative (GRI) standard performance indicators. the areas of human rights, labour, environment This is based on guidance documents published and anti-corruption. by the UN Global Compact. As a part of this commitment, SCA will report on the company’s corporate responsibility activi­ ties and performance in an annual Communica­ tion on Progress (COP), using the Sustainability Report as a vehicle for this communication. The UNGC principles GRI indicators Sustainability Report provides a number of exam­ ples of ongoing activities, as well as key perfor­ Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of mance indicators clearly showing that SCA sup­ internationally proclaimed human rights HR1–9, EC5, LA6–9, 13–14, SO5, PR1–2, 8 ports the ten Global Compact principles in its 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in everyday business. human rights abuses HR1–9, SO5 The SCA Code of Conduct is an important Labour internal document, guiding and aligning 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining LA4–5, HR1–3, 5, SO5 employee behaviour with the Global Compact 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced principles. Regular reviews of business practices and compulsory labour HR1–3, 7, SO5 are conducted throughout the organisation to 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour HR1–3, 6, SO5 ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation LA2, 13–14, HR1–4, EC7, SO5 Measurements of performance related to the Global Compact principles are given throughout Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to the report using indicators suggested by the environmental challenges EC2, EN18, 26, 30, SO5 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever possi­ 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 ble. In particular, GRI performance indicators 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion relating to human rights, labour and anti-corrup­ of environmentally friendly technologies EN2, 5–7, 10, 18, 26–27, 30, SO5 tion principles are presented in the Social Anti-corruption Responsibility section, and environmental perfor­ 10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, mance indicators reported through the RMS sys­ including extortion and bribery SO2–6 tem are presented in the Control and Assurance section. A complete GRI index is available at www.sca.com SCA Sustainability Report 2011 69 Control and assurance | GRI Index GRI Index SCA’s Sustainability Report for 2011 follows Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (version G3). The following index shows where information can be found: this Sustainability Report Commitments to external initiatives (SR), Annual Report (AR), or SCA’s Group website (sca.com), which contains the cor4.11 Explanations of if and how the precautionary principle is applied sca.com responding GRI index with direct links. The table includes all core indicators and the supp4.12 A ssociation to external voluntary codes, principles lementary indicators that are applicable to SCA’s operations. or other initiatives sca.com The GRI Guidelines are the most widely accepted and used standard for sustainability 4.13 Membership in organisations SR 14 reporting, with more than 1,700 companies around the world applying the guidelines. This is the fourth report in which SCA applies GRI guidelines. SCA is reporting on the A+ level Stakeholder engagement as defined by GRI, which has been confirmed by PwC. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups SR 11–15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of important stakeholders SR 11–15 PROFILE 4.16 Approach to stakeholder relations SR 11–15 1. Strategy & analysis 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 1.1 CEO’s comments SR 2–3 dialogues with stakeholders SR 11–15 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 58–63 5. Economic performance indicators 2. Organisational profile Disclosure on management approach AR 9, 48 + SR 7 2.1 Name of the organisation AR 113 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services AR 18–19, 21, 29, 37, 43 Economic performance 2.3 Operational structure of the org. SR 56–57 + AR 12 EC1 Direct economic value and distribution SR Inside cover, 22 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SR back cover EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due 2.5 Countries where the organisation is active AR 87 to climate changes SR 8, 25, 30 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 4–5 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit SR 22 + AR 103 (Note 26) plan obligations 2.7 Markets AR 21, 29, 38, 43 EC4 Financial assistance received from government AR 80 2.8 Size of the organisation SR inside cover + AR inside cover Market presence 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 13 EC5 Range of ratios for standard entry level wage 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SR 1 compared to local minimum wage SR 22 + sca.com EC6 Purchases from local suppliers SR 22 3. Report parameters EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR 50 + sca.com Report profile Indirect economic impact 3.1 Reporting period SR 67 + AR 76 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report SR 67 for public purposes SR 53–54 + sca.com 3.3 Reporting cycle (12 months, 24 months, etc.) SR 67 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report SR back cover the extent of impacts SR 22, 53–54 Report scope & boundaries 6. Environmental performance indicators 3.5 Process for defining report content SR 15, 67 3.6 Boundary of the report SR 67 Disclosure on management approach SR 7, 56–57 + sca.com 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR 67 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc SR 67 Materials 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles SR 58, 67 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 32, 59–60 3.10 Comparability with previous reports SR 67 EN2 Recycled input materials SR 33, 59–60 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. SR 58, 67 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption SR 29, 58, 60 GRI content index EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR 29, 58, 60 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and in the report SR 70–71 efficiency improvement SR 29–30 3.13 Policy and current practice in regard to external verification of the report SR 68 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal SR 36, 58 4. Governance, commitments & engagement Biodiversity Governance EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value SR 35 + sca.com 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation SR 56–57 EN12 Factors that affect biodiversity sca.com 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation AR 48 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members AR 50 Emissions, effluents & waste 4.4 Methods for shareholders and employees to propose EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 59–60 recommendations, etc. to the Board AR 48 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 58 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives AR 88 (note 6) + sca.com EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SR 10, 28–31 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the Board sca.com EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting compounds sca.com 4.7 Processes for determining the competence of Board members sca.com EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions SR 58–60 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. SR 42 EN21 Emissions to water SR 59–60 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work SR 57 + sca.com EN22 Waste SR 59–60 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance AR 51 + sca.com EN23 Significant spills sca.com 70 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 GRI Index | Control and assurance Products & services Indigenous rights EN26 Actions to reduce environmental impacts of HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of products and services SR 28–39 indigenous people and actions taken SR 14 + sca.com EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reused SR 59 + sca.com Society Compliance Community EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with applicable laws sca.com SO1 Programmes for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities SR 42 + sca.com Transport Corruption EN29 Environmental impact from transport SR 58–59 SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR 42 SO3 E  mployees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption 7. Social performance indicators policies and procedures SR 43 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR 44 Disclosure of management approach SR 7, 56–57 + sca.com Public policy Employment SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying SR 14 + sca.com Employees SO6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, etc. sca.com LA1 Total workforce by function, employment type and region SR inside cover, 49 + AR 87 Anti-competitive behaviour LA2 Rate of employee turnover SR 49, 66 + sca.com SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour sca.com Labour/management relations Compliance LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees sca.com SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws sca.com LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 52 Product responsibility LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SR 50 Customer health & safety Health & safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed SR 39 + sca.com LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and safety ­committees SR 46 Product & service labelling LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, PR3 Product labelling and information sca.com work related ­fatalities SR 46, 66 LA8 Programs to assist workforce regarding serious diseases SR 46–48 + sca.com Marketing communications LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary with trade unions SR 52 codes for marketing communications sca.com Training & education Compliance LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 50 PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning sca.com ­concerning the use of products and services sca.com LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews SR 49 Diversity & equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce SR inside cover, 50, 66 + AR 54–57, 87 (Note 5) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women sca.com Human rights Investment & procurement practices HR1 Consideration of human rights in regard to investments SR 52 + sca.com HR2 Human rights in the supplier chain SR 45 HR3 Training and education in human rights SR 43 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 44 Freedom of association & collective bargaining HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken sca.com Child labour HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour and actions taken sca.com Forced & compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken sca.com SCA Sustainability Report 2011 71 Control and assurance | Glossary Glossary Anaerobic treatment Anaerobic wastewater treatment Climate Change Also defined as global warming. Human EPD, Environmental Product Declaration Quantified uses biological agents in an oxygen-free environment to activity contributes to the warming of the global environmental data for a product with pre-set categories of remove impurities from wastewater. environment and its resulting effects, which range from parameters based on the ISO 14040 series of standards higher temperatures to eccentric weather patterns and but not excluding additional environmental information. AOX, Absorbable organic halogens Expresses the melting of the ice caps. amount of chlorine-bound organic substances. Some of ESAVE Structured energy-saving programme introduced these substances accumulate in fish and fish-eating b AOX. CO2 biogenic The carbon dioxide derived from combusby SCA in its energy intensive manufacturing units in 2002. tion of biofuel. It is calculated from the carbon content Its aim is to substantially reduce the consumption of energy ASR (Accident Severity Rate) The severity of accidents of wood. in production units. defined as the number of days lost due to accidents (DLA) in relation to the number of lost time accidents (LTA). Refer CO2, Carbon dioxide A gaseous compound emitted ETS, Emission Trading Scheme (or System) also to FR, IR and Lost Time Accidents (LTA). naturally through geological activity during the Greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme for the decomposition process and through human activity. cost-effective reduction of such emissions in the European BAT, Best Available Technology Officially used Industry and transport and heating/cooling are currently the union, made in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. terminology to describe the state-of-the-art technology that largest emitters of CO2. Installations operating in the paper and board industry, in industry should use in the field of activity concerned (see the energy sector, iron and steel production and the mineral IPPC directive and BREF). CO2 fossil The carbon dioxide derived from combustion of industry apply ETS as of 1 January 2005 in two initial fossil fuels. It is calculated from the carbon content of each Biodiversity A term describing the multitude of life-forms phases; from 2005 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2012. CO2 fuel. and species (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. An emissions are subject to permits and fines (if emissions are ecosystem is a biological community living in a particular COD, Chemical oxygen demand Water emission factor above the cap set for the operation). The “allowance” physical environment. which describes the amount of oxygen consumed when means the entitlement to emit 1 tonne of carbon dissolved matter in effluent water oxidises. High COD dioxide. ETS, European Tissue Symposium Organisation Biofuel Renewable fuel from wood and process residues. values can indicate a risk of depletion of the normal oxygen based in Brussels made up of European Tissue producers, BOD, Biochemical oxygen demand Water emission content in the water environment. engaged in a dialogue with the European Commission, the factor which describes the amount of oxygen consumed The Code of Conduct Is a formal statement of the values Council of Europe and other international organisations. during biodegradation of dissolved organic matter in and business practices of a company. A code is a stateETS has been involved in the development of the recently effluent water, without describing the specific substances ment of minimum standards, together with a pledge by the published Council of Europe Guidelines For Tissue Paper present. High BOD values indicate depletion of the normal company to observe them and to require its contractors, Kitchen Towels and Napkins. oxygen content of the water environment. It is measured subcontractors and suppliers, to observe them. Fluting The rippled middle layer in corrugated board over seven days in SCA’s Swedish mills and five days in the rest of Europe, in accordance with national legislative Co-generation Combined production of electricity and packaging. systems. thermal energy. Co-generation has a high total efficiency. Forced Labour This includes indentured, debt bondage BREF Best Available Technology Reference Document. Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power, CHP or involuntary labour of any kind. This document identifies BAT (Best Available Technology) Combined production of electricity and thermal energy. ­CoFossil fuel Coal, fuel oil and natural gas supplied to the for the 32 sectors selected by the EU, including the pulp generation has a high total efficiency. site, exclusive of fuel for transport. and paper industry. All pulp and paper mills with a capacity Compulsory Labour This includes work done in a Freedom of Association Refers to the right of employees exceeding 20 tonnes per day should follow the IPPC situation where the workers have to lodge a monetary to lawfully join associations of their own choosing, directive (see IPPC). deposit or identity papers with their employer. peacefully associate, organise or bargain collectively. Bribery Is the giving or receiving of any undue reward by or Containerboard Paper specially manufactured for the FR, Frequency Rate The number of accidents/incidents to any person to influence their behaviour in a manner production of corrugated board. (See liner and fluting). per million hours worked. It is an indicator of Safety contrary to the principles of honesty and integrity. Corrugated board Two outer layers of paper with an statistics in industry (also see LTA and Incidence Rate). Carbon sink As they grow, forests transform gaseous intermediate layer of fluting. (See liner and fluting). Fresh wood fibre Also referred to as virgin fibre. First carbon into solid form, thereby absorbing CO2 whilst Dow Jones Sustainability Index The share index of generation use of raw material derived from wood. simultaneously producing oxygen. Forests, agricultural land and the world’s oceans are considered to be “carbon sinks” companies that are considered leaders in the area of FSC, Forest Stewardship Council An international by current science. sustainable development and that conduct their businesses organisation promoting responsible forest management. accordingly. FSC has developed principles for forest management used Carbon trading The trading of carbon emissions credits Dust Particles in the flue gas created during com­bustion. for certifying the management of forest holdings, and a by companies or, at a different level, by countries, within a system of tracing, verifying and labelling timber and wood global limitation scheme, (designed to achieve global EDANA International association serving the nonwovens products based on FSC-certified forests. SCA is an active emissions reductions using market mechanisms. and related hygiene industries. EDANA exists to create the supporter of FSC. Chain-of-Custody The traceability of the origins of a foundation for sustainable growth of the nonwovens and associated hygiene industries through active promotion, Green energy In the case of SCA, energy produced by product through all its transformations from raw material to education and dialogue. Website: www.edana.org and burning recovered waste products, such as bark, sawdust, finished product. In the SCA context, Chain-of-Custody www.hapco.edana.org plastic rejects, production sludge or other materials. certification links SCA’s products with its FSC-certified forests. Effluent water Water discharged to water courses after Grid supply The electricity supplied from the national grid. Chemical pulp Pulp from wood fibres processed treatment. GWh Gigawatt hours, Unit of energy measurement chemically, normally by cooking. Electric boiler Electricity supplied for thermal heat (pro(electricity and heat). 1GWh=1 million kWh. Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp, CTMP A high yield duction), for boilers and heat pumps, measured at the site HAPCO Hygiene Absorbent Products Manufacturers pulp (about 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained and converted into GJ. Committee; a group member of EDANA, of which SCA is by heating and then grinding chemically pre-treated spruce EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme created by an active member; Website: www.hapco.edana.org. chips in refining machinery. European Council Regulation. Hazardous waste Material disposed of by authorised Child Labour Refers to the employment of workers who Environmental Management System The part of the contractors, as defined by national laws. Human Rights Are do not meet the applicable national minimum legal age overall management system which includes the structure, based on the recognition of the inherent dignity and the requirement. practices, procedures and resources for the systematic equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human implementation of the organisation’s own environmental family, and are the foundation of freedom, justice, and CHP See Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power. policy. peace in the world. They are defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). Incidence Rate, IR Number of incidents per 100 employees. Also see LTAs and Frequency Rate. 72 SCA Sustainability Report 2011 Glossary | Control and assurance Inorganic material Covers inorganic fillers and coating MBT, Mechanical-biological treatment Hybrid Renewable All materials which can be re-grown or materials supplied to a site calculated at 100% dry subtechnology combining mechanical sorting of waste and produced without depletion of natural resources. stances (ds). biological treatment to produce biogas. A further SC paper, Super Calendared Publication paper with a processing stage can convert the residual material into Internal hydropower Electricity produced in wholly high-gloss surface and with a high content of mechanical refuse-derived fuel. owned local hydro power stations. and/or recycled pulp. Mainly used for catalogues, Mechanical pulp Debarked wood that is ground or magazines and advertising materials. International Labour Organization, ILO The chipped for mechanical refining to separate the fibres that International Labour Organization is a United Nations SO2 Total sulphur calculated as SO2 from processes and form pulp. Agency, which establishes Conventions on Labour combustion at the site. Where SO2 is not measured, the standards that are binding for member states when ratified. Monitoring Is the process of regularly collecting input sulphur in the fuel is calculated. There are over 150 ILO Conventions, eight of which are information to check performance against certain criteria. SRI, Socially-responsible investment A method of “Core Conventions” since they embody fundamental MSW, Municipal Solid Waste An important fraction selecting stocks for investment using criteria related to a human rights and set minimum labour standards. (15%) of the total solid waste. Disposable diapers and company’s environmental, social and ethical performance. IPP, Integrated Product Policy In a communication incontinence products are part of the MSW. Sludge Residue from the production of paper; consists of published in June 2003, the EC states that “its primary aim N, Nitrogen A chemical element, also present in wood, inert materials, mainly small fibre debris, filler and other inert is to reduce the environmental impacts of products that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess N in water materials. It used to be sent to landfill. Nowadays used as through-out their life cycle, harnessing where possible a can cause major increases in the amount of algae, which ‘new’ raw material and incinerated with energy recovery. market driven approach within which competitive concerns can lead to oxygen deficiency when the algae decompose. are integrated”. The IPP encourages “green” products, Solid-wood products Wood sawn into various “green” public procurement and ecolabelling. Newsprint Paper for newspapers produced from dimensions and sizes for furniture, joinery and construction mechanical pulp based on fresh fibre or recovered fibre. use. IPPC The European Union’s Integrated Pollution and Prevention Control directive (96/61/EC). Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Are Stakeholders Groups of people with whom an national, international, and community-based groups that organisation has active relationships, and with whom ISO 14001 The standard published by the International raise awareness about social, environmental, community effective dialogue is necessary to the functioning of the Standards Organization, specifying the requirements of an and human rights issues. business. Shareholders, authorities, customers, employees environmental management system. All SCA European mills and NGOs are all stakeholders in SCA’s business activities. are certified ISO 14001. NOX as NO2 The nitrogen oxides NO and NO2, calculated as NO2 derived from combustion. Where NOX is not meaSuspended solids Particles that are not dissolved in the Kraftliner Packaging paper made of fresh wood, as sured, a standard value of 100 mg/MJ fuel is used. effluent water. opposed to testliner and fluting (recycled). Of which co-gen That part of the total fuel supply alloTCF, Totally Chlorine Free Paper pulp which is bleached Kyoto Protocol United Nations framework convention cated to the electricity produced by the CHP schemes. without using chlorine in any form. on climate change. Voluntary agreement between industrialised nations, ratified by Europe and the object of Old Corrugated Container, OCC Used corrugated board TMP, Thermo Mechanical Pulp A high-yield pulp (about European directive 2003/87/EC, to reduce by 2012 the collected for recycling. 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained by heating levels of man-made CO2 below the level reached in 1990. spruce chips and then grinding them in refiners. Opacity Degree to which something is opaque. Landfill Solid waste material sent to a landfill. TJ, Terajoule A unit used to measure energy (fuel). Organic fossil material Covers crude-oil-based materiLeach/Leachate The percolation of liquids through the als, such as super-absorbents and adhesives calculated at Testliner Packaging paper made from recycled fibre. earth. The leaching natural process can pollute 100% dry substances. Tissue Creped soft paper which is the basis for hygiene underground water or surface water, which is situated P, Phosphorus A chemical element, also present in wood, products such as napkins, toilet paper and towels, and below a retention basin of wastewater, or a landfill, which is that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess P in water towelling products for institutions, hotels, etc. biologically active, for example. can cause nutrient enrichment. TWh, TeraWatt hour Unit of energy measurement. Life Cycle Assessment, LCA A method of assessing the PSR, Product Specific Requirement (also see EPD, 1 TWh=10 Million KWh environmental impact of a product, taking account of its ­Environmental Product Declaration) List of requirements Water Represents the sum of surface water, ground water entire lifespan from raw material extraction to waste enabling SCA to label its products in an accurate and and tap water for processes and cooling pur­poses. Where disposal. The process is described in the ISO14040 series. informative way, avoiding unverifiable labelling. input water is not measured, it has been calculated as SPINE is the common database enabling comparison Purchased pulp The sum of pulp supplied to a site. equalling the effluent water. between product elements. RAP, Regulatory Affairs Platform The network keeps Waste To SCA, waste comprises only materials leaving our Liner The surface layer of corrugated board. Available in and updates the list of SCA representatives in organisations production units that cannot be used for any further useful various grades, such as kraftliner (based on fresh wood at EU and national levels. It is in charge of communicating purpose. Recovered paper and fibre are excluded, since fibre) and testliner or fluting (based on recycled fibre). and defending SCA positions to lawmakers directly and they form part of SCA’s main raw materials. Liquor Substance(s) Used in or resulting from chemical through industry organisations. Wood/sawmill chips The sum of wood delivered to each pulp production. White liquor is the cooking liquor (sodium REACH, Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization and site. hydroxide and sodium sulphide). Black liquor is the waste Restriction of Chemicals European regulation liquor from the completed production cycle. Most of it is (1,907/2,000/EC) which address the production and (safe) re-used as fuel and burnt in the recovery boiler. Green liquor use of chemical substances and their potential impact on is an aqueous solution, the residue of burning the black both human health and the environment. Some 30,000 liquor. chemicals will have to be registered after testing with the LTA, Lost Time Accidents Accidents that cause the central European Chemical Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki. absence of an employee from work for X number of days. Companies will have to obtain authorisation to use One of the main safety indicators in industry. See also FR hazardous chemicals. (Frequency rate) and Incidence Rate (IR). Recovery Solid waste material recovered in an external LWC paper, Light Weight Coated Paper is a coated process. paper with a high mechanical pulp content. Used for highRMS SCA’s Resource Management System: a means of quality magazines and advertising materials with collecting and collating all environmental data and resource demanding colour-printing requirements. utilisation within the SCA Group. Recovered fibre Paper-making fibre derived from a secondary source, such as used paper and board, used for recycling. SCA Sustainability Report 2011 73 Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) PO Box 200, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 63 Tel +46 8 788 51 00, fax +46 8 788 53 80 Corp. Reg. No.: 556012-6293 www.sca.com Business units SCA INCONTINENCE CARE EUROPE SCA consumer goods europe SCA AFH Professional HYGIENE EUROPE Postfach 241540 Postfach 241540 Postfach 241540 DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN Germany Germany Germany Visiting address: München Airport Center (MAC) Visiting address: München Airport Center (MAC) Visiting address: München Airport Center (MAC) Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 SCA MEIA SCA Americas SCA Asia Pacific Postfach 241540 Cira Centre Unit 516, 159 Madang Road DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN Suite 2600 Xintiandi, Luwan District Germany 2929 Arch Street SHANGHAI 200020 Visiting address: München Airport Center (MAC) Philadelphia, PA 19104 China Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 US Tel +86 21 6135 7288 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Tel +1 610 499 3700 Fax +86 21 6135 7264 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 Fax +1 610 499 3402 SCA Forest Products SCA Packaging GHC (gLOBAL HYGIENE CATEGORY) SE-851 88 SUNDSVALL Culliganlaan 1D SE-405 03 GOTHENBURG Sweden BE-1831 DIEGEM Sweden Visiting address: Skepparplatsen 1 Belgium Visiting address: Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Tel +46 60 19 30 00, 19 40 00 Tel +32 2 718 3711 Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Fax +46 60 19 33 21 Fax +32 2 715 4815 GHS (Global HYGIENE SUPPLY) GBS (GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICEs) Postfach 241540 PO Box 200 DE-85336 MÜNCHEN-FLUGHAFEN SE-101 23 Stockholm Germany Sweden Visiting address: München Airport Center (MAC) Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 63 Terminalstrasse Mitte 18 Tel +46 8 788 51 00 Tel +49 89 9 70 06-0 Fax +46 8 788 53 80 Fax +49 89 9 70 06-204 Contact persons Kersti Strandqvist Environment: Social Responsibility: Senior Vice President, Corporate Sustainability Patrik Isaksson Christina Ameln E-mail: kersti.strandqvist@sca.com Vice President, Environmental Affairs Director, CSR Programmes Tel: +46 8 788 52 24 E-mail: patrik.isaksson@sca.com E-mail: christina.ameln@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 51 04 Tel: +46 8 788 52 94 This report is produced by SCA in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: Håkan Lindgren, Lars Trangius, Per-Anders Sjöquist and Margareta Hed. Print: Elanders in Falköping 2012. The emission of green house gases from the production of this printed product including paper, other materials, and transports has been offset by investment in the c­ orresponding amount of certified reduction units from the CDM project Sri Kalyani, biomass-fired power plant, India.
