2012 Environmental and Social Report (Previous issue: August 2011) Issued June 2012 (Next issue: scheduled for June 2013) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 E-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and requests regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml Corporate Mission Statement Table of Contents The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to the advancement of industry and society by providing key materials and technologies. Editorial Policy 1 Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy The Environmental and Social Report provides information on environmental, safety and quality control programs and CSR 2 Editorial Policy/Table of Contents Basic CSR Policy initiatives carried out by the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report also 3 Message from Management describes Responsible Care programs1 at the Shin-Etsu Group. The The Shin-Etsu Group: Report has been compiled in accordance with the Environmental 5 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group 1 Accounting Guidelines 2005 and Environmental Reporting 7 TOPICS 1 Guidelines FY2007 released by the Ministry of the Environment, Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained growth and make Japan, and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Towards the Realization of a Platinum Society multifaceted contributions to society. 9 TOPICS 2 Period Covered by the Report 2 (indicated where otherwise) Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that Contribute to Japan: April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our utmost priority. Overseas: January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 Energy and Resource Saving Organizations Covered by the Report 10 TOPICS 3 3 The report covers Shin-Etsu Group. The range of entities from which data were collected is in principle as stated below. Where Efforts of Overseas Shin-Etsu Group Companies Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact, otherwise, this is indicated in a separate note. and seek to help create a sustainable future world in which we all live in harmony with the Earth. (1) Environmental Activity Report Management Structures 4 The report includes data from the 117 business bases of the Shin-Etsu Group (an increase of 19). Compared to the Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the conservation of biodiversity coverage of the 2011 report, there is thus an expansion in 11 CSR Promotion Structure/Environmental Management Promotion by means of our cutting-edge technologies and products. scope and a difference in content. Structure 5 63 domestic manufacturing bases (increase of 13) 113 domestic non-manufacturing bases (increase of 20) 13 Corporate Governance Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment opportunities and support 42 overseas manufacturing bases (increase of 8) 17 Compliance with Laws and Regulations the self-fulfillment of our employees. 53 overseas non-manufacturing bases (increase of 16) 6 (2) Environmental Accounting 18 Information Asset Management Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. (3) Social Contribution 19 Material Procurement Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. Shin-Etsu Group 20 Risk Management 7 1 Responsible Care program Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle chemical Environmental, Safety and Quality-related Initiatives of the Group’s ethical values. substances to voluntarily ensure protection of the environment, safety and health in all processes, from the 21 Environmental Management development of chemical substances through manufacture, 21 Challenges and Results of Shin-Etsu Chemical in Fiscal 2011 distribution and utilization to final consumption, disposal or recycling, to publish the results of their activity, and to 23 Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Global Compact Ten Principles engage in dialog and communication with society. Input/Output The Shin-Etsu Group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. The Group upholds the ten principles advanced by 24 Environmental Accounting the UNGC in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 25 Environmental Initiatives The Global Compact asks that businesses should: Principle 6 : U  phold the elimination of discrimination in 31 Safety and Health Principle 1 : Support and respect the protection of respect of employment and occupation internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7 : Support a precautionary approach to 31 Safety Measures Principle 2 : Make sure they are not complicit in human environmental challenges 33 Product Safety rights abuses Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 3 : Uphold the freedom of association and the environmental responsibility 33 Product Safety and Quality-related Initiatives effective recognition of the right to Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion collective bargaining of environmentally friendly technologies Social Activities Principle 4 : Uphold the elimination of all forms of Principle 10 : Work against corruption in all its forms, forced and compulsory labour including extortion and bribery 35 Human Rights and Employment Principle 5 : Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 35 Relations with Employees 39 Social Contributions * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprises, rather than concentrating solely on profit, need to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. 39 Communication with Local Communities 41 History of Activities Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy and UNGC participation GRI Guidelines Comparison Table http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/csr.shtml http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 42 RC Audits 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 2 Message from Management Shin-Etsu contributes to people’s daily lives, as well as to the advance of industry and society by from a point-of-view that includes environmental performance and auditors monitor and supervise the execution of providing key materials and technologies by means of the activities of the Group’s Horizontal management from an independent standpoint. Technology Committee, which was set up two decades ago. Furthermore, we set up the Auditing Department as Going forward, we will continue to put great effort into an independent organization and have implemented a research and development aimed at improving such areas highly objective auditing system for stricter internal controls as high-level manufacturing technologies and the design of and supervision. We have established a basic internal manufacturing facilities. We will make use of these results control policy that includes procedures to strictly meet the by applying them to make advances in environmental requirements of the Reporting System on Internal Control conservation and reducing the environmental impact. Over Financial Reporting stipulated in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (which is similar to the U.S. Products and technologies that contribute to protecting Sarbanes-Oxley Act). the global environment One of our Group’s main products is PVC, and compared Participation in the UN Global Compact to other plastics, PVC is a product that depends less on the use of petroleum resources. PVC is contributing to energy The Shin-Etsu Group became a participant in the Untied saving in homes and buildings through such products as Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. The PVC window frames. Furthermore, other Shin-Etsu Group UNGC aims to promote better global citizenship by the world’s products such as semiconductor silicon, rare earth magnets leading businesses and organizations that are committed and silicone encapsulating materials for LED products are to voluntarily supporting and practicing in their business contributing to energy saving in a wide diversity of fields. operations and strategies ten universally accepted principles Chihiro Kanagawa Shunzo Mori In addition, we are proactively working on the development with regard to the four areas of human rights, labour, Chairman President of materials and products that are essential for the practical environment and anti-corruption. These principles are in line commercial realization of such renewable energy sources with the mission and basic management policies of the ShinThe Shin-Etsu Group’s mission is to strictly comply with all our most important social missions. Over a period of many as solar photovoltaic power generation and wind power Etsu Group, and in our CSR (corporate social responsibility) laws and regulations, conduct fair business practices and years we have already been dispersing our production generation, and in this way, we are contributing to the activities the Group has consistently worked towards the contribute to people’s daily lives as well as to the advance bases around the world in anticipation of the possibility practical use of renewable energy. fulfillment of these principles. By joining the UNGC, we are of industry and society by providing key materials and of the occurrence of unforeseen contingencies, and we working to further promote fair business practices that comply technologies. Shin-Etsu’s management places utmost have been making great efforts to establish a strong with the Ten Principles of the UNGC, as we strive to enhance Assuring “safety-first” priority on “safety”, “the environment” and “fairness.” business foundation. our company’s CSR activities and further make clearly and At the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake and Among our key management objectives, we always place widely known to the world our Group’s fundamental CSR Thailand flooding disasters, our foresight in establishing utmost priority on safety, and we make sure that all the standpoint. We are also working to improve the awareness of Measures taken to deal with natural multiple global production bases and building a strong company’s officers and employees possess a strong sense these principles among all of our employees. disasters and business continuity business foundation clearly showed the effectiveness of our of consciousness about safety. In 2011, natural disasters that caused enormous damage management strategy and helped us to speedily implement In the manufacturing process, in order to eliminate latent Aiming to be a Group that is trusted all successively occurred, such as the Great East Japan countermeasures. Hence, we were able to keep the impacts risks at facilities before an incident occurs, we are continuously Earthquake that occurred on March 11, and the largeof these disasters to a minimum. making strenuous efforts to implement the most appropriate over the world scale severe flooding that occurred in Thailand during the In order to be prepared to effectively cope with unforeseen design and improvements of our facilities. At the same time, The Shin-Etsu Group carries out many different kinds of second half of 2011. With regard to the Shin-Etsu Group, risks, in the future we will make use of the experience we we constantly review our operation manuals to determine social contribution activities around the world, such as in Japan, Shin-Etsu Chemical’s Kashima Plant and Shin-Etsu have gained in expeditiously coping with the affects of these how we can improve safety and then proceed to implement those by Shintech in the U.S., which is participating in the Handotai’s Shirakawa Plant were particularly affected by disasters. Going forward, we will always keep foremost in further improvements. In addition, we investigate “closeactivities of United Way of America, a representative nonthe Great East Japan Earthquake, and their operations mind the most appropriate global locations to establish our call” cases on a regular basis and disclose on our company’s profit charitable organization that focuses on identifying concerning our main products of PVC (polyvinyl chloride) production bases, and we will carry out measures to further website the incidents and the safety improvement steps that and resolving pressing issues in the community. Through and silicon wafers were forced to shut down. In addition, as implement our business continuity plan. were implemented to resolve the issues. these types of activities we are endeavoring to build a result of the floods in Thailand, our local subsidiary’s plant By promoting the safety measures we are taking on a daily trusting relationships with the local communities in which that is processing rare earth magnets was damaged and basis, we are nurturing our Group’s corporate culture and we operate around the world. Measures we are taking to protect its operations had to be suspended. However, as a result consciousness about the importance of safety measures. The Shin-Etsu Group will proactively carry out our of carrying out increased production at our alternative the environment corporate social responsibilities by sincerely dealing with production bases, both in Japan and outside of Japan, we As part of our comprehensive efforts to contribute to the various important future issues in society, by fulfilling its Practicing fair and transparent management were able to fulfill our supply responsibilities to customers. improving the global environment, we are responding to responsibilities as a good corporate citizen and by growing Moreover, as a result of the concerted efforts of staff the needs of society by carrying out intensive efforts to The Shin-Etsu Group has strict internal control and auditing together with society. members of the Shin-Etsu Group in carrying out the required achieve reductions in the environmental impact, resource systems. We carry out fair business practices in our daily We sincerely request your further understanding and restoration work, we were able to make a complete recovery saving and energy saving in all phases of our business business activities and through proactive information disclosure support. in a short period of time. We wish to thank all the concerned operations from products and manufacturing processes to we assure transparency with regard to our management. June 2012 parties for their warm support. The Shin-Etsu Group has manufacturing technologies. In addition, with regard to corporate governance, by many products that have strong dominant positions in the appointing people who are among the foremost figures in world market. We supply to our customers in a wide range Environmental conservation and reducing the their respective fields and who possess deep insight and a of business fields, superior materials and products that were environmental impact wealth of business experience and knowledge as external developed, by making use of our own unique technologies. We have consistently promoted the development and directors and external auditors, we benefit from receiving Chihiro Kanagawa, Ph. D. Shunzo Mori We consider stable supply to our customers to be one of improvement of the Group’s manufacturing technologies their broad insights and advice. These external directors Chairman President 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group We aim to become an enterprise group that is trusted by society. To this end, we strive to achieve world-leading standards of technology, quality and cost-competitiveness and engage actively in CSR initiatives As of March 31, 2012, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises ShinIn each of these fields, we have products with strong market Etsu Chemical and 133 Group companies, which share share, with the world’s top share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Corporate Overview responsibility for sales, manufacturing and other operations semiconductor silicons, photomask substrates for LCDs and cooperate to develop their respective business activities. and rare earth magnets for hard disk drives, and the top Overview of Operations Number of employees (Persons) ■■ Consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated These business activities are divided into six fields: PVC/ domestic share for silicones. Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 25,000 Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Business; Specialty Chemicals Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our everyday Location 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 20,241 Established September 16, 1926 20,000 19,170 Business; Semiconductor Silicon Business; Electronics and lives. Indeed, the Shin-Etsu Group plays an essential role in 16,955 16,302 16,167 Functional Materials Business; and Diversified Business. the modern advanced information society. Capital 119,419 million yen Representative Shunzo Mori, President 15,000 Number of employees 16,167 (consolidated) 2,695 (non-consolidated) 10,000 Business activities Manufacture and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor silicons, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic quartz, cellulose derivatives Product Information and other products 5,000 2,590 2,609 2,647 2,656 2,695 0 Principal Shin-Etsu Group Companies 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 Guide to Materials ●Japanese Domestic Group Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Semiconductor Materials Environmentally Friendly Materials Nagano Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., Naoetsu Electronics Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., and others ●Overseas Group As an all-round supplier of semiconductor-related materials, Polyvinyl chloride, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic Shintech Inc., Shin-Etsu Handotai America Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, we provide a diverse range of items such as semiconductor silicon pheromones and other Shin-Etsu Group products contribute to Shin-Etsu Handotai Europe Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others that are indispensable to resource and energy the manufacture of saving, and reducing Rating: Aa3 long-term debt rating received from Moody’s Investors Services semiconductors. We also environmental impact. Full details of Shin-Etsu Group companies: deal in the synthetic http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/group.shtml quartz photomask substrates, gases, chemicals and jigs used in their manufacture. Financial Highlights Silicon Wafers Polyvinyl Chloride Net Sales (Billion yen) Operating Income (Billion yen) Net Income (Billion yen) ■■ Consolidated ■■ Consolidated ■■ Consolidated Electronic Materials Automobile-related Materials ■■ Non-consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated ■■ Non-consolidated 1,500 300 287.1 200 1,376.4 183.6 Through a wide range of products including silicones, rare earth With their wide variety of characteristics, Shin-Etsu Group 1,200.8 250 1,200 232.9 154.7 magnets and liquid fluoroelastomers, we contribute to the products are expected to provide the key to the evolution of 1,058.3 1,047.7 150 improved performance, automotive technology in 916.8 200 900 function and reliability of areas such as improved 149.2 149.6 100.1 100.6 708.6 150 100 606.7 553.9 602.8 579.0 117.2 83.9 such devices as electrical safety and reliability, 600 64.0 home appliances, miniaturization and 100 81.9 78.4 76.8 80.1 50.2 51.9 70.7 44.5 49.0 50 communication reduced weight, and 300 50 equipment and environmental computers. responsiveness. 0 0 0 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 Heat-Dissipating Silicone Rubber Rare Earth Magnets Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2012) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2012) Diversified business Optical Materials Architectural/Civil Engineering Materials 93.7（9％） PVC/Chlor-alkali Japan Using both natural and synthetic quartz as a base, we develop a We respond to a wide range of needs in the architecture and civil 324.0 （31％） Asia/Oceania Electronics and 366.3 （35.0％） diversified range of optical materials, including preform for engineering fields by providing such building/civil engineering functional materials 288.1（27.5％） optical fibers and items as sealing materials, 177.8 （17％） Consolidated net sales Consolidated net sales assorted optical parts. We coating materials and 1,047.7 1,047.7 Overseas supply a wide range of admixtures for building billion yen billion yen United States Silicones items, from raw materials materials. 135.5 （13％） 159.6（15.2％） to processed products. Semiconductor silicon Other Europe 229.6 （22％） 102.7 （9.8％） Specialty chemicals 130.9（12.5％） 87.1 （8％） Preform for Optical Fibers Silicone Sealant Financial and IR information http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/ir/ 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 6 TOPICS 1 Towards the Realization of a Platinum Society With a central focus on materials, technologies and products, the Shin-Etsu Group is striving towards realizing the concept of a “Platinum Society.” Definition of “Platinum Society” Innovations in the Three Fields of Green, Silver and Gold and The Shin-Etsu Group’s Contributions 1 2 The term “Platinum Society” was coined in a book written Green = E  nvironment, Resources and by an external director of Shin-Etsu Chemical, Hiroshi Silver = Aging Society Fields Komiyama, in 2011 to describe a future society which is Green Energy Field sustainable and has hope. In a Platinum Society various problems in areas such as the environment, population (1) Improve Japan’s energy self-sufficiency rate to 70% (1) C reating a society in which senior citizens can continue to aging, lack of demand and employment will be resolved by 2050 through developments in renewable, natural participate with pride, through anti-aging innovations. Platinum and efforts are made to realize a society in which all people energies (solar, wind, geothermal, hydraulic and biomass) Society Contributions by the Shin-Etsu Group can enjoy full lives. and improvements in energy efficiency. Silver Gold Cellulose Derivatives Contributions by the Shin-Etsu Group We are contributing to the medical The term “Platinum” encompasses the following fields: field by developing products suitable Rare Earth Magnets ● Green (Environment, resources and energy fields) for pharmaceuticals which utilize the Through application in wind turbine functions of this material. ● Silver (Aging society fields) motors, rare earth magnets contribute ● Gold (New technologies fields including IT) to energy saving. The term also indicates that while embracing shining innovations in the fields listed above, a Platinum Society strives for a dignified lifestyle of a higher rank. Polyvinyl Chloride PVC windows have excellent thermal (2) Using robots and other means, provide support to senior insulating properties, which contributes citizens who are troubled by going up and down stairs or to energy saving in addition to carrying heavy items due to decreased physical strength. Necessary Conditions for a Platinum Society reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Image provided by LIXIL Corporation Contributions by the Shin-Etsu Group ❶A society able to harmonize and coexist with the environment. A society free from worries about resources or energy, with a beautiful and abundant natural environment. Rare Earth Magnets (2) Improve Japan’s self-sufficiency rate for mineral resources Smaller and lighter robots can be realized through the use of rare earth ❷A society with active senior citizens. A society in which senior citizens can participate with pride. to 70% by 2050 by promoting recycling. magnets in the motors of robotic joints for nursing care and support robots. ❸A society in which people can continue to grow over the entire course of their lives. Silicones ❹A society which creates new employment opportunities through technological innovation. Contributions by the Shin-Etsu Group Silicones are used as a cushioning material in nursing care and support robots. Semiconductor Silicon Rare Earth Magnets Semiconductor silicon is used in electronic devices for nursing care and support We are expediting rare earth metal self-sufficiency through the establishment robots. of a recycling system. From a Developed Nation Facing Problems to a Developed Nation Solving Problems: (3) Improve Japan’s food self-sufficiency rate to 70% and The Road Japan Should Now Follow timber self-sufficiency rate to 100% by 2050. Living in a developed nation in the twentieth century, we Society and becoming a developed nation which solves were blessed to live a life not lacking in respect to food, problems, I believe Japan can make remarkable advances Contributions by the Shin-Etsu Group clothing, shelter, mobility and information. As we enter to once again become a nation which leads the world. Synthetic Pheromones the twenty-first century, people living in nations we refer We are promoting low-pesticide to as developing will also be quantitatively fulfilled in food and wood supply through the these regards. application of synthetic pheromones Once humans have these needs quantitatively met, in harmful insect control. what do they require? What kind of society are we trying to build? There are aspects we cannot yet understand, 3 but I believe the answers to those questions lie in the Platinum Society. A Platinum Society is a society which Gold = New Technologies Field Including IT is realized through innovations in the three fields, green, silver and gold. Japan is facing many problems now, however, the We are contributing to the development of advanced new technologies. problems Japan is tackling will be the problems faced by The Potential of the Shin-Etsu Group many countries in the future. Japan can be thought of as Hiroshi Komiyama External Director, Shin-Etsu Chemical a developed nation facing problems. Through leading the (Former President, The University of Tokyo and Encapsulation Technology for 3D Stacked Package world in resolving these problems, realizing a Platinum Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc.) As IT technology advances, semiconductor device makers have been developing the large capacity memory and high performance chip. Today, however, the device and circuitry integration using the design rule shrinkage may be reaching some limitations so that the device makers require new technologies for further large integration. Three-dimensional (3D) stacked package is another alternative to response to the customer’s demand and Shin-Etsu group has been advancing the development of the encapsulation and lithography1 technologies for 3D stacked package. Platinum Network http://www.platinum-network.jp/ (Japanese only) 1 Lithography Lithography is the process of etching a circuit pattern using lasers, etc. onto the wafer during the manufacture of semiconductors. 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 8 TOPICS 2 Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that Contribute to Energy and Resource Saving The Shin-Etsu Group is promoting the development of products which take resource and energy saving TOPICS 3 Efforts of Overseas Shin-Etsu Group Companies In addition to enhancing production capacity of silicon metal, which is the principal raw material of the Shin-Etsu into consideration. Group’ s main products, Simcoa Operations is also making positive efforts for waste utilization. Polyvinyl chloride, which contributes to the prevention of global warming, is one example of such a product. A Twofold Increase in Silicon Metal Production Capacity What is polyvinyl chloride? In Australia, Simcoa Operations (Simcoa) has formulated community through expanded employment opportunities Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a general-purpose resin with a low dependence on a plan to boost production capacity of silicon metal and is with the expansion of the company. petroleum as it is made from 60% salt, which is abundant on Earth, and 40% currently proceeding with the expansion project. petroleum (weight for weight). The characteristics of PVC include a low Silicon metal is used as the principal raw material of environmental impact, excellent durability and it can be easily recycled. a wide range of the Shin-Etsu Group’s main products such as semiconductor silicon, silicones and synthetic quartz products. It is also used as the principal raw material Reducing Environmental Impact Through PVC for solar cells which are growing in popularity worldwide and demand for silicon metal is expected to continue PVC is a material with a low environmental impact. It uses Comparison of Life Cycle Carbon Dioxide Emissions for PVC Pipes and to be firm. only about 60% of the energy required by other resins Ductile Cast-Iron Pipes Shin-Etsu Chemical acquired Simcoa in 1996. Prior to (survey conducted by Japan Chemical Industry Association) during manufacture. Furthermore, the life cycle carbon the acquisition, Simcoa had been experiencing financial dioxide emissions1 of PVC are lower than emissions for ■ Ductile cast-iron pipe difficulties, however as a result of the implementation of other materials such as metals and glass. For example if you ■ PVC pipe management reforms, from the first year of its operations 2.1 Company Name: Simcoa Operations Pty. Ltd. compare PVC pipes and ductile cast-iron pipes2, both of Life cycle CO2 emissions per kg after the acquisition Simcoa returned to profitability. In the (kg CO2/kg) Corporate Overview Location: Western Australia, Australia which are widely used for water and sewerage pipes, the 1.5 following 16 years, Simcoa has continued to be profitable. Business Activities: Manufacture and sale of silicon metal life cycle carbon dioxide emissions of the PVC pipe are less Simcoa is also contributing to the development of the local than one-fifth the emissions for the ductile cast-iron pipe. 8.2 If the ductile cast-iron pipes were replaced with PVC pipes, Life cycle CO2 emissions per m (kg CO2/kg) it would be possible to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1.5 Emission reduction as much as 82%. Simcoa’s Waste Utilization -6.7 (82% reduction)* 1 Life cycle carbon dioxide emissions Total carbon dioxide emissions for a product from procuring raw materials As an environmental initiative, Simcoa is committed to waste felled trees from the bauxite mining operation, plantation through to the processes of manufacture, use, disposal and recycling. * Reduction calculated for the necessary weight and lifespan per 1m length of utilization. The waste utilization not only reduces environmental wood, waste from sawmill and so on. No native forest trees are 2 Ductile cast-iron pipes 150mm wide pipe.(Weight: 6.7kg for PVC pipe, 23.8kg for ductile cast-iron impact but also results in waste materials becoming a valuable cut down to supply us with wood for charcoal. A pipe made from spheroidized graphite and iron. pipe; Lifespan: 50 years for PVC pipe, 45 years for ductile cast-iron pipe) resource by treating them as a by-product, and as such, the Other examples of waste utilization in addition to charcoal company is positively working towards reuse. are listed below. We hope Charcoal is one example of a way in which waste materials these example initiatives help to PVC Windows Which Promise a Comfortable Lifestyle and Energy Saving are urilized. Wood from forest clearing for a bauxite mining demonstrate our commitment operation is processed to produce charcoal. Previously, all the to the environment and waste PVC windows have excellent thermal and sound insulating houses. Since 2006, Japan’s Ministry of the Environment has wood from the forest clearing operations was burnt, however, utilization. properties, heat shield and are airtight. Compared to an taken the initiative ahead of other ministries in the installation in 2004 the company began producing charcoal with the goal aluminum window with a single pane of glass, PVC provides of PVC windows in government buildings and minister’s of effectively using the resource as a by-product. Jim Brosnan a 71% reduction in heat loss and there is a large reduction offices and The University of Tokyo is also proceeding with Currently, Simcoa uses 100,000 tons of wood to produce Vice President, in the amount of noise traveling. Additionally, the formation the installation of PVC windows in its buildings. 25,000 tons of charcoal each year. The source for the wood is Simcoa Operations of condensation is greatly reduced. In China and developed Through the thermal insulation effect of PVC used in PVC countries in Europe and America, the use of PVC windows windows, it is possible to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide Examples of Simcoa’s Waste Utilization is rapidly expanding for the sake of energy saving and also accompanying heat production by an amount equivalent to Amorphous silica fume is a by-product of silicon metal. Initially when Simcoa began operations, there was no market in Japan the rate of use in cold areas is 97.1% for detached 65 times the life cycle carbon dioxide emission of PVC. Silica fume for silica fume and the waste had to be buried in an on-site landfill. Simcoa developed a market in Australia for silica fume as an additive to increase the strength of cement, and has sold all of its silica fume for the past 20 years. Life cycle CO2 emissions of PVC windows and Window frame and glass respectively: contribution to CO2 Reductions heat lost from a window Fine charcoal is screened off from the lump charcoal because it cannot be used in the silicon metal furnaces and Charcoal fines (Shin-Etsu Group data) (Double-sliding window: 169cm width x 137cm height) is sold for the production of barbecue briquettes. Contribution Aluminum A certain amount of slag1 is generated as a by-product during the manufacturing process of silicon metal. Slag is Life cycle CO2 emissions Dross treated as a waste product by most silicon smelters, however, Simcoa sells this slag as a resource for producers of to Reductions window Aluminum sash Single pane glass Cross-section of of PVC* (B÷A) Aluminum sash + silicon manganese. a PVC window (kg CO2/PVC window) 12 65 times single pane glass 80% 65% (A) reduction for sash reduction for glass Sawdust and Sawdust and wood mulch are generated during cutting timber. It is sold for use in soil improvement. InvestigaPVC window wood mulch tions are underway into the potential use of this by-product for biomass energy generation in the future. frame Pair glass Reduction of life cycle CO2 PVC window 71% PVC sash + Low-E reduction in heat emissions due to PVC As some of the quartz rock recovered from the quartz mine is too small for use in the silicon metal furnaces, it is Low-E pair glass pair glass lost through Undersized thermal insulation effect window PVC sash quaitz sold as flux materials for use in metallurgical operations and as decorative stone for use with concrete. (kg CO2/PVC window) 780(B) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 1 Slag Conduction heat flux (W) Image provided by LIXIL Corporation * One window uses approximately 8kg of PVC. Slag is a waste produced when molten metal is separated into fractions during metal smelting. * Data from Sakamoto Laboratory, Department of Architecture, Faculty of Engineering, The University of Tokyo Japan Chemical Industry Association Vinyl Environmental Council Source: “ Enjoying Life with PVC Windows” Vinyl Simcoa Operations http://www.nikkakyo.org/ http://www.vec.gr.jp/ Environmental Council website http://www.simcoa.com.au/ 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 10 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities CSR Promotion Structure/ Environmental Management Promotion Structure Returning to the basic principles of corporate social responsibility, we promote CSR activities with a new outlook ■ Outline of our Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy, various internal regulations and activities, etc CSR Promotion Structure Environmental Management Promotion Structure Board of Directors, Board of Statutory Auditors Corporate The mission of the Shin-Etsu Group is “strictly to comply External directors, external statutory auditors 13〜16 P. with all laws and regulations, to conduct fair business The Shin-Etsu Group incorporates environmental considerations Governance Internal controls Operational audit practices and to contribute to people’s daily lives as well into all aspects of corporate activity, with the aim of helping as to the advance of society and industry by providing key to prevent global warming and working towards the Compliance Pledge materials and technologies”. We believe we have a social establishment of a sustainable society. Compliance with 17 Compliance with Anti-Monopoly Act responsibility to contribute to our many stakeholders, We are striving to reduce greenhouse gases and other P. Laws and Regulations Compliance with the Unfair Competition including all of our shareholders and investors, customers, environmental impacts associated with production processes Prevention Act business partners, local communities and employees, by by setting out ambitious targets and working towards clean realizing this mission. production processes through structured and continuous To achieve this, we formulated our Basic CSR Policy programs. As a key materials manufacturer, we are highly Information Asset Protection of Personal Information 18 P. as a detailed policy and this forms the basis for internal committed to the development and expansion of products Management Intellectual Property Management regulations and various activities which are taking place. In and technologies designed to reduce environmental impact order to promote the Basic CSR Policy in an effective and as a means of contributing to the conservation of the global appropriate manner at a company-wide level in all aspects environment. The Shin-Etsu Group’s Basic Procurement Policy of corporate activity, we have set up a CSR Promotion These activities carry over the three areas of research, Corporate Mission Material Procurement Procurement Audit 19 P. Committee comprising managers from the relevant manufacture and sales. Committees which span the areas Statement Compliance with the Subcontractors Act divisions and departments, and have appointed an officer have been organized and the activities come under the responsible for CSR. supervision of the officer responsible for technologies. In 2006, The Group expressed its commitment to Furthermore, we are working at responding appropriately 20 supporting and implementing for the International Council to all environmental regulations and standards in our product Risk Management Regulations Risk Management Business Continuity Plan P. of Chemical Associations’ Responsible Care Global Charter. development and manufacture. The officer responsible Furthermore, we joined the United Nations Global Compact for environmental control and safety has overall company Basic CSR Policy in November 2010. The Shin-Etsu Group promotes business responsibility for this area and is dedicated to earning our activities which align with these principles and endeavors to customers’ trust. Environmental 21〜30 Environmental Charter maintain the trust and respect of all. P. Management Environmental Management System ■ Shin-Etsu Group CSR/Environmental Management Promotion Structure and Associated Activities Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Board of Directors CSR Promotion Safety and Health Occupational Health and Safety P. 31〜32 Environmental Control and Safety Audits Chairman (CSR Promotion Committee) Quality Management System Product Safety Quality Audits P. 33〜34 Development and expansion of products which contribute to the environment Six Sigma Program (Each division and R&D Department) Respect for Human Rights President Human Rights Welfare and Benefits P. 35〜38 and Employment Health Management Environmental conservation and reducing environmental impacts Labor-management Relations (Technology Department and related technology committees) Contributions Local Community Contributions P. 39〜40 to Society Environmental and safety initiatives (Safety and Health Committee, Environmental Management Committee, Safety Review Board , etc.) 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 12 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Corporate Governance The enhancement of corporate governance is one of our most important management tasks incorporation. Meanwhile, the Managing Directors’ Basic Principles of Corporate Governance Board of Directors, Managing Directors’ Meeting makes deliberations and decisions regarding a External Directors and External Statutory Meeting and Board of Statutory Auditors variety of other operational issues. Auditors Shin-Etsu Chemical has a fundamental management policy As well as attending the Board of Directors meetings, of continually enhancing corporate value and thereby Shin-Etsu Chemical has adopted a statutory auditor system. Managing Directors’ Meetings and other important internal In order to bring about enhanced advisory and supervisory meeting the expectations of shareholders. To this end, the The Board of Directors consists of 22 members, of whom meetings, the statutory auditors inspect important documents functions based on an independent perspective, Shin-Etsu Company has instituted an efficient structural framework five are external directors with extensive management and carry out other checks in order to audit the execution of Chemical engages the external directors and statutory and systems designed to enable a more flexible response to experience and a high level of expertise. The Board of operations by the directors. The statutory auditors also hold auditors listed below. changes in the business environment. Shin-Etsu Chemical is Statutory Auditors consists of five members, of whom three monthly meetings with the Auditing Department where Since their appointment, the external directors have not proactively committed to accurate and timely information are external auditors with a high degree of independence. they receive progress reports on all activities and internal only provided adequate supervision from an independent disclosure to shareholders and investors as a means of Two organizations discuss and decide on the execution auditing results, provide advice and recommendations on perspective, but have also provided advice across the full enhancing management transparency and strengthening of operations: the Board of Directors and the Managing corporate activities and selection of key auditing topics and range of management operations based on their broad the integrity of audit systems. Directors’ Meeting, which are held on a monthly basis as request investigation when necessary. perspectives. The external statutory auditors bring to These systems represent our company’s fundamental a general rule. the audits high levels of specialist knowledge and broad idea on corporate governance and are given one of the The Board of Directors sets out the fundamental policies experience, which contributes to maintain our company’s highest priorities in respect to management. of the Company and deliberates and makes decisions legal compliance system. regarding key aspects of Company operations in accordance External directors and statutory auditors have a high with the Companies Act and the Shin-Etsu articles of degree of independence and are not former employees of our parent company, subsidiaries, major shareholders or major business partners. ■ Corporate Governance System at Shin-Etsu Chemical ■ List of external directors and external statutory auditors Position Name Significant other positions held General Shareholders’ Meeting External directors Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Former Director and Chairman of the Executive Board, Masashi Kaneko former Nikko Cordial Corporation Committee Report Board of Statutory Auditors Director and Chairman of the Board, Ikyu Corporation Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Board of Directors Five statutory auditors of whom three Chairman: External director Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Former Representative Director (currently Advisor), Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Election/Dismissal 22 directors, including 5 external directors are external statutory auditors Judgment of Former Governor, Bank of Japan Advice and Requirements Accounting Audit Supervision, Election/Dismissal Toshihiko Fukui External Director, Kikkoman Corporation Adequacy President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditors Reporting Former President, The University of Tokyo Hiroshi Komiyama Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Reporting External Director, JX Holdings, Inc. Managing Directors’ Meeting Lawyer Instruction External statutory Taku Fukui Deliberation on operational issues, etc. auditors Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices Auditing Department Reporting Reporting Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant Auditing Yoshihito Kosaka Partner, Grant Thornton Taiyo ASG Committees for each main management task Instruction/Supervision Representative Partner, HIYU Certified Tax Accountants’ Corporation (such as Risk Management Committee) Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, former JASDAQ Securities Investigation/Guidance Exchange, Inc. Kiyoshi Nagano External Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments External Auditor, LEC, INC. As of June 28, 2012 As of June 28, 2012 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 14 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Independence so as to promote mutual benefit in the interest of the The external directors and external statutory auditors all Directors’ Remuneration Internal Control Reporting System business prosperity of the Group as a whole. meet the stock exchange criteria for independent directors1, Group companies are managed on the basis of the Shinas which the following four are registered: Toshihiko Fukui, The Officers’ Remuneration Committee, chaired by external With respect to the Internal Control Report System for Etsu Chemical Group Company Operational Regulations. Hiroshi Komiyama, Masashi Kaneko and Tsuyoshi Miyazaki. director Frank Peter Popoff with three other directors as Financial Reporting applicable since the fiscal year ended Companies with strong ties to Shin-Etsu Chemical in These four directors also serve on the Independent committee members, meets regularly twice a year and March 2009 under the Financial Instruments and Exchange terms of capital, personnel, or materials undertake prior Committee, an organization set up to ensure the fairness of otherwise as necessary to review and assess directors’ Act, the Company fully recognizes the importance of consultation and submit reports to the parent company decisions by the Board of Directors regarding The Handling remuneration and make recommendations to the Board of maintaining the reliability and transparency of the Company’s with respect to important items such as capital increase Policy (Anti-takeover Defensive Plan) toward a Large-scale Directors in accordance with the Regulations of the Officers’ financial reporting. The Company’s Internal Control Promotion or decrease, merger, liquidation, amendment of articles Purchase of the Company’s Shares and Other Securities and Remuneration Committee. Team takes a leading role in implementing the internal of incorporation, proposal of finanacial statements and to exclude any arbitrary decisions. Shin-Etsu Chemical discloses the total amount of control system. budgets, planning of new businesses or facilities, and directors’ remuneration in annual securities reports business performance and business results. Support system and business report. In cases where the total amount of Furthermore, by holding meetings which are attended Support services for the external directors and external remuneration for one officer exceeds 100 million yen, by the presidents of our main Group companies three times statutory auditors are provided by staff from the relevant individual disclosure in annual securities report is made. Risk Management Committee each year, we actively promote sharing and exchange of division. information among Group companies. When a meeting of the Board of Directors or other The Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by important internal meeting is to be held, external directors a managing director, is responsible for designing risk are informed in advance of the agenda and provided with Internal Control System and Operational Audit management structures and associated rules and regulations an explanation of the content, in response to which they and working to identify and prevent potential risks arising Internal System for Timely Disclosure express opinions as appropriate. Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated a Basic Policy on Internal in connection with the operations of the Company. The of Corporate Information External directors and external statutory auditors who Controls to help put in place “structures to ensure that the Risk Management Committee also promotes broad-based have been unable to attend a Board of Directors meeting execution of duties by the directors is fully compliant with programs in the risk management area such as providing In accordance with the regulations regarding information receive a report on the proceedings, for instance in the relevant legislation and the articles of incorporation and that information and training. The Committee reports directly disclosure set by the stock exchange and the Financial form of a copy of the minutes. other duties are performed appropriately”, as stipulated in to the Board of Directors, the Board of Statutory Auditors Instruments and Exchange Act, Shin-Etsu Chemical has 1 Independent directors Article 362, Paragraph 4, Item 6 of the Companies Act. and the Managing Directors’ Meeting on major issues. In formulated internal regulations regarding grasp of corporate External directors and external statutory auditors who present no risk of a The establishment, implementation and maintenance of this way, the Risk Management Committee works to ensure information, management and timely disclosure. These conflict of interest with general shareholders. The Tokyo Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges require listed companies to appoint such directors. an internal control system is recognized as an important appropriate risk management. regulations include the Regulations on Timely Disclosure management responsibility at Shin-Etsu Chemical. of Corporate Information and the Rules on Regulation of Accordingly, the internal control system is structured and Insider Trading, which are communicated to all Shin-Etsu implemented in accordance with the above policy and Chemical departments and Group companies to promote subjected to constant review to make the system more Management of Group Companies smooth operations. appropriate and efficient. Internal operation audits and assessment of internal In the spirit of respect for the autonomy of Group companies, controls over financial reporting are handled by the Auditing the Shin-Etsu Group works for their growth and development Department. The results of these audits and assessments are reported to managers, external directors and statutory auditors, and other relevant personnel to strengthen ■ State of the internal system for timely disclosure coordination between internal audit departments and external directors and statutory auditors. Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information Directors, statutory auditors and Board of Directors Each Department Reporting Approval Shin-Etsu Chemical Reporting Contact Contact Finance & Timely Office of Public Relations the President Department Accounting Department disclosure Consultation Person in charge of handling information Subsidiaries Relevant Decisions of the necessity departments and timing of timely disclosures 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 16 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Compliance with Laws Information Asset and Regulations Management Company and employees work together to ensure compliance with laws The Shin-Etsu Group recognizes the importance of information assets and and regulations uses the information with appropriate management The Shin-Etsu Group regards compliance with laws and regulations as an obligation of corporate activities. Initiatives Aimed at Preventing Corruption Basic Policy on Information Asset Management Protection of Personal Information Compliance is incorporated into the Corporate Mission Statement and the periodical management objectives as a Through its Corporate Mission Statement and Basic CSR Effective utilization of information assets is important for In order to properly protect personal information in means of working to ensure compliance. Policy, the Shin-Etsu Group declares that it will carry out daily business operations and smooth communication. accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal law-abiding, fair and transparent corporate activities. By However, this increases the chance of information leaks Information, we have established a personal information having directors, statutory auditors and employees make a and other issues occurring as a result of inappropriate protection policy, which is available on our website Compliance Pledge, we assuredly prevent unfair benefits or management of information assets and can be held (Japanese only). Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness unfair demands in respect to our customers and business responsible for the company’s management. Information Moreover, the Group is making exhaustive efforts in partners. In addition to the semiannually monitoring of assets must be protected against various dishonest acts the appropriate handling and protection of the personal In the event of promulgation of or amendments to legislation each department concerning the status of compliance and threats and in the event of a compromising situation, information of customers, business partners and other pertaining to corporate activities, the Legal Department issues with ethical standards including those bribery prevention, any effect on other companies and expansion must be contacts through measures such holding explanatory internal bulletins and holds presentations as appropriate. To regular internal audits for corruption, embezzlement and prevented. meetings within the Group on compliance with all relevant raise awareness of legal compliance, internal bulletins are bribery are carried out. Given these considerations, the Shin-Etsu Group has laws and lectures regarding personal information protection issued to flag issues up in the event a violation of laws or set its Basic Policy on Information Asset Management to during stratified training sessions. regulations occurs at another company. ensure the confidentiality1, integrity2 and availability3 of its information assets. Cutting Ties with Anti-social Forces 1 Confidentiality Information is to be protected from unauthorized users. Initiatives Concerning Intellectual Property Compliance Pledge The Shin-Etsu Group declares in its Basic Policy on Internal 2 Integrity Information is to be protected from falsification, deletion, destruction and loss. Controls that the Group shall adopt a consistently resolute 3 Availability In order to accomplish strategic business management Ensure authorized users have access to information when needed. Directors, statutory auditors and employees make a attitude towards anti-social forces and shall take measures centered on intellectual property, the Shin-Etsu Group has Compliance Pledge to the company which represents their necessary to cut itself off from any and all associations with established Basic Regulations for Intellectual Property which commitment as individuals to practice compliance in their anti-social forces. In accordance with this policy, we will sets out regulations regarding acquisition, management and daily work. For the eventuality of inappropriate action endeavour to develop internal systems under the leadership Initiatives for Information Asset Management application of intellectual property. In addition to protecting occurring, disciplinary measures are available. of rhe department in charge of managing these issues. the Group’s intellectual property from violation by third Working closely with external organizations addressing Regulations concerning the protection, utilization, parties, these regulations also require respect for the rights these issues, we will strongly push forward initiatives aimed management and application of the Group’s information regarding all intellectual property of third parties. at eradicating anti-social forces. assets are established in the Information Asset Management Moreover, information in forms such as an annual report Compliance Consultation Office Regulations, which is set out in the Basic Policy on is disclosed to allow all stakeholders1 including investors to Information Asset Management. have a precise grasp of the status of the Group’s intellectual To support each Shin-Etsu Group employee in ensuring Details concerning issues such as the handling of all property assets. that their work activities comply at all times with relevant Export Control information regarding customers and business partners, and 1 Stakeholder laws and regulations as well as internal rules, we have set information management, retention periods and deletion Persons or businesses with a direct or indirect interest in a company’s business activities. up a Compliance Consultation Office , which is available The Security Export Control Committee at Shin-Etsu are set out in subordinate regulations, the Information whenever required to provide consultation or accept Chemical provides an export control structure designed to Asset Management Standards and the Trade Secrets notifications. ensure proper standards of international peace and safety Management Standards. In order to prevent unintentional In accordance with the Compliance Consultation and in relation to exporting, supply and associated agency leaks of technologies due to business development into Notification Regulations, the Compliance Consultation transactions of goods and technology in categories subject regions with weak protections for intellectual property Office maintains strict confidentiality to ensure that no to regulation under export-related legislation such as the rights, we have formulated the Standards for Preventing employee consulting the office suffers disadvantage. The Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. Technology Leaks. office then carries out investigations in response to the The Internal Control Program on Security Export The Information Asset Management Department and the information received and takes corrective action where Control has been established to classify categories of Auditing Department regularly conduct checks and follownecessary. No employee suffers any form of disadvantage on goods requiring export clearance and implement screening up checks of the status of compliance with Information the grounds of having made a consultation or notification. procedures for customers and transactions. The Company Asset Management Regulations and other regulations. also conducts internal audits and provides training and guidance for officers and employees as well as instruction to Group companies. 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 18 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Material Procurement Risk Management The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to fair and equitable procurement The Group assesses potential risks and is prepared for contingencies practices and to incorporating environmental considerations into the supply chain for which a substitute product or supplier is not readily Basic Procurement Policy Business Continuity Initiatives Risk Management Regulations available, such as pharmaceutical and medical products, custom-made items, and products which enjoy a high A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for the The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a Business Continuity Shin-Etsu Chemical has established Risk Management market share. Given our social responsibility for the supply purchasing of supplies needed for production activities, Plan and is prepared for contingencies. We would like Regulations in which the potential risks to the company of these products, we are committed to continuing this including raw materials, secondary materials such as suppliers to understand the effectiveness and practicality and the Group are precisely defined, and management supply even in the event of a disaster. transportation packaging, and machinery and equipment. of the Group’s Business Continuity Plan and draw up a systems and preparations related to preventing the risks or The plant-specific business continuity plans are The Basic Procurement Policy, which governs all procurement business continuity plan of their own. responding to risk after they have occurred are set out. coordinated with the division-specific business continuity activities by the Company, is communicated to all personnel Shin-Etsu Chemical has established Company-wide plans and contain a response plan for the individual plant in and posted on the website. Business Continuity Management Regulations in accordance the event of a major earthquake, explosion, fire, etc. with the Risk Management Regulations which sets out general We will continue in future to carry out appropriate Control of Chemical Substances Used matters regarding business continuity such as the formulation reviews to improve the efficacy and practicality of the as Raw Materials of a business continuity plan and operations management. Business Continuity Plan. Compliance with the Subcontractors Act Division-specific and plant-specific business continuity plans The Shin-Etsu Group checks the ISO14001 status of have been formulated as concrete plans which take these To ensure full compliance with the Subcontractors suppliers and considers preferential business transactions matters into consideration. Moreover, we have formulated Act (actual title: The Act against Delay in Payment of with suppliers that have ISO certification so as to purchase Regulations of Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters to Business Continuity Management System in Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors), the Shinmaterials of lower environmental burden. ensure business continuity in the event of a disaster. the Event of Emergency Etsu Group maintains close lines of communication with When contracting specifications on supply of raw its business partners in order to avoid any abuse of the materials, we investigate the supplier’s use in products and In the event of an emergency, a Company-Wide Headquarters Company’s position of superiority relative to subcontractors. packaging of chemical substances with high environmental for Countermeasures headed by the company president For all business partners subject to the provisions of the impact, their environmental management systems, their Aim of Business Continuity Plan will be set up immediately in line with the Regulations of Subcontractors Act, the Shin-Etsu Group makes periodical handling of prohibited substances as stipulated in the RoHS Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters. Below this will be checks in combination with reporting of new transactions directive1, and their Green Partner certification status. The Shin-Etsu Group considers supply of high-quality set up Head Office Supervisory Departments attached to to ensure full compliance. Staffs in charge of purchasing The Shin-Etsu Group is also committed to compliance materials based on superior technologies to be an important the Company-Wide Headquarters for Countermeasures, and procurement frequently attend external seminars with REACH2 registration requirements by working contribution to society and regards ensuring continuity of Division Headquarters for Countermeasures headed by the and presentations as well as internal training sessions with production and sales departments to obtain supply as a major corporate responsibility. Many of the relevant divisional general manager, and Plant headed by to discuss specific examples of conduct. In this way, the confirmation from raw material suppliers of the REACH Group’s products have high market share not only in Japan the relevant plant manager. Company works to boost awareness of compliance with registration status of raw materials. In this way, we are but also globally, and our products are often used for Under this system, each countermeasure headquarters the Subcontractors Act. building an environment-friendly supply chain with our highly specialized applications in cutting-edge industries. and organization is responsible for implementing In addition, the Company requests that raw material business partners. An interruption of the supply of these products would emergency action procedures in accordance with presuppliers to comply thoroughly with the Subcontractors Act. 1 RoHS Directive therefore have a major social impact. In response, the aim defined operational criteria and for taking measures to An EU directive, formally known as the Restriction of the Use of Certain of our Business Continuity Plan is to allow us to continue ensure continuity of operations. Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations. 2 REACH fulfilling our responsibility for vital product supply in the An EU regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of event of a major earthquake, an explosion or fire, or other ■ Outline of Business Continuity Plan Procurement Audit Chemicals. serious disaster or risk situation. Risk scenarios: major earthquake, fire, explosion or other serious risk. Suppliers are expected to understand the Basic Procurement Major objective: to ensure continuity of high-priority business Policy and asked to incorporate the contents of the Policy operation and product supply. into their supply contracts. Overview of Business Continuity Plan Before and after supply begins, the supplier is asked ■ Business Continuity Structure in the Event of Emergency to complete a procurement audit checklist, the results of The division-specific business continuity plans are predicated Company-wide Headquarters for Countermeasures which are used for evaluation and assessment. Additionally, on the damage that could be caused by a major earthquake, Head: Company President we visit suppliers in Japan and overseas whenever necessary fire or explosion, and set out the procedures for each to carry out audit. business unit. Their concrete content can be summed up in Head Office Supervisory Departments Company-wide emergency the five following points: attached to Company-wide response (1) Projection of disaster scenarios Headquarters for Countermeasures Business continuity response (2) Identification of priority businesses and products Headquarters for Countermeasures Divisional emergency response (3) Setting of target recovery period of Relevant Division Head: Divisional general manager Business continuity response (4) F ormulation of alternative plans to enable business continuation Headquarters for Countermeasures Plant emergency response (5) Formulation of advance risk reduction action plans of relevant plant Basic Procurement Policy Head: Plant Manager Business continuity response http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/purchasing/kihon.shtml Our priority businesses and products include items 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 20 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Environmental Challenges and Results of Shin-Etsu Chemical in Fiscal 2011 Management Shin-Etsu Chemical has adopted a mid-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 50% of the 1990 level by 2015 Shin-Etsu Chemical has adopted the two mid-term environmental targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity1 to for the Group in 2011 was 65.8% of the 1990 level, which represents an increase on the 2010 level. This was a result of 50% of the 1990 level by 2015 and of realizing zero emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste generated) by 2015. the damage sustained in the Great East Japan Earthquake at some production plants and a fall in production volume, and The Company is working towards these reductions. furthermore, because of an increase in energy consumption for the repair work, the ratio of emissions of greenhouse gases to In 2011, our greenhouse gas emissions intensity was reduced to 60.6% of 1990 levels. This outcome was achieved through production volume increased. a variety of initiatives including the installation of co-generation systems and steam turbines, energy-saving investment such as As for the zero emissions target, landfill waste as a proportion of total industrial waste generated came to 1.91% in fiscal absorption refrigeration, alteration from heavy oil to natural gas as a fuel source, exhaust heat recovery and increased productivity 2011. This result was due to process improvements which increase yield and reduction of industrial waste generated, investment due to process improvements. The entire Group has been making similar efforts, however, the greenhouse gas emissions intensity in such areas as hydrochloric acid recovery, cellulose recycling, waste treatment facilities, and effective use of waste products 1 The intensity figure shown are in metric tonnes CO2e per production. as raw material for cement. * Due to an increase in the companies covered in this year’s report, the figures differ to those in last year’s report. * Due to standarization for generation volumes of waste, corrections were performed retroactively on data for some production plants up until 2004. Because of this, figures * In order to clearly define the reduction efforts, the average value from 2000-2010 of the conversion factor for CO2 from electricity supply is used. vary from those reported last year. ■ Greenhouse gas emissions intensity relative to fiscal 1990 levels ■ Percentage of total waste material sent to landfill (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Reduction of steam consumption by Installation of absorption Installation of LNG-fueled Installation of thermal recovery Installation of hydrochloric acid improvement of reaction processes refrigeration systems through-flow boiler facility for distillation column recovery system (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Kashima) (Nissin Chemical Industry) (JAPAN VAM & POVAL) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) Shin-Etsu Chemical (% index of GHG emissions intensity) (% sent to landfill) Shin-Etsu Group 100 6.0 5.48 90 5.0 4.39 80 4.0 3.37 70 3.0 2.44 2.56 1.97 2.04 1.91 60 2.0 Shin-Etsu Chemical’s target: 50% 50 1.0 2015 target 40 0 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) (FY) Installation of ice-thermal storage Installation of steam turbines Installation of turbo refrigerator Electricity demand control Installation of recycling line for by-product Installation of rare earth recycling air conditioning systems co-generation (Shin-Etsu Handotai, Isobe) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Gunma) generated from cellulose derivatives facility (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Takefu) (Shin-Etsu Polymer, Tokyo) (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Kashima) production (Shin-Etsu Chemical, Naoetsu) 21 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 22 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Environmental Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities, Input/Output Environmental Environmental Accounting Management Management As a key materials manufacturer, we aim to reduce environmental impact The Shin-Etsu Chemical discloses data about costs required for not only for our own benefit, but also for that of society as a whole, environmental conservation in compliance with guidelines by developing advanced technologies ■Resources/Energy ■Raw materials Environmental Accounting Energy Consumption Water Withdrawals • Methanol • Vinyl chlovide monomer (crude oil equivalent) 200 million m3 • Pulp • Polycrystalline silicon In fiscal 2011, Shin-Etsu Chemical applied the Environmental Major investments 2,286 million liters (29 million m3 increase • Industrial salt • Acetic acid Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared by the Ministry of the • Installation of an energy-recovering facility (276 million liter increase from previous fiscal year) • Metalic silicon Others Environment, Japan, to calculate the investments and • Promotion of energy savings resulting from improvements in from previous fiscal year) expenditures involved in reduction of the environmental impact of production processes air pollution, water pollution, environmental release of chemical • Promotion of energy loss prevention INPUT ■Shin-Etsu Group substances, etc.; energy-saving measures to conserve the global • Build-up and renewal of wastewater treatment equipment • Installation of equipment to recycle raw materials, and equipment environment; and waste reduction and recycling to improve reuse By promoting the reduction of environmental impact at all stages from product design through raw material procurement to the of resources. to treat and recover waste establishment of an efficient manufacturing system, we are limiting increases in the amount of energy, water and raw materials needed to • Improvement of industrial waste disposal facility match the rising volume of products manufactured. • Environmental improvement, etc., of plants and surrounding areas Amount of Water Recycled: Development Procurement Production 2,043 million m3 (261 million m3 increase from Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2011 (Millions of Yen) previous fiscal year) Category Details Investment Expenditure We are promoting product design The procurement of materials on Improved manufacturing systems are being and development that emphasize a global basis is another method established with less environmental impact Water Recycling Ratio: Business area costs: the importance of reducing being used to reduce due to the promotion of energy saving, 91.1% environmental impact. environmental impact. recycling and the reuse of resources. (0.1% decrease from previous (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 581 3,568 fiscal year) (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy saving and global warming mitigation measures 350 1,268 OUTPUT (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 404 1,711 ■Exhaust Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 162 17 Gases Emitted Administration costs Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and environmental education measures 0 422 CO2: 4,242,000 CO2-ton Soot: 35 tons NOx: 1,301 tons SOx: 267 tons (471,000 CO2-ton increase (8 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) (27 ton increase from previous fiscal year) (14 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) Research and development costs Research and development of environmentally conscious products and technologies 37 3,140 from previous fiscal year) Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental protection 0 27 Discharges of Water Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental degradation 0 46 COD: 5,042 tons BOD: 337 tons Total Discharges of Water: 189million m3 (27 million m3 increase from previous fiscal year) (434 ton increase from previous fiscal year) (18 ton increase from previous fiscal year) Total 1,534 10,199 ■Waste Amount of Waste Amount of Waste Waste Recycling Amount Waste Final Disposal Generated: Recycled: Ratio: for Landfill: Ratio: 111,000 tons 76,000 tons 68.9% 2,600 tons 2.37% ■ Economic Benefits of Environmental Accounting in Fiscal 2011 ■ Cost of Environmental Conservation (millions of yen) (16,000 ton decrease from (15,000 ton decrease from (2.6% decrease from (1,100 ton decrease from (0.51% decrease from 27 46 previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) previous fiscal year) 3,568 Details of benefits Economic benefit (Millions of Yen) ■ Pollution prevention ■ Global environmental conservation ■PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) System Energy savings 619 3,140 ■ Resource recycling Improved production efficiency 1,416 2010(FY) Amount released: Amount transferred: ■ Upstream and downstream 10,199 157 tons 777 tons Production process 1,327 ■ Administration Millions of Yen 422 (34 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) (113 ton decrease from previous fiscal year) Secondary materials costs 89 ■ Research and development 180 302 ■ Social engagement 707 Reduction in waste treatment costs 33 ■To Society Profit from sale of valuable resources 108 ■ Environmental remediation 406 17 1,268 Products 2005(FY) 1,711 Total 2,175 132 6,838 • PVC • Cellulose derivatives • Optical fiber preforms •Silicon carbide Millions of Yen • Silicone resins • Rare earth magnets • POVAL Others 25076 3,032 312 • Silicon wafers • Synthetic quartz photomask substrates • Hot-melt adhesives 336 1,320 * As the industrial waste standards and PRTR systems vary from country to country, the figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese domestic operations only. 7 759 2002(FY) * Water recycling ratio indicates amount recycled as a proportion of total water used. * Waste recycling ratio indicates amount recycled as a proportion of total waste generated. 5,186 Millions of Yen * Final disposal ratio indicates amount of waste for landfill as a proportion of total waste generated. 2,544 1,272 Environmental Data http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 389 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 24 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Environmental Environmental Initiatives Management The Shin-Etsu Group is addressing all issues that are relevant to realizing energy saving and mitigating global warming, including reducing environmental impact, protecting the environment and recycling resources Mitigation of Global Warming Water Withdrawals Prevention of Water Pollution Reduction of Environmental Impact The Shin-Etsu Group works to reduce greenhouse gases to Water Withdrawals The Shin-Etsu Group uses large quantities of industrial mitigate global warming. (million m3) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) water, groundwater and tap water to manufacture and Reducing Energy Consumption Although CO2 emissions have risen as our energy 400 clean products and to maintain and manage facilities. The Shin-Etsu Group manufactures a wide variety of consumption increases, each company and plant is making 116 Wastewater is discharged into rivers after being checked for 112 products. Energy sources including electricity, heavy oil, endeavor to reduce CO2 emissions. 100 compliance with limits specified under laws and regulations. 300 95 kerosene, diesel oil and steam are used to support this Fiscal 2011 CO2 emissions totaled 4,242 thousand CO283 85 pH1, BOD2, SS3, COD4 and other items are measured 82 manufacturing. The Shin-Etsu Group selects the most tons, an increase of 471 thousand CO2-tons from fiscal 200 regularly to monitor impact on water quality. We are also 192 suitable energy source for the manufacturing facilities 200 174 181 171 2010 due to an increase in production. Small quantities 193 working to reduce the amount of wastewater discharged. 184 and utilities used in such processes as reaction, refining, of greenhouse gases other than carbon dioxide, including Fiscal 2011 COD discharge totaled 5,042 tons, a 434 synthesis and processing. methane and sulfur hexafluoride, are emitted. From fiscal 100 ton increase from fiscal 2010. Fiscal 2011 BOD discharge Although overall energy consumption is growing due to 2010, index of financial (sales) intensity increased due to a totaled 337 tons, an 18 ton increase from fiscal 2010. increased production, each company and plant works to change in the component ratio of manufactured products. 1 pH 0 save energy. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Index of hydrogen ion concentration (-log [H+]) indicating acidity (<pH7), neutrality (=pH7) or alkalinity (>pH7) of water solution. The Shin-Etsu Group consumed 276 million liters CO2 Emissions 2 BOD more energy in fiscal 2011 than the previous fiscal year, Emissions Water Withdrawals by Source Abbreviation of Biochemical Oxygen Demand: indicates the amount of oxygen Unit: million m3 increasing total consumption to 2,286 million liters (Thousands of CO2-tons) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) required for water-borne organisms to break down contaminants in water and 8,000 Category 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 is a measure of the degree of water pollution. (crude oil equivalent). Under the SCOPE 11, we have been 133 3 SS 128 Groundwater 16 16 16 17 16 18 18 progressing with a switch from heavy oil to natural gas, 117 Suspended Solids (SS): index of organic and mineral particles suspended in Industrial Water 39 42 41 39 38 38 37 water reflecting level of turbidity. and as a result the share of natural gas in fuel use is very 6,000 100 4 COD high. Under the SCOPE 21 measurement, electric power 89 86 92 Tap Water 11 11 12 11 8 9 9 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): amount of oxygen required to oxidize the 4,242 pollutants (organic compounds) in water using an oxidizing agent. accounts for approximately 90%. From fiscal 2010, index 3,599 3,561 3,771 River Water 125 115 122 106 117 105 135 4,000 3,422 3,506 3,341 of financial (sales) intensity increased due to a change in the Other 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 component ratio of manufactured products. 2,000 Total 192 184 193 174 181 171 200 Example for Discharges of Water Monitoring: 1 A term for the breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions by energy type as (Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu) defined under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative, a set of guidelines under Legal the global agreement on greenhouse gas emissions. SCOPE 1 covers direct 0 Amount of Water Recycled limitations 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 emissions of greenhouse gases by the enterprise itself, while SCOPE 2 covers 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 indirect emissions through external energy supply. Amount of Water Recycled Recycling Water Ratio（%） 5.8 〜 6.7 〜 6.9 〜 6.4 〜 6.9 〜 7.1 〜 7.0 〜 7.0 〜 (million m3) pH 8.6 7.5 7.5 7.3 7.5 7.7 7.4 7.4 Water Resource Initiatives 4,000 BOD ≦ 60 41 50 − − − − − Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) To ensure efficient use of limited water resources, the 90.8 91.2 91.1 (mg/L) ≦ 40 − − 31 23 23 32 21 90.4 Consumption Shin-Etsu Group is using cooling water recycling systems 3,000 88.5 88.6 SS ≦ 50 30 42 26 24 29 40 25 (Million liters) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) to increase the proportion of water reused. The majority 87.7 (mg/L) 4,000 145 of the river water we use is used by our European Group 2,043 137 1,782 Note 1) p  H is the minimum and maximum limitations from multiple 127 2,000 1,784 companies. This river water is used for cooling and can be 1,490 1,630 measurements. 3,000 1,366 1,418 100 97 returned to the river untreated without causing pollution. Note 2) BOD and SS are maximum limitations from multiple measurements. 88 86 2,286 Note 3) The BOD legal limitation was 60mg/L until 2006 but was 1,887 2,010 Water withdrawals in fiscal 2011 was 200 million m3, 1,000 2,000 1,692 strengthened to 40mg/L from 2007. To coincide with this, we a 29 million m3 increase from fiscal 2010. The amount of installed more our wastewater treatment facilities and achieved a 1,725 1,784 1,746 1,000 water recycled came to 2,043 million m3, a 261 million large decrease in BOD discharge. 0 m3 increase from fiscal 2010. Discharges of water was 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 189 million m3, a 27 million m3 increase from fiscal 2010. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Amount of Discharges of Water The fiscal 2011 water recycling ratio reached 91.1%. The increases in water withdrawals and discharges of water are (million m3) Detailed Chart of Energy Consumption by Energy Type due to an increase in production. 250 (Calorific Equivalent) Unit: peta joule 200 189 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 179 180 171 164 171 162 Natural Gas 11.1 11.6 12.9 15.5 18.4 20.4 24.2 150 Heavy Oil A + Heavy Oil C 3.5 3.5 2.6 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.6 SCOPE 1 LPG+LNG 2.4 2.4 2.2 1.4 1.9 1.6 1.6 100 Other 1.7 1.3 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.6 Purchased Electric Power 40.1 41.5 43.2 42.1 45.1 48.2 55.5 50 SCOPE 2 Purchased Steam 6.5 6.4 6.9 6.3 6.0 6.1 5.8 0 Total 65.4 66.7 69.0 67.5 72.9 77.7 88.4 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 26 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities COD Discharge Sample of Emission Gas Monitoring Result: SOx Emissions Amount of Waste Recycled (tons) Boiler (Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu) (tons) Amount of Waste Recycled 7,000 2,000 Legal 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (thousand tons) Waste Recycling Ratio (%) limitations 150 6,000 Soot 1,550 5,035 4,997 5,042 ≦ 0.25 0.03 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 1,500 5,000 4,605 4,608 (g/Nm3) 71.5 68.9 4,476 4,546 NOx 1,242 120 68.1 ≦ 150 110 99 88 98 98 92 91 60.0 4,000 (ppm) 59.1 59.0 979 90 91 SOx ≦ 11.5 0.45 <0.025 <0.025 <0.025 <0.025 <0.016 <0.003 1,000 90 49.0 3,000 (k value) 97 76 90 91 Note 1) T he figures shown are the maximum limitations from multiple 476 58 2,000 60 measurements throughout the year. 500 286 281 267 1,000 Note 2) The sign “<“ indicates a limitation below the detectable limit. Note 3) S Ox are converted to the unit value (k value) as per the reporting 30 0 standard stipulated in the Air Pollution Control Act. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 Sample of Emission Gas Monitoring Result: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 BOD Discharge Incinerator (Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma) (tons) Reduction of Waste Genereted and Recycling 700 Legal Amount of Waste for Landfill limitations 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The different production processes generate various types 600 569 Soot ≦ 0.15 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 <0.005 0.041 0.024 of waste such as unreacted materials, by-products, defective Amount of Waste for Landfill (g/Nm3) (thousand tons) Final Disposal Ratio (%) products and damaged or unused parts. The Shin-Etsu 10 500 NOx ≦ 250 110 62 55 92 82 71 120 Group promotes the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) to 404 (ppm) 396 400 356 SOx ensure effective use of the Earth’s limited resources. We 4.01 337 ≦ 17.5 0.51 0.47 1.03 1.87 0.66 1.25 0.60 8 299 319 (k value) 300 also periodically check outside contractors at their sites so 3.27 3.32 2.95 Hydrogen chloride (g/Nm3) ≦ 700 18 24 51 27 23 29 20 as to ensure proper handling of waste consigned to them. 2.81 2.88 6 5.4 5.0 2.37 200 Dioxins ≦5 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 The amount of waste generated in fiscal 2011 totaled 4.7 4.6 (ng-TEQ/Nm3) 100 111 thousand tons, a 16 thousand ton decrease from fiscal 4 3.7 3.7 Note 1) T he figures shown are the maximum limitations from multiple 2010. The amount of waste recycled in fiscal 2011 totaled 2.6 0 measurements throughout the year. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 76 thousand tons, a 15 thousand ton decrease from fiscal Note 2) The sign “<“ indicates a limitation below the detectable limit. 2 2010. The fiscal 2011 recycling ratio was 68.9%. The Prevention of Air Pollution Soot Emissions amount of waste for landfill in fiscal 2011 totaled 2.6 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Shin-Etsu Group is endeavoring to reduce emissions (tons) thousand tons, a 1.1 thousand ton decrease from fiscal 80 of air pollutants. We use no specified CFCs. Some 2010. The final disposal ratio was 2.37%. Group companies use HCFC-22, HCFC-123 and other 66 Prevention of Soil Pollution * As the industrial waste standards vary from country to country, the figures shown HCFCs as refrigerant of refrigerator, but these are subject 60 represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s domestic Japanese Each plant carries out groundwater and soil monitoring in to appropriate operation to prevent leakage into the 49 operations only. accordance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures 43 Act to check on groundwater conditions. atmosphere. At the same time, switch to CFCs substitutes 40 39 40 35 Amount of Waste Generated such as HFC-32 and HFC-134a is being actively progressed. 33 A large reduction in sulfur oxides (SOx) was achieved by Amount of Waste Generated Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation fuel switch from heavy oil to natural gas. Air pollutant levels 20 (thousand tons) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) The Shin-Etsu Group undertakes environmentally considerate from boilers and incinerators are measured regularly to 400 product design starting from the product development stage. check for compliance with legal limitation. 119.5 118.1 At the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 104.7 as a chemical company by working actively to stringently Fiscal 2011 soot emissions totaled 35 tons, an 8 ton 300 100.0 95.8 decrease from fiscal 2010. NOx emissions came to 1,301 87.7 enforce chemical substance management, mitigate global NOx Emissions 76.1 tons, a 27 ton increase from fiscal 2010. SOx emissions (tons) warming, reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount 2,000 200 of waste generated, prevent water pollution, and make came to 267 tons, a 14 ton decrease from fiscal 2010. 152 155 162 132 127 other environmental contributions. We are also engaged in The increase in NOx emissions was due to an increase in 118 111 production compared to fiscal 2010. 100 activities such as scenic improvement and tree-planting in 1,500 1,349 1,363 1,281 1,274 1,301 areas neighboring our plants. 1,172 1,077 0 Furthermore, we request that our suppliers implement 1,000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 environmental conservation initiatives concerning forestclearing and other such activities. 500 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 28 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Examples of the Shin-Etsu Group’s Initiatives for Energy Saving Promoting Solar Photovoltaic Power Generation ●Shinano Electric Refining, Kashiwabara Plant ●Nissin Chemical Industry, Head Office and Plant Shinano Electric Refining’s Kashiwabara Plant is located Nissin Chemical Industry has already implemented on the border of Nagano Prefecture and Niigata various initiatives to reduce the environmental impact. Prefecture, in a mountainous region with high snowfalls. In 2010, when an extra building was added, in addition The New Energy and Industrial Technology Development to considerations about preserving greenery and Responding to Chemical Substances Control Law PRTR System Chloromethyl Release Organization (NEDO) is promoting solar photovoltaic complying with revisions to the Factory Location Act, Using the PRTR system as stipulated under the Chemical (tons) power generation in these kinds of regions. As Shinano solar photovoltaic power generators were installed as Substances Control Law1, the Shin-Etsu Group reports on 250 Electric Refining is promoting reductions in environmental an initiative for the environment. In summer when the the amount of chemical substances that it releases into the loads, solar photovoltaic power generation was installed power generating efficiency is good, most of the power environment and works to reduce this amount. 200 in December 2006. needs of the office can be met by the solar power 166 Following that, the project was expanded to generators. Fiscal 2011 total release amounted to 157 tons, a 34 150 140 effectively and we utilize them to provide the power for The solar power generators installed also function as ton decrease from fiscal 2010. The total amount transferred was 777 tons, a 113 ton decrease from fiscal 2010. 109 air conditioning and lighting for the office and lighting a waterproofing measure for the roof of the building. 100 91 88 75 83 and power for the manufacturing division. 1 Chemical Substances Control Law Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances 50 in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 PRTR System Total Release Total amount released PRTR System 1,2-dichloroethane Release Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) 100.0 (tons) (tons) 700 40 600 80.7 33.3 30 27.6 28.3 500 23.6 53.6 56.4 22.5 400 330 48.7 20.0 20 18.0 287 300 37.7 33.8 191 200 167 157 214 10 175 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Shin-Etsu Silicones (Thailand) Obtains ISO 50001 Certification PRTR System Total Transferred PRTR System Chloroethylene Release Shin-Etsu Silicones (Thailand) obtained ISO 500011 1 ISO 50001 certification. Total amount transferred (tons) certification in November 2011. This standard was issued This certification is the first step in energy saving Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2005 (%) 16 in June 2011 and it is a new international standard for activities and the company is working to make further (tons) energy management. improvements in this area. 12.6 130.0 2,000 In Thailand, energy consumption has been increasing 119.6 12 10.9 10.6 1 ISO 50001 in line with industry development and the Thai An international standard requiring business and other organizations to 100.0 103.7 8.9 manage energy usage and achieve continual improvements in energy 1,500 government requires all businesses operating domestically efficiency and saving. 7.7 7.6 8 82.4 to adopt energy-saving measures. As a part of this, 1,000 63.0 63.4 890 4.8 the Thai Ministry of Energy has selected ten domestic 743 777 4 companies as model companies, and began to promote 665 518 the introduction of energy management systems from 500 720 661 October 2010. Shin-Etsu Silicones (Thailand) has been 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 selected by the Ministry as one of these companies. 0 Since Shin-Etsu Silicones (Thailand) established an 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 energy saving committee in 2007, this committee has been the center of efforts to save energy. In order to obtain ISO 50001 certification, the company president nominated a representative for energy management and under the representative, the following actions were carried out: documentation of the manual and procedures for energy management, confirmation of the status of energy consumption, measurement of energy efficiency, and formulation of an action plan to improve energy efficiency. The company was then able to obtain 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 30 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Safety and Health Safety Measures By putting in place highly reliable safety measures and devoting efforts to everyday education and training, we ensure the ability to respond to any situation Number of Lost Time Incidents Process Safety and Disaster Prevention (Shin-Etsu Group Japanese domestic operations) Number of Lost Time Incidents Safety Measures for Facilities Frequency of Lost Time Incidents (Number) At the installation and facility design stage, each Shin-Etsu 25 0.71 Group plant ensures compliance with legal regulation and technical standards. Additionally, advance evaluations 20 0.51 0.49 of safety strategy (risk assessment) are carried out and 0.48 discussions and confirmation through the Safety Inspection 15 0.39 15 Committee and Preventative Safety Committee are held. 0.27 11 11 11 Meanwhile, HAZOP1, FMEA2 and What-if3 and other analysis 10 0.09 9 techniques are used appropriately to identify risk in facilities 6 Autumn environmental control and safety audit (November 2011, and take corrective action. Fire Drill (October 2011, Kashima Plant) 5 Naoestu Precision) 2 The review of existing facilities and processes which are potentially the source of serious accidents or disaster 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 has been completed and corrective measures are in place. * The data of above graph are calendar year as stipulated under the Industrial Safety We will continue with ongoing efforts to identify risks in Occupational Health and Safety and Health Act. Accident and Disaster Reporting facilities and take corrective action so as to raise the level of facility safety measures. Action on Health and Safety Education and Training In fiscal 2011, there was a fire at Shin-Etsu Chemical’s 1 HAZOP (Hazard and Operability Study) We carry out risk assessment of operational procedures to To improve the abilities and competence of individual Gunma, however, there was no impact on the environment A method of checking safety measures by comprehensively investigating the promote safety in the workplace. Our efforts to prevent employees, the necessary education and training is carried of the surrounding locality. causes of operational irregularities in chemical processes. 2 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) accidents and malfunctions at the contact points between on systematically at all plants and workplaces. Method of checking safety measures by analyzing the effect on the system as a humans and facilities that arise in the process of facility As well as skills training in operations and procedures, whole of malfunction in the individual machines that make up the plant. 3 What-if automation are based on foolproof1 measures such as we provide safety education for accident prevention, handsTechnique that repeatedly asks “what if?” to evaluate safety measures and the installation of safety covers and safety barriers, and on training using simulated danger situations, education Awarded the Minister’s Prize, identify overand under-provision. safety-type limit switches. The efforts are also based on in environmental conservation, training in handling of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and failsafe2 systems that continue to guarantee safety in the chemical substances, and drills for the event of electricity Industry for high-pressure gas safety Emergency Response event of malfunction, such as safety devices, interlocks and outages and other irregular situations. We also provide To prepare for the eventuality of fire, explosion or other warning systems. regular training for employees of different grades and in serious accident or a disaster such as earthquake or typhoon, We also emphasize action on safety by employees different fields of work and offer study programs for legal we have formulated emergency response plan, put in place themselves and intangible safety activities such as review qualifications to raise staff competence. a company-wide emergency response system and laid down and compliance with manuals. In particular, the zero-accident response procedures. Moreover, each plant and business program is designed to raise the ability of individuals to site regularly carries out emergency drills based on a range recognize dangerous situations, and includes activities of scenarios including explosion, fire, hazardous substance such as hazard prediction training, reporting of close-call Environmental Control and Safety Audits leakage, and major earthquake to test the effectiveness of incidents and safety concerns, pointing-and–calling safety response procedures. procedures, and hands-on hazard awareness training. To check that reliable progress is being made toward the Additionally, in order to provide for the event of an goal of ’Safety and Environment First’ in environmental Mitsuru Daimaru, head of the manufacturing section at Kashima 1 Fool-proof: Vinyl Chloride Monomer was awarded the 2011 Minister’s Prize for accident during transportation of hazardous, high-pressure Refers to safety measures built in at the design stage so that even if operatives control, accident prevention and other areas of environmental fail to follow the correct procedure, they will not be exposed to danger. high-pressure gas safety from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and gas or similar, we have put in place an emergency contact 2 Fail-safe: conservation and occupational health and safety, Industry. With the goal of raising safety awareness and promoting system. These emergency drills, conducted where necessary Refers to equipment and systems designed to revert to safe operating mode in comprehensive environmental safety audits and special safety regarding high-pressure gas, every year the Ministry of the event of improper user operation or machine fault. with the cooperation of local firefighting and police units audits on selected themes are carried out regularly. On Economy, Trade and Industry awards a prize for the company and and other official agencies, are open to the public. these occasions, we invite participation by external experts, safety officers making daily efforts to prevent disasters involving who provide advice and recommendations. high-pressure gas and achieving outstanding results. As the safety In audits of recent years, to strengthen and enhance officer for the production of high-pressure gas, Mr. Daimaru was safety management systems, we have identified and the recognized for his excellent achievements regarding safety. followed up these key tasks: setting of numerical targets, Since the company began operations in 1970, it has consistently raising the level of internal audit, ensuring that manuals are maintained a “safety first, no accidents, no disasters” attitude to safety and received the Superior High-Pressure Gas Production improved constantly and complied with, ensuring the safety Facility Award from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in of construction operations, assessment of plant risk and the 2009. Mr. Daimaru’s award recognizes the company’s initiatives for adequacy of response measures. improving the level of safety management as a company authorized Close-Call (Hiyari-Hatto) Incidents http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml to test and manufacture high-pressure gas. 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 32 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Product Safety Product Safety and Quality-related Initiatives The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to the safe use of products at our customers 1 SDS (Safety Data Sheet) Response to Complaints Product Safety SDS stands for Safety Data Sheet, which lists the physical and chemical In regards to complaints such as quality complaints, each Gold medal for small group activities properties of the chemical substance together with harmfulness and emergency response procedures. Designed to promote safer use of chemical substances division independently handles complaints through a process at Korean national convention and prevent accidents and incidents, SDS are supplied by manufacturers, Product Safety Promotion importers and distributors to customers at the point of sales or shipment. of complaint response, investigation and determination of Based on the basic company policy of respect for human 2 Yellow Cards the cases, and preventive action for recurrence. Particularly The yellow cards on which all relevant information on treatment required in dignity, the Shin-Etsu Group puts the highest priority on case of an accident during transportation of chemical substances is described. in cases involving product recall or product liability, where product safety as well as plant safety and environmental The cards are handed to the transport contractor to be brought by tanker lorry the impact on society may be significant, the complaint or other means at the time of transportation. conservation, and implements necessary measures 3 Container Yellow Cards is ranked as a serious complaint and receives focused throughout the Group. The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed cargoes and attention in a separate category from other complaints. FMEA and other analyses are carried out at every process small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label displaying safety In the event of a serious complaint, senior management is information such as UN number of chemical name and emergency response from product development to product commercialization procedure number. informed immediately so that a company-wide response to identify potential issues for system performance and/or 4 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) can be mounted. Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of chemicals. product safety. Qualitative analysis is undertaken to evaluate 5 A ct on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Shin-Etsu makes it an absolute rule to make an initial issues identified in order to improve product design and Manufacture, etc. response to all quality complaints from customers within 48 A law concerning examination and regulation of manufacture and other manufacturing processes. aspects of chemical substances. hours of receipt. Providing Information on Products and Responding to Auditing and Support for Quality Improvement Associated Legislation Quality audits are implemented to learn from complaints In Korea, there is a vigorous movement for small group The Shin-Etsu Group provides SDS1 for each product to and improve quality and customer service with the target activities1. Every year the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy2 holds the National Quality Management customers. Customers are encouraged to take appropriate of reducing quality issues to zero. Quality audits provide Quality Control Convention and in October 2011 at the 37th convention, safety precautions for understanding hazardous and harmful customer-oriented and quality cost-based evaluations of Group company Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea’s small group activity characteristics of the product, undertaking all required quality programs in each department. This information team was awarded a gold medal in the small and midsize Quality Control System legal procedures whenever necessary, installing safety is used to identify and remedy weak points in quality business sector. The structure of Shin-Etsu Chemical is essentially divisional systems and/or equipment to eliminate harm, and wearing control activities and systems. The aim is to learn from past The company began small group activities at its Daeso organization. Each division (including associated Group protective gear. complaints and identify the root cause of quality issues in plant in 1992 and every year a company presentation is companies) takes responsibility for quality assurance of its As a safety measure during transportation, the Shin-Etsu order to build a stronger basis for the future prevention. held. From 2010, the winning team began to compete in own products. the regional contest and in the following year the team Group issues a Yellow Card2 and/or Container Yellow The PDCA cycle is applied to problems pointed out by Requests and suggestions from customers are channeled competed in the national contest for the first time, receiving Cards3 that are affixed to containers. A 2006 amendment customers for improvement and follow-up. The Six Sigma immediately by the sales-related departments that are in a gold medal for their efforts. to the Japanese Industrial Safety and Health Act introduced program1 is also deployed on a company-wide basis as a direct contact with customers to the related departments of the GHS4 system of hazardous and toxicity warning labeling, means of improving quality levels. 1 Small Group Activities each division and Group company, R&D Department, Quality In order to improve safety, quality or efficiency in manufacturing sites, a and the Shin-Etsu Group complies with these and other 1 Six Sigma program few people form a group and carry out improvement activities as a Assurance Department and Manufacturing Department. relevant legal requirements. Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in the 1980s. Focused on group. This feedback is incorporated into new product research processes where quality variation appears, it is designed to minimize variation 2 Ministry of Knowledge Economy Within Japan, the Shin-Etsu Group implements appropriate within the processes and thereby reduce the incidence of quality defects. This The Korean equivalent to Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and and development and also used to improve existing management from research and development to commercial approach has been adopted across the Shin-Etsu Group. Industry. products. The internal feedback system helps strengthen production by confirming the safety of new chemical substances reliable relationships with customers. and submitting manufacturing permit applications in Almost all Shin-Etsu Chemical plants, both domestic accordance with the requirements of the Act on the and overseas, have obtained certification of their quality Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their management system such as ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949. Manufacture, etc.5 and other applicable legislation such So that we can supply products and services that as the Industrial Safety and Health Act. The Shin-Etsu generate customer satisfaction, each of our plants has its Group has completed preliminary registration under the own quality management policy. At the same time, by REACH regulation and is working to comply strictly with the implementing the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle, we appropriate transmission of information along the supply work to raise the effectiveness of the quality control system, chain and other aspects of the regulation. The Shin-Etsu enhance product quality, and improve service. Group is also committed to developing new manufacturing technologies designed to totally eliminate the use of RoHSdesignated specified toxic substances as required under Quality audit (August 2011, Takefu Plant) the RoHS directive. List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/quality.shtml 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 34 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Human Rights and Relations with Employees Employment People create and support technology We aim to provide ideal working conditions so they can do so The Shin-Etsu Group respects fundamental human rights cooperates with expert organizations to provide the 24labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) six months and to provide feedback on progress, and serve in and implements a variety of approaches that create a workhour Family Health Consultation Desk. and that no forced or child labor is taking place. this way to promote further development of abilities. friendly environment where employees can fulfill their potential and build a career, and that help them realize a full and healthy lifestyle. Respect for Human Rights Performance-based personnel evaluation Education/Training and Personal Development systems and equal opportunities Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion Committee Auditing student system Health Considerations The Shin-Etsu Group is fully aware of corporate social We have introduced a personnel system that places In 1962, we established an auditing student system with the responsibility. Our aim is to resolve various human rights importance on employee ability and work performance. This goal of improving workplace cohesion. Under the system, Employee health programs issues from our position as a corporation, and to create system proves useful for increasing employees’ motivation, up to about ten employees each year are chosen from plant To further decrease staff sickness, we are working to offer energetic, cheerful workplaces where people are inspired as their treatment reflects their performance, attitude, and manufacturing sites and sent to study at universities for one an ample regular health consultation service, provide health to work. The Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion evaluations of how they meet their challenges to achieve year. In the 50 years since the system was introduced, 495 guidance for lifestyle-related diseases, respond to mental Committee serves a central role to hold human rights higher goals. employees have completed the program and now function health issues, and focus on activities that promote fitness enlightenment training for officers and employees, and also To operate the personnel system in a fair and appropriate as leaders in the workplace. and develop physical strength. works to improve awareness of human rights and cultivate manner, evaluation training is provided for all managers so We have also established Health Committees at our a culture of human rights. that they can carry out personnel evaluations in an impartial Training for international adaptation head office and branch offices, as well as Safety and In addition, Shin-Etsu belongs to both the Industrial way. To further increase transparency, evaluation standards The Shin-Etsu Group is expanding its business activities Health Committees at each plant district. These committees Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and the Industrial are made available and the results are also disclosed. throughout the world. Competency to communicate in undertake activities to maintain and improve employee Federation for Anti-Discrimination, Osaka. Our employees Furthermore, a system of interviews between the evaluator foreign languages is therefore an essential skill for smooth health such as formulating annual plans, while receiving are encouraged to participate in training sessions held by and the person being evaluated has been established to operations. To this end, the Group provides English language information and guidance–including about measures to both federations and other organizations to raise staff ensure that the two parties can communicate successfully. training to teach meeting and presentation skills and offers improve the work environment and prevent damage to awareness of human rights. During interviews, each staff member and his/her intercultural communication training to promote awareness health–from industrial physicians. immediate superior use Communication Sheets to ensure and understanding of cultural differences commonly In addition, our Fitness and Physical Strength Development Efforts to abolish child labor and forced labor mutual awareness of the superior’s expectations regarding encountered overseas. Recently, in light of the Company’s Promotion Committees work together with Medical The Shin-Etsu group conforms to international guidelines, and what he/she would like the subordinate to accomplish, as well business expansion in China, Chinese conversation classes Treatment Rooms to organize physical strength monitoring, does not approve of forced labor or child labor of any type. as what challenges the subordinate would like to take on. The have also been launched. and to hold seminars and events for physical strength We conduct a survey of Group companies, including overseas interviews are also an opportunity to set targets for the next improvement. To provide health support to include companies, each year. Through this survey, we confirm that employees’ families, the corporate health insurance society our employment conditions are based on the international 1 QC Participating in training for international adaptation Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry that encourage ■ Training System employees to make proactive contributions to workplace management and improvement, leading to improvements in quality. This training made me recognize the importance Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Environment and safety education Quality control education Six Sigma education of language ability and presentation skills anew I enrolled in training for international adaptation with the aims Advanced of improving my English language abilities and learning practical General presentation skills. To participate in this training, I had to management S/M job family traing manager level ● Patent training Black belt training training prepare slide materials on a subject that was given in advance. On the first day, I used these materials to give a presentation in English. Afterwards, I learned about how to put presentations ● Training for adaptation to Course for together, English expressions, and other topics. On the final internationalization Specialized education Section management day, I made use of the things I had learned during this training Middle management training in environmental QC1 master course Green belt training manager level Mental health seminar development trainning to once again give my presentation from the first day, this time English language training, (external training) control and safety with improved content. I then received feedback from the Job family change training meeting skills courseⅠ/Ⅱ Human rights instructor and other participants. Although this short training English language training, awareness training only lasted for three days, I think it was a good opportunity to Line management Staff management learn about various things. Junior training training presentation skills courseⅠ/Ⅱ QC intermediate Supervisor education I hope to use the things I manager level course Leader training Chinese conversation classes learned in this training during Auditing student my communication, even when Safety education Intercultural communication system it is not conducted in English. (1 year) Special education Junior leader training training Basic education Regular New employee second-phase training QC basic course employees Keisuke Fujino New employee introduction training New recruit education Shin-Etsu Chemical Finance & Accounting Department 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 * The content of pages 35 to 38 does not include the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group. Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 36 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Accumulated holidays Childcare and nursing care systems Welfare and Benefits A certain number of annual paid holidays are granted in Respect for Diversity The Shin-Etsu Group offers a full range of systems to support accordance with labor regulations. If those annual paid employees who give birth to and are raising children. Our BAKER-KANAGAWA Japan-U.S. scholarship program holidays are not taken, a certain number can be treated as Promoting activities by foreign nationals, disabled childcare leave system can be used by employees until This scholarship program was set up to provide assistance accumulated holidays, which are then carried over to the persons, and the elderly their children have reached the age of three, and many for the children of Japanese employees of the Shin-Etsu next year and may be utilized as family-care leave days or as As one facet of ensuring the required human resources employees take advantage of the system. Meanwhile, Group to attend universities in the United States and for days off for injury or illness. Employees may also use these for engaging in global business, the Shin-Etsu Group carries the shorter working hours system allows employees with the children of American employees to attend universities holidays to volunteer in disaster areas or serve as donors for out employment at overseas local subsidiaries and also children up to grade three of elementary school to shorten in Japan. The program is the brainchild of Mr. Robert Baker, organ or bone marrow transplants. makes efforts to employ foreign nationals who are studying their working hours by up to two hours a day. founder and the first president of Dow Chemical Japan abroad in Japan. As for nursing care leave, under certain conditions, Ltd. and a former chairman of the American Chamber of Employee Hotline The entire Group is also working to proactively employ employees can take up to one year of leave per eligible Commerce in Japan, and Mr. Chihiro Kanagawa, chairman As a counseling service for trouble with work or other disabled persons and create environments where it is easy family member. No employees took advantage of the of Shin-Etsu Chemical. Their shared idea for this program issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which is staffed by for them to work. Employees with disabilities are involved system in fiscal 2011. was to foster internationally active human resources and experienced and qualified specialist counselors from outside in a wide range of work. deepen exchange between Japan and the United States. of the Company. Consultations are received anonymously We have created the Internal Re-employment Program and treated with strict confidentiality, but if requested the for employees who have reached the retirement age of 60 ■ Number of employees who have taken childcare leave Shinkansen commuting benefits counselor will contact the Personnel Department to discuss years, which allows them to be re-employed until age 65. (Fiscal 2011) Since 1989, Shin-Etsu has allowed commuting by Shinkansen possible solutions. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 9 (Male: 01; Female 08) at company expense. This option has allowed more (non-consolidated) employees to own houses and enables personnel who are Other systems Consolidated companies in Japan 44 (Male: 02; Female 42) reassigned to headquarters from plants and other business In the event of the death of a Shin-Etsu Group employee, sites in Gunma and Fukushima prefectures to transfer jobs we offer a scholarship system to support surviving children Consolidated companies total* 107 (Male: 35; Female 72) without changing their lifestyles. As of March 2012, 74 and family members. * The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program is employees were taking advantage of this Company offer. Because the Company has group long-term accident based on local law. and indemnity insurance, workers may still receive a portion of their salaries, should they be unable to work due to longterm illness or injury. Taking advantage of Shinkansen commuting benefits In addition, we have established asset-building schemes, a shareholding system, and a mutual aid society to provide I am effectively using my time for work, living in support for weddings, childbirth, and sudden hospitalization of family members. Taking advantage of the childcare leave system the countryside, and inside Shinkansen I decided to commute by Shinkansen when I was transferred I am supported by childcare leave, shortened work hours, I hope that as many people as possible will take from the Silicone Electronic Materials Research Center in and the surrounding environment. advantage of the childcare leave system, which now Annaka, Gunma Prefecture to head office in Tokyo, partially Labor-management Relations because I already owned a house. When my work ends late This has greatly helped me raise my two children allows up to three years of leave at night I occasionally wish that I lived closer to work, but I do I recently had my second child and used childcare leave for the second I was able to take leave very smoothly; a colleague in my workplace appreciate the contrasting environments. Shin-Etsu Chemical holds council with the Shin-Etsu time. I returned to work right after my older child turned one. However, had obtained childcare leave about half a year before I did, so the I make full use of my private time on Shinkansen, such Chemical Labor Union to promote communication between the childcare leave system had been broadly revised since that time, so people in my work place were aware of how to respond. This was as by reading or using the Internet. Although there is little labor and management. Meetings of the Central Staff this time I ended up being out of work for nearly two years. actually my second child—when I gave birth to my first child I was snow where I live in Annaka, Gunma Prefecture, there are Council are held approximately once a month at head The time before children turn two years old is a very important very busy, but this time I feel like I had a bit of breathing room in many nearby ski resorts and it is very appealing to be able to office and are attended by senior management themselves, period for their growth. I was able to watch over my child at close various ways. experience the abundant nature and the four seasons. Because who discuss with staff subjects such as management policy, range during this period, which was irreplaceable to me. I am very I heard that it was now possible to take up to three years of I live in the countryside, it is also wonderful to be able to easily outline information about individual businesses, and the grateful to all of the people at my workplace who gave me this childcare leave, and thought that the system had become a very obtain seasonal vegetables and fruits from nearby locations. important gift. Now that I have returned to work I am also using ample one. I took two years of leave, but it was a very significant personnel system. Meanwhile, each business site holds a the shorter working hours system, two-year period in which I was also monthly Local Labor Meeting with the local branch of the which would not be possible without able to raise my older child (who is still Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union. the understanding and cooperation quite small). This system is extremely Repeated dialog and discussion between labor and of the people in my surrounding helpful to people who are raising management deepen mutual understanding and trust and environment. I am very thankful, and children, so I hope that as many people facilitate business operations in which staff and management I hope to repay the favor little by little take advantage of it as possible. can come together to present speedy responses to the through my work. Tomoyoshi Tada changing business environment. Hiromi Ase Shin-Etsu Chemical Shin-Etsu Chemical Kazue Takano Purchasing Department Semiconductor Materials Division Fukui Environmental Analysis Center 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 38 Environmental, Management Structures Safety and Quality-related Initiatives Social Activities Social Contribution Communication with Local Communities We maintain communication with local communities through our plants and business sites d A ffecte r Are a s tion ort fo t East C o n tribu S u p p a onal e Gre e Shin-Etsu Group companies participated in various activities to support Regi ties by th Earthquak i Local cleanup activities Activ All plants the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, Japan including fund-raising activities. All plants are making daily efforts for local beautification activities. Local cleanup activities were conducted at the Kashima Plant in June 2011, during which 20 bags of burnable and non-burnable garbage were collected. Shin-Etsu Chemical head office/ Summer school was held Naoetsu Plant Shin-Etsu Handotai head office (Japan) Shintech in FY2011 as well Shin-Etsu Chemical and Shin-Etsu Handotai provided cooperation for the (The United States of America) The Naoetsu Plant has held an annual summer school, organized mainly local produce market that was held in the Asahi Seimei Otemachi Employees participated in a softball game to support the affected areas. by new employees, for local children in the upper grades of elementary Building–where the Shin-Etsu Chemical head office is located–to give In addition, Shintech also provided cooperation for the charity T-shirt sales school since 1975. The goal of this school is to have these children finish assistance to the affected areas. On the day of the event antenna shops1 carried out by a Japanese association located near the company’s their homework earlier so they can use their summer vacation effectively. and other shops from Fukushima, Iwate, and Miyagi Prefectures were set Louisiana Plant. The proceeds were donated to Japanese organizations up in the building, specialty products were sold, and fund-raising activities giving aid in the affected areas. were conducted. 1 Antenna shop Shops in business districts such as Tokyo and Osaka run by local governments to sell products, including local specialty products. Blood drives All plants All plants hold regular blood drives. Shin-Etsu Handotai employees at the Shirakawa Plant cooperate by donating blood during their breaks or in between work, and blood-drive bus was also operating at full capacity. Plant tour for local residents Shin-Etsu Polymer A total of 55 people, including local residents and people involved with the environment in Saitama City, attended an environmental CIRES Shin-Etsu Magnetics Philippines communication event held at Shin-Etsu Polymer’s Tokyo Plant. After (Portugal) (Philippines) listening to explanations about the plant’s disaster prevention system and efforts to reduce its environmental impact, the participants toured the Employees each donated the equivalent amount of one day’s salary to the Many employees participated in the marathon to support the affected plant. They also spent one hour exchanging views about topics including affected areas through the Portuguese Red Cross. Mountain bike areas that was held in Bonifacio Global City in central Manila. Each of the plant’s initiatives aficionados of the company also held up a horizontal banner that read, these employees ran their own target distance while holding flags that Painting a school building SE Tylose “Don’t give up, Japan” to strongly promote support for Japan to a wide stated, “Don’t give up, Japan! Don’t give up, Tohoku!” range of people. SE Tylose (Germany) employees participated in a social contribution event that was held in the region, in which they helped paint walls and other objects inside a nearby school for children with neuroloigical difficulties. Communication with local communities http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/communi.shtml 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 40 History of Activities RC Audits Responsible Care (RC) Audits so as to improve the quality of RC activities implemented Measures taken by the Shin-Etsu Group Awards in the Fields of Safety, Aiming to further improve its RC activities, Shin-Etsu Chemical by JRCC members, and to publish information on the audit the Environment and Industrial Health carries out RC audits. These audits involve the verification system and its results so as to enhance the credibility of RC 1926 1926 F ounded as Shin-Etsu Nitrogen Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (name changed to Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 1940) of all Group activities and reports by the Japan Responsible activities and ensure accountability. Care Council (JRCC). RC audits are based on the Basic Safety and Environment 1 Responsible Care Codes: codes setting basic conditions for the implementation of 2000 2000 ISO 14001 certification obtained for all domestic production plants of Shin-Etsu Chemical 2000 F ire Defense Agency Director General’s Prize for superior handling of hazardous materials (Japan Vam & Poval) Policy of the Japan Chemical Industry Association (amended Responsible Care in six areas: environmental preservation, process safety (and disaster prevention), occupational health and safety, distribution safety, chemical 2000 Installation of wastewater pretreatment system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2000 Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Nissin Chemical Industry) in 2005) and the Responsible Care Codes1. The aim of the and product safety, and social dialog (with the public). Alongside conditions in 2000 Final waste disposal system completed (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2000 Superior Prize, Minister of Labour (Naoetsu Electronics) audits is to provide an objective evaluation of RC activities these areas, a Management System Code to operate all the above is required. 2001 Waste disposal system completed (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2000 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kinki Bureau of 2001 Installation of absorption refrigeration system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) 2001 Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation process 2001 Commendation for Occupational Health Activities, Minister of Health, Labour and (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) Welfare (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Takefu) 2002 Installation of co-generation system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2001 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister for Economy, Trade and 2003 Participation at First International Conference on GSC Tokyo 2003 Industry (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2003 Installation of steam recycling system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2001 Improvement Prize, Director of Saitama Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Tokyo) 2004 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Electronics [Malaysia]) 2002 Thirty-Year Lost Time Incident-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Industry 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Promotion Committee established Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2005 Installation of cellulose wastewater recovery system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2002 Superior Company in the Field of the Environment Award, Hsinchu County, Taiwan 2005 Environmental Charter revised (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2005 Co-generation system further expanded (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2002 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kinki Bureau of 2006 H  ydrochloric acid recovery system installed on silica production line Economy, Trade and Industry (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2003 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Director of Kanto Bureau of 2006 Signed the Responsible Care Global Charter Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2006 Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Chikuma) 2003 Achieved seven million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 1st class Lost Time Incident-free 2007 SA 8000 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Magnetics Philippines) record (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) 2007 Installation of system to reduce steam usage by improvement of distillation process 2003 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free Certificate (Naoetsu Electronics) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2003 Superior Facility Award, Yamaguchi Prefecture Hazardous Materials Safety Convention 2008 Installation of natural gas fuel conversion system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Nanyo) 2008 Augmentation of wastewater biological treatment system 2004 Superior Prize, Head of Saitama Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Polymer/Tokyo) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2004 Safety and Health Encouragement Prize, Head of Nagano Labour Bureau 2008 Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation column (JAPAN VAM & POVAL) (Shinano Polymer/Hotaka) 2008 Installation of gas turbines (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2004 Bureau Director Encouragement Prize for Safety and Hygiene, Niigata Labour Bureau 2008 Fuel conversion of bolier (Tatsuno Chemical Industries) (Niigata Polymer) 2008 Installation of LNG-fueled through-flow boiler (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2005 Excellent Safety and Hygiene Workplace Award, Minister of Health, Labour and 2008 Thermal recovery system installed on silica production line Welfare (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2005 Good Management Program Prize of Occupational Safety and Health, Malaysian 2009 Installation of high-efficiency turbo refrigerator (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) Ministry of Human Resources (S.E.H. [Shah Alam]) 2009 Installation of air conditioning system using process based on free cooling 2005 Superior Prize for Safety and Health, Niigata Labour Bureau (Niigata Polymer) (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) 2006 Superior Prize for Health, Director of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standards Bureau 2009 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Magnetics Philippines) (Naoetsu Precision Engineering) 2009 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2006 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free Certificate (Shin-Etsu Film: disaster-free record maintained to date) 2007 Superior Prize, Director of Nagano Labour Bureau (Nagano Electronics) 2007 Encouragement Prize, Director of Nagano Labor Bureau (Shinano Polymer) 2008 Superior Prize for Industrial Safety and Health, Director of Fukui Prefecture Labour Bureau (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2009 S pecial award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for one million consecutive hours of Lost-Time Incident-free operation (Shin-Etsu Silicones [Thailand]) 2009 High-pressure gas safety award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) 2009 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2010 2010 Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Plants II and III) 2010 Encouragement Prize, Director of Saitama Labor Bureau (Urawa Polymer) 2010 Installation of inverter turbo refrigerator (Nagano Electronics/Plant V) 2010 Committee Chairperson’s Award from Committee for Promotion of Electricity 2010 Participation to UN Global Compact Utilization in Seven Tohoku Prefectures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) 2010 KOSHA 18000 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) 2010 Superior Prize for Environmental Preservation, Niigata Prefecture (Naoetsu Precision) 2010 Installation of oil clarification system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2010 High-Pressure Gas Safety Award, Head of Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency 2011 OHSAS 18001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Magnetics Indonesia) (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2011 Installation of electriclty demand monitoring system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2010 500,000 Lost Time Incident-free Hours Award, State of Ohio (Shin-Etsu Silicones of America) 2011 ISO 50001 certification obtained (Shin-Etsu Silicones [Thailand]) 2010 Occupational Excellence Achievement Award, National Safety Council (US) (Shintech) Membership Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Plastic Waste Management Institute Japan Chemical Industry Association The International Friendship Exchange Council Vinyl Environmental Council The Japan Committee for UNICEF, etc. As of March 31, 2012 List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 14001 certification http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/e/profile/kankyo.shtml 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2012 42
