Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Excellence Across Oceans United Nations Global Compact Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC Communication on Progress 2012 Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC Our highlights: Gulf Energy Maritime is awarded the prestigious “Partner of the Year “ at British Petroleum Shipping CEO’s HSSE Awards in London August 2012. Gulf Energy Maritime wins the Seatrade Middle East and Indian Sub-Continent Region “Ship Owner / Operator of the Year “ Award. 1 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 We have Moved to New Offices in Dubai Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC has moved office in the last 12 months. The company continues to be based in Dubai , United Arab Emirates but has moved to a new location in UBORA Tower Business Bay. The aim of the move is to provide up to date facilities for the conduct of business and improvement in inter office communication and efficiency. The new address of the company is ; Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC PO Box 855 Ubora Tower Floor no. 30 Business Bay Dubai United Arab Emirates Contact telephone numbers and e mails addresses remain unchanged. Ubora Tower, Business Bay, Dubai, UAE 2 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Gulf Energy’s Mission Statement remains unchanged from our 2011 report: “To provide flawless marine transportation in an environmentally conscious, safe and reliable manner contributing contributing to commerce but above all safeguarding people and the planet”. The Mission explained : Provide : To supply or furnish someone with something Flawless : Without Imperfections or Blemishes Environment : Surrounding conditions Conscious : Aware , Knowing and concerned with external circumstances Safe : Uninjured, Secure, out of or not exposed to danger Reliable : Of sound and consistent character and quality Commerce : The exchange of merchandise or services for prosperity People : Persons composing a community or nation Planet : A heavenly body having a motion and uniqueness of its own We believe in and We practice our mission 3 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 The Gulf Energy Shareholders remain the same for 2012 GEM SHAREHOLDERS Established in 1983 as a wholly-owned company of the Government of Dubai, ENOC aims to promote the interests of its shareholders through the development of further downstream and upstream activities in the oil and gas sector, and beyond, in order to encourage the economic diversification of Dubai and the United Arab Emirates as a whole. IPIC is wholly owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi and was established in 1984 to invest in the hydrocarbons and related sectors outside of Abu Dhabi. Oman Oil Company (OOC) is a commercial company 100% owned by the Government of the Sultanate of Oman. The company was created in 1992 to give the Government a vehicle for pursuing investment opportunities in the energy sector both inside and outside of Oman. (30%) Thales in an international electronics and systems group, serving the defence, aerospace and security markets. Thales has been present in the UAE for more than 30 years. 4 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Gulf Energy currently owns and operates a fleet of 19 ocean going oil and chemical carrying tankers ranging in size from 37,000 tonnes deadweight to 114,000 tonnes deadweight. They are operated to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Conventions and additionally under the laws and regulations of their Flag State (Bahamas). They additionally comply with individual regional and national standards as applicable. The Conventions, laws , regulation and industry standards cover safety of life at sea, environmental conventions for the protection of the global marine environment, seafarers safety, work and rest hours, human rights, training and certification. All vessels construction standards and ongoing maintenance standards are carried out under international Classification Society supervision. GEM only uses Classification Societies who are members of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS). 5 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 GEM PEOPLE GEM Teambuilding 2012 Incorporating our Values into Teamwork 6 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 GEM people based on shore in our office in Dubai numbers 57 personnel. They are drawn from the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Egypt, Palestine, India, Bangladesh, United Kingdom, Croatia, Romania, Philippines, Singapore and Russia. GEM encourages diversity and equal opportunity within its employees. Their skills are very much in the marine industry field but also include finance, business administration, information technology, purchasing, human resource and the field of international quality standards. Employment procedures are well established and controlled to ensure fairness, equal opportunity and strict adherence to the company’s terms and conditions of employment. Transparency is encouraged at all levels of personnel relation. In June 2012 GEM celebrated its 8th year of operations and honoured its employees with a special celebration. 7 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 GEM PEOPLE GEM seafarers are drawn from a number of nations, India, Oman, Bangladesh, Sri lanka, Romania, Croatia, Ethiopia and the Philippines. Through their professionalism and hard work they meet the requirements of operating a modern ships in all aspects of safety, environmental performance, efficient and safe handling of hazardous and potentially polluting cargo. It is the seafarer who is at the forefront of the marine shipping industry. Their skill in operations , navigational safety and protection of the marine environment is to the highest standards. Our aim within the company is always to promote the role of 8 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 seafarers in the global economy and ensure the standards of their work environment, safety, training and welfare is of the highest. It is vital to the progression of the marine industry that seafarers are not neglected but are nurtured and encouraged so that a career at sea is considered favourably by future generations of young people as a challenging, interesting and well rewarded career. Seafarers are vital to the global economy, shipping traded goods in bulk by sea, but they are also vital in protecting the marine environment which is a senstive environment but vital to the wellbeing of our planet. Their role cannot be underestimated and a high priority should be given to them in the shipping industry. 9 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Human Rights _______________________________________________________________________ Somali Piracy and the Shipping Industry In the field of human rights Somali piracy continues to dominate our activities and requires company resources to protect the rights of our seafarers. GEM has consistently since 2008 when there was a significant rise in Somali piracy protected the wellbeing and the rights of seafarers. This has taken the form of physical protection , “hardening “ ships against the boarding of pirates and the provision of trained security guards with the right background to defend our ships against armed aggressive attack. In recognizing that there are “two sides to every story “ and that the intention is to minimize harm to others GEM has conducted a strict due dilligence programme to ensure that only a minimum of force is utilized to deter piracy. Strict “Rules of Engagement” are always adhered to. Additionally GEM has always worked closely with the “Flag State” of the our fleet to ensure that all actions in the protection of the vessels is authorized. GEM can report that in the year 2012 no GEM vessel has been hijacked and none of our seafarers held captive as hostages. We consider that in this regard we have protected the human rights of our seafarers to the maximum possible and permitted them and us to go about our business in the least risk environment as possible. A new report says Somali pirates held more than 1,200 hostages last year and that 35 of them died. 10 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 The International Maritime Bureau (IMB) issued the report, The Human Cost of Piracy 2011, on Friday. The report says about 4,000 seafarers were attacked by pirates and close to 1,000 came in close contact with them as they boarded their ships. More than 1,200 people were held captive by pirate gangs last year, about half of them since 2010. Some people have been held by pirates for more than two years. The report, written jointly by Kaija Hurlburt of One Earth Future for the NGO's Oceans Beyond Piracy project, and the IMB, says 35 hostages died last year. Eight of them were killed by pirates after being taken captive. Some died from disease or malnutrition during captivity and some were killed during rescue efforts when they were used as human shields. About half of the hostages were subject to abuse and about 10 percent were tortured. Nearly all of those released suffered psychological consequences and needed help. Most of the hostages were natives of the Philippines, China and India. Although the number of captured hostages declined last year, the deprivation and violence they faced remained high. The report urges government, businesses and stake holders to take the plight of captured seafarers seriously and better prepare for possible pirate attacks. The report is based on information from the flag states of Liberia, the Marshall Islands, Panama and the Bahamas, various ship owners and operators, former hostages, and the Maritime Piracy Humanitarian Response Program. Marcel Arsenault, chairman of the One Earth Future Foundation and one of the sponsors of the report, said piracy is a systemic problem that proliferates from a failed state. He said that the desperate situation in Somalia continues to breed piracy and also exacts a huge cost on Somali society. He says the piracy will ultimately be solved only by a new global initiative to create jobs and improve governance. Readers of this report are encouraged to read the report as outlined and displayed below to gain knowledge and understanding of the serious situation that has affected the NW Indian Ocean 11 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 12 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 It must be reported that Somali piracy in the NW Indian Ocean is not the only area of concern with regard to the safety and human rights of seafarers. The South China Sea and more currently the West Coast of Africa experience acts of piracy that infringe seafarers rights and inhibit their ability to go about their lives in an honest and proper manner. It is unfortunate that the public at large are unaware of the role of seafarers and the industry within which they work. This has the effect of their profile being low and therefore their human rights need all the help they can get in raising that profile especially in the context of piracy. As reported in 2011 GEM supports of the “Save our Seafarers” initiative and all readers of this progress report are recommended to visit the website below, gain an insight and pledge support to the campaign. Good news that can be reported is that due to the actions of supportive governments, their allocation of military resources (ships and aircraft), the application of “Best Management Practices” to defend vessels and the use of private armed security on board vessels the trend of piracy in the NW Indian Ocean is decreasing in 2012. The guard can not yet be dropped and complaceancy must not be allowed to creep in but the signs are encouraging. 13 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Labour GEM supports the International Labour Organisations (ILO) Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), 2006 . The ILO's Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), 2006 provides comprehensive rights and protection at work for the world's more than 1.2 million seafarers. The Convention aims to achieve both decent work for seafarers and secure economic interests in fair competition for quality shipowners. As an estimated 90% of world trade is carried on ships seafarers are essential to international trade and the international economic and trade system. The new labour standard consolidates and updates more than 68 international labour standards related to the Maritime sector adopted over the last 80 years. The Convention sets out seafarers' rights to decent conditions of work on a wide range of subjects, and aims to be globally applicable, easily understandable, readily updatable and uniformly enforced. It has been designed to become a global instrument known as the fourth pillar of the international regulatory regime for quality shipping, complementing the key Conventions of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The decision by the ILO to move forward to create this major new Maritime Labour Convention was the result of a joint resolution in 2001 by the international seafarers’ and ship owners’ organizations, also supported by governments. They pointed out that the shipping industry is “the world’s first genuinely global industry” which “requires an international regulatory response of an appropriate kind – global standards applicable to the entire industry”. To come into force, the MLC had to be ratified by at least 30 member States with a total share in the world gross tonnage of ships of 33 per cent. This milestone was reached on 20 August 2012. The MLC will thus come into force on 20 August 2013. Provisions of the MLC 2006 Convention cover : 14 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Minimum Age (the Convention sets this at 16 years old) Medical Certification Qualifications of seafarers Seafarers Employment Agreements Use of any Licensed or Certified or Regulated private Recruitment Service Hours of Work and Rest Manning Levels for the Ship Accommodation Standards On Board Recreational Facilities Food and Catering Health, Safety and Accident Prevention On Board Medical Care On Board Complaints Procedure Payment of Wages GEM has already started preparing, in 2012, for the implementation of the Convention while believing that the company already complies with the majority of the provisions. Employees who’s job descriptions relate to the safety and wellbeing of our seafarers are being trained in the provisions and implementation of the MLC 2006 as well as how to audit (inspect) fleet vessels to ensure that all provisions are in place. The international shipping industry has throughout its history been an employer of people from many nations albeit mainly those with a history of seafaring and having merchant fleets that traded around the world. On a modern ship you will find Officers and Crew from a number of countries all living and working together with equal opportunities of employment and advancement. The certification and qualification of seafarers has largely been unified internationally through the IMO and therefore there are no barriers to their employment on board ships of different nations. International conventions applying to the maritime sector strictly prevents the use of child labour. The United Arab Emirates has strict laws and monitoring powers that prevent the use of child labour. Gulf Energy Maritime upholds and supports all measures to prevent the use of child labour and in no case in its operations has the company ever used child labour. As reported in our 2011 report GEM continues to support the employment rights of seafarers and its Dubai based staff. There is no compromise to this and we believe in a just and open employment policy. 15 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Safety of People and Protection of the Environment Gulf Energy Maritime is proud to report that in August 2012 at British Petroleum Shipping’s CEO’s HSSE Awards & Forum the company was awarded the prestigious “Partner of the Year” for excellent Health, Safety, Security and Environmental performance while in partnership with BP Shipping. GEM currently has four ships on Time Charter with BP shipping and is the largest single time charterer to BP Shipping. This is a significant outcome for the emphasis placed by the company and BP on the importance of HSSE performance. We continue to work closely with BP and look forward to another outstanding year in keeping people safe and protecting the marine environment. 16 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 GEM can report a good year for safety and the environment in 2012. Below are exhibited our targets for 2012 as reported in the 3rd quarter of 2012. As can be seen the company has achieved below target in all Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) to date. As an oil tanker company it should be particularly noted that there have been no oil spills to sea in 2012. This is a very important KPI with regard to our environmental performance. The results represent our hard work and commitment to HSSE and is we believe a significant achievement and outcome for this year. We take great satisfaction from keeping people from harm and conducting our business in a responsible manner. 17 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 To be satisfied in the knowledge that we are operating to the highest industry standards we benchmark ourselves within the industry through the International Tanker Owners Association of Independent Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) benchmarking web site. Currently approximately 150 owners submit their safety KPI’s to the sight. Below are GEM current rankings: GEM below average on Lost Time Accident Frequency and high in the table. GEM below average and improving in Total rate frequency 18 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 In July 2012 the North American Emission Control Area came into force(with Canadian waters in November 2012). This requirement mandates the use of low sulphur fuels by ships when operating in the ECA waters. GEM complies with these regulations when its ships visit the United States and Canada and has invested in the modification of our ships to burn low sulphur fuels in the vessels engines and boilers. This ECA joins other special emission control areas such as the Baltic Sea and North Sea in controlling marine vessel emissions for the benefit of the environment. 19 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Anti – Corruption In the Spirit of the Global Compact Gulf Energy Maritime does not condone corruption and ensures that its business is carried out in an atmosphere of honest and transparency. The company relies on two strategies to work against any forms of corruption: 1. GEM values Codes of employee conduct Written detailed policies and procedures Best management practice 2. The Audit Process The first strategy has been referred to and described in our report of 2011 and remains in force. The second strategy is underpinned by annual audits as follows: Annual Internal Audit programme for Office, Ships and Manning Agents (policies and procedures) The 2012 programme is in the majority completed, documented and finding reported within the company, Corrective actions are either completed or under way Annual Government Audit The audit for 2012 is expected to commence in December 2012 Corporate Statutory Audit by Government approved (listed) auditor. Completed in May 2012 Internal Good Governance Audit by recognized international auditors. Completed in November 2012 These audit processes ensure that the correct checks and balances are carried out and that the company operates to high standards of corporate governance and procedural integrity. 20 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 Gulf Energy Maritime can report an excellent record in the field of anti corruption and upholds its values as repeated here. GEM’S Corporate Values GEM’s Corporate values are freely published and displayed in the company’s offices. Professionalism – Ensure that the highest standard of business ethics is to serve our customers, stakeholders and shareholders Integrity – Steadfast adherence to stringent moral and ethical standards (as well as legal requirements Teamwork – Constant ambition to always work together in order to achieve a common goal. Accountability – Bound to be accountable and transparent using the GEM’s system efficiently. Communication – Effective, open, consistent, constant and two way communication. 21 Gulf Energy Maritime PJSC – Progress Report 2012 ________________________________________________________________________ In Conclusion: Gulf Energy Maritime (GEM) PJSC Statement of Continued Support 2012 I am pleased to confirm that Gulf Energy Maritime reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Captain Robert Ferguson Head of Marine Safety, Environment and Quality November 2012 22
