TROPICAL CABLE AND CONDUCTOR LTD. TCCL GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES (COP) REPORT FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR As Managing Director of TCCL, I would like to express our continued support for the United Nations’ Global Compact. Our Company from its inception to date has always been committed to aligning our operations and strategies with principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It is indeed a great pleasure for us to integrate and embed the global compact principles within TCCL. I am pleased to say that so far we have strived to implement them but nevertheless there is always room for improvement. Tony Oteng Gyasi, Managing Director. Activities which are Being Undertaken by TCCL on a Continuous Basis in Alignment with the Global Compact Principles. PRINCIPLE OF GLOBAL COMPACT Actions Indication Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the Periodic training programme both local and overseas High productivity protection of internationally proclaimed for Technician/Engineers to improve competencies. human rights. We provide access to health care through National health Insurance Scheme and company nominated clinics. There is a proper organizational structure in place which ensures fairness. Businesses should make sure they are not We provide support for Human Right groups and also Good company image complicit in human rights abuses. invite them periodically for seminars. We have made budget provisions for periodic donations to institutions e.g. hospitals, schools, and scholarship for university of Ghana students. We are a member of the Ghana Business Code Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of We provide the opportunity for workers to form a trade Good relationship between management association and the effective recognition of Union with a collective barging agreement in place and workers the right to collective bargaining. between management and the local Union. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Every worker is given an appointment for acceptances Trust and confidence between all forms of forced and compulsory labour. of the terms and conditions of the company. management and staff. Businesses should uphold the effective We adhere strongly to minimum age provisions of abolition of child labour national labour laws & regulations and do not engage minors. Businesses should uphold the elimination of We recruit qualified and experienced people and also Employees come from a variety of religion. discrimination in respect of employment and have periodic training for career advancement. occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary We have integrated environmental and social issues Environmental protection certification approach to environmental challenges. into supply chain relationships. Businesses should undertake initiatives to The company’s quality policy ensures that all raw Environmental protection community promote greater environmental responsibility. materials conform to standard in order to reduce the approved method of waste disposal. production of excessive waste. We dispose waste products properly by recycling. . Businesses should encourage the Western Rod & Wire Ltd a subsidiary of TCCL recycles Protection of the environment development and diffusion of environmentally aluminium scrap by reusing it to produce aluminium friendly technologies. rod. Copper scrap is export back to suppliers for recycling Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in We do proper documentation and have soft wares to Workers do not engage in any form of all its forms, including extortion and bribery control all activities in the company. corrupt practices. Accounts are audited periodically by external auditors.
