United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 2012 Contents 1 Statement of continued support 3 2 MTU Aero Engines at a glance 4 3 Human rights 5 4 Labor 8 5 Environment 11 6 Anti-corruption 15 1 Statement of continued support Dear Sir or Madam, The UN Global Compact is a global initiative promoting sustainable economic activity, which MTU joined in May 2011. We pledge ourselves to its principles on safeguarding human rights, observing fair working conditions, protecting the environment and fighting corruption. As Germany’s leading engine manufacturer and a global leader in the industry, we are conscious of our responsibility. We assume this responsibility in relation to our products, processes, employees, customers and partners as well as in relation to the environment and society. Key principles of the UN Global Compact are already enshrined in the “Environment and Society” section of our corporate principles. “We shape the future of aviation” is the title of the MTU Principles. We pursue this vision as an aviation company with a tradition reaching back over 75 years. Our products meet the highest quality and safety standards. Every day, aircraft operators, passengers, pilots and crew members place their trust in the high reliability of our engine components. Our technologies and innovations are unique worldwide and represent important landmarks on the path toward sustainable air transport. MTU puts considerable resources into the development of fuel-efficient, lower-emission and quieter engines. Our first Global Compact Communication on Progress documents the sustainable and long-term objectives of our business activity, which are in accordance with the principles of the Global Compact. At the same time, we undertake to press ahead with the further implementation of these principles and to report on progress and improvements on a regular basis. As a company, we bear a responsibility towards society. We place value on transparency and credibility. We are therefore glad of the opportunity that this report gives us to lay the foundations for presenting our activities in the area of corporate social responsibility to the public at large. Yours sincerely Egon Behle CEO MTU Aero Engines 3 2 MTU Aero Engines at a glance MTU Aero Engines is Germany’s leading engine manufacturer and the country’s only independent engine builder. It has been providing propulsion systems to power aircraft for more than 75 years now, having become an established global player. It engages in the development, manufacture and support of commercial and military aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. With its products, the company has content in all thrust and power categories and on all major engine components and subsystems, such as compressors, combustors and turbines. Technologically, MTU commands full engine systems integration capabilities, being a leader in the major engine areas and excelling especially in low-pressure turbines and high-pressure compressors, as well as manufacturing and repair techniques. To-gether with other manufacturers, MTU co-operates on novel propulsion systems, its partners being the big players in the industry. In the commercial area, MTU Maintenance is the world’s largest independent provider of engine maintenance services. In the military arena, MTU Aero Engines is Germany’s industrial lead company for practically all engines flown by the country’s military. 4 3 Human rights Code of Conduct Principle 1: Businesses should support and Openness, tolerance, respect, appreciation, respect the protection of internationresponsibility and trust—these are the fundaally proclaimed human rights; and mental values of our corporate culture. They are reflected in MTU’s Code of Conduct, Principle 2: which we have laid down as a binding benchmake sure that they are not complicit mark of our behavior. These principles on in human rights abuses. the protection of human rights, the prevention of corruption, the observance of labor law and recognized working conditions, MTU respects internationally proclaimed health and safety at work, and qualification human rights and does everything it can to apply worldwide to all employees, managers support their observance within the comand the board of management. All employpany. MTU is committed to respecting the ees commit themselves to trustful and open individuality and dignity of all, maintaining cooperation and to conscientious and honequality of opportunity in recruitment and est behavior. We also expect comparable preventing discrimination. MTU employees principles from our suppliers as the basis must not be treated any differently on acfor a lasting business relationship. count of gender, race, disability, ethnic origin, religion, age or sexual orientation. All Breaches of these guidelines or of applicaemployees are hired and advanced solely ble legislation will not be tolerated and on the basis of their expertise, skills and appropriate action will be taken against performance. To ensure this, we have drawn wrongdoers. An ombudsman is in place as up a binding Code of Conduct that applies a confidential contact person for informaacross the whole organization and which tion from managers, suppliers, employees, can be supplemented, if required, for indicustomers and business partners. vidual subsidiaries or departments following consultation. In order to promote this corporate culture of openness, tolerance and diversity of opinions in everyday working life, MTU has also introduced a guideline on cooperative and fair conduct, in which the company undertakes to prohibit bullying, sexual harassment and discrimination and to take appropriate action against infringements. 5 Integrated Health Management • Prevention of stress-related illnessWe place great value on the health and welles: a total of ten action days in the being of our employees and them being able information campaign “Stress to carry out their work in a safe working Management without Stress” at all environment. The board of management has German locations initiated the development of Integrated • Vibration training in the workplace Health Management for all German locain production areas as pilot project tions, with the goal of strengthening the health and performance of employees. In 2011, we started with the launch and impleThe expansion of Integrated Health Managementation of Integrated Health Management is also a human resources priority in ment. There is an emphasis on the sustain2012. For the construction of a new proable design of the workplace from an occuduction facility at the Munich location, we pational health perspective, in order to preare making sure that occupational health vent impairments to health and any possible requirements are taken into account at the resulting harm. After all, healthy and proplanning and design stages. To this end, a ductive employees secure the future viability company physician is on the planning team. of our production. We draw up MTU workFurthermore, work places will be created in place standards that fulfill occupational the new facility for employees with healthhealth requirements, for example in relation related performance limitations. Vibration to ergonomics. In these standards, we also training for employees will also be further prescribe workplaces that meet the requireexpanded in 2012. We plan to introduce ments of employees with health issues. this opportunity for individual health proAnalysis of age-appropriate conditions in motion across the board for all employees the workplace started back in 2011. As in Munich. Our target for 2012 is to reach a part of a pilot project, an initial set of workparticipation quota of at least 30 percent places in various locations and in various (total workforce at Munich location in 2011: production areas have been arranged and 4,582 employees). fitted out accordingly. On the basis of the experience gathered, a standard concept The numerous offers and initiatives focus for reorganizing these workplaces will be even more strongly on early detection and developed in 2012. A health management prevention as well as on raising awareness initiative in 2011 was the introduction of amongst employees and management. In two offers promoting employees’ personal 2011, we launched a “Health Marketplace fitness in their everyday working lives: for MTU Managers” initiative. In early 2012, “Active Break” with a guide to various exertwo-day courses were held at the German cises; and vibration training near the worklocations in Munich, Hannover and Ludwigsplace for efficient muscle building. felde on health topics that had emerged from the analysis workshops with managers. A total of 435 managers took part (manPriorities in health management agers at German locations in 2011: 751). 2011 at German locations: The “Health Marketplace” initiative is set to • Refurnishing workplaces: provision resume in 2013. of height-adjustable workbenches in work-shops, lighting standards MTU’s targeted health promotion was acfor inspection workstations knowledged in 2011 when, as a finalist, MTU • Training for managers in how to received the “Top Health Management create competitive performance Award 2011”, which is sponsored by the requirements for employees that Bavarian State Ministry of Labour and Social meet all relevant health standards Welfare, Family Affairs and Women. • Role definition in relation to “health-oriented leadership”: nine principles were drawn up on the basis of the MTU Principles • Increasing awareness amongst managers: “Success Factor: Health” events in the business units 6 Occupational safety Accidents at German locations Safety is the number-one priority in aviation. per 1,000 employees At MTU this applies not only to the development and production of our products, (End-of-year figures for but equally to the work carried out by our 2010 and 2011) employees. Occupational safety is one of 2010 2011 the pillars of social responsibility at MTU. Munich 4.1 3.0 Observing national regulations is a minimum Hannover 0.6 0.6 for us: our overall aspiration is to provide a Ludwigsfelde 8.0 8.3 healthy and safe working environment. We Total 4 4 are working continuously on improvements. A management system defines all objectives, measures and responsibilities. Every Our occupational safety is regularly put to three years, we bring out a new occupationthe test in internal and external audits, al safety program. In 2011, this action plan where the focus is on assessing effectivewas revised for the Munich headquarters. ness, scrutinizing the progress made in all A report detailing the implementation and activities and identifying areas where imobservance of the provisions is submitted provements might be made. Our occupaannually to the occupational safety officer tional safety management system is certiat each location. For the Munich location, fied in accordance with OHSAS 18001. The occupational safety is the responsibility of certification is validated once a year, with the chief operating officer, which underrecertification taking place once every three scores the emphasis MTU places on emyears. ployee health and occupational safety. Managers bear responsibility for ensuring the adequacy of the occupational safety of staff under their supervision, while also acting as role models. To this end, managers from all business units receive training as part of a mandatory course made up of 14 seminars. The production center in Munich (TF), the largest in the entire company, attained a qualification quota of 100 percent in 2011, with the purchasing center (TL), the secondlargest, reaching a quota of 97 percent. We take our duty of care toward our employees seriously. We are committed to accident prevention, with measures such as information campaigns and accident analyses carried out at all German locations. These efforts have enabled us to attain a consistently low accident rate. In 2011, there were three reportable accidents per 1,000 employees at the Munich headquarters. Our aspiration is to bring the accident quota right down to zero by means of annual improvements. 7 4 Labor Fair working conditions Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom MTU personnel are employed on the basis of association and the effective recogof collective bargaining agreements, the relnition of the right to collective bargainevant legislation and in-house agreements. ing; They are involved in structuring their contractual relationship with MTU. There is emPrinciple 4: ployee representation in place at all German the elimination of all forms of forced locations, ensuring worker participation. and compulsory labor; 85.9% of employees work at German locations (percentage of total workforce in Principle 5: 2011). The board of management respects the effective abolition of child labor; the work carried out by the works council and and seeks regular discussions with the council about employees’ concerns, with Principle 6: the emphasis on mutual trust. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupaOur appreciation for the contribution made tion. by each and every employee finds expression in fair and appropriate remuneration. Accordingly, the single-status pay agreePeople are our key resource. Without our ment (ERA) is in force at all German locaemployees and all their abilities and hard tions. This agreement ensures a uniform, work, we would not be what we are: namely, transparent and consistent compensation a successful and internationally appreciated structure. 2011 saw a review of the comhigh-tech company. Well educated, specialpensation structure for senior managers, ized, motivated employees are the guaranbringing their remuneration further into line tors of the company’s success. Protecting with the sustainability principle and binding employees and safeguarding their welfare it more closely to long-term corporate govare therefore of great interest to us. We ernance and company development. MTU respect the rights of employees and are involves its employees in the success of the committed to a safe and healthy work envicompany in various ways, including annually ronment, fair working conditions, diversity reissued employee stock options and profitand equal opportunities. We resolutely opsharing. Our offer of an additional company pose all forms of forced labor and child pension plan helps our employees to attain labor. financial security in retirement. Diversity and equality of opportunity We pledge ourselves to equality of opportunity and equal treatment of our employees, with no ifs and buts. We realize this through flexible working time models, various programs for combining work and family life, targeted staff training and development, a comprehensive training program, and special advancement programs for women. We have also committed ourselves to supporting diversity in the workplace. In 2010, MTU was one of the first signatories of the “Charter of Diversity of German Companies”, an initiative championing diversity in society which is supported by the German Federal Government. Respect, fairness, tolerance and appreciation are binding values at MTU and are firmly anchored in the company’s principles. The diversity of cultures and age groups enhances innovation at MTU. 8 Promoting the advancement An open, independent, in-house network of women for women (Progetto Donna) is a platform for exchanging experience and know-how MTU places a particular emphasis on prowhile also campaigning for equality of opmoting the advancement of women in order portunity and the compatibility of family to eliminate any disadvantages women might and career in MTU. suffer in their careers and to ensure promotion opportunities for women. In 2011, Furthermore, in its corporate governance we incorporated this goal in our corporate report for 2011, the MTU supervisory board objectives and set down a concrete target declared its objective of increasing the numfor women in management. By 2015, we ber of women on the board to two members aim to double the percentage of women in or more within the next two periods of ofmanagerial positions from the current levels fice, with at least one female supervisory of 7.8% (across the group) and 8% (at the board member to be appointed by employheadquarters in Munich). To achieve this ees and at least one by stockholders. This aim, we developed an initial concept in will realign the supervisory board to reflect 2011 on the basis of an in-depth situation the percentage of women in the company analysis. We are pressing ahead with impleat large. At present, there is one female mentation from 2012 by means of numermember on MTU’s supervisory board. In ous measures. Our corporate objectives for addition, the supervisory board undertakes 2012 provide for the establishment of a to ensure equality of opportunity in the comtargeted career advancement program for position of the board of management and women. The board of management actively attain an appropriate proportion of women supports this objective and promotes it on the board over the long term. within the company in order to obtain the required high level of acceptance and support. MTU is involved in numerous programs and initiatives promoting the advancement of women and is a signatory of the Munich Memorandum for Women in Management. • Cross-Mentoring: A twelve-month program by the City of Munich for promoting a new generation of female managers; the program is centered on facilitating an exchange of experience and knowhow between mentees and mentors from different companies. • MTU Studienstiftung: This is a non-profit foundation set up to help young women to pursue scientific and technical education and training. • Girls’ Day: National open day for girls to expand their horizons as regards their career options. MTU participates in this event at all its German locations. • Research Camp for Girls (Forscherinnen Camp): A cooperation between private companies, the Bavarian Educational Institute of Industry and Commerce (Bildungswerk der bayerischen Wirtschaft) and the Munich University of Applied Sciences, the camp is for school-girls who are interested in technology. 9 Investing in the future workforce MTU is involved in numerous initiatives designed to get children and teenagers interEducation is an important and highly valued ested in technology from an early age and commodity at MTU. Education fosters equalto introduce them to technical careers. ity of opportunity, prevents discrimination and opens the way to professional and public life. With trainees making up around five • Training Night: Annual company percent of the workforce, MTU is investing event providing information to interheavily in the next generation of workers. ested school-children about train We also see investing in the next generation ing opportunities at MTU. as a means of securing the future of MTU, • Science Exhibition in Hannover because as a high-tech company the key to (IdeenExpo Hannover): Event for success is to have qualified, motivated and teenagers and schoolchildren to responsible employees. Consequently, voexperience and find out about cational training at MTU is not just a quesscience and technology and astion of providing professional qualifications. sociated careers. Rather, the training courses place equal • Nature and Technology Days: value on social and environmental compoInvolvement in special offers at nents. We are especially concerned with MTU partner schools. developing the character of employees and • Long Night of Museums: MTU attuning them to environmental protection opens the doors of the in-house issues. We convey and practice MTU cormuseum at its Munich location to porate culture from the very first day of the public on the night of this event training. as well as on three to four further occasions during the year. • “Weg vom Fleck”: This is the title of an exhibition held at the Munich Children’s and Youth Museum which was sponsored by MTU (December 18, 2010 to September 11, 2011). 10 5 Environment Certified environmental Principle 7: management Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Responsibility for concrete implementation challenges; of our environmental protection policy lies with a management system that accommoPrinciple 8: dates the highest environmental standards. undertake initiatives to promote greatIt is certified in accordance with ISO 14001 er environmental responsibility; and verified in accordance with Regulation and (EC) No. 761/2001. The statutory requirements are set as the minimum level in this Principle 9: management system. They form the basis encourage the development and for internal standards which are binding for diffusion of environmentally friendly all MTU group locations and go beyond the technologies. legal norms and regulations. Our stringent environmental criteria apply to all divisions, processes and systems all the way from an Protection of the environment is an imporengine’s development to its production. tant part of our philosophy and is explicitly This ensures coordinated, transparent and discussed in our Principles and our corconsistent environmental protection with porate objectives. We operate a policy of uniformly high standards across the whole active and comprehensive environmental organization. Regular internal and external protection in order to maintain the basis audits in accordance with DIN EN ISO of our shared livelihood, not only out of a 14001—and at the Munich and Hannover sense of responsibility toward current and locations, also in accordance with Regufuture generations but also because it lation (EC) No. 761/2001 of the European serves as the basis for our future economic Parliament and of the Council providing for activity. We see environmental protection as the Community eco-management and audit a management task. The board of managescheme (EMAS)—keep track of implementament monitors and regularly evaluates obtion and compliance. The various locations jectives and progress. At the same time, we publish annual environmental impact stateexpect and support environmentally aware ments, which document our actions and behavior on the part of our employees. progress. In our commitment to environmental protection, we want to serve as a model. Our Chinese subsidiary, MTU Maintenance Zhuhai, exceeds the national environmental requirements by far. In Munich, MTU is a partner in the Bavarian Environmental Pact for improving environmental protection within companies. In addition, our training programs highlight environmental protection as an important part of our philosophy, sharpening the environmental awareness of the next generation of employees. At the annual Environment Day, trainees create their own environmental projects, learning about environmental protection in a very hands-on manner. Environment Day 2011 included an ecological journey of discovery, where trainees grappled with the topics of waste management, wastewater treatment, compressed air supply and cooling lubricant management. Every year, the trainees themselves are responsible for organizing and running the event and choosing the subject matter. 11 MTU products for sustainable For years MTU has been working on new air transport technologies that are making engines quieter, more fuel-efficient and with lower We also set stringent environmental criteria emissions. And so it initiated the Clean Air for the development and production of our Engine (Claire) technology program,which— products. As Germany’s leading engine in three stages—sets out objectives to reduce manufacturer, MTU is making an important CO2 emissions and fuel consumption up to contribution toward the sustainability of the year 2035 and goes beyond the requirefuture air transport. With our traditionally ments of the Advisory Council of Aeronautihigh investment in research and developcal Research in Europe (ACARE). MTU’s ment, we underscore the sustainability prinlong-term targets for the engines of pasciple behind our economic activity. senger aircrafts are reductions in CO2 emissions of 15, 20 and 30 percent. The ACARE targets for 2020 require a reduction in engine CO2 emissions of 20 percent. Planned reduction in CO2 emissions through MTU’s Claire technology program 100 % Base CLAIRE 1 CLAIRE 2 CLAIRE 3 up to up to up to 15 % 20 % 30 % 90% 80% CO2 % 70% 60 % V2500 Geared turbofan CRISP* IRA-Propfan** 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 *Counter-Rotating Integrated Shrouded Propfan **Intercooled Recuperated Aero Engine 12 MTU is playing a central role in the develReduction of 75dB noise contour due opment and introduction of new engine to new geared turbofan technology at concepts. The geared turbofan, which MTU Munich airport is developing in collaboration with its partners, is based on completely new engine architecture and forms the basis for implementation of the ambitious Claire targets. MTU is responsible here for the key component, the high-speed low-pressure turbine. The geared turbofan will enable a systematic reduction in CO2 emissions—and also in noise, as it is only half as loud as today’s engines. The first generation of geared turbofan, the 0 1 2 Miles ©Wyle PW1000G, is currently at the flight and ground testing stage. It has been chosen to power various aircraft types and will enter regular flight operations from 2013. The first engine from the new family of geared turbofans is set to be approved by the aviation authorities in 2012, with further engine types following between 2013 and 2015. Important tests for obtaining the required certifications (endurance test, stress test, spin tests and load tests) are being conducted from 2011 to 2014 on MTU test rigs 0 1 2 Miles ©Wyle in Munich. SEL Contour (dB) MTU engineers are already at work refining 75 80 85 90 95 and improving this engine. The second Runway Abatement Flight Track phase of Claire will see the engine receive a more advanced type of fan, for example a The “noise footprint” of an aircraft powered by shrouded, counter-rotating fan, in order to geared turbofan engines is 70 percent smaller than that of today’s aircraft. obtain greater propulsion efficiency. The third generation of engines is to be even more fuel-efficient and produce even lower protection targets. Compared to its predeemissions. This is to be achieved by means cessor, the CF6, the GEnx is expected to of an improved core engine with greater consume 15 % less fuel and thus emit 15 % thermal efficiency, for example by using a less CO2, while also being half as loud. To heat exchanger that feeds the energy in produce the component, MTU constructed exhaust gases back to the gas turbine a new, ultra-modern manufacturing line, on process. which series production began in 2011. But MTU is also setting new standards when In addition, our future products will help to it comes to the company’s current products. reduce environmental pollution as a result The present high point of our drive for susof our undertaking not to use environmentainable products is the GP7000, which tally hazardous materials such as mercury powers the Airbus A380. A combination of and cadmium as materials in components, advanced aircraft and engine technologies joints and coatings. In 2011, we completed has made it possible to significantly reduce the development of an environmentally fuel consumption. MTU is responsible for friendly anti-corrosion paint which does not the low-pressure turbine—a key component— contain the hazardous substance known as which for the first time achieves an effihexavalent chromium (chromium VI). ciency of over 93%. MTU develops and produces the turbine center frame for General Electric’s GEnx. The turbine center frame is a core structural component of the GEnx engine. The very latest materials and stateof-the-art processes enable the component to have significantly lower weight, which helps to attain aviation’s ambitious climate 13 Emissions-neutral flying through Environmental protection in alternative fuels production and maintenance Furthermore, MTU is involved as an engine It is not only in product development that expert in initiatives and research programs MTU places a high value on environmental for the use of alternative fuels. We are a protection. Our production and maintenance member of the “Eco-efficient flying” beacon processes also have to meet the most program put up by the German Aerospace exacting requirements. We achieve this by Industries Association (BDLI), which has means of comprehensive energy manageset itself the goal of creating the overall ment at the locations, which helps to conconditions required for emissions-neutral serve resources and save materials. At flying by 2050. By way of this project, MTU MTU’s Munich headquarters, for example, is supporting the objectives of the Interthis is realized in the Clean Air—Industrial national Air Transport Association (IATA) to Site (CLAIR-IS) program. generate growth in air transport without additional CO2 emissions from 2020 and to The long-term goal is to reduce the Munich halve the total CO2 emissions produced by location’s annual CO2 emissions by more aviation by 2050 compared to the baseline than 30 % by 2020 (compared to the baseyear of 2005. Achieving these objectives line year 1990) irrespective of continuously will require not just improvements in engine rising production rates. This will be realized efficiency but also a switch to renewable primarily by increasing the use of well water and emissions-neutral fuels. as a coolant in our production processes, renovating the heating network, using a In 2011, MTU teamed up with 20 other avibuilding control system, and using renewation companies, bio-energy producers, able fuels in our cogeneration plant. Cooling and universities and research institutes to with well water is very energy-efficient, as found the Aviation Initiative for Renewable using groundwater for cooling means there Energy in Germany (aireg e.V.). This associis no need to construct and run electricityation will drive forward the introduction of operated cooling systems to do the work. alternative fuels, instigate necessary techThat saves around 3,000 tons of CO2 annunology programs and act as an information ally. Moreover, the groundwater we tap for platform for society and government policycoolant is not classified as drinking water. makers. On top of this, MTU is also involved By expanding the building control system in the German Federal Ministry of Econowe have already achieved savings of approx. mics and Tech-nology’s Future Aircraft Re71,000 tons of CO2. At the same time, these search (FAIR) project. In the context of this measures are set to reduce electricity conproject, Lufthansa tested the use of biofuel sumption by 25 % (based on turnover in the in regular flight operations for the first time period from 2010 to 2020). A cogeneration on the Hamburg-Frankfurt route from July plant at the Munich location, which generto December 2011. The six-month longates heat and power, runs on vegetable oil. term test was the world’s first to research the use of biofuel for a scheduled airline In the area of engine repair, MTU achieves service. MTU monitored and analyzed engine repair depths that are unequalled in the behavior in flight using a special monitoring world through the development of innovasystem developed in-house. Moreover, in tive repair methods and technologies. For 2011 MTU commissioned Bauhaus Luftfahrt example, this gives around 70 percent of all to carry out studies on alternative fuels. engine blades a second, third or even fourth Finally, MTU is also a knowledgeable partner life. Reduced use of new materials conin numerous EU technology programs, such serves resources, easing the pressure on as the SOLAR-JET project launched in 2011 the environment. MTU is investing heavily which aims to produce synthetic aviation in expanding the use of these repair methfuel from CO2, water and solar energy withods while constantly adding to the range out diverting farmland from food production. of methods by developing new solutions in-house. As a result it is now possible to repair, rather than replace, even high-tech components in compressors such as blisks. 14 6 Anti-corruption The board of management is continuously Principle 10: updated on the work of the Compliance Businesses should work against Board and the group officers. The board corruption in all its forms, including receives support here from the internal extortion and bribery. auditors, who carry out compliance audits where they check business processes and procedures for compliance with the law and It goes without saying that our corporate observance of internal guidelines. responsibility also includes respecting the prevailing laws and regulations. We deSince 2011, MTU has been a member of nounce corruption, including bribery and the Aerospace and Defence Industries extortion, and all other forms of white-collar Association of Europe. By virtue of this crime. And we advocate fair, transparent membership, MTU recognizes the associacompetition where all parties are on an tion’s eight standards directed against corequal footing. Integrity and responsible beruption, bribery and unfair competition. havior are constituent parts of our corporate culture and are enshrined in the Code of Conduct for employees and managers (see p. 5). Where there is a suspected breach of these principles, information is passed on to an ombudsman, who is bound to strict confidentiality. MTU has set up a Compliance Board as the central office for investigating breaches. The Compliance Board is committed to fully clearing up reported suspicions and cases. It is also active in a preventive role, organizing various measures to increase awareness of these issues among employees. The focus in 2011 was on compliance training for all employees, with special courses for employees and managers in positions of trust. Working alongside the central Compliance Board are MTU-wide group officers for individual topics, data protection for instance, who ensure that the special rules in a given area are observed and that uniform standards apply across the whole company on the basis of the applicable statutory regulations. 15 MTU Aero Engines GmbH Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 info@mtu.de www.mtu.de
