PURPOSE DRIVEN Annual Report 2011/12 Financial, environmental and social performance Group Highlights Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information About us 3 Consolidated Group performance 60 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 158 Organisational structure 4 Capital resources and liquidity 67 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 166 Year at a glance Portfolio movement and evaluation 70 Report of the Auditors 167 Operating highlights and significant events 5 Industry group analysis 73 Balance sheet 168 Financial achievements and goals 5 Industry group financial highlights 73 Income statement 169 Financial highlights 6 Transportation 74 Cash flow statement 170 Chairman's message 7 Leisure 77 Statement of changes in equity 172 Property 82 Notes to the financial statements 174 Governance Consumer Foods & Retail 85 Economic value statement 228 Board of Directors 12 Financial Services 89 Group Executive Committee 14 Information Technology 93 Supplementary Information Group Operating Committee 15 Other, including Plantation Services 97 History of the John Keells Group 230 Corporate governance 17 Share information 100 Decade at a glance 231 Triple bottom line discussion and analysis Indicative US dollar financial statements 232 Sustainability Integration and Risk Management Economic performance 108 Sri Lankan economy 234 Sustainability integration 40 Environmental impact 111 Group real estate portfolio 235 Reporting on sustainability 40 Our people 123 Group directory 237 Sustainability performance highlights 41 Health and safety 128 Memberships, certifications and awards 242 Sustainability policy and framework 42 Ethical business 131 GRI content index 250 Progress on sustainability Product responsibility 135 UNGC advanced principle framework 260 commitments of 2010/11 50 Social responsibility 139 Glossary of financial terms 261 Short and medium term sustainability Notice of meeting 262 commitments 52 Form of proxy 263 Risk management 56 Corporate information IBC PURPOSE DRIVEN Single-minded dedication to profits is not a sustainable policy. This may sound like a strange way to begin an annual report for one of Sri Lanka’s leading business groups. But the truth is that the John Keells Group has never been simply about making money. Our motivation, over nearly a century and a half of growth, diversification and profitability, has never varied: to be the best not just the best at what we do, but also the best we can be. Excellence isn’t some management-manual buzzword with us: it is what makes it all worthwhile. As Sri Lanka finds itself entering a new era of economic and social development, the John Keells Group is on the leading edge, driving growth aggressively wherever the opportunities are found (and sometimes making opportunities where none existed until we saw the potential), setting new benchmarks for achievement, showing the way in nascent fields of investment, leading by example. Today we have formally integrated our reporting on sustainability initiatives into that of our financial performance. This is how we have defined the purpose that drives us in our commitment to business, to society and the environment, to our shareholders and other stakeholders as well as in our own commitment to excellence. This report, we believe, demonstrates that purpose reflected in everything we do. This is an integrated annual report. A guide to reading it is given overleaf. Annual Report 2011/12 1 John Keells Holdings PLC INTRODUCTION TO THE REPORT This 2011/12 Report is a reflection of the integrated approach of management, encompassing a triple bottom line performance for the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. The Group has published its annual financial and sustainability reports separately in the past, and this year it has embarked on integrated reporting which reflects the Group’s strong commitment to sustainable development, covering financial & economic, environmental and societal performance, thereby striving to meet the reporting expectations of all its stakeholders in a concise and single document. The Group has considered all its subsidiary and associate companies in capturing its financial performance. For the purpose of reporting on its sustainability performance, the Group has considered all companies in its sphere of influence, chosen on the basis that they are legal entities for which the Group remains accountable and has direct control. The companies not included for reporting on sustainability performance are companies in which the Group does not exercise significant management control and such companies have been clearly identified in the reporting boundary specified in the Group Directory. The information contained in this report is in compliance with the laws and regulations pertaining to the financial reporting standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and comply with the laws and regulations of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and subsequent revisions to date, the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly known as the Combined Code of 2010) to the extent they are practicable in the context of the nature of our diverse businesses and their risk profiles. The financial statements in this report are prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) issued by the ICASL and have been prepared on an accruals basis and under the historical cost convention unless otherwise specifically stated. The financial statements are also based on a concept of ‘going concern’ with understandability, relevance, materiality and reliability forming the basic framework. Accounting policies and notes set out in the Financial Information section of this Report form an integral part of the financial statements. With regard to the Group’s sustainability performance, the data measurement techniques and the basis of calculation including assumptions and estimations applied in the compilation of such sustainability performance indicators are in accordance with standard industry practices and the indicator protocols provided under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI 3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Such measurement techniques and assumptions have been specified under each relevant sustainability performance indicator and justification for any deviations in any particular case is clearly stated. 2 GROUP HIGHLIGHTS About us John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is the largest listed company on the Colombo Stock Exchange, with business interests primarily in Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods & Retail, Financial Services and Information Technology, among others. Started in early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in pursuing growth sectors of the time. JKH was incorporated as a public limited liability company in 1979 and obtained a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange in 1985. Having issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) which were listed on the Luxemburg Stock Exchange, JKH became the first Sri Lankan company to be listed overseas. The Group’s investment philosophy is based on a positive outlook, bold approach, commitment to delivery and flexibility to change. JKH is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. JKH is a full member of the World Economic Forum and a participant of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative. The holding company of the Group John Keells Holdings PLC is based at 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2 and the Group has significant operations and businesses across Sri Lanka, India and the Maldives. Our corporate vision Building businesses that are leaders in the region Our values • Innovation changing constantly, re-inventing and evolving • Integrity doing the right things always • Excellence constantly raising the bar • Caring fostering a great place to work • Trust building strong relationships based on openness and trust Annual Report 2011/12 3 John Keells Holdings PLC Organisational structure SECTORS/ FUNCTIONS PRIMARY BRANDS * Ports & Transportation Transportation Shipping City Sri Lankan Destination Hotel Leisure Maldivian Management Management Hotels Resorts Resorts Property Real Property Development Estate Consumer Foods & Consumer Retail Retail Foods Financial Insurance Banking and Stock Services Leasing Broking Information “Essence” of hospitality management Office IT Enabled IT Services Technology Automation Services Other including Plantation Other Plantation Services Services Group Strategic New Group Group Sustainability Business Group Business Development Finance Information Treasury & Enterprise Risk Process & Group Technology Management Review Initiatives Centre Functions Corporate Corporate Group Legal & Group Human Finance & Communications Tax Secretarial Resources Strategy John Keells Foundation Note: Market segments served by the industry groups are discussed in the Group Directory section of the Report. Certifications and awards won by the industry groups are found in the Memberships, Certifications and Awards section of the Report. *Brands owned by the companies within the respective industry groups. 4 Group Highlights Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Year at a glance Operating highlights and significant events May 2011 July 2011 September 2011 December 2011 John Keells Holdings PLC Ceylon Cold Stores PLC A 240 room business hotel project JKH was ranked number one in announced a subdivision of shares, successfully raised Rs. 648 million in Colombo was launched in LMD magazine’s ‘Top 50’ of whereby three of its existing via a rights issue. partnership with Sanken Lanka Sri Lanka’s leading listed shares were subdivided into four. (Private) Limited. companies for 2010/11. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, TransAsia August 2011 Hotels PLC, Asian Hotels & JKH was ranked first in the LMD October 2011 January 2012 Properties PLC, John Keells PLC, Magazine’s ‘Most Respected JKH secured the number one spot The corporate values of the John Union Assurance PLC and Tea Entities in Sri Lanka’ survey for in the Business Today magazine’s Keells Group were re-launched Smallholder Factories PLC also 2011. Thus, JKH has been ranked ‘Top 20’ rankings for the 7th time encompassing Trust, Innovation, announced a subdivision of their first for the sixth time since the since 1999. Caring, Excellence and Integrity. shares. inception of the survey in 2005. ‘The Emperor’ apartment project February 2012 June 2011 Fitch Ratings affirmed John Keells at Crescat City, Colombo was JKH was ranked first in the ‘large Subsequent to converting its Holdings PLC’s National Long-Term completed. scale’ category at the ACCA convertible preference shares, rating at ‘AAA(lka)’. Sustainability Awards for 2011. John Keells BPO Solutions India November 2011 Private Limited (formerly known as Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa (formerly March 2012 Auxicogent BPO solutions Private known as Coral Gardens) and Malaysia’s sovereign wealth Limited) became a fully owned Chaaya Wild Yala (formerly known fund Khazanah Nasional Berhad, subsidiary of JKH. as Yala Village) were reopened acquired a 8.8 per cent stake after refurbishment. in JKH via its special purpose vehicle Broga Hill Investments Limited. Financial achievements and goals Achievement Indicator (%) Goal (as at 31 March) 2012 2011 2010 EBIT growth >20 18.9 44.5 (1.0) EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 17.6 55.5 9.3 Cash EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 30.2 30.8 9.3 Return on capital employed (ROCE) >15 14.9 14.7 11.8 Return on equity (ROE) >18 15.0 15.1 10.9 Net debt (cash) to equity 50 (10.7) (6.2) (7.9) Annual Report 2011/12 5 John Keells Holdings PLC Financial highlights Year ended 31 March 2012 2011 Change % 2010 Earnings highlights and ratios Group revenue consolidated Rs. million 76,700 60,500 27 47,980 Group revenue including share of associates Rs. million 86,462 69,824 24 57,986 Group profit before interest and tax (EBIT) Rs. million 13,581 11,425 19 7,908 Group profit before tax Rs. million 12,910 10,629 21 6,538 Group profit after tax Rs. million 11,069 9,063 22 5,552 Group profit attributable to equity holders Rs. million 9,775 8,246 19 5,201 Dividends * Rs. million 2,314 1,869 24 1,844 Diluted earnings per share Rs. 11.49 9.77 18 6.28 Cash earnings per share Rs. 14.68 11.27 30 8.61 Interest cover No. of times 20.2 14.4 41 5.8 Return on equity (ROE) % 15.0 15.1 (1) 10.9 Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 14.9 14.7 2 10.8 Balance sheet highlights and ratios Total assets Rs. million 133,938 110,292 21 98,658 Total debt Rs. million 20,068 14,641 37 17,453 Net debt (cash) ** Rs. million (8,548) (4,168) 105 (4,435) Total shareholders' funds Rs. million 71,176 59,587 19 49,832 No. of shares in issue millions 844 630 34 619 Net assets per share Rs. 84.32 70.59 19 59.03 Debt / equity % 25.1 21.8 15 31.0 Net debt (cash) / equity ** % (10.7) (6.2) 72 (7.9) Debt / total assets % 15.0 13.3 13 17.7 Market / shareholder information Market price of share as at 31 March (actual) Rs. 206.00 285.60 (28) 184.00 Market price of share as at 31 March (diluted) Rs. 206.00 214.20 (4) 138.00 Market capitalisation Rs. million 173,889 179,840 (3) 113,983 Enterprise value ** Rs. million 165,341 175,672 (6) 109,548 Total shareholder return % (2.5) 57.4 (104) 199.6 Price earnings ratio (PER) (diluted) No. of times 17.9 21.9 (18) 22.0 Dividend payout % 44.1 32.2 37 39.3 Dividend per share Rs. 3.00 3.00 0 3.0 Dividend yield (diluted) % 1.33 1.40 (5) 2.2 Sustainability indicators Carbon footprint MT 73,753 65,524 13 62,130 Carbon footprint per Rs. Mn of revenue MT 0.96 1.08 (11) 1.29 Water consumption m3 1,834,122 Not tracked Not tracked Lost day rate due to occupational injuries % 0.045 0.058 (22) 0.026 (Lost days as a % of total man days) Training per employee Hours 40 30 33 25 Community engagement No. of persons impacted 30,397 17,648 72 10, 130 Other Economic value generated Rs. million 85,234 69,787 22 55,602 Economic value distributed Rs. million 75,139 61,101 23 49,966 Employees Rs. million 8,091 6,873 18 6,138 Government Rs. million 3,595 3,194 13 2,906 Others Rs. million 63,454 51,034 24 40,922 Economic value retained Rs. million 10,095 8,686 16 5,635 Total employees (excluding associate companies) Number 11,956 11,389 5 10,885 Total employees (as per sustainability reporting Number 11,748 11,186 5 10,675 boundaries) * Cash dividends paid during the year ** Customer advances in the Property Development sector have been excluded 6 Group Highlights Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information • Return on equity (ROE) was cent in 2011/12 from 34 per cent in CHAIRMAN’S 15.0 per cent compared to the previous year. 15.1 per cent in the previous year MESSAGE As a discussion on the economy and the macro-economic factors, • Diluted earnings per share and a detailed analysis of each increased by 18 per cent to Rs. Purpose Defined Industry Group, are available 11.49 elsewhere in the Report, I will • Cash earnings per share focus on a high level summation of increased by 30 per cent to Rs. the performance of each industry Knowing exactly who we are, what 14.68 group during the financial year we stand for and where we’re headed 2011/12 and broad outlook on each • Total shareholder return (TSR) of them. makes all the difference. at a negative 2.5 per cent outperformed the Milanka Transportation Industry I am pleased to present the Integrated Annual Price Index (MPI) which Group Report, and the Statement of Accounts, for the declined by 29 per cent The Transportation industry group Financial Year ended 31st March 2012. The • Carbon footprint per one maintained its growth momentum Report encapsulates the Group’s belief that million Rupees of revenue having achieved revenues of Rs. what is sustainable is not just the single minded decreased by 11 per cent from 17.38 billion and a PAT of Rs. dedication to profits; but rather the “purpose 1.08 MT to 0.96 MT 3.27 billion, contributing 23 per driven” business practices, social responsibility cent and 30 per cent respectively and governance processes which are interwoven Although the asset turnover to Group revenue and PAT. The into our operating model. Knowing exactly who improved from 0.67 in 2010/11 2011/12 PAT increased by 18 per we are; what we stand for and where we are to 0.71 in 2011/2012, I believe cent over the previous year. Both that the head-room still available headed, made all the difference as we pursued sectors within the Transportation within the existing capacity and industry group experienced our strategic objectives and financial goals in the capacity expansion currently volume growth as a result of past year. I believe it is this approach which will underway will be enhanced with capacity enhancements and also continue to differentiate us, from the rest, as we better utilisation and through due to general improvements seek long term value creation in our businesses. greater productivity. in the industry landscape. The installation of two new ‘super For the financial year 2011/12, cent increase over the PBT of Rs. The Group continues to maintain a post panamax cranes’ at South the recurring profit attributable 10.63 billion in the previous year. strong balance sheet. This strength Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) to equity holders of the parent, is evidenced by a debt to equity of during the fourth quarter is excluding capital gains on Summarised below are the 25.1 per cent, a net debt (cash) to expected to further increase the share disposals and fair value key financial highlights of our equity of (10.7) per cent, debt to handling capacity of the terminal adjustments on investment operating performance during the total assets of 15.0 per cent and considered crucial in catering property, was Rs. 8.36 billion, this year. an interest cover of 20.2 times to the growing demand. The being a 40 per cent increase over (previous year 14.4 times). These bunkering business expanded its • Group revenue increased by 27 the recurring profit attributable to ratios and indicators portray the operations during the year with the per cent to Rs. 76.70 billion equity holders of the parent of Rs. manoeuvrability, flexibility and extension of its existing services. 5.98 billion in the previous year. • Recurring profit attributable agility available to us in the current The outlook for businesses within On a similar basis, the recurring to equity holders of the parent volatile economic environment. the industry group remains positive Group profit before tax (PBT) for increased by 40 per cent to despite the likely challenges the financial year 2011/12, was Rs. 8.36 billion From a portfolio perspective, stemming from fluctuating Rs. 11.50 billion a 37 per cent I am pleased to note that the global oil prices and the currency increase over the recurring PBT of • Recurring Group profit before depreciation. dependence on the Transportation Rs. 8.37 billion in the last year. tax (PBT) increased by 37 per industry group’s contribution to cent to Rs. 11.50 billion recurring PAT has decreased to Leisure Industry Group The profit attributable to equity • Net cash flow from operating 34 per cent in 2011/12 from 41 holders of the parent for the The Leisure industry group activities increased by 94 per per cent in the previous year. As a financial year 2011/12 was reported revenues of Rs. 17.42 cent to Rs. 16.48 billion result of the increase in PAT from Rs. 9.78 billion – a 19 per cent billion and a PAT of Rs. 3.71 billion, normal operations in Leisure and increase over the Rs. 8.25 billion contributing 23 per cent and 34 • Return on capital employed Consumer Foods and Retail, the achieved in the previous year. The per cent respectively to the Group (ROCE) was 14.9 per cent combined contribution from these Group PBT for 2011/12 was Rs. revenue and PAT. With a PAT compared to 14.7 per cent in two industry groups, to the Group’s 12.91 billion, this being a 21 per growth of 60 per cent over the the previous year recurring PAT, increased to 51 per Annual Report 2011/12 7 John Keells Holdings PLC Lanka is enormous and compelling, distribution network continued to Chairman’s Message we cannot overemphasise the be expanded with investments to dire need for a focussed, long improve the efficiency to serve term and sustained promotional 90,000 retailers island wide. The and development strategy, at a Retail sector saw an improved national level, if the opportunities performance mainly on the back Recurring profit for Leisure are to be fully realised. of growth in same-store footfalls. A renewed focus on promoting attributable to equity Property Industry Group the Nexus loyalty card resulted in a significant increase in the holders of the parent The Property industry group with a revenue of Rs. 3.79 billion number of active cards and card spend. Retail is continuing to look increased by 40 per for new locations to expand its and a PAT of Rs. 930 million footprint. Despite the impact of the contributed 5 per cent and 8 per increased electricity tariffs, fuel cent to Rs. 8.36 billion cent respectively to total Group revenue and PAT. The 2011/12 PAT prices and the depreciation of the Rupee, the longer term prospects increased by 19 per cent over the for the economy and changes in previous year. The Property group lifestyles are expected to widen previous year, the Leisure industry group was the largest contributor to has proven itself to be an industry the scope for growth in the the 2011/12 JKH Group PAT. As anticipated, the macro environment for yardstick with the delivery of high businesses within CF&R. Sri Lankan Resorts, City Hotels and the Destination Management sectors quality residential properties in were favourable with tourist arrivals surpassing the 900,000 visitor the city of Colombo. The 163 unit mark for the financial year 2011/12, an increase of 27 per cent over the ‘The Emperor’ was successfully Financial Services previous year. Whilst traditional tourism generating markets continued completed and handed over Industry Group to dominate arrivals, a trend was visible with growth momentum shifting to owners during the year and The Financial Services industry to emerging fast growing markets such as the Middle East, East Asia construction work on the 475 group, with revenues of Rs. 7.93 and Eastern Europe, albeit off a small base. India continues to be the unit ‘OnThree20’ is progressing billion and a PAT of Rs. 1.11 billion largest generating market and demonstrates the need to further develop according to schedule. The contributed 10 per cent to both capabilities to cater to this segment. Our Maldivian resorts had a Property group has initiated plans the Group revenue and PAT. The successful year despite the political disturbances experienced towards to embark on the development 2011/12 PAT increased by 29 the latter part of the financial year. The launch of Cinnamon Lodge as a of multiple commercial and per cent over the previous year. five star property, the re-launch of Chaaya Wild (formerly Yala Village) and residential properties to capitalise Union Assurance continued to Chaaya Tranz (formerly Coral Gardens) upon completion of refurbishments on the growth opportunities in the improve its service standards and property business. captured market share through differentiation of its products. The performance of both Life and “Whilst the potential for tourism for Consumer Foods and General insurance businesses Retail Industry Group Sri Lanka is enormous and Consumer Foods and Retail (CF&R) were strong. Nations Trust Bank (NTB), with its unique positioning, compelling, we cannot overemphasise recorded revenues of Rs. 22.02 captured market share despite the dire need for a focussed, long billion and a PAT of Rs. 2.38 billion, difficult market conditions, term and sustained promotional and contributing 29 per cent and 21 particularly towards the second per cent respectively to Group half of the year where liquidity development strategy...” revenue and PAT. The 2011/12 PAT, was tight and with the currency which includes a Rs. 1.11 billion experiencing volatility. NTB’s focus investment property revaluation on areas such as effective risk and available for a part of the year, augmented the revenues of the surplus, increased by 932 per management, and on enhancing Sri Lankan Resorts sector. The opening of Chaaya Bey Beruwala, in cent over the previous year. process efficiencies, continued. September 2012, as planned, will further add to the revenues of this Recurring PAT increased by 451 These measures will serve to sector. The two City hotels, Cinnamon Grand and Cinnamon Lakeside per cent. The strong performance improving the profitability despite continued to invest in refurbishing existing rooms and enhancing the of the industry group was mainly the credit ceiling introduced by the capacity, and the ambience of their restaurants. Once completed, our joint fuelled by the growth in volumes Central Bank and pressures on net venture project with Sanken Lanka (Private) Limited, to construct a 240 of soft drinks and ice creams. interest margins. roomed select service business hotel in Colombo will further strengthen Despite increasing competition, the portfolio of hotels within the city. The management operations of the our brands, ‘Elephant House’ (soft hotel will be undertaken by Keells Hotel Management Services under a A significant decline in turnover drinks and ice creams), ‘Keells’ long term management contract. The select service business hotel will levels at the Colombo Stock and ‘Krest’ (processed meats) be marketed under a new brand, conveying the convenience and value Exchange compared to the retained the market leadership in proposition to its target clientele. Whilst the potential for tourism for Sri previous financial year resulted their respective categories. The 8 Group Highlights Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information in John Keells Stock Brokers including Plantation Services, reporting lower turnover and reported revenues of Rs. 2.23 profitability. The company however billion (primarily from Plantation “Our human capital is well equipped recorded a healthy improvement in Services) and a loss after tax of Rs. to meet the challenges of the future market share with strong growth in 392 million (primarily as a result of and have proved their ability to adapt the foreign segment. the exchange loss on the IFC loan following the depreciation of the and adopt in keeping with the needs Rupee against the US Dollar and of the time” Information Technology an increase in the tax expense at Industry Group the holding company). Strategic The Information Technology Group Information Technology These attributes are entrenched sustainability within its strategic industry group posted revenues of (SGIT), the Group’s IT function now in our re-launched Values which focus. This has facilitated the Rs. 5.93 billion and a PAT of Rs. takes on external assignments. emphasise Innovation, Integrity, comparison of sustainability 64 million, contributing 8 per cent SGIT was recently appointed Caring, Excellence and Trust. The performances against global and 0.6 per cent to Group revenue the first-ever full services SAP ‘Governance’ and ‘Our People’ benchmarks and key performance and PAT respectively. The 2011/12 Services’ partner in Sri Lanka. sections of this Annual Report indicators and each business PAT was a turnaround from the In spite of relative inactivity in explain in further detail the unit has been made responsible loss made in the previous year. The the capital markets, John Keells collection of best in class policies, for developing its sustainability strong revenue growth emanated Capital, the investment banking procedures and systems which strategies and operational mainly from the Office Automation arm of the Group, was involved are in place to ensure that JKH is, practices. In keeping with our onbusiness. The Toshiba product in private equity transactions and by all standards, ‘more than just going commitment to sustainability range consolidated its market secured several mandates from its a workplace’. Our human capital and corporate responsibility, we position, while Samsung mobiles clients during the year. is well equipped to meet the have increased the scope of our captured a significant market challenges of the future and have reporting through the introduction share within a short period. The proved their ability to adapt and of seven additional indicators and Software Services business saw IFRS convergence adopt in keeping with the needs of this we believe would provide our the acquisition of new customers The Institute of Chartered the time. stakeholders a more holistic view owing to more focussed marketing Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) of the Group’s overall performance. efforts. The BPO business in India made a commitment to converge has strengthened its marketing with International Financial Sustainability From a sustainability perspective, efforts and has attracted more Reporting Standards (IFRS) by Our operating philosophy is the Group’s short term strategy is customers to derive the maximum January 2012. I am pleased based on a triple bottom line to track our performance against benefits of the scalability of its to report that the proactive approach which considers the key sustainability indicators with a operations. convergence approach of the economic, environmental and view to mitigating environmental Group culminated in a smooth societal impacts to the Group and and societal impacts, minimising transition from the ‘old’ to the its stakeholders. Towards this, Other including the risk to our organisation and ‘new’. The Group also completed as discussed at the outset of my Plantation Services to achieve best in class business necessary upgrades to the ERP message, we have embarked The Plantation Services sector processes. In the medium to platform. Further details on the on a strategy which integrates reported revenues of Rs. 2.22 long term, we believe that by the methodology and approach and sustainability with our financial billion and a PAT of Rs. 146 million, adoption of sound sustainability the IFRS impacts to each of our goals. We see the necessity to contributing 3 per cent and 1.3 policies and practices, the Group businesses are found elsewhere in merge environmental and societal per cent respectively to Group would be equipped with the the Report. aspects with the economic goals revenue and PAT. In 2011/12, the necessary strengths to create of the company to be of paramount PAT declined by 49 per cent as a strategic competitive advantage. importance and we will spare no result of lower tea prices and the Employees effort in achieving this. To this end, increased cost of ‘bought’ leaf. Tea As we mark the conclusion of we have deployed a ‘Task Group’ At a more specific level, I am Smallholder Factories will continue a reasonably successful year, based structure to decentralise pleased to announce that this exploring means to improve I wish to pay tribute to all our sustainability and facilitate year we have been able to make productivity and, as a result, its employees for their commitment ownership at the business unit significant progress on the agenda profitability by using the latest and strong work ethic. As I have level. Each Task Group, headed by items reported in the 2010/11 technology available. stated time and again, it is our a senior manager, overlooks one of Sustainability Report in the areas employees who are integral to our the key pillars of sustainability. of energy conservation, Green In addition to the Plantation success and we will continue to Globe and LEED certification, Services sector, Others comprise invest in their development. Our training and development and This year, we have taken of the holding company, other culture allows our employees to community engagement. Our sustainability deeper, and further, investments and land owning communicate freely and openly, carbon footprint for the year is by introducing internal quarterly companies. These have limited continually challenge the status 73,753 MT as against 65,524 MT sustainability reporting which has external revenues. Overall, Other, quo, test new ideas, and to see in the previous year. The growth is enabled the Group to entrench ‘failure’ as an opportunity to learn. mainly due to the increased output Annual Report 2011/12 9 John Keells Holdings PLC the human-leopard conflict in Responsibility section of this • Village Adoption Chairman’s Message the villages adjacent to the Yala Report, some of the highlights of The Foundation undertook National Park is a collaborative the Foundation’s work during the another village adoption initiative with Chaaya Wild. year are: project in Mangalagama. of our Consumer Foods and Retail • English Language Scholarship Plans are underway to expand sector, increased occupancy levels Similar to last year, the information Programme this initiative to include some at our hotels and the re-launching on sustainability has been During the year under review, villages in the North and East. of two resort hotels as mentioned compiled at GRI Application the Foundation continued above. However, it is pleasing to level B(+), has achieved a GRI with its English Language Conclusion note that our carbon footprint per Application Level Check, and has Scholarship Programme via the been assured by a third party, Your Board declared a final every Rupee of revenue generated foundation-level programme Det Norske Veritas AS. The John dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share to has decreased by 11 per cent. for school children within the Keells Group continues to be a be paid on 15th June 2012. From a labour perspective, the age limits of 12 to 14 years Group has provided 40 hours of participant in the United Nations branded as ‘English for Teens’. training per employee which is a Global Compact Initiative and I wish to place on record my thanks The programme was rolled out 33 per cent increase in the number supports the country’s commitment to Deva Rodrigo who stepped in two intakes in 19 Districts of training hours provided this year to achieving the Millennium down from the Board at the end of of the country. when compared to last year. Development Goals. June 2011. I also wish to formally welcome Ranjit Gunasekara who • The John Keells HIV/AIDS joined the Board in July 2011. Awareness Campaign From a sustainability perspective, The Foundation, through the Group’s short term strategy is to this project, has targeted In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of Directors and everyone track our performance against key the employees of the John at John Keells Group, I wish to sustainability indicators with a view to Keells Group, the communities thank all our stakeholders for around its business locations, mitigating environmental and societal other corporate entities, most the support extended during the past year. We are excited about impacts, minimising the risk to our at-risk persons (MARPs) and the opportunities ahead, and are organisation and to achieve best in the general public. The Group confident that our successful track carried out 60 awareness class business processes. record of execution will allow sessions during the year, us to excel, even in challenging educating over 9,900 persons. situations, in creating value for all During the year under review, we Corporate Social our shareholders, customers and • John Keells Vision Project employees. have seen numerous contributions Responsibility to sustainability through innovative The ‘John Keells Vision Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives such as renewable Project’ continued to give sight Finally, I wish to thank my (CSR) is now a well established energy lighting, co-generation to vision-impaired persons, colleagues on the Board and the and integral part of our business. utilising waste heat of generators, with a reported 777 cataract Group Executive Committee for Through our CSR initiatives we manufacture of bio-diesel using operations being carried out their guidance and support as aim to responsibly manage the waste cooking oil and a completely island wide during the year always. effects of our operations and also organic hydroponics garden. What under review, in addition to cultivate strong relationships is remarkable is that all these providing 2,120 spectacles with the communities that we contributions have come from our to adults and children. The operate within. At JKH, our CSR own staff and were developed Foundation collaborated with focus continues to be on six key in-house using mainly recycled the Vision 2020 Secretariat areas: namely, Education, Health, Susantha Ratnayake material. This is an indication that of the Ministry of Health, Environment, Community and Chairman the culture of sustainability and primarily with the objective Livelihood Development, Arts and innovation is becoming a part of of extending its services to Culture and Disaster Relief. 25 May 2012 the DNA of the Group. previously war-torn areas in the Northern and Eastern The CSR initiatives of the Group provinces of the country. Eye During the year, the Group also are administered by the John camps continue to attract undertook several environmental Keells Foundation (Foundation), volunteers from different conservation and community a company duly incorporated sectors / functions across development projects such as under the law and also registered the Group, portraying the recycling of plastic containers, as a ‘Voluntary Social Service enthusiasm amongst the rainwater harvesting and a leopard Organisation’ with the Ministry employees of the John Keells research project in Yala. ‘Project of Social Welfare. Whilst further Group to be part of this Leopard’, aimed at mitigating details are available in the Social initiative. 10 Purpose Designed A structure of governance, management and distributed authority as perfectly suited to the demands of efficiency, transparency, ethical probity and social responsibility as we can make it. GOVERNANCE Annual Report 2011/12 11 John Keells Holdings PLC Board of Directors • Susantha Ratnayake Chairman-CEO • Ajit Gunewardene Deputy Chairman • Ronnie Peiris Group Finance Director • Franklyn Amerasinghe -Director • Dr Indrajit Coomaraswamy Director • Tarun Das Director • Steven Enderby Director • Ranjit Gunasekara Director • Sithie Tiruchelvam Director Susantha Ratnayake Franklyn Amerasinghe Chairman-CEO * Director Susantha Ratnayake was appointed as the Chairman and CEO of John Appointed to the Board during 1999/2000, Franklyn Amerasinghe is the Keells Holdings PLC in January 2006 and has served on the JKH Board former CEO and Director General of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. since 1992/93. He is also the Chairman of many of the listed and un-listed He was thereafter attached to the ILO as a senior specialist in the social companies within the Group. He is a council member of the Employers’ dialogue sector in charge of Employer’s Organisations in East Asia up Federation of Ceylon, serves on various clusters of the National Council to October 2002. A Bachelor of Law and a lawyer by profession, he is of Economic Development (NCED) and is the Chairman of the Ceylon currently a consultant and trainer in social dialogue, human resource Chamber of Commerce. He has over 34 years of management experience, management, corporate social responsibility and industrial relations, all of which is within the John Keells Group. both in Sri Lanka and abroad. He has also authored books on a wide range of subjects and published papers in some international and local journals. He is a Founder Trustee of the Association for Dialogue & Ajit Gunewardene Conflict Resolution. He was also one of the Founder Directors of the Skills Deputy Chairman Development Fund. Ajit Gunewardene is the Deputy Chairman of John Keells Holdings PLC and has been a member of the Board for over 19 years. He is a Director of many companies in the John Keells Group and is the Chairman of Union Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy Assurance PLC. He is a member of the Board of SLINTEC, a company ** Director established for the development of nanotechnology in Sri Lanka under the Indrajit Coomaraswamy was appointed to the John Keells Holdings PLC auspices of the Ministry of Science and Technology. He has also served Board in February 2011. Indrajit was an official in the Central Bank of as the Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Ajit has a degree in Sri Lanka from 1974-1989. He worked in the Economic Research, Economics and brings over 30 years of management experience. Statistics and Bank Supervision divisions. During this time he was also seconded to the Ministry of Finance and Planning (1981-89). He was employed by the Commonwealth Secretariat from 1990-2008. Ronnie Peiris During that time he held the positions, inter alia, of Director, Economic Group Finance Director Affairs Division and Deputy-Director, Secretary-General’s Office. He Appointed to the John Keells Holdings PLC Board in May 2003, Ronnie was subsequently Interim Director, Social Transformation Programme Peiris has overall responsibility for the Group’s Finance and Accounting Division, Commonwealth Secretariat (Jan-July 2010). Indrajit completed including Taxation, the Information Technology function and Group his undergraduate degree at Cambridge University and obtained his Initiatives. He was previously the Managing Director of Anglo American Doctorate at the University of Sussex. Corporation (Central Africa) Limited in Zambia. Ronnie has over 40 years of finance and general management experience in Sri Lanka and abroad. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants UK and the Society of Certified Management Accountants, Sri Lanka and holds an MBA from the University of Cape Town, South Africa. He is a member of the committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of its Taxation Sub Committee and also serves on its Economic, Fiscal and Policy Planning Sub Committee. He is a Director of several companies in the John Keells Group, is Chairman of Nations Trust Bank PLC and is currently the President of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. 12 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Tarun Das Ranjit Gunasekara ** Director ** Director Tarun Das has dedicated his professional career to the development Ranjit Gunasekara was appointed to the Board in July 2011. A Fellow of and promotion of Indian Industry. Starting in November 1963 with the the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, his career includes predecessor body of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) he was the a spell of seventeen years overseas where he worked for seven years Director General and Chief Executive of CII from April 1967 to May 2004 with Coopers & Lybrand in Zambia and Botswana before leaving as an and Chief Mentor from June 2004 to October 2009. His leadership of the Audit Senior Manager. He then joined the Lloyd’s Insurance Broking organisation over three decades has led to achievements in strengthening Group, Minet, as Financial Controller of its Botswana operations before business and strategic ties between India and the world. He is a Member transferring to Minet’s head office in London where he served as Financial of the Advisory Group for G-20, Ministry of Finance; Member, Expert Controller/Executive Director of Minet International Holdings. On Group, Planning Commission on Government-Industry Consultations; returning to Sri Lanka in 1994, he joined NDB, and retired as its Chief Member, Working Group on Business Regulatory Framework for the Financial Officer in 2004. He has served on the Boards of NDB and several 12th Five Year Plan ( 2012-2017), Planning Commission; Member, Expert of its group companies and on the city hotel subsidiaries of the John Group, Prime Minister’s Office to formulate a jobs plan for the State Keells Group. of J&K Youth; Member, Council of IITs, Ministry of Human Resources Development; Member, Round Table on Skills Development, Ministry of Sithie Tiruchelvam Human Resources Development, Member, National Culture Fund, Ministry of Culture and Member, Kerala State Planning Board. He is also Trustee, ** Director Council on Energy Environment and Water; Managing Trustee, Indian Appointed to the Board in January 2007, Sithie Tiruchelvam, is a Lawyer Business Trust for HIV/AIDS; Vice President and Treasurer, World Wide of the Supreme Court of Ceylon, and specialises in corporate law, Fund-India (WWF); Member, Board of Trustees, Public Interest Foundation; intellectual property law and labour law. She has obtained her LLB from Member, Apex Council on India@75, Confederation of Indian Industry the University of Ceylon in 1966, and was admitted to the Supreme (CII); Trustee, India@75 Foundation; Member, Board of Trustees, Aspen Court as an Advocate in 1968. She is a Founding Partner of the law firm Institute India and Lifetime Trustee of The Aspen Institute, USA. He is Tiruchelvam Associates. She has been listed as a leading lawyer in the Co-Chair of the Indo-US Strategic Dialogue and of Indo-US-Japan corporate and commercial matters by Chamber Asia Pacific. She currently Strategic Dialogue, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Member serves on the Board of Central Corporate & Consultancy Services (Pvt.) of the India-Singapore Strategic Dialogue and the India-China Strategic Limited and the Nadesan Centre for Human Rights through Law. Dialogue, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He is a Member of the International Advisory Board of ACE Insurance (USA); Member, India Advisory Board of VOITH (Germany) and Member, India Advisory Board, JCB (UK) and Member of the Board of Governors, East West Center. Steven Enderby ** Director Appointed to the Board in 2005/06, Steven Enderby stepped down as a Partner in Actis, the leading emerging markets private equity investor in December 2011. He has worked in emerging markets for more than 20 years and has been based in South Asia for the last 15 years. He continues to serve on the Board of Actis investee companies Halonix and MFE Technologies. Steven holds a BSc (Hons) in Economics and Accounting from the Queens University of Belfast and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK and is presently studying for a Masters of Development Studies at the University of Melbourne. * Senior Independent Non Executive ** Independent Non Executive Annual Report 2011/12 13 John Keells Holdings PLC Group Executive Committee • All Executive Directors • Dilani Alagaratnam President • Krishan Balendra President • Romesh David President • Sanjeeva Fernando President • Jitendra Gunaratne President • Suresh Rajendra President Dilani Alagaratnam Sanjeeva Fernando Suresh Rajendra President President President Dilani Alagaratnam, President, Group HR, Legal & Secretarial has overall Sanjeeva Fernando has overall Suresh Rajendra is responsible responsibility for the Group Human Resources, Legal & Secretarial and responsibility for the IT industry for the Property industry group Corporate Communication functions of John Keells Group. A Lawyer by group and the Plantations sector and oversees the Sustainability profession, she has been with John Keells Holdings PLC for 20 years and of the Group. He has over 25 years and Enterprise Risk Management is a law graduate and a holder of a Masters Degree in Law. Currently of management experience, 18 of functions of John Keells Holdings she is the Chairperson of the Steering Committee on Human Resources which have been with the John PLC. He has over 20 years and Education of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and member of the Keells Group in diverse businesses of experience in the fields of National Labour Advisory Committee. and capacities. Joining the Group finance, property and real estate, in 1993 to head the Group’s travel and tourism, and business Printing and Packaging businesses development acquired both in Krishan Balendra he went on to take over Lanka Sri Lanka and overseas. Prior President Marine Services as its CEO in to joining the Group, he was Krishan Balendra has responsibility for the Retail sector, John Keells 2002 at the time of its acquisition the Head of Commercial and Stock Brokers, John Keells Capital and the Corporate Finance & from the Government. Prior to his Business Development for NRMA Strategy function of the Group. He started his professional career at current assignment he was the Motoring & Services in Sydney, UBS Warburg, Hong Kong, in investment banking, focussing primarily on Sector Head of the Transportation Australia, Director/General equity capital markets. After a four year stint in Hong Kong, he continued sector. A Printer by profession, Manager of Aitken Spence Hotel his career in corporate finance at Aitken Spence & Co. PLC, Sri Lanka Sanjeeva qualified from the London Managements (Pvt) Ltd. and also prior to joining JKH. Krishan holds a law degree (LLB) from the University School of Printing and is a member served on the Boards of the hotel of London and an MBA from INSEAD. He is the Chairman of the Colombo of the London Institute of Printing. companies of the Aitken Spence Stock Exchange. Group. Suresh is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Jitendra Gunaratne Romesh David Accountants, UK. President President Jitendra Gunaratne is responsible Romesh David has been with the Group for 32 years during which for the Consumer Foods sector. he has served in the Leisure, Domestic & International Trade, IT and Prior to his appointment as Transportation sectors of the Group. He is a member of the National President, he overlooked the Council for Economic Development (Transport Cluster), a member of the Plantations and Retail sectors. Ports, Shipping, Aviation & Logistics Steering Committee of the Ceylon His 31 years of management Chamber of Commerce and is currently the Chairman of the Chartered experience in the Group also Institute of Logistics and Transport – Sri Lanka Branch. He serves on covers Leisure and Property. the Executive Committee of the Council for Business with Britain, the Jitendra holds a Diploma in Advisory Council of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association and the Marketing. He is the President Executive Committee of the Indo Lanka Chamber of Commerce. He is a of the Beverage Association of past Chairman of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders’ Association and the Sri Lanka and also serves as a Council for Business with Britain. member of the Advisory Committee on Consumer Affairs of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. 14 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Jayantissa Chandrika Perera Group Operating Kehelpannala Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Chandrika Perera was appointed Committee Jayantissa Kehelpannala, Sector as the Chief Financial Officer Head Sri Lankan Resort Hotels, of the Leisure industry group in has over 30 years of experience March 2005. She has been with in the leisure industry both in the Group for 29 years. She held • All members of the Group Executive Committee hoteliering and inbound tourism. the position of Group Financial • Sujiva Dewaraja Executive Vice President He is currently the Chairman of the Controller from 1999 to 2005. A • Roshanie Jayasundera-Moraes Executive Vice President Hotels & Tourism Employers Group Fellow of the Institute of Chartered • Sanjeewa Jayaweera Executive Vice President of the Employers’ Federation of Accountants of Sri Lanka and the • Jayantissa Kehelpannala Executive Vice President Ceylon (EFC) and represents them Society of Certified Management • Vasantha Leelananda Executive Vice President at the EFC Council meetings and Accountants, Sri Lanka (ICASL), • Chandrika Perera Executive Vice President is a member of the Wages Board she holds an MBA (finance) • Mano Rajakariar Executive Vice President for the Hotel and Catering Trade. from the University of Southern • Waruna Rajapakse Executive Vice President In addition, he is also the Vice Queensland. Chandrika serves • Sunimal SenanayakeExecutive Vice President • Ramesh Shanmuganathan Executive Vice President President of the Tourist Hotels as a committee member of the • Devika Weerasinghe Executive Vice President Association of Sri Lanka (THASL) Accounting Standards Committee • Suran Wijesinghe Executive Vice President and represents the Association at and the Business School of ICASL the Committee of Ceylon Chamber and is also a member of the of Commerce. He is a member Steering Committee on Income Sujiva Dewaraja Roshanie Jayasunderaof the Tourism Cluster of NCED Taxes. Executive Vice President Moraes (National Council for Economic Executive Vice President Development) under the purview of Sujiva Dewaraja heads the Mano Rajakariar the Ministry of Finance & Planning. IT sector. Since passing out Roshanie Jayasundera-Moraes, Executive Vice President as a Chartered Management Head of the Retail sector, has been Mano Rajakariar, has been the Accountant in London in 1980, with the Group since 1991. She Vasantha Leelananda Group Financial Controller since he worked in corporate strategy was with the Airlines sector of Executive Vice President April 2005. He has been with the at a diversified conglomerate the Transportation industry group, Vasantha Leelananda is Head Group for over 16 years in many and in MIS for a Middle Eastern before being appointed as head of the Destination Management capacities including serving as the Government. Moving to the USA of the Group’s retail business in sector and counts over 33 years Sector Financial Controller of the in 1987, he read for an MBA November 2003. A holder of a in the leisure industry with the Plantations sector and heading the from the University of Pittsburgh, Diploma in Marketing from the John Keells Group. He served as Shared Services implementation Pennsylvania, earning a place on Chartered Institute of Marketing the Managing Director of Walkers within the Group. He has over the Dean’s List. Since then, he has (CIM), UK, Roshanie also holds an Tours from 1997 to 2005 and 24 years of experience in audit, held varied general management MBA from the Post-Graduate heads the travel operations in Sri finance and general management positions within 2 of Sri Lanka’s Institute of Management Lanka and India. Vasantha holds acquired both in Sri Lanka and largest listed Conglomerates. He of the University of Sri an MBA from the University of overseas. is a Fellow of Chartered Institute Jayawardenepura, Sri Lanka. Leicester. He is a past President of Management Accountants, UK of the Sri Lanka Association of Mano is a Fellow member and an Associate member of the Sanjeewa Jayaweera Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO), of the Institute of Chartered Chartered Institute of Bankers, Executive Vice President a Board member of the Sri Lanka Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) London. In the 1990’s Sujiva Convention Bureau from 2003 and the Chartered Institute of served as founder Secretary of Sanjeewa Jayaweera, Chief to 2007 and served as a Board Management Accountants, UK. both the Consumer Electronics and Financial Officer for the Consumer member of the Sri Lanka Institute He currently serves as a member Domestic Appliances Association Foods & Retail industry group, has of Tourism & Hotel Management of the Examinations Committee, and the Sri Lanka Netherlands been with the Group for 20 years, from 2007 to 2010. He is a Board the Financial Reporting Faculty, Association. He served on the during which he served in the member of the Responsible the National Conference Technical committee of the Ceylon Chamber Resort Hotels sector of the Leisure Tourism Partnership which is Committee and the Urgent Issues of Commerce in 1997/98 and on industry group and was the Sector affiliated to the Travel Foundation Task Force (UITF) of the ICASL. the ministerial advisory panel on Financial Controller for Resort UK. Mano is also a member of the ICT/BPO export since 2007. He Hotels from 1998 to 2005. Prior to was a Founding Board member of joining the Group, Sanjeewa was Financial and Regulatory Steering the Lanka Software Foundation based in the United Kingdom and Committee of the Ceylon Chamber as well as SLASSCOM worked for several years as an of Commerce. (Sri Lanka Association of Software Audit Manager. and Services Co’s), of which he is currently Chairman. Annual Report 2011/12 15 John Keells Holdings PLC Group Operating Committee Waruna Rajapakse Devika Weerasinghe Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Waruna Rajapakse, Head of New Business Development and Group Devika Weerasinghe, Chief Financial Officer of the Transportation Initiatives, has over 26 years of experience in Sri Lanka and in the industry group previously held the position of Sector Financial Controller UK, primarily in management consultancy and project finance. Prior to of the Transportation sector. She also served as the Sector Financial joining the Group in 2002, he worked for the Government at the Bureau Controller of the Airlines SBU of the Transportation sector during the of Infrastructure Investment, Informatics International Ltd (UK) and at period 1998-2004. An Associate member of the Chartered Institute of Ernst & Young. Waruna is a Fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants-UK, Devika also holds a bachelors degree in Management Accountants, UK, and an Associate member of the Institute Business Administration, from the University of Sri Jayawardenepura. of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. He also holds an MBA from City University Cass Business School, London, UK. He is a member of the Infrastructure Steering Committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Suran Wijesinghe and a member of the Sri Lanka Board of the Chartered Institute of Executive Vice President Management Accountants (CIMA) of UK where he is also a member of Suran Wijesinghe, joined the Group in January 2004 as the Sector the Technical & Employer Relations Committees. Financial Controller of the Financial Services industry group and was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the same industry group in July Sunimal Senanayake 2010. He has over 30 years of experience in the fields of audit, financial Executive Vice President and general management, which has been acquired while serving in organisations both locally and overseas. Suran is a Fellow member of Sunimal Senanayake, Head of the Maldivian Resorts sector, has over 30 both the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and the years of experience in the leisure industry, both in hotels and inbound Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of UK. He currently tourism. He served as the Managing Director of Walkers Tours Limited serves as a committee member of the Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) of from 1991 – 1997. He is a past President of the Sri Lanka Association of the ICASL. Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) and has held many positions in travel trade related associations and committees. He has also been a member of the Tourist Hotels Classification Committee and Chairman / Member of the Advisory Board of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism & Hotel Management. Ramesh Shanmuganathan Executive Vice President Ramesh Shanmuganathan is the Group’s Chief Information Officer and member of the Group Management Committee for the Information Technology industry group and has over 18 years of experience in the ICT industry both in Sri Lanka and the USA, with the last 11 years in C-level management. Prior to this he has served in the Group’s IT sector as the CEO of Keells Business Systems Limited since 2001 and Head of Strategy/New Business Initiatives of John Keells Computer Services Ltd since 2004 until he assumed duties as the Group’s CIO. Ramesh is a Hayes-Fulbright Scholar and holds to his credit a MSc (information technology & computer science) with phi kappa phi honours from Rochester Institute of Technology, MBA (general) from Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, BSc. Eng. (electronics & telecommunications) with first class honours from University of Moratuwa. He is also reading for his Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) at International School of Management, Paris at present. He is a Chartered Engineer, Chartered IT Professional and a Fellow of the British Computer Society. He has active memberships in several other professional institutions and is a visiting faculty member for several post-graduate programs. He is also the Chair of the Sri Lanka Association of Software and Services Co’s (SLASSCOM) CIO Council and is actively involved with the ICTA and the Presidential Task Force on IT in steering IT to greater heights within the country. 16 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Corporate Governance “JKH is committed to the highest standards of business integrity, ethical values and professionalism in all its activities towards rewarding all its stakeholders with greater creation of value” Executive believes in the optimisation of manner, within a framework Regulatory Framework shareholder wealth-creation that ensures transparent and summary on a sustainable basis, whilst ethical dealings which are in From an external perspective, adherence to relevant laws and The Group corporate governance safeguarding the rights of multiple compliance with the laws of best practices play a vital role philosophy, founded on a culture of stakeholders. the country and the standards in directing the Group towards performance, within a framework of governance stakeholders promoting and upholding a sound of compliance and conformance, Towards this end, the corporate expect from the Group. corporate governance framework. has been institutionalised at governance framework expects the While referred to in detail in all levels in the Group though a strong set of corporate values and Board of Directors to: Corporate subsequent sections of this Annual the written Code of Conduct. All • Ensure that no one person has Governance Report, the Group’s governance employees, senior management unfettered powers of decision making. Framework philosophy is practiced in full compliance with the following and the Board of Directors The Corporate Acts, Rules and Regulations; are required to embrace this • Recognise that the methods philosophy in the performance of employed to achieve goals Governance • Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 their official duties and in other are as important as the goals Framework of the – mandatory compliance situations that could affect the themselves. Group entails 3 key • Listing Rules of the Colombo Group’s image. We believe it is this components. • Maintain strong governance Stock Exchange (Including ‘Purpose Driven’ attitude, coupled practices which present strong The corporate governance subsequent revisions to date) with a strong set of values that commercial advantages, discussion within this Report is – mandatory compliance has culminated in the trust that our stakeholders have continued to especially through a lowering structured in the sequence outlined • The Code of Best Practice place on the core values underlying of cost of capital as a result of below, highlighting the different on Corporate Governance as our corporate activities. the strengthened stakeholder elements that combine to ensure published by the Securities confidence, particularly the a robust and sound governance & Exchange Commission of confidence of the investors, framework. The emphasis placed on the Sri Lanka and the Institute of both institutional and Group’s values is exemplified 1. Internal Governance Structure Chartered Accountants, Sri individual. through the principle that require 2. Assurance Lanka – voluntary compliance all nominees to the Group’s • Opt, when practical, for early 3. Regulatory Framework • The recommendations of the recognition scheme to live the JKH adoption of best practices. values. The Group’s values are UK Corporate Governance stated in the ‘About Us’ section of • Encourage proactive Internal Governance Code (formerly the Combined the Annual Report. discussions with the relevant Structure and Code) to the extent that they regulatory bodies to facilitate Assurance are practicable in the context The John Keells Group’s corporate the implementation of matters These are the components that of the nature of businesses governance framework is based on of governance and other are embedded within the Group, and risk profiles voluntary the credence that it is the duty and business reforms in Sri Lanka and as a result, have an impact on compliance the responsibility of the Board of and other jurisdictions where the execution and monitoring of Where necessary and applicable, Directors, senior management and the Group has major business all governance related initiatives, any deviations as allowed by the all employees at large to uphold interests. systems and processes. relevant rules and regulations have and act in the best interest of the been explained. • Make business decisions company and its stakeholders and resource allocations, in fulfilling its stewardship in an efficient and timely obligations. Thereby, the Group Annual Report 2011/12 17 John Keells Holdings PLC Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework Internal External LEVEL INTERNAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ASSURANCE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK dit Senior Au mittee Independent C om Director Chairman No m ns C o in a ti o and the Companies Act No. 7 Board of 2007 Directors m m it t e e an Project appraisal and decision making process H u m ens Employee GROUP Compa ti R e s o u r participation on c & C o m meistt e e Stakeholder management Chairman/CEO Internal control Listing rules of the CSE Group Executive Committee (GEC) GROUP + INDUSTRY/ Group Operating Committee (GOC) FUNCTION INDUSTRY/ Group Management Committee (GMC) JKH Code FUNCTION of Conduct INDUSTRY/ FUNCTION/ Sector Committee Code of best practice on SECTOR/SBU corporate governance issued jointly by SEC Management Committee and ICASL BUSINESS/ External FUNCTION/ audit BU/DEPT Employees • All 3 Board sub committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board • The Human Resources & Compensation Committee is attended by Chairman-CEO • The Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director attend the Audit Committee by invitation • The Audit Committee is attended by the Head of Group Business Process Review • GOC acts as the glue binding the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting group synergies in implementing them Chairman and the Board responsibilities and Internal Governance Structure Board of Directors decision rights The Internal Governance Structure encompasses; the Board of Directors, The Board of Directors, along Powers specifically vested Board Committees and Senior Management Committees, complemented with the Chairman, is the apex in the Board to execute their by internal governance systems and procedures namely, stakeholder body responsible and accountable responsibility include: management, project appraisal and the decision making process which for the stewardship function • Providing direction and act as the enablers of the Group’s business plan of the Group. The Directors guidance to the company are collectively responsible for in the formulation of its Through the governance mechanisms within the internal governance upholding and ensuring the highest strategies, with emphasis structure, the Group ensures implementation and execution towards standards of corporate governance on the medium and long upholding the Group’s corporate governance framework. The components and inculcating ethics and integrity term, in the pursuance of of the internal governance structure are designed in such a way that the across the Group. its operational and financial executive authority is well devolved and delegated through a committee goals. structure ensuring that the Chairman-CEO, Presidents, sector/functional Refer the Board of Directors heads and profit centre/function managers, are accountable for the total • Reviewing and approving section of this Report for details Group, industry/function groups, the sectors/functions and the business annual budget plans. on the expertise, experience and units/sub-functions respectively. Clear definitions of authority limits, qualifications of the Board of • Reviewing HR processes with responsibilities and accountabilities are set and agreed upon in advance Directors. emphasis on top management to achieve greater operating efficiency, expediency, healthy debate and succession planning. freedom of decision making. 18 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information • Appointing and reviewing the • Responsibilities as a director in terms of prevailing legislation. The Board has, subject to performance of the Chairmanpre-defined limits, delegated • The Code of Conduct demanded by the company. CEO. its executive authority to the • Brief on important developments in the business activities of the Chairman-CEO who exercises • Monitoring systems of Group. this authority through the Group governance and compliance. Executive Committee (GEC), which • Overseeing systems of internal Supply of information to ensure robust deliberation and optimum he heads and to which he provides control and risk management. decision making, the Directors have access to: leadership and direction. • Information as is necessary to carry out their duties and • Determining any changes to responsibilities effectively and efficiently. A more detailed discussion on the discretions/authorities • Information updates from management on topical matters, new Board delegated functions, as well delegated from the Board to regulations and best practices as relevant to the Group’s business. as delegated executive authority the executive levels. to the Chairman-CEO is available • Reviewing and approving • External and internal auditors. within subsequent sections in major acquisitions, disposals • Experts and other external professional services. Corporate Governance. and capital expenditure. • The services of the company secretaries whose appointment and/or • Approving any amendments to removal is the responsibility of the Board. Conflicts of interest and constitutional documents. independence • Periodic performance report. Each Director has a continuing • Approving the issue of JKH • Senior management under a structured arrangement. responsibility to determine equity/debt securities. whether he or she has a potential Board composition Time commitment of the Board of Directors or actual conflict of interest arising from external associations, As at 31st March 2012, the Board Every member of the Board has dedicated adequate time and effort in interests in material matters and consisted of 9 Directors, with a discharging their duties as a JKH director. Allowing for Non Executive personal relationships which may majority being Non Executive, Director involvement in various Board Committees and time spent influence his/her judgment. Such Independent Directors (NED). As at by them in considering various matters that require discussion and potential conflicts are reviewed by the last Annual General Meeting decision in between the formal Board meetings, the company estimates the Board from time to time. (AGM) of JKH, held on the 24th of that Non Executive Directors devote approximately a minimum of 30 full June 2011, the Board consisted of time equivalent days each, to the Group during the year, with more than the same number of Directors. 15 per cent of the time devoted for strategy formulation. Details of companies in which Board members hold Board or Board composition as at Board Committee membership Board Directors delegation of authority 31 March 2012 are available with the company The Board has delegated some of its functions to Board committees, for inspection by shareholders on 3 while retaining final decision rights pertaining to matters under the request. In order to avoid potential purview of these committees. conflicts or bias, Directors adhere to best practices as illustrated below. 6 Prior to appointment Once appointed During Board meetings Executive Directors Non Executive Directors Nominees are requested to Directors obtain Board Directors who have an interest Board induction and supply make known their various clearance prior to: in a matter under discussion: of information interests that could potentially • Accepting a new position. • Excuse themselves from Board induction in instances conflict with the interests of deliberations on the the company. • Engaging in any subject matter. where Non Executive Directors are transaction that could newly appointed to the Board, they create a potential conflict • Abstain from voting are apprised of the: of interest. on the subject matter • Values and culture. (abstentions, where All Non Executive Directors applicable, from decisions, • Operations of the Group and notify the Chairman-CEO of any are duly minuted). its strategies. changes to their current Board • Operating model. representations or interests. • Policies, governance framework and processes. Annual Report 2011/12 19 John Keells Holdings PLC prescribed company retirement • Mrs. S Thiruchelvam, who mix of skills and experience in the Corporate age. retires in terms of Article 84 of Board and to refresh progressively Governance the Articles of Association of its composition over time, in line • The Non Executive Directors the company. with needs. Independence of the are appointed for a term of Directors has been determined three years, ideally up to a • Mr. A R Gunasekara, who Independent professional in accordance with CSE Listing maximum of three terms each, retires in terms of Article 91 of advice obtained by the Rules and the 6 independent nonsubject to the age limit as per the Articles of Association of Board during the financial executive members have submitted statutory provision at the time the company. year signed declarations as to their of re-appointment following The Board seeks independent • Mr. T Das who is over the independence. the end of term. professional advice when deemed age of 70 years and retires in necessary. During the year under • One third of the Directors, terms of section 210 of the The presence of the Senior review, professional advice except the Chairman-CEO, Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Independent Director (SID) ensures was sought on various matters, retire by rotation on the basis that governance within the Board prescribed in the articles Non Executive/Independent including the following: is preserved and stakeholder of the company. A Director Directors and the Board • Impacts on JKH’s business concerns are addressed. The terms retiring by rotation or a balance operations as a result of the of reference of the SID include: Director who is subject to Collectively, the Non Executive current and future economic, • Meeting with other Non appointment is eligible for Directors bring a wealth of value geo-political shifts. Executive Directors, re-election by a shareholder adding knowledge, ranging without the presence of the • Conducting a Group-wide resolution at the AGM. from domestic and international Chairman-CEO or the Board as stakeholder engagement to experience to specialised The resolutions for the AGM to appropriate. meet the requirements of the functional know-how, thus Global Reporting Initiative be held on 29th June 2012 cover ensuring adequate Board diversity • Acting as the point of contact (GRI). re-election of: in accordance with principles of for stakeholders. • Mr. J R F Peiris, who retires corporate governance. • Employee satisfaction survey A detailed discussion on the role of in terms of Article 84 of the done to ensure that JKH is the SID is found in the Assurance Articles of Association of the The company is conscious of the ‘more than just a work place’. section within the Corporate company. need to maintain an appropriate • Legal, tax and accounting Governance section. aspects, particularly where independent external advice Summary of Non Executive / Independent Directors’ Interest was deemed necessary in Share Management Material Employed by Family member Continuously ensuring the integrity of the holding 1 director 2 business the company 4 a Director or served for subject decision. relationship 3 CEO 5 more than nine years 6 • Market surveys, architectural F Amerasinghe • • • • • • and engineering advisory I Coomaraswamy • • • • • • services as necessary for T Das • • • • • • business operations. S Enderby • • • • • • • Actuarial valuation of R Gunasekara • • • • • • retirement benefits and S Tiruchelvam • • • • • • valuation of property including that of investment property. • Compliant • Compliant with explanation Definitions Explanation • Information technology 1 Shareholding carrying not less than 10 per cent of None of the individual EDs or NED/IDs shareholding consultancy services voting rights exceeds 1 per cent pertaining to version upgrades 2 Director of another company* None of the NED/IDs are directors of another related of the Group-wide enterprise party company as defined resource planning system. 3 Income/non cash benefit equivalent to 20 per cent NED/ID income/cash benefits are less than 20 per cent of of the director's income individual director income • Specific technical know4 Two years immediately preceding appointment as None of the NED/IDs are employed or have been how and domain knowledge director employed at JKH required for identified project 5 Close family member who is a director or CEO No family members of the EDs or NED/IDs is a director or feasibilities and evaluations. CEO of a related party company 6 Has served on the Board continuously for a period See note below exceeding nine years Board tenure, retirement Note: All directors make a formal declaration of all their interests on an annual basis. Based on such declarations and and re-election notwithstanding that Franklyn Amerasinghe and Tarun Das have completed more than 9 consecutive years, the Board considers • The Executive Directors are them ‘independent’ given their objective and unbiased approach to matters of the Board. appointed and recommended *Other companies in which a majority of the other directors of the listed company are employed, or are directors or have a for re-election until their significant shareholding or have a material business relationship. 20 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Board evaluation The Board continued with its annual Board performance appraisal in Attendance of Board Meetings 2011/12. This is a formalised process of self-appraisal, whereby each 03 November 2011 09 February 2012 member assesses, on an anonymous basis, the performance of the 20 May 2011 27 July 2011 Attended/ Board under the headings of: Eligible to • Role clarity and effective discharge of responsibilities (in relation attend to the responsibilities highlighted earlier) Executive • People mix and structures S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO √ √ √ √ 4/4 • Systems and procedures A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman √ √ √ √ 4/4 • Quality of participation R Peiris Group Finance Director √ √ √ √ 4/4 • Board image Senior Independent Non Executive F Amerasinghe √ √ √ √ 4/4 The scoring and open comments were collated by the SID, and Independent Non Executive the results were analysed to give the Board an indication of its I Coomaraswamy √ √ √ √ 4/4 effectiveness as well as areas that required addressing and/or T Das X √ √ √ 3/4 strengthening. Despite the original anonymity of the remarks, the open S Enderby X √ √ √ 3/4 and frank discussions that follow, including some Directors identifying R Gunasekara * N/A √ √ √ 3/3 themselves as the person making the remark reflects the keenness of the Board to make themselves more effective. S Tiruchelvam √ √ √ √ 4/4 D Rodrigo ** √ N/A N/A N/A 1/1 Board meetings and attendance * Joined the Board on 1 July 2011 ** Resigned on 27 June 2011 The Board of JKH meets once every quarter, in the least. Any absences are excused in advance and duly minuted. The absent members are immediately briefed on the discussions and actions taken during the meeting. Delegation of Board authority Board Committees Certain functions of the Board Chairmanship Membership are delegated through the Year of Appointment to Board Committees, enabling Human Resources Human Resources Audit Committee Audit Committee Nominations Nominations the committee members to & Compensation & Compensation the Board focus on their designated areas of responsibility and impart Committee Committee knowledge in areas where they Committee Committee have the greatest expertise. The company has three Board subExecutive committees. S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO 1992/93 • A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman 1992/93 1. Nominations Committee R Peiris Group Financial Director 2002/03 2. Human Resources & Senior Independent Non Executive Compensation Committee F Amerasinghe 1999/00 • • 3. Audit Committee Independent Non Executive I Coomaraswamy 2010/11 • • Notwithstanding the functioning T Das 2000/01 • of the Board Committees, the S Enderby 2005/06 • • Board of Directors are collectively R Gunasekara * 2011/12 • • responsible for the decisions and S Tiruchelvam 2006/07 • • actions taken by these Board subD Rodrigo ** 2006/07 committees. * Joined the Board on 1 July 2011 ** Resigned on 27 June 2011 The Chairmanship / membership of Board sub-committees are listed here. Annual Report 2011/12 21 John Keells Holdings PLC that may not be readily available Corporate within Sri Lanka. Based on these Nominations Committee Report Governance requirements the Nominations The Nominations Committee, as of 31st March 2012, consisted of Committee scans the external environment to identify potential three Independent Directors and the Chairman-CEO of JKH. candidates that can add value to Nominations the existing Board. The mandate of the Committee remains, Committee • To recommend to the Board the process of selecting the Board appointments follow Currently the Board members Chairman and the Deputy Chairman. a transparent and formal have varying qualifications in process within the purview of economic, environmental and • To identify suitable persons who could be considered for the Nominations Committee. social topics and are involved in appointment to the Board as Non Executive Directors. It is the responsibility of the many committees and associations • Make recommendation on matters referred to it by the Board. Nominations Committee to that serve the business community identify and propose suitable as a whole. During the period under review, the Committee met once, formally, candidates for appointment as with all members in attendance. Non Executive Directors to the The Nominations Committee also Board of JKH, in keeping with the manages the process of appointing The Committee continues to work closely with the Board in target Board composition and skill the Chairman and Deputy reviewing, regularly, its skills needs based on the immediate and requirements. Chairman of the company. emerging needs. Individual Directors also have the opportunity of commenting on the skills needs of the Board during the annual JKH The emerging needs, combined Board Evaluation. During the year, the Nominations with the objectives and the Committee comprised of 3 strategies set for the future are Independent Non Executive During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board that Mr. considered key when identifying Directors (including the Chairman Ranjit Gunasekera be appointed to the Board as a Non Executive skill sets required by potential of the Committee) and the Director. This recommendation was accepted by the Board. Board members, especially skills Chairman-CEO of JKH. Nominations Committee meeting attendance Attended/ 20 May 2011 Tarun Das eligible to attend Chairman T Das √ 1/1 Nominations Committee S Enderby √ 1/1 S Ratnayake √ 1/1 25 April 2012 S Tiruchelvam √ 1/1 Other members S Enderby, S Ratnayake, S Tiruchelvam Human Resources & Compensation Committee 2. Review performance, compensation and benefits of the CEO, the other Executive Directors and key executives who support, and This Committee was formed during the financial year 2011/12, replacing implement at an apex level the overall business strategy and make the former Remuneration Committee which was primarily focussed on the recommendations thereon to the Board of Directors. remuneration policies and practices of the Executive Directors and the CEO / Chairman. 3. Review and monitor the performance of the company’s top talent for purposes of organisational growth and succession planning, with The newly formed Human Resources & Compensation Committee is particular emphasis on succession at Key Executive level. entrusted with the following duties and responsibilities: 1. Review and approval of the overall compensation & benefit policy for the Group. 22 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Board remuneration – associated with the Group, it was companies. The fees received by pension contributions, short Executive Directors established that the compensation NEDs are determined by the Board term incentive plans and other The remuneration of the is in-line with the market. and reviewed annually. non share based benefits. In Chairman-CEO and the Executive Benchmarking exercises of this accordance with the guidelines Directors is determined as per nature will continue to take place NEDs receive a fee for devoting of the Securities & Exchange the remuneration principles of the in the future at regular intervals. time and expertise for the benefit Commission of Sri Lanka, we Group. At this higher level, the of the Group in their capacity as have disclosed the aggregate benchmark weightage between Director and additional fees for remuneration paid to Executive and individual and organisational either chairing or being a member Non Executive Directors during the performance in establishing of a committee. NEDs do not financial year 2011/2012. compensation is as high as 20:80. receive any performance/incentive payments and are not eligible to None of the Executive Directors or The remuneration of Executive participate in any of the Group’s members of the GEC are involved Directors has a significant element share option plans. Non Executive in influencing or determining their which is variable. This variability “Variable fees are not time bound or defined own compensation packages. is linked to the peer adjusted component of by a maximum/minimum number consolidated Group bottom Executive Director of hours committed to the Group For the purposes of this Report, line and expected returns on emoluments per annum, and hence are not the terms ‘compensation’ and 56%” shareholder funds. The increasing subject to additional/lower fees for ‘remuneration’ have been used in trend of the variable component additional/lesser time devoted. reference to cash and non cash of compensation paid to Executive benefits received in consideration Directors over the last 3 years is Composition of Directors’ of employment (excluding statutory depicted below. compensation entitlements such as Employees Any directors’ fees from a related The ‘Cash’ compensation element Provident Fund and Employees Composition of Executive party company, or a third party of remuneration referred to Trust Fund contributions), unless Director emoluments company, are paid to JKH and not previously, comprises of salary, otherwise qualified. % 100 to the individual Executive Director. 22 34 Value of total remuneration (cash) 80 The Executive Directors, like other eligible employees, have received Executive Directors (company) Rs.127.1 million 56 60 employee share options (ESOP) Non Executive Directors (company) Rs. 14.4 million 78 based on role responsibility and 40 66 actual performance. Accordingly the number of options so awarded Human Resources & Compensation Committee meeting 20 44 attendance was recommended to the Board by the Human Resources & 29 June 01 November Attended/ 0 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Compensation Committee. Such 2011 2011 eligible to options were awarded at the attend Fixed Variable closing market price on the date of F Amerasinghe √ √ 2/2 The higher variable component of award. The last ESOP award was I Coomaraswamy √ √ 2/2 Executive Director remuneration made on 7th December 2011. R Gunasekara * N/A √ 1/1 in 2011/12 is largely due to the S Tiruchelvam √ √ 2/2 special incentive associated with The share options made available the achievement of pre-established to each of the Executive Directors * Joined the Board on 1 July 2011 performance targets, which were for the year have been disclosed reached in the financial year in the Annual Report of the Board 2010/11, and payable in the year of Directors 2011/12. Disclosures “The remuneration of Executive have also been made to the under review. Directors has a significant element Colombo Stock Exchange as and when Executive Directors which is variable. This variability During the financial year, the Human Resources & Compensation exercised their options or sold is linked to the peer adjusted Committee conducted a market their shares. consolidated Group bottom survey of Executive Director line and expected returns on remuneration with a view to Board remuneration – Non assessing the appropriateness Executive Directors shareholder funds” of compensation with market Compensation of NEDs is benchmarks. Having taken determined in reference to fees into account the complexities paid to other NEDs of comparable Annual Report 2011/12 23 John Keells Holdings PLC Corporate Governance Human Resources & Compensation Committee Report that there is a balanced and fair appraisal scheme and that compensation Three meetings were held during the calendar year. The Committee is generous when the corporate performance can sustain it. The interacted among themselves as well as with the executive Board compensation scheme continues to work well and the test of this is that members when the necessity arose. The Chairman also from time to turnover of staff is minimal. time made requests from the President in charge of Human Resources in order to facilitate the work of the Committee. The Committee met to examine the performance of the Chief Executive and his evaluation of the Executive Directors and members of the A notable change was that the Committee recommended, and the Group Executive Committee (GEC). They were evaluated on fixed and Board approved, an enhanced scope of activity for the Committee which measurable criteria which had been pre-agreed with them individually. changed its name to accommodate its additional functions. The new The team performed well and the results have been exceptional. mandate which the Board accepted envisaged that the Committee would ensure that, hereafter, the work done would include a focus on The Committee also met to consider a recommendation to the Board in the implementation of Board policies and strategies through a people relation to a new Employee Share Option Plan, and this was approved by centric structure within. This would, in turn, require a closer contact the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the company between the Committee and the HR function in reviewing structures and thereafter implemented. in place for the development of people and their remuneration and also ensuring that services are sustained at optimum levels through In conclusion, I wish to thank my colleagues, Mrs S Tiruchelvam, Dr. I appropriate succession planning. Coomaraswamy and A R Gunasekera, for their valuable contribution to the work of the committee and our Secretary, Linda Starling for her A report from the Human Resources & Compensation Committee excellent work. (former Remuneration Committee) continues to be a standing agenda item at the quarterly Board Meetings. The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters pertaining to the Committee at each Board meeting drawing attention to matters where the Board has to be updated. The Board was also kept advised of the work of the Committee at times by electronic mail. F Amerasinghe Chairman Human Resource & Compensation Committee The Committee ensured that the Board complied with the Companies Act in relation to Director Compensation especially the requirements of 25 April 2012 section 216. Others members – Dr. I Coomaraswamy, R Gunasekera, S Tiruchelvam The ‘pay for performance’ scheme is carefully monitored and the CEO briefs the Committee of the employee compensation and how it Special Invitees – Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, compares with the market. The employees’ confidence in the processes President responsible for Human Resources have been further entrenched and consolidated and they now realise Audit Committee net assets of the company fall below a half of shareholders funds, The Audit Committee has the overall responsibility for overseeing the shareholders would be notified and an extraordinary resolution passed on preparation of financial statements in accordance with the laws and the proposed way forward. regulations of the Country and also recommending to the Board, on the adoption of best accounting policies. Integrated reporting The going concern principle has been adopted in preparing the financial The Committee is also responsible for maintaining the relationship with statements. All statutory and material declarations are highlighted in the the external auditors and for assessing the role and the effectiveness of Annual Report of the Board of Directors in the Annual Report. Financial the Group Business Process Review Division. statements are prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS), including all the new standards introduced during the Going concern subject year, and International Accounting Standards (IAS), as applicable. The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee is satisfied that the company has sufficient resources to continue in Information in the financial statements of the Annual Report are operation for the foreseeable future. In the unlikely event that the supplemented by a detailed ‘Management Discussion and Analysis’ 24 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information which explains to shareholders the strategic, operational, investment, The Committee gathered • Development of technical sustainability and risk related aspects of the company that have information from finance and competence; translated into the reported financial performance and are likely to operational teams across • Establishment of expert influence future results. the Group on the impact of support on convergence International Financial Reporting through an external The John Keells Group is not only committed to achieving economic Standards and several iterative organisation; sustainability but also dedicated towards achieving environmental and discussions were held between societal sustainability at all times. Towards this end, the Group adopted internal and external parties, • Creation of shareholder an integrated reporting approach for the financial year 2011/12. including technical experts, and awareness through the prior involved the study of regional year Annual Report; Directors’ responsibilities benchmarks to evaluate and • Establishment of time lines for quantify such impacts. The The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in relation to financial implementation; and study also entailed reviewing all reporting is given in the Financial Information section of the Annual • Aligning of systems and agreements and contracts within Report. The Directors’ interests in contracts of the company are processes to facilitate the respective businesses to addressed in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. convergence. identify contractual obligations and financial impacts of such The Board of Directors in consultation with the Audit Committee have agreements in the quantification Major transactions and taken all reasonable steps in ensuring the accuracy and timeliness process. interim announcements of published information and in presenting an honest and balanced All material and price sensitive assessment of results in the quarterly and annual financial statements. The Group Executive Committee information about the company and Audit Committee were is promptly communicated to the As discussed in the shareholder relations section, all price sensitive continuously updated on the Colombo Stock Exchange, where information has been made known to the Colombo Stock Exchange, progress of the findings and a the shares of the company are shareholders and the press in a timely manner and in keeping with the detailed policy manual has been listed, and released to the press regulations. drafted to ensure full compliance and shareholders. The Group also and consistency in the application publishes three months ended, six International financial reporting standards (IFRS) of IFRS guidelines. This process months ended, nine months ended In the previous financial year, the Group reported that, as per the given has culminated with the financial and twelve months ended quarterly requirements by the ICASL, IFRS is to be implemented from the financial ERP system being upgraded to financial statements. year 2012/13 and that JKH is in line to meet this requirement. The Group ensure compliance with the new reported the formation of a committee in the financial year 2010/11 provisions. The first three quarterly reports comprising of financial personnel from within the Group, to study and and the annual report contain assess the impacts on the implementation of IFRS, as per the guidelines The IFRS convergence process a Chairman’s message which set by the ICASL. adopted by the John Keells Group explains, at a high level, the is summarised as follows: performance, background and • Creation of IFRS awareness; rationale for all major transactions. Audit Committee meeting attendance 13 May 19 May 25 July 01 November 25 January 02 February Attended/ 2011 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 eligible to attend R Gunasekara* N/A N/A √ √ √ √ 4/4 F Amerasinghe √ √ √ √ √ √ 6/6 I Coomaraswamy N/A N/A √ √ X √ 3/4 S Enderby √ √ √ √ √ √ 6/6 S Tiruchelvam √ √ N/A N/A N/A N/A 2/2 D Rodrigo** √ √ N/A N/A N/A N/A 2/2 * Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2011 ** Resigned on 27 June 2011 Note: The Audit Committee was reconstituted in May 2011 with Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy replacing Ms. Sithie Tiruchelvam Annual Report 2011/12 25 John Keells Holdings PLC Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Role of the Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling The activities and views of the Committee have been communicated to its oversight responsibilities for the integrity of the financial the Board of Directors through papers tabled and verbal discussions, as statements of the company and the Group, the internal control well as by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s meeting. and risk management systems of the Group and its compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the external auditors’ Financial reporting performance, qualifications and independence, and the adequacy and performance of the internal audit function, which at John The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed the Group’s quarterly Keells is termed Group Business Process Review division and annual financial statements prior to publication with management (Group BPR). This is detailed in the terms of reference of the and the external auditors, including the extent of compliance with Sri Committee, which was revised during the year and has been Lanka Accounting Standards, the appropriateness of its accounting approved by the Board. policies and material judgmental matters. The Committee also discussed with the External Auditors and management the matters communicated The Committee’s responsibilities pertain to the Group as to the Committee in terms of Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 260 – a whole. However, in discharging its responsibilities the Communication of Audit Matters with those charged with Governance. Committee places reliance on the work of other Audit Committees in the Group, which are mostly regulatory audit The Committee discussed with management and the External Auditors the committees, to the extent and in the manner it considers Group’s readiness for the pending convergence of Sri Lanka Accounting appropriate, without prejudicing the independence of those Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards, which Committees. would impact the financial statements of the Group for the financial year ending 31st March 2013, and the implications for the Group. The External The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually Auditors were separately engaged to assist and advise on this exercise by each member of the Committee and the results are and have confirmed that there are no differences of opinion between communicated to the Board. management and themselves on the implementation, and that there are no major unresolved issues as of date. Composition of the Committee and meetings A considerable effort has gone into this exercise which has been well The Audit Committee comprised of four independent Non structured and managed, and the Group appears to be well prepared Executive Directors. During the course of the year, Mr. Deva in terms of staff training and operational arrangements to meet the Rodrigo who chaired the Committee since 2006/07 resigned changeover. from the Board in June 2011 and was replaced by Mr. Ranjit Gunasekara, a Chartered Accountant. The Committee was also Internal audit, risks and controls reconstituted in May 2011 with Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy replacing Ms. Sithie Tiruchelvam. In addition to the Chairman The Committee reviewed the adequacy of the internal audit coverage for of the Committee, another member of the Committee is also a the Group and the internal audit plans for the Group with the Head of the qualified accountant and has a specialist financial background. Group BPR Division and management. The internal audit function of most The Head of the Group BPR Division served as the Secretary to Group companies is outsourced to leading professional firms. the Audit Committee. The Group BPR Division regularly reported to the Committee on the The Audit Committee held six (6) meetings during the financial adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls in the Group and year. Information on the attendance at these meetings by the compliance with laws and regulations and established policies and members of the Committee is given in the Audit Committee procedures of the Group. Reports from the outsourced internal auditors meeting attendance chart. The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, were also reviewed by the Committee on matters pertaining to the the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and company. the External Auditors attended most parts of these meetings by invitation. The outsourced Internal Auditors and other officials of The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Management (SRM) Division the company attended these meetings on a needs basis. reported to the Committee on the process for the identification, 26 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information evaluation and management of all significant operational risks faced by The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the External the Group. The Report also covered the overall risk profile for the Group Auditors has not been impaired by any event or service that for the year under review in comparison with the previous year and the gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due consideration has been most significant risks and the remedial measures taken to mitigate them given to the nature of the services provided by the Auditors and from a Group perspective. the level of audit and non-audit fees received by the Auditors from the John Keells Group. The Committee also reviewed the Formal confirmations and assurances have been received from the senior arrangements made by the Auditors to maintain their independence management of Group companies quarterly regarding the efficacy and and confirmation has been received from the Auditors of their status of the internal control systems and risk management systems, and compliance with the independence guidance given in the Code of compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Ethics of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The Committee reviewed the whistle blowing arrangements for the Group The performance of the External Auditors has been evaluated and and had direct access to the Ombudsman for the Group. discussed with the senior management of the company and the Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young be The effectiveness and resource requirements of the Group BPR Division re-appointed as the Lead/Consolidation auditors of the Group for was reviewed and discussed with management. the financial year ending 31st March 2013, subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. External audit The External Auditors’ letter of engagement, including the scope of the audit, was reviewed and discussed by the Committee with the external auditors and management prior to the commencement of the audit. R Gunasekara Chairman The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an on-going basis Audit Committee regarding any unresolved matters of significance. Before the conclusion of the audit, the Committee met with the external auditors to discuss all 25 April 2012 audit issues and to agree on their treatment. The Committee also met the External Auditors without the presence of management, prior to the Other members – F Amerasinghe, Dr. I Coomaraswamy, S Enderby finalisation of the financial statements. During the year, the External Auditors’ management reports on the audit of the company and Group financial statements for the year 2010/11, together with management’s responses, were discussed with management and the auditors. Annual Report 2011/12 27 John Keells Holdings PLC Executive Directors during the year, Appropriateness of combining roles of Corporate subsequent to meetings convened Chairman and CEO Governance by the SID with the NEDs. Issues The appropriateness of combining the roles of the Chairman-CEO was arising from these discussions established after rigorous evaluation and debate internally and externally. have been actioned in consultation The appropriateness continues to be discussed periodically, and in the Role of the Chairmanwith the affected persons. As minimum, once a year. CEO discussed previously, the Board has, subject to pre-defined limits, The Group’s Chairman also plays On the basis of these discussions and the findings that emerged from a delegated its executive authority to the role of the Chief Executive review by the Boston Consulting Group, the Board deems that combining the Chairman-CEO who exercises Officer, combining the two roles the two roles is more appropriate for the Group at present, in meeting this authority through the Group to achieve optimum results. The stakeholder objectives in a large conglomerate setting. Executive Committee (GEC), which appropriateness of combining the he heads and to which he provides roles is discussed subsequently. As the head of the Group Executive Committee (GEC), the Chairmanleadership and direction. CEO provides the overall direction and policy/execution framework for The Chairman-CEO had structured the Board’s decisions via this structure. Experience has proved that this Dual roles played by the Chairmandirect discussions with the Non structure has enabled him to effectively balance his role as the Chairman CEO are as follows. of the Board and the CEO of the company/Group. Chairman’s role Chief Executive Officer’s role • Leads the Board for its effectiveness • Executes strategies and policies of the Board • Sets the tone for the governance and ethical • Guides and supervises Executive Directors framework towards striking a balance between their Board and Executive responsibilities • Ensures that constructive working relations are maintained between the Executive and Chairman • Ensures that the operating model of the Group Non Executive members of the Board CEO is aligned to the short term and long term strategies pursued by the Group • Ensures with the assistance of the Board Secretary that; • Ensures that succession at the very senior level is Board procedures are followed planned Information is disseminated in a timely manner to the Board Chairman-CEOs appraisal Group Executive • Assisting the Chairman-CEO The Human Resources & Compensation Committee appraises the Committee in succession planning and performance of the Chairman-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed objectives appointment of Presidents, The Group Executive Committee for the Group set in consultation with the Board, covering the following sector heads, functional heads is the overlay structure that broad aspects and other senior managers, implements, under the leadership and direction of the Chairman• Career management of Group’s CEO, the policies and strategies Group’s performance Soft aspects Assistant Vice Presidents and performance determined by the Board, above, √ against plan √ against peers √ company image manages, through delegation • revenue growth √ customer orientation and empowerment, the business As at 31st March 2012, the 9 • market share √ human resource management and affairs of the Group, makes member GEC consisted of the • profit growth √ societal trust portfolio decisions and prioritises Chairman-CEO, the Deputy • earnings per share the allocation of capital, technical Chairman, the Group Finance and human resources. Director and the Presidents of each business/function. Key responsibilities of GEC include • Having responsibility for The succession planning process the performance of their by the GEC is well tested where respective businesses/ proactively a pool of potential functions successors for a number of key 28 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information positions are identified and within the Group towards bottom-up and top-down flow of earmarked for specific training and identifying and extracting Group accountabilities and information. The Group development as is necessary. synergies in implementing them. believes that Illustrated below is the structure shareholders’ long A key feature of the JKH operating Refer the GOC profiles section for of the 3 committees, where the model is that the GEC members, further details on the expertise, responsibility and accountability of term interests particularly the Presidents, not experience and qualifications of the effective functioning of these are well served only play a mentoring role, but the members. committees is vested upon the by involving are totally accountable for the Chairman-CEO, the Presidents, the employees businesses and functions under sector/functional heads and the Group Management actively within them. Members of the GEC are profit centre/function managers as Committee / Sector well equipped to execute these Committees / applicable. the corporate tasks and bring in a wealth of Management governance experience and diversity to the Committees At the GMC level and above, the framework Group in terms of their expertise focus is more on headline financial and exposure. These Committees operate and non-financial indicators, underneath the Group level strategic priorities, and risk committees and are dedicated Refer the GEC profiles section for management, use of IT as a tool and focussed towards designing, further details on the expertise, of competitive advantage, new implementing and monitoring the experience and qualifications of business development, continuous best practices in their respective the members. process improvements and human industry groups, sectors, functions, resource management. strategic business units or even Group Operating at departmental level where Committee appropriate and material. Responsibility for monitoring and achieving plans as well as within the corporate governance As at 31st March 2012, the ensuring compliance with Group framework, where employees are 21 member GOC consisted of The underlying intention of policies and guidelines rests with empowered to positively contribute the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy forming these committees is to the Presidents, Sector Heads, and towards executing and preserving Chairman, the Group Finance encourage the respective business the Chief Executive Officers of the principles of corporate Director, the Presidents and the units to take responsibility and each Group company and heads of governance. Executive Vice Presidents. accountability to the lowest functions at the corporate centre possible level, via suitably at the business unit and function The Group considers its employees The GOC provides a platform to structured committees and teams levels. as its greatest asset and embraces share learning on issues that cross in a management by objectives setting. them at various levels within its industry groups, sectors, business units and functions. It is also the Employee participation internal governance structure. In forum to discuss Group strategy, The agendas of these committees in corporate recognition of the same, policies, Group initiatives and Group best are carefully structured to avoid governance processes and systems are in place to ensure effective recruitment, practices. The main purpose of duplication of effort and ensure The John Keells Group believes development and retention this Committee is to act as a glue, that discussions and debate are that shareholders’ long term as the Group is committed to binding the various businesses complementary both in terms of a interests are well served by hiring, developing and promoting involving employees actively individuals who possess the required competencies. Industry / Group Moreover the Group provides Function management President a safe, secure and conducive committee • Strategy formulation environment for its employees, allows freedom of association and • Performance monitoring Industry / collective bargaining, prohibits Function Sector • Career management & child labour, forced or compulsory committee EVP / SBU / succession planning Sector labour and any discrimination • Risk management based on gender, race or religion, • Implementation of Group and promotes workplaces which Business initiatives are free from physical, verbal or Unit / Management VP / AVP / committee Manager sexual harassment, all of which Function / Department compliment effective corporate governance. Annual Report 2011/12 29 John Keells Holdings PLC • Exit interviews • Improved employee Corporate Exit interviews are mandated commitment and buy-in to Governance for all employees at executive management goals level and above where all • Alignment of interest between such reports are forwarded employees and shareholders to the respective Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents • Emergence of a more Employee participation in corporate governance for their comments which are transparent governance subsequently discussed by mechanism GEC. Employee involvement Employee Equity Pay for Pay for performance and communication sharing performance • Young forum empowerment Generally comprises of the 7 At JKH, the employees are youngest employees from each rewarded with a customised ‘pay gender at various levels within for performance’ scheme that is the Group, this is an effective determined as follows: Accordingly, the Group’s approach extensively and intensively through means of encouraging two to employee participation in various communiqués issued way communication. The Manager and above – corporate governance is based on by the Chairman-CEO and the concept has now been further performance is measured annually 4 components as illustrated above. management. Whilst employees broad-based with each on well-defined individual and have many opportunities to industry group/sector initiative organisational objectives and Employee involvement and interact with senior management, having their own young metrics which reflect, and are empowerment the Group also has created formal forums. positively correlated to, the channels for such communication • Top management and other company’s objectives, thereby through feedback as described • Corporate communications senior staff are mandated to aligning employee management below: involve, as appropriate, all The primary goal of corporate and stakeholder interests. levels of staff in formulating • Peer and upward communications is to enhance goals, strategies and plans. evaluation and safeguard the ‘John Assistant Manager and Opinion is obtained in the form Keells’ corporate brand. Executive level – measured by • Decision rights are defined for of peer and direct reports for Accordingly, it engages in individual performance ratings each level in order to instill a employees at manager and activities to build the brand only, given that it is difficult sense of ownership, reduce above levels. amongst both current and for these individuals to directly bureaucracy and speed-up the prospective employees in influence the bottom line of their decision making process. • Skip level meetings addition to brand building respective business units. Feedback on the company and amongst the general public • A bottom-up approach is its management is obtained at large. Communiqués of the The performance measurement taken in the preparation of from different perspectives corporate communications system is the key enabler for the annual and five year plans by holding regular skip level team take the form of periodic effective implementation of the and the Group also ensures meetings at assistant manager news bulletins via the pay for performance system and employee involvement and and above levels. intranet, the group website, any shortcomings identified in the empowerment in the process. social media sites, online systems are being continuously • Online forum • Employee relations are forums and news letters. addressed and rectified year on designed to enable, and Used as a means of year. facilitate, high accessibility by knowledge sharing and Equity sharing all employees to every level of gathering new suggestions for The employee share option management. new business opportunities schemes (ESOPs) have been and improvements. offered to employees in defined Employee communication • Direct email address to the career levels based on preThe Group is continuously Chairman determined criteria which are working towards introducing Enables employees to bring uniformly applied across the innovative and effective ways to the Chairman’s notice eligible levels. Such options are of employee communication any transgression of Group offered at market prices prevailing and employee awareness. The values when other established on the date of the offer. This has importance of communication avenues have not yet yielded primarily paved the way for: top-down, bottom-up, and results. lateral in gaining employee commitment to organisational goals has been conveyed 30 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information JKH Group compensation policy Performance management Satisfaction ‘Pay for Performance’ ‘Great Place to Work’ Greater prominence is given to the incentive Continuously focuses on creating a sound work component of the total target compensation of the environment covering all aspects of employee management satisfaction COMPENSATION POLICY • Compensation comprises of fixed (base) payments, short term incentives and long term incentives. • Higher the authority level within the Group, higher the incentive component. • Greater the decision influencing capability of a role, higher the weight given on organisational performance as opposed to the individual performance. • Long term incentives in the form of Employee Share Options (ESOP). Internal equity External equity • Remuneration policy is built upon the premise • Fixed compensation is set at competitive levels to ensure an equal pay for equal roles. using the median, 65th percentile and 75th percentile of the best comparator set of • Manager and above level roles are banded companies (from Sri Lanka and the region, using the Mercer methodology for job where relevant) as a guide. evaluation on the basis of the relative worth of jobs. • Regular surveys done to ensure that employees are not under / over compensated. Project appraisal and decision making process The Group maintains a process of investment appraisal and investment decision which ensures the involvement • Key assumptions and of all the relevant persons. In this manner, several views, opinions and advice are obtained prior to the making a sensitivities rational investment decision. • SWOT analysis The JKH experience is that a holistic and well debated view of the commercial viability and potential of any • HR and IT considerations project including operational, financial, funding, risk and tax implications has most of the time culminated in a good result. All investment decisions are made through a committee structure, where no one individual has • Funding costs and optimum unfettered decision making powers in investment decisions. structuring of the transaction among others The Group’s project appraisal and execution process flow is depicted below; • Study on the tax regime that applies to the project and any tax incentives available Project Feasibility Review Due Board / GEC origination study by GEC diligence approval • Identification of key risks and mitigations Review by the GEC Project origination Feasibility study Following discussion at a GMC, The project could originate within the Group from an operating committee If there is an interest in principle, where applicable, the feasibility such as the GEC, GOC, GMC or it could stem from a particular business the President under whom the report is then discussed by the unit, the Group’s New Business Development division (NBD) or Corporate project falls or a GEC appointed GEC and, if found to meet the Finance (CF) function. Alternatively, projects could originate from external committee will engage the CF or Group’s strategic and financial sources such as a public advertisement, Request for Proposal (RFP) or NBD functions to work with other objectives as well as fulfilling a call for an Expressions of Interest (EOI) which could trigger a new relevant persons in the Group in the criteria of the four filters of investment opportunity. preparing a detailed feasibility portfolio management as defined report covering key business areas by the Group, will be forwarded Additionally, when and where required, special teams/committees/task such as the; to the Board (if the investment is forces are formed based on requirements/issues arising unexpectedly to • Industry overview and trends beyond the authority limits of the cope with the issue at hand more effectively. GEC) for approval in principle to • Potential operating and proceed to detailed due diligence financial performance of the and negotiation stage. project Annual Report 2011/12 31 John Keells Holdings PLC through a committee structure and that requires a shareholder groups such as employees, Corporate no one individual has unfettered approval. consumers, clients, suppliers, Governance decision making powers. lenders, environmentalists, host Dialogue with shareholders communities and Governments. Stakeholder The company has a well-developed Due diligence management investor relations programme to The John Keells Foundation, Once approval in principle is the vehicle used by the Group The JKH Board views effective address the information needs obtained, a multi-disciplined in developing and implementing stakeholder management as a of investment institutions and project team will proceed to the Group’s involvement in ‘the vital aspect in safeguarding the analysts regarding the company, the next phase of investigation community’ has geared itself to John Keells Group’s corporate its strategy, performance and which would focus on detailed ensure that the social programmes governance philosophy. competitive position. operational, commercial, financial of the Group are consistent with and legal due diligence. the principles of sustainable Given the wide geographic Employee relations development. distribution of the company’s Discussions will also commence HR units are designed in a manner current and potential shareholders, with regulatory and licensing that enable high accessibility This integrated Report, combining this programme includes regular authorities, financial institutions by any employee to every level the financial and sustainability road shows to Asia Pacific, Europe and possible partners as relevant of management. Constant reporting framework, a first for and the USA conducted by the and necessary. Social and dialogue and facilitation are also JKH, achieved the Application Deputy Chairman and the Head environmental impacts will also maintained, relating to workLevel Check of B+ of the GRI of Investor Relations. Matters be considered in ensuring the related issues as well as matters requirements in line with GRI-G3 discussed, and issues raised at sustainability of the business and pertaining to general interest that guidelines for the current financial these meetings are brought to the communities touched by it. could affect employees and their year ending 31st March 2012. the attention of the GEC and/or families. Therefore, the Group the Board, as appropriate, and Where the transaction involves follows open-door policies for its addressed. Assurance the transfer or lease of land, title employees and key stakeholders searches would be conducted and this is promoted at all levels of The company, through its Investor The ‘Assurance’ element is the for both private and public land. the Group. Relations division maintains an supervisory module of the Group In the case of public land, every active dialogue with shareholders, corporate governance framework, step would be taken to ensure potential investors, investment where the use of a range of A detailed discussion on employee compliance with the rules and banks, stock brokers and other assurance mechanisms such as relations was discussed in the regulations. As appropriate, interested parties. Any concerns monitoring, benchmarking and Employees section under Internal written authority and approvals raised by a shareholder are effectiveness tests are carried Governance Structure. will be obtained. addressed promptly at the out and corrective actions are department level and are proposed and implemented. Shareholder relations Where the project is part of a forwarded, when necessary, privatisation, the entire process Constructive use of AGM to the GEC for consideration Senior Independent will be conducted in line with Shareholders have the opportunity and advice. Analyst reports are Director the directives of the relevant at the JKH AGM, to put forward circulated among the GEC, as and Considering the combined role of administrative authority as questions to the Board and to when available, and its contents the Chairman-CEO, the presence communicated through Expressions the Chairman-CEO of JKH and debated. of the Senior Independent Director of Interest, RFPs, pre-bid meetings the chairmen of the various ensures adherence to corporate and official approvals and committees to have better The Senior Independent Director governance principles, and that correspondence. familiarity with the Group’s is available to meet and or discuss governance within the Board is business and operational workings. with shareholders regarding any preserved as stakeholders have an Where necessary, the GEC and/ The contents of this Annual concerns/conflicts that arise during independent party to voice their or the Board will appoint a person Report will enable existing and the course of the financial year. concerns on a confidential note. to lead the discussions with the prospective stakeholders to make In the current year, there were relevant authorities on behalf of better informed decisions in their instances where the SID had The Senior Independent Director the company and in most instances dealings with the company. such correspondence with major meets with other Non Executive this would be the President of the shareholders. Directors, without the presence of subject industry group. In general, all steps are taken the Chairman-CEO on an annual to facilitate the exercise of Other stakeholders: basis to evaluate the effectiveness Final approval by the Board shareholder rights at AGMs, Corporate social of the Chairman-CEO or the Board Subject to the project satisfying all including the receipt of notice of responsibility and as appropriate. the criteria as highlighted before, the AGM and related documents sustainability the final approval to proceed will within the specified period, voting The Group recognises that it exists The Senior Independent Director be given by the Board. for the election of new Directors, not only to maximise long term also plays the vital role of being new long term incentive schemes shareholder value but also to look an alternative point of contact for As is apparent from the foregoing, or any other issue of materiality after the rights and appropriate stakeholders over the Executive all investment decisions are made claims of many non-shareholder Directors. 32 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Employee participation or the Senior Independent Director Report of the Senior Independent Director (SID) in Assurance is expected to take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the The Role of the SID has now been well recognised within the Whistleblower policy complainant is not victimised for company and gives confidence to stakeholders that the CEO’s role The employees can report having invoked this process. is periodically reviewed for impartiality and quality. The SID is to the Chairman through a also entrusted with the responsibility to ensure the effectiveness communication link named Securities trading policy of the Board and especially its Independent Directors with whom ‘Chairman Direct’, concerns consultations take place when needed. about unethical behavior and The Group’s securities trading any violation of Group values. policy prohibits all employees Employees reporting such and agents engaged by JKH who It will be recalled that an Ombudsperson was appointed in the year incidents are guaranteed complete are aware of unpublished price 2010. The objective is to provide an independent and skilled person confidentiality and such complaints sensitive information from trading to examine complaints from employees in relation to the manner are investigated and addressed in JKH shares or the shares of in which the Group’s Code of Conduct is operated in reality. The via a select committee under the other companies in which the coverage includes the work of the Group Executive Committee, direction of the Chairman. Group has a present business the Executive Directors and the CEO. The function is independent interest. The Board, GEC, GOC of the disciplinary processes of the company. The Ombudsperson as well as certain identified has direct access to the Board of Directors and has a direct Ombudsperson employees in senior executive relationship with the Senior Independent Director, the CEO and the The ombudsperson entertains roles who are privy to JKH’s Auditors. The external auditors regularly satisfy themselves that complaints from an individual results prior to their availability the Ombudsperson has no issues of independence in relation to his employee or a group of employees to the public are prohibited from investigative work. There have been no frauds or misdemeanours of of alleged violations of the trading during periods leading up a financial nature reported to the Ombudsperson during the subject published Code of Conduct if the to the release of quarterly and period. The Ombudsperson reports that he is satisfied with the complainant feels that the alleged annual results, new investments, co-operation that he receives from management in investigating violation has not been addressed particularly mergers and complaints and that complaints have been dealt with in a fit and satisfactorily. acquisitions, announcements proper manner. The system is working well. of scrip issues and dividend The findings and the payments. The Board is satisfied that the company is governed in an ethical and recommendations of the fair manner and that the employees are acting in the best interests Ombudsperson arising subsequent of the company and in the preservation of its image. Monitoring of financial data to an independent inquiry is Actual financials are compared confidentially communicated to The Independent Directors have adequate opportunity to interact against the original plan on a the Chairman/CEO or to the Senior with management, obtain required information, contribute their monthly basis and a reforecast is Independent Director upon which knowledge, openly voice their views and opinions, express any done where necessary at GMC, the duty of the Ombudsperson matters of concern to them and participate fully in decision making. Sector Committee, Management ceases. This is confirmed by a confidential review done by the SID. Committee and Departmental Committee levels. The Chairman-CEO or the Senior The Independent Directors continue to have their annual meeting Independent Director, as the case exclusively where they evaluate their performance, that of the Board The Presidents and Executive Vice may be, will place before the in general, and identify issues for the future. This is followed by a Presidents, the CEOs of business Board: meeting with the CEO and issues brought up have been adequately units and managers of functions i. the decision and the are able to view online, the addressed. recommendations information relevant to their areas ii. action taken based on the of responsibility. The ChairmanThe Board functions in a transparent and responsible manner in recommendations CEO and the GEC are able to view safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders. I have pleasure in key financial information for all declaring that the company takes note of best practice in relation to iii. where the Chairman-CEO Group companies on a real time governance. or the Senior Independent basis via the Group ERP system. Director disagrees with any or all of the findings and or the Internal control recommendations thereon, the The Board has taken necessary areas of disagreement and the steps to ensure the integrity of the Franklyn Amerasinghe reasons therefore. Group’s accounting and financial Senior Independent Director In situation (iii) the Board is reporting systems and internal required to consider the areas of control systems remain effective 25 April 2012 disagreement and decide on the via the review and monitoring of way forward. The Chairman-CEO such systems on a periodic basis. Annual Report 2011/12 33 John Keells Holdings PLC steps to obtain assurance that changes, address industry concerns and carry out necessary lobbying for Corporate systems designed to safeguard the betterment of the industry as a whole. Governance the company’s assets, maintain proper accounting records and The Group’s senior management are involved in these bodies as active provide management information, members, and in addition members of the Group Executive Committee What follows is a brief description are in place and are functioning hold positions such as the Chairman of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, of some of the key systems according to expectations. President Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, President of Chartered Institute adopted by the Group. of Logistics & Transport, Chairman Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka The risk review programme and Chairperson of the Steering Committee for HR and Education of the Internal compliance covering the internal audit of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. For further details refer the Memberships, A quarterly self certification the whole Group is outsourced. Certifications and Awards section of the Report. programme requires the chief Reports arising out of such audits are, in the first instance, financial officers of industry considered and discussed at the JKH Code of Conduct groups, heads of finance of sectors business/ functional unit levels The written Code of Conduct, to which all the employees including the and finance managers of operating and after review by the sector Board of Directors are bound by, engraves the desired behaviors of JKH units to confirm compliance head and the President of the staff at all levels, particularly the senior management. This is being with financial standards and industry group are forwarded constantly and rigorously monitored. regulations. The CEOs of business to the relevant audit committee units are required to confirm on a regular basis. Further, the operational compliance with audit committees also assess the statutory and other regulations and effectiveness of the risk review JKH Code of Conduct key control procedures, and also process and systems of internal • Allegiance to the Company and the identify any significant deviations control on a regular basis. from the expected norms. Group Risk management Internal auditors • Compliance with rules and The GEC has adopted a GroupThe internal audit function in wide risk management programme regulations applying in the Group companies is not outsourced with focus on wider sustainability territories that the Group to the external auditor of that company in a further attempt development, to identify, evaluate operates in and manage significant Group to ensure external auditor independence. The Auditors’ risks and to stress-test various • Conduct of business in an ethical risk scenarios. The programme Report on the financial statements ensures that a multitude of manner at all times and in keeping of the company for the year under risks, arising as a result of the with acceptable business practices review is found in the Financial Group’s diverse operations, are Information section of the Annual effectively managed in creating • Exercise of professionalism and Report. and preserving shareholder integrity in all business and ‘public’ and other stakeholder wealth. At the John Keells Group, the The detailed Risk Management personal transactions role of the internal auditor has section of the Annual Report transformed into a value adding describes the process of risk function instead of merely a management as adopted by the Group Values ‘policing’ function, where audit Group and the identified key risks The objectives of the Code of Conduct are being further preserved by findings form an integral input to the achievement of the Group’s a strong set of corporate values which were re-launched during the in modifying and improving our strategic business objectives. financial year 2011/12. The Group values are well institutionalised at internal processes. Thereby, the all levels within the Group and linked to the reward and recognition Group Business Process Review Memberships maintained schemes. function is a key contributor in The senior management personnel achieving operational excellence of the Group hold positions and value addition across the During the year, the Group re-assessed and evaluated the suitability of of membership in various its values in the context of the current operating environment and also diverse businesses among the professional and governance Group. to ensure ease of understanding. Resultantly, Group-wide surveys were bodies and participate in sub carried out and the responses were vigilantly distilled to arrive at the committees and projects initiated re-launched set of values. System of internal control by such bodies. The Group views The Board has, through the these memberships as a vital part The re-launched Group values are found in the ‘About Us’ section of involvement of the Group Business of business given the ability of the Annual Report and are/have been consistently referred to by the Process Systems function, taken such bodies to recommend policy 34 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Chairman-CEO, Presidents, Sector of external auditor independence. such concepts would have a material impact on the company’s and the Heads and Business Unit Heads The Board has agreed that, such Group’s financial performance. during employee, agent and other non-audit services should not key stakeholder engagements in exceed the value of the total audit This Report has been prepared as per the rules and regulations stipulated order to ensure those values are fees charged by the subject auditor by the Corporate Governance Listing Rules published by the Colombo deeply rooted through enhanced within the relevant geographic Stock Exchange (revised in 2011) and also by the Companies Act no. 07 clarity and simplicity for better territory. The external auditors of 2007. understanding. The re-launch of also provide a certificate of the values was driven by feedback independence on an annual basis. The Group has also given due consideration and adhered to the Code received from the Young Forum, of Best Practice on Corporate Governance Reporting guidelines jointly demonstrating the continued value The audit and non-audit fees paid set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the addition and contribution of the by the company and Group to its Securities & Exchange Commission in preparation of this Corporate fora. auditors are separately classified Governance Report, and where necessary deviations have been explained in the Notes to the Financial as provided within the rules and regulations. The Chairman of the Board affirms Statements of the Annual Report. that there have not been any Outlook material violations of any of the provisions of the Code of Conduct. Corporate JKH is committed to conducting its affairs, under a stakeholder model, In the instances where violations governance with integrity, efficiency and fairness. did take place, or were alleged regulatory to have taken place, they were framework We believe that corporate governance in the future will reflect an investigated and handled through increasing emphasis on customer satisfaction, both external and internal the company’s well established Compliance customers, as a way of measuring the adaptability of the organisation procedures which, among others, The Board through the Group Legal over time. Additionally, we also believe that there will emerge a new include direct and confidential division, the Group Finance division type of corporate information and control architecture in the form of more access to an independent, external and its other operating structures, specialised Board Groups and Advisory Stakeholder Councils comprising ombudsperson as discussed above. strives to ensure that the company employees, lead customers, suppliers and others. Our growing emphasis and all of its subsidiaries and on ‘sustainability’ is the first step in this journey. External audit associates comply with the laws and regulations of the countries We will seek to remain a preferred choice for investors and our key areas Ernst & Young are the external they operate in. of focus will be: auditors of the holding company as well as many of the Group • Creating operating structures which are agile and flexible in aligning companies. They also audit the The Board of Directors has to the constantly changing needs of the dynamic environment that we consolidated financial statements. also taken all reasonable steps operate in The individual Group companies in ensuring that all financial also employ KPMG Ford, Rhodes, statements are prepared in • Maintaining appropriate internal controls and a robust framework of Thornton & Co, Pricewaterhouse accordance with the Sri Lanka risk management and mitigation Coopers, Deloitte and Touché, Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Colombo Stock • Reviewing, regularly, the internal processes and benchmarking them India and Luthra and Luthra, India. Exchange and other applicable against international best practices authorities. The audits have been distributed • Entrenching stakeholder relationships through more transparent in a manner that gives adequate information flows and proactive dialogue coverage to the Group auditor. The Sri Lanka Accounting In addition to the normal audit Standards, as set by the Institute services, Ernst & Young and the of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, are those, which govern “We believe that Corporate other external auditors, also provided certain non-audit services the preparation of the financial Governance in the future will reflect to the Group. However, the lead/ statements. The International an increasing emphasis on customer consolidator auditor would not Accounting Standard is used in the rare instance where a Sri satisfaction, both external and internal engage in any services which are in the restricted category as Lanka Accounting Standard does customers, as a way of measuring the defined by the CSE for external not exist. The Board is aware of adaptability of the organisation the growing importance of the auditors. All such services have disclosure of critical accounting over time” been provided with the full knowledge of the respective audit policies as a part of good committees and are assessed to governance and opine that there ensure that there is no compromise are no instances where the use of Annual Report 2011/12 35 John Keells Holdings PLC Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance (Implemented on 1st April 2009 and includes amendments to date) CSE Rule Compliance Subject Compliance requirement Reference section Page No. status Non Executive 7.10.1 (a) At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever is higher should Complied Board Composition 19 Directors & 7.10.1 (b) be NEDs 7.10.2 (a) 2 or 1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be ‘independent’ Non Executive / Independent Complied Directors and the Board 20 Independent balance Directors 7.10.2 (b) Each NED to submit a signed and dated declaration of his/her Summary of Non Executive/ Complied 20 independence or non-independence Independent Directors’ interest 7.10.3 (a) • Board shall annually determine the independence or Complied otherwise of NED Summary of Non Executive/ 20 Independent Directors’ interest • Names of the IDs should be disclosed Complied Disclosure 7.10.3 (b) Basis for the Board’s determination of ID, if criteria specified for Summary of Non Executive/ Complied Independent Directors’ interest 20 relating to independence is not met Directors 7.10.3 (c) A brief resume of each Director should be included in AR including Complied Board of Directors 12 Directors’ experience 7.10.3 (d) Provide a detailed resume of new Directors appointed to the Board Complied Board of Directors 12 along with the specified details Criteria for 7.10.4 (a-h) Requirements for meeting criteria to be independent Summary of Non Executive / defining Complied 20 Independent Directors’ interest independence 7.10.5 Listed entity should have a Remuneration Committee Human Resources & Complied 22 Compensation Committee 7.10.5 (a) RC shall comprise of NEDs, a majority of whom will be independent Complied Delegation of Board Authority 21 Remuneration 7.10.5 (b) RC shall recommend the remuneration of the CEO and the Board Remuneration – Committee Complied 23 Executive Directors Executive Directors (RC) 7.10.5 (c) • Names of RC members Human Resources & • Statement of Remuneration policy Complied 22 Compensation Committee • Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs 7.10.6 Listed entity shall have an Audit Committee Complied Audit Committee 24 7.10.6 (a) • AC shall comprise of NEDs, a majority of whom should be independent Delegation of Board Authority, • A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee Corporate Governance 21 Complied • CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings Framework 17 • The Chairman of the AC or one member should be a member of a professional accounting body 7.10.6 (b) • Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements in accordance with SLAS. • Overseeing the compliance with financial reporting Audit requirements, information requirements as per the laws and Committee regulations. 24 (AC) • Ensuring the internal controls and risk management, are 25 Complied Audit Committee adequate, to meet the requirements of the SLAS. 26 • Assessment of the independence and performance of the 27 Entity’s external auditors. • Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to appointment, re-appointment, removal of external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors. 7.10.6 (c) • Names of the AC members 21 • AC shall make a determination of the independence of the Delegation of Board Authority, Complied 26 external auditors Audit Committee Report 27 • Report on the manner in which AC carried out its functions. 36 Group Highlights Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Statement of Compliance of the Principles under the Code of Best Practice of Corporate Governance jointly issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) (Issued on 1st July 2008) Compliance Subject Rule No. Compliance requirement Reference section Page status Company to be headed by an effective Board to Complied A1 Role of the Chairman CEO 28 direct and control the company. A 1.1 Regular Board meetings Complied Board meetings & attendance 21 A 1.2 Responsibilities Complied Board responsibilities & decision rights 18 Act in accordance with the laws of the country Independent professional advice obtained The Board of A 1.3 and obtain professional advice as and when Complied by the BOD during the financial year, Internal 20 Directors required compliance A 1.4 Access to Company Secretary Complied Board induction and supply of information 19 Bring Independent judgment on various business A 1.5 Complied Time commitment of the Board of Directors 19 issues and standards of business conduct A 1.6 Dedication of adequate time and effort Complied Time commitment of the Board of Directors 19 A 1.7 Board induction & training Complied Board induction and supply of information 19 Chairman and CEO and division of A2 responsibilities to ensure a balance power and Complied Corporate Governance Framework 17 Chairman and CEO authority Justification of combining the roles of the Appropriateness of combining roles of A 2.1 Complied 28 Chairman and the CEO Chairman and CEO Facilitate the effective discharge of Board A3 Complied Role of the Chairman – CEO 28 functions Chairman’s Role Ensure Board proceedings are conducted in a A 3.1 Complied Role of the Chairman – CEO 28 proper manner Financial Acumen A4 Availability of financial acumen within the Board Complied Board of Directors 12 Board balance and independence Board composition, Conflicts of interest and Board Balance A5 19 Complied Independence, Summary of Non Executive/ & Senior A 5.1-5.5 20 Independent Directors’ interests Independent Director Appointment of Senior Independent Director and A 5.6-5.9 Complied Senior Independent Director 32 conduct of constructive discussion Board should be provided with timely A6 Complied Board induction and supply of information 19 information to enable it to discharge its duties Supply of Information Management obligation towards the Directors Board induction and supply of information A 6.1–6.2 to provide the Board with appropriate and timely Complied 19 information Formal and transparent procedure for Board A7 Complied Nominations Committee 22 appointments Nomination Committee to make A 7.1 Complied Nominations Committee 22 Appointments to recommendations on new Board appointments the Board Assessment of the capability of Board to meet A 7.2 Complied Nominations Committee 22 strategic demands of the company Disclosure of New Board member profile and A 7.3 Complied Board of Directors 12 interests Re election Re-election at regular intervals and should A8 be subject to election and re-election by Complied Board tenure, retirement and re-election 20 A 8.1-8.2 shareholders Appraisal of Board A9 Existence of Board evaluation methods and Complied Board evaluation 21 performance A 9.1-9.3 execution Disclosure of Profiles of Directors Board of Directors, Summary of Non 12 information A 10 Directors’ interests Executive/Independent Directors’ interests, Complied 20 in respect of A 10.1 Board meeting attendance Board meetings and attendance, Delegation 21 Directors Board committee memberships of Board Authority Board Committees Appraisal of CEO A 11 Appraisal of the CEO against the set strategic A 11.1targets Complied Chairman-CEOs appraisal 28 11.2 Directors’ B1 Establishment of the Remuneration Committee Human Resources and Compensation Complied 22 Remuneration B 1.1 Committee Membership of the remuneration to be disclosed B 1.1-1.3 and should only comprise of Non Executive Complied Delegation of Board authority 21 Directors Annual Report 2011/12 37 John Keells Holdings PLC Corporate Governance Compliance Subject Rule No. Compliance requirement Reference section Page status Board to determine Directors’ Human Resources and Compensation B 1.4-1.5 remuneration of Non Executive Complied 22 Remuneration Committee Directors with expert advice where necessary. Performance related elements in pay structure and B 2.1-2.4 Complied Board Remuneration-ED 23 alignment to industry practices Level and makeup B 2.5 Executive share option Complied Board Remuneration-ED 23 of Remuneration B 2.6-2.8 Linking compensation to Board performance Complied Board Remuneration ED 23 B 2.9 Non Executive Directors’remuneration Complied Board Remuneration-NED 23 Disclosure of B3 Disclose the remuneration policy and aggregate Board Remuneration-ED, Complied 23 Remuneration B 3.1 remuneration Board Remuneration-NED Relations with Counting of proxy votes C 1.1 Complied Shareholder relations 32 Shareholders C 1.2 Separate resolution to be proposed for each item Complied Shareholder relations 32 Heads of Board subcommittees to be available to C 1.3 Complied Shareholder relations 32 answer queries Notice of Annual General Meeting to be sent to C 1.4 Complied Shareholder relations 32 shareholders with other papers as per statute Summary of procedures governing voting at General C 1.5 Complied Shareholder relations 32 meetings to be informed Major C2 Disclosure of all material facts involving any proposed Major transactions and interim Complied 25 Transactions C 2.1 acquisition, sale or disposition of assets announcements Disclosure of interim and other price-sensitive and D 1.1 Complied Directors’ responsiblities 25 statutorily mandated reports to Regulators Declaration by the Directors that the company has not engaged in any activities, which contravene laws and D 1.2 regulations, declaration of all material interests Going concern, Directors’ 24 Complied D 1.5 in contracts, equitable treatment of shareholders responsiblities 25 Accountability & and going concern with supporting assumptions or Audit qualifications as necessary Statement of Directors’ responsibility Statement on Directors’ responsibility D 1.3 Complied 166 (Financial Information section) Management Discussion & Analysis of the businesses. Management Discussion & Analysis D 1.4 Complied 59 section Remedial action at EGM if net assets fall below 50% D 1.6 Complied Going concern 24 of value of shareholders’ funds. Annual review of effectiveness of system of internal D 2.1 Complied Internal Control 33 Internal Control control. D 2.2 Internal Audit function Complied Internal auditors 34 Audit committee composition Delegation of Board Authority Board D 3.1 Complied 21 Audit Committee Committees D 3.2 Terms of reference, duties and responsibilities Complied Audit Committee 24 Code of business Disclosure whether the company has a Code of Conduct & Ethics Business Conduct & Ethics and disclose an affirmative D 4.1-4.2 declaration that they have abided by such Code. Complied Code of Conduct, Group values 34 The Chairman must certify that he/she is not aware of any violation of any of the provisions of this Code. Directors’ Disclosure of extent to which the company has D5 disclosure on complied with principles and provisions of the SEC/ Complied Corporate Governance Framework 17 D 5.1 compliance ICASL Corporate Governance Code. Institutional E1 Regular dialogue to be maintained with shareholders Complied Dialogue with shareholders 32 Investors E 1.1 Evaluation of Due weight to be given to Board structure and Governance E2 composition by institutional shareholders Complied Chairman & the Board of Directors 18 disclosures Other Investors Encourage individual F1–F2 shareholder participation at Complied Shareholder relations 32 General Meetings and other analysis and feedback 38 Purpose Planned We shall strive to ensure that our actions are purposeful and thoughtful; delivering practical solutions that will address the many issues of sustainability we deal with every day. Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Annual Report 2011/12 39 John Keells Holdings PLC companies and have thus been United Nations Global Compact SUSTAINABILITY excluded for sustainability (UNGC) initiative since 2002. performance reporting. Of the This report, which serves as a INTEGRATION 78 companies over which the Communication on Progress, also Group exercises direct control, reinforces the Group’s commitment 28 entities have been excluded to implement the 10 principles for reporting on sustainability recognised by the UNGC Initiative. Reporting on performance, as such entities are non-operational entities, In addition, the Group also maps its sustainability performance to Sustainability investment entities, land-only the IFC Sustainability Performance holding companies, investment Framework which we believe holding companies, managing would help avoid, mitigate, and companies and companies that manage risks and impacts from a The following section is an account of rent out office spaces, on the sustainability perspective. the John Keells Group sustainability basis that such entities do not In terms of re-statements in performance for the period 1st April carry out any operations that comparison to the previous year significantly interact with the 2011 to 31st March 2012. The previous environment and society at large. 2010/11, the previous year’s Sustainability Report was published The 50 companies, for which numbers and statements have been re-arranged wherever on 31st March 2011 as a stand-alone sustainability performance is necessary to conform to the reported on, have been identified report. in the “Group Directory”. Further, present year’s presentation; any exclusion made with regard namely in the Economic Value This integrated report, following has been extended to 30 GRI Statement for the year 2010/11 to reporting on sustainability four previous stand-alone Performance Indicators from 23 carried in the “Financial indicators have been clearly sustainability reports, is the in the previous year based on Information” section of the report. explained under the respective first of its kind to be published the findings of the stakeholder sustainability aspects. by the Group. The sustainability engagement carried out in October Currently, several of the Group performance contained in this 2009. This has enabled the Group With last year’s report covering companies, namely Ceylon report, as in previous years, has to enhance its coverage of its 76 companies (of which the Cold Stores PLC, Asian Hotels been verified and assured by economic, environmental and sustainability performance was & Properties PLC, John Keells Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV). social performance during the year reported for 58 companies after Hotels PLC and Union Assurance The reporting of the Group’s under review. excluding non-operational entities, PLC, publish annual sustainability sustainability performance is investment entities, land-only reports along with their annual at the GRI application level ‘B’ The process for determining financial reports. Union Assurance holding companies, investment and has also achieved the ‘GRI materiality is fully described PLC was adjudged the runner up of holding companies, managing Application Level Check’ by the in the section of this report the ACCA Sustainability Reporting companies and companies that Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) titled “Stakeholder engagement Awards in the medium scale rent out office spaces), a year on Organisation. The GRI Application process” and “Engagement category, while Ceylon Cold Stores year comparison of performance Level Check and the DNV of significant stakeholders”. achieved the Silver Rating of the is possible subject to the Assurance Statement are carried Stakeholders who would STING Corporate Accountability explanations provided in respect at the end of this section. use this report include our Rating, and Asian Hotels & of the mergers, divestments and investors, employees, customers, Properties PLC and John Keells acquisitions that have occurred Our sustainability performance governments, legal and Hotels PLC were awarded the Gold during the year. is reported with a view to regulatory bodies and society Rating. John Keells Holdings PLC providing information to all at large and is further detailed Readers may utilise the GRI achieved a Platinum Rating of the stakeholders with regard to the in the section “Engagement of Content Index as a reference to STING Corporate Accountability most critical and material areas significant stakeholders” and “Key access specific information and Rating and was adjudged the identified through comprehensive sustainability topics identified”. disclosures required by the GRI winner of the ACCA Sustainability and systematic stakeholder framework. The John Keells Group Reporting Awards under the large engagements. Prioritisation of the The boundary of the financial has been a participant of the scale category. topics covered under this report reporting extends to 88 companies was based on the said stakeholder which are legal entities of the John Keells Group. The Group Any clarifications regarding sustainability at John Keells Holdings may engagements, its outcomes as exercises direct control over be obtained from the: detailed in the sections “Key 78 of these companies, which Sustainability & Enterprise Risk Management Division sustainability topics identified”, as such, fall within the sphere John Keells Holdings PLC and “Mapping of stakeholder of influence of the Group. The 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 02, Sri Lanka concerns to sustainability Group does not exercise direct Email: sustainability@keells.com aspects”. This year, the scope of control over the 10 remaining Website: www.keells.com/sustainability sustainability reporting at JKH 40 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Sustainability Performance Highlights Indicator 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Economic value added (Rs. in millions) 5,635 8,686 10,095 EC3 Employee benefit liability as of 31st March 1,041,395 1,215,597 1,372,161 EC6 Percentage purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka Not tracked Not tracked 70% EC8 Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs. in millions) Not tracked Not tracked 29.92 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EN3 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 363,479 360,704 372,932 Direct energy consumption (GJ) per Rs. million of revenue 7.57 5.96 4.86 EN4 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 246,259 271,065 300,181 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) per Rs. million of revenue 5.13 4.48 3.91 EN8 Water withdrawal (m3) Not tracked Not tracked 1,834,122 EN11 Sites near/in high bio-diversity areas 15 14 14 EN16 Carbon footprint (MT) 62,130 65,524 73,753 Carbon footprint (MT) per Rs. million of revenue 1.29 1.08 0.96 EN21 Water discharge (m3) Not tracked Not tracked 1,534,771 EN22 Waste generated (MT) Not tracked Not tracked 8,356 Waste recycled/reused Not tracked Not tracked 37% EN23 Volume of significant spills (m3) Not tracked Not tracked Nil EN28 Significant environmental fines * Nil Nil Nil OUR PEOPLE, HEALTH & SAFETY LA1 Total workforce (employees + contractors’ staff) Not tracked Not tracked 18,060 Total employees 10,675 11,186 11,748 LA2 Attrition of new hires (as percentage of total new hires) Not tracked Not tracked 22% LA4 Percentage covered by collective bargaining 18.6% 22.2% 23.0% LA7 Number of injuries 238 180 229 Injury rate (number of injuries per 100 employees) 2.23 1.61 1.95 Lost day rate (lost days as percentage of total person days) 0.026% 0.058% 0.045% LA8 No. of people educated on serious diseases 6,358 15,078 20,279 LA10 Average hours of training per employee 25 30 40 LA12 No. of employees receiving performance reviews 100% 100% 100% ETHICAL BUSINESS HR6 Incidences of child labour (below age 16) 0 0 0 Incidences of young workers (aged 16-18) ** 15 0 3 HR7 Incidents of forced labour during the year 0 0 0 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SO1 Community engagement (no. of persons impacted) 10, 130 17, 648 30,397 SO2 Percentage of businesses analysed for risk of corruption 100% 100% 100% SO8 Significant fines for violation of laws/regulations* Not tracked Not tracked Nil PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR3 Percentage of companies that carry relevant information 38% 22% Changed*** Percentage of significant product labels carrying information On Environmental impact of products Not tracked Not tracked 20% On Safe use of product Not tracked Not tracked 54% PR6 Voluntary standards relating to advertising Group policy based on ICC Code PR9 Significant fines for product/service issues * (Rs. in millions) 1.5 Nil Nil * Significant fines are defined as fines over Rs. 1 million. Positive Negative No comparison possible ** Young workers are employed under guidelines of the Employers Federation of Ceylon. *** Process has been improved to track significant product labels. Annual Report 2011/12 41 John Keells Holdings PLC opportunities, while respecting Sustainability within the Group Sustainability people’s culture, ways of life and heritage. now encompasses both a top down and bottom up approach. Policy and While sustainability policies and Sustainability strategy frameworks for measurement, Last year, the John Keells Group monitoring and control have been Framework transformed the sustainability process from a centrally driven exercise to making it a priority of established at Group level, the actual tracking of sustainability performance, improvements to each and every business unit of business processes, introduction Sustainable development is a globally the Group. With the integration of innovative and sustainability accepted approach to sustaining and embedding of sustainability driven initiatives and projects economic growth without harming within the organisation, the John are within the purview of the Keells Group has taken significant business unit. The sustainability our planet or exhausting its resources strides this year in ensuring that performance of Group companies while improving the quality of life for accountability of the sustainable are consolidated in reporting the its current and future inhabitants. performance of each Group Group’s sustainability performance. company is now within the ambit Long term value creation for our varied of the business unit. Continuing The Group believes that making stakeholder groups depends on the from previous years, the Group the business units accountable for sustainability of the performance of has utilised its task group their sustainability performance based structure to decentralise is only an initial step towards our businesses, our environment and sustainability to all business being a sustainable organisation. the communities in which we operate. units, where each task group is The structure, frameworks, In this endeavour, we are committed headed by a senior manager, who processes and people that overlooks one of the key pillars of have been implemented this to achieving the highest standards of sustainability. year have enabled the Group corporate citizenship. to drive sustainability on an With the introduction of internal enterprise-wide scale which is quarterly sustainability reporting, expected to result in increased the heads of business units are Sustainability policy of global best practice, stakeholder value, through while promoting the same now able to review not only business process improvements, • The Group will strive to commitment to transparency the progress of the financial better risk management, new conduct its activities in and open communication from performance of their respective business opportunities, innovation, accordance with the highest its partners and customers. companies, but also their corporate governance and overall standards of corporate best sustainability performance. During corporate responsibility. practice and in compliance • The Group strives to be the year, Sustainability Champions with all applicable local an employer of choice by have emerged from each business Thus, the John Keells Group has and international regulatory providing a safe, secure unit, and have been tasked with now established the ideal base to requirements and conventions. and non-discriminatory the tracking of sustainability ensure sustainable development • The Group monitors and working environment for its performance and providing in all its sectors. The future of assesses the quality and employees whose rights are management information to their sustainability at JKH would environmental impact of fully safeguarded and who respective business unit heads and encompass the identification its operations, services and can have equal opportunity to the Sustainability & Enterprise Risk and implementation of various products whilst striving realise their full potential. All Management Division. sustainability initiatives targeting to include its supply chain Group companies will abide by areas that were identified through national laws and wherever The integration of sustainability stakeholder engagements, to truly partners and customers, possible strive to emulate within the John Keells Group, bring all of its businesses towards where relevant, and to the global best practice governing steered by the Group Sustainability sustainable development. With extent possible. the respective industry Committee, is managed through company-wise sustainability • The Group is committed groups, seeking continuous the structure shown overleaf. information now at hand, the to transparency and open improvement of health and communication about its safety in the workplace. environmental and social practices in addition to its • The Group will promote economic performance. good relationships with all John Keells Group Sustainability It seeks dialogue with its communities of which we stakeholders in order to are a part, and enhance contribute to the development their quality of life and 42 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Group Executive Committee Risk Management Group Sustainability Committee Projects & Initiatives Sustainability & Enterprise Risk John Keells Foundation Management Division (Corporate Social Responsibility) Integration of Sustainability in Implementation of Strategy for Mapping, Control & Review Sectors & Business Units Group Sustainability Strategy each Sustainability Aspect Policy to Practice • Identify significant stakeholders Sector Heads/Heads of • Establish materiality of issues Task Force Leaders Business Units • Define actions/goals/targets • Review and monitor • Recommend capex Cluster Heads • Share best practice Sustainability • Risk review Champions • External/ Internal audit Sector Representatives Sustainability Aspects Economic Environment Labour & Human Occupational Health Product Social Rights & Safety Responsibility Responsibility Group is now well established October 2009. A stakeholder process, we are able to assess the impact of our operations on to set performance targets by engagement in the future is also and address potential risks the local community with a view to company, develop strategies and under consideration enabling and opportunities and align the ensuring social responsibility. action plans towards meeting the Group to obtain a fresh management of sustainable issues such targets and ensure the assessment of its impacts on its with our business processes and While the Precautionary Principle implementation of such strategies stakeholders. strategies. is incorporated through the Group’s and action plans. This would pave Enterprise Risk Management the way for the entrenchment of The ongoing engagement of Entrenchment of process, this year, through the sustainable development within stakeholders as well as horizon Precautionary introduction of core sustainability the strategic focus of each and scanning carried out by the Group Principle risks as a risk item in the risk every business unit. and its subsidiary companies not The decision making of the John registers, the Precautionary only paves the way for obtaining Keells Group is influenced by the Principle has been further The Group intends to introduce the pulse of significant stakeholder Precautionary Principle with regard entrenched in the operations of specialised IT systems and groups, but also provides the to the prevention of environmental each business unit. The Enterprise processes during the next year Group with an ongoing analysis pollution, environmental Risk Management process at in order to ensure the tracking, of its strengths, weaknesses, degradation, global warming and John Keells Holdings defines reporting and monitoring of opportunities and threats. impacts on local community. core sustainability risks as those such indicators, enabling better risks that may cause an adverse management information through Understanding this relationship The actions of the John Keells impact on the environment and the measurement of usage and and the synergies possible, Group take into account the need community due to the operational performance metrics, which the Group’s Enterprise Risk for cautious operational activity activity of a Group company. By is expected to drive strategy, Management process is even in the light of inconclusive definition, such risks are remote resulting in focussed policy therefore closely linked with its scientific evidence proving a and have a very low probability of frameworks and directed plans of sustainability strategy with both cause and effect relationship of a occurrence, but are nonetheless action. these functions coming under a particular operational activity. This identified and managed through single division operating at the is highlighted through continuing regular monitoring of preventive This year, the Group re-assessed centre. By linking the Group’s initiatives towards greening our control measures. its impact on the critical areas stakeholder engagement process business processes, from reducing highlighted in the stakeholder with the Group’s well established the carbon footprint of operational engagements carried out in Enterprise Risk Management activity, to better understanding Annual Report 2011/12 43 John Keells Holdings PLC From a corporate governance continuously enhance and report to facilitating the regular risk Sustainability Policy perspective, the Group meets its on its sustainability impact to its reviews for each business unit regulatory requirements and is stakeholders. A summary of the of the Group, also facilitated the and Framework compliant with external rules and sustainability performance of identification of core sustainability codes that include the listing rules the Group for the year in review risks by each company. In addition, of the Colombo Stock Exchange, along with its performance in during the risk review process Triple Bottom Line the recommendations of the the past two years is contained most Group companies identified principles and Combined Code (to the extent in the section “Sustainability environmental, health and safety initiatives endorsed practicable in the context of our Performance Highlights”. as potential areas of risk and is The Group is a participant in the diverse businesses and business further detailed under the “Risk UNGC initiative and supports Sri unit risk profiles) and all provisions The Group measures and Management” section of this Lanka’s efforts to achieve the of the Code of Governance of the reports on the above impacts to report. Millennium Development Goals. Institute of Chartered Accountants stakeholders by monitoring its Several of our employee policies of Sri Lanka. performance against the 30 GRI and practices are modelled on indicators to minimise risks and the standards of the International Key impacts, risks and capitalise on opportunities in Labour Organisation, while the opportunities the short term. Considering the Group advertising policy follows Based on the findings of the medium to long term, the Group the principles laid down by the ICC stakeholder engagement specified also assesses the impacts, risks Code of Advertising and Marketing in the section “Key sustainability and opportunities that may arise Communication Practice. A number topics identified” the material as a result of the Group’s long term of our companies have obtained impacts on stakeholders were plans and strategies with regard the ISO 14001, ISO 18001, ISO identified within the areas to the economy, environment and 9001, ISO 22000 and ISO 27000 of economic performance, society. Such impacts will be certifications. While the Group environment and societal impact. assessed through the continuous report is based on the GRI (G3.1) 30 GRI indicators have thus been monitoring of the above identified framework for sustainability selected for reporting this year, indicators. reporting, this year the Group also providing a broader description of the significant impacts of the The Enterprise Risk Management introduced an internal framework organisation on key sustainability (ERM) process of the Group is and policy for sustainability reports areas. We believe that this closely linked to the sustainability published by Group companies. reflects the Group’s commitment to drive. During the year in concern, the ERM division in addition The key impacts, risks and opportunities to the Group from an economic From an environmental perspective, the key impacts, risks and perspective are derived from the following macroeconomic factors: opportunities to the Group are derived from the following environmental concerns: Environmental trends Risks Opportunities • Stringent environmental • Loss of Unique Selling • Greater access to more Economic trends Risks Opportunities legislation and public Proposition for key sectors mature markets in the • Intense competition due • Lowered economic • Improved FDIs into the policy towards waste and of the Group due to region through addressing to globalisation performance country will drive large effluent managment environmetal degradation environmental concerns • Increasing cost-push • Pressure on bottom line scale infrastructure • Scarcity and price • Higher operating costs • Improving and inflation • Competition with global development and provide increases of fossil fuel due to increased costs of consolidating brand equity • Sustainability based players with successful a platform for improved and other related nonnatural resources • Cleaner and efficient decision making by sustainability track business activities renewable energy sources • Increased operating costs production and service investors records • Exploring other • Increasing environmental and capital expenditure delivery • Limitations of regulatory • Challenges to compete sustainable sources awareness of to comply with legislation • Improving the energy cost framework effectively in the local and leaner production community regarding the and public policy base and consumption • Slow growth in market methods to maintain conservation of water • Balancing resource by eliciting employee infrastructure • Slower growth production/service costs • Increasing customer scarcity against business behavioural change development opportunities • Provision of community demands for green / low growth and adopting greener based infrastrucure and carbon products and • Reputational impact due technologies. services on a commercial greener value chain to non-conformity of • Leveraging on the or pro-bono basis value chain members to accreditation bodies such sustainability practices as LEEDS, Green Globe to enhance competitiveness 44 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information The issues identified through the identify the top concerns of each above internal and external studies of their significant stakeholder were then analysed in terms of groups. The process adopted in the impact and the probability 2012 followed a similar process of occurrence, which paved to that which was carried out by the way for the identification the Group in 2009, based on the of the material sustainability guidelines specified in the AA concerns of stakeholders 1000 Stakeholder Engagement which were also relevant to Standard. However, as opposed the Group. The identification to the process of 2009, the of the material sustainability 2012 process was carried out concerns was then mapped by without the engagement of an probability of occurrence and external third party consultant. impact on the Group to establish The objective of this study was Stakeholder engagement the sustainability performance to re-validate the findings of the indicators reported on by the 2009 stakeholder engagement Stakeholder In 2009, the Group undertook an Group. and to determine the relevance engagement process internal stakeholder analysis as of the GRI Performance Indicators The stakeholder engagement well as engaged an independent Having carried out this reported. During the process each process encompasses both an consultant to determine and comprehensive stakeholder Group company was requested internal and external process to prioritise stakeholder groups. Both engagement in 2009, the Group to identify their key stakeholders determine stakeholder interests such stakeholder engagements continued to engage its various and ascertain the frequency of and concerns. Through such followed the guidelines articulated stakeholder groups with a greater engagement of each stakeholder engagements we have been able in the AA 1000 Stakeholder degree of focus. In 2010, the group and the top concerns raised to determine our most significant Engagement Standard and Group undertook an employee collectively by such stakeholders stakeholders, understand the materiality of issues were assessed stakeholder engagement, the groups. This study was carried impacts of our operations on based on the impact on short ‘Great Place to Work – Trust out based on internal and external stakeholder groups and develop term financial performance, legal Index’ with the exception of records such as customer feedback responses to issues that are compliance, adherence to corporate Union Assurance PLC, for the forms, corporate website, feedback material to our businesses. policies, stakeholder concerns and executive and above staff of the received through the Investor in relation to best practices adopted entire Group and for some of the Relations function of the Group, by peers and societal norms. non-executive staff of JKH. The third party websites, and complaint response received for this survey logs of the various business units was at an impressive 90 per cent, across the Group, as well as formal giving credence to the employee and informal records of the regular engagement strategies used in the community engagements carried The key impacts, risks and opportunities to the Group from a social Group. out by Group companies. perspective are derived from the following social concerns: In 2011, the Group carried out a The results of the internal study Voice of Employee (VOE) dipstick revealed that there were no study to further provide an major deviations of significant indicator of employee concerns. stakeholder concerns as The results will be used as a compared to the 2009 stakeholder Social trends Risks Opportunities people management index and engagement. • Growing demand for • Retention of key staff • Attracting talent limited pool of skilled and attraction of talent through enhanced social will be monitored annually. This labour • Higher costs and capital responsibility profile is further discussed under the • Increasing customer expenditure • Focused CSR initiatives section “Our People”. demands for corporate • Community for skills development social responsibility dissatisfaction of • Business growth through • Increased community engagement initiatives community participation In 2012 the Group also undertook expectations of of the Company in value chain an internal stakeholder concern sustainability practices • Impact on social norms • Infrastructure projects assessment study to ascertain any of organisations and small business and services for public • Rapid growth of entrepreneurs benefit material changes in stakeholder regional business • Increased corruption issues and concerns, wherein hubs and increased all significant business units of commercialisation across the country the Group were requested to Annual Report 2011/12 45 John Keells Holdings PLC The stakeholder engagement process adopted by the Group both in 2009 and 2012 is depicted through the Sustainability Policy process flow below. and Framework Quesonnaire sent 2009 Stakeholder to all significant Engagement Process Flow business units 2012 Internal Stakeholder Issues/Concerns Assessment Feedback obtained and stakeholder concerns priorised Stakeholder issues further analysed Issues summarised Presented to GEC and mapped to GRI and Sustainability indicators as Commiee of JKH relevant Operaonal risks and External consultants core sustainability engaged and briefed Policy decisions risks idenfied and on stakeholder made at Group level recorded in risk engagement with based on findings registers GRI framework Stakeholder engagement / percepon analysis carried out by external consultants Findings of stakeholder engagement presented by external consultants Core sustainability GRI Indicator pool risks monitored idenfied and selecon through Enterprise of indicators for Risk Management periodic review and process / risk registers analysis 46 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Engagement of mentioned stakeholder groups Customers individual and corporate B2B significant stakeholders having a significant influence • Method of engagement: The Group conducts its business over the Group, or who would • Personal meetings, discussion forums, surveys, field visits, operations in several industry be significantly impacted by the conference calls, progress reviews, information dissemination sectors of the economy as well as Group’s operations. through printed reports, telephone, SMS and corporate websites, in different geographical markets. workshops, business development activities, road shows and trade Our engagement with stakeholders fairs. This diversity necessitates encompasses a range of activities • Frequency of engagement: developing and sustaining and interactions that include • Quarterly through customer satisfaction surveys relationships with various communication, consultations and stakeholder groups. • On-going basis through information dissemination through printed information disclosures. Through reports, telephone, SMS and corporate website The Group uses the term regular engagements and horizon • Bi-annually through personal meetings ‘stakeholder’ to define persons scanning as part of its ongoing • Annually through road shows and trade fairs or groups that have an interest in macro environment analysis, the the organisation, who have the Group is able to identify its most ability to influence its outcomes significant stakeholder groups, or to be substantially impacted by their specific interests, and Employees directors, executives, non-executives the operations of the organisation, determine the issues that are most • Method of engagement: and as a result are expected material from a triple bottom line • Direct reporting, intranet communication, employee satisfaction to have a significant impact on perspective. surveys, collective bargaining, open door policy at all management levels, annual events, professional training, development activities the organisation. As identified Our formal and informal and team building activities. through the above mentioned mechanisms of interaction • Frequency of engagement: stakeholder engagement process, with stakeholders provide • Intranet communications through JK Connect and My Portal on a daily our significant stakeholders the opportunity to forge basis are customers, employees, relationships, build mutual trust • Bi-annual performance reviews and skip level meetings communities, investors, and understanding, and provide • Employee satisfaction surveys and dip stick surveys, such as VOE governments, legal and regulatory (Voice Of Employee) conducted annually accountability to people and bodies, business partners, institutions that are affected by • Professional training, development activities and team building suppliers or principals, society, through internal and external sources conducted at least annually or impacted by our operations. pressure groups and media, and Our most common methods of industry peers and competitors. stakeholder engagement include Considering the large number formal and informal consultations, of stakeholders that the Group participation, negotiations, Business partners, principals and suppliers engages with, their expectations communication, mandatory and • Method of engagement: of the Group would be diverse voluntary disclosures, certification, • Regular meetings, distributor conferences, correspondence, monthly and numerous. The Group has and accreditation. The mode market reports, engagement as part of the transparent and well and frequency used for each established sourcing mechanism, conference calls and e-mails, therefore considered only the circulars, membership in industry associations. stakeholders within the above stakeholder group is as follows. • Frequency of engagement: • Regular market reports at minimum on a monthly basis • Annually though distributor conferences Customers • Annually through contract renegotiations Society / • On-going through conference calls, e-mails and circulars Community Media / around us Pressure Groups Legal & regulatory bodies • Method of engagement: Business Industry Partners / Peers / • Regular meetings, periodic disclosures, correspondence, Principals / representation through chambers of commerce and trade Competition Suppliers associations with bodies such as Local Authorities, Municipal Councils and other institutions such as the Consumer Affairs Authority, Department of Inland Revenue, Customs Department, Securities & Exchange Commission, Colombo Stock Exchange, Tourist Government Board of Sri Lanka. Investors & Regulatory Authorities • Frequency of engagement: • Engagement with regulatory bodies is carried out on an on-going Employees basis as the senior management are members of chambers and industry associations that meet at least on a quarterly basis. Annual Report 2011/12 47 John Keells Holdings PLC Sustainability Policy Key established policies towards waste management and control, and Framework sustainability efficient water management topics and discharge. The Group also identified further strengthened its policies of grievance handling and is currently Investors institutional, fund managers/analysts and lenders Economic in the process of identifying • Method of engagement: The primary stakeholders have necessary policy frameworks to • Periodic disclosures through annual reviews and quarterly reports, identified the overall economic cover the topics raised through one-to-one meetings, investor road shows, phone calls and corporate performance of the Group, its the Voice of Employee survey. websites. In addition, the Group has contribution towards stimulating • Frequency of engagement: reassessed the sustainability the local economy, and any • Annual disclosures indicators which it reports on to services and development • Quarterly reports activities rendered towards the provide stakeholders with both • Regular investor road shows community it operates in, as key relevant and holistic information. • On-going through phone calls and websites economic topics. Mapping of Environment Community neighbours and community Conservation of the environment stakeholder • Method of engagement: through protection of biodiversity, concerns to sustainability • Corporate Social Responsibility programmes and activities, the efficient usage of noncommunity educational and information dissemination programmes, renewable energy sources one-to-one meetings, workshops, forums • Frequency of engagement: and minimising our impact on aspects the environment through the For the current year, the number of • Engagement with the community is carried out prior to entry into the community area management of water and sustainability performance indicators • After which engagement is carried out on a monthly basis while waste and control of the carbon selected on the basis of materiality operating footprint of the Group are some through stakeholder engagement • Community engagement is also carried out on exit of the key topics identified by our and internal and external analysis stakeholders. stands at 30 GRI (G3.1) Sustainability Society, media and pressure groups Social and labour Performance Indicators. • Method of engagement: Community engagement, In the previous stand-alone • Correspondence, website, press releases, media briefings, increased employment and Sustainability Report, the Group discussions, participation at NGO forums, media coverage, business opportunities were certification and accreditation reported on 23 Sustainability identified as key topics under the Performance Indicators which • Frequency of engagement: social aspects. Training and the were based on the findings of the • Engagement with the society / pressure groups /media is carried out on retention of talent has also been an on-going basis through website, press releases and media briefings stakeholder engagement of 2009. identified as a key sustainability However, certain GRI indicators that aspect. were identified through the mapping Industry peers & competition The Group’s primary response of material stakeholder concerns • Method of engagement: could not be reported on by the to the concerns raised by • Communication through membership of chambers of commerce and Group due to the insufficiency of trade associations, conferences, discussion forums stakeholders has been through its annual sustainability report. This necessary management processes, • Frequency of engagement: year such responses have been data collection methodologies and • Engagement with industry peers /competitors is carried out reguarly reporting systems. The 2010/11 through the participation of senior management in various policy made through its first integrated annual report. During the year, Sustainability Report draws specific making bodies as mentioned in “Memberships, certifications and awards” section of this report the Group has made changes reference to EN17, EN 21 and EN22 to its policy frameworks and on page 35, in which it states that management approach with a these indicators would be reported Government, government institutions and departments on once such processes are in place. view to reducing and controlling • Method of engagement: our impacts. This was carried out During the period of review, • Meetings, discussions, newsletters and circulars, presentations and on the basis of the topics identified briefings, advisory meetings, membership on national committees, the said management systems through stakeholder engagements and processes as well as the lobbying activities via chambers of commerce as well as through perceived areas data gathering and reporting • Frequency of engagement: of risk as identified through the mechanisms to report on EN21 • Engagement with the Government is carried out on an on-going risk management process, internal and EN22 were implemented. basis through newsletters and circulars. The senior management are audit process and the operations members of bodies such as the Chamber of Commerce Colombo who As the stakeholder engagement at business units. The Group has of 2012 reconfirmed the findings meet on a monthly basis 48 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information of the 2009 study, the Group has widened its scope based on the identified material sustainability aspects in the areas of indirect economic impact on hts the community within which a n Rig Hum we operate, environmental stewardship, compliance and employee diversity. As such, this year the Group has established systems and processes to capture and report its sustainability performance with respect to EN8, EN23, LA13, SO8, and EC6. Envi ro nm ent Mapping of sustainability aspects to GRI Sustainability Performance Indicators • Economic Performance EC1, EC3 Economic • Local Purchasing EC6 • Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 • Energy EN3, EN4, EN5 • Water EN8 • Proximity to Biologically Diverse Areas EN11 • Carbon Footprint EN16 Environment • Effluents EN21 • Waste EN22 • Significant Spills EN23 • Environmental Compliance EN28 • Employment LA1, LA2 • Labour/Management Relations LA4 Employees • Training & Development LA10 • Diversity & Equal Opportunity LA12, LA13 Health & Safety • Occupational Health & Safety LA7, LA8 • Anti-corruption SO2 Ethical Business & • Compliance SO8 Human Rights • Prevention of Child Labour HR6 • Prevention of Forced & Compulsory Labour HR7 • Product Labelling PR3 Product • Responsible Advertising PR6 Responsibility • Product Compliance PR9 Social • Local Community SO1 Responsibility Annual Report 2011/12 49 John Keells Holdings PLC Progress on Sustainability Commitments of 2010/11 Commitments made in 2010/11 Status Comment on Progress Environmental Impact Aim to achieve Green Globe Certification for all Ongoing Cinnamon Grand Colombo, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, currently operating Sri Lankan City Hotels and Chaaya Village Habarana, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo and Resorts as well as the Maldivian Resorts by March Bentota Beach Hotel have obtained Green Globe Certification. 2012 We are in the process of obtaining Green Globe Certification for Chaaya Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Island Dhonveli and Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa. The recently opened Chaaya Wild Yala and Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa will obtain certification in 2012/13. Aim to achieve LEED Certification for the currently inOngoing Construction is ongoing with the launch of Chaaya Bey Beruwala expected in construction Chaaya Bey, in Beruwela on completion September 2012. Construction is being carried out with focus on obtaining LEED by March 2013 certification. Sri Lankan City Hotels and Resorts as well the Ongoing Energy audits carried out for Chaaya Wild Yala, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee and Maldivian Resorts will aim to conduct energy audits Cinnamon Lodge Habarana in 2010/11. at each hotel in order to achieve the target of increasing energy efficiency Awareness programmes and system modifications were carried out to achieve energy efficiency at other resorts. Cinnamon Grand will aim to install a detailed subDone In addition to Cinnamon Grand Colombo, all Sri Lankan Resorts have also installed metering system in order to establish departmentsub-meters required for department-wise energy monitoring. wise energy targets and achieve the goal of increasing energy efficiency Sri Lankan City Hotels and Resorts as well the Ongoing LED and CFL lighting as % of total lighting Maldivian Resorts will aim to install energy efficient Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa, Chaaya Wild Yala & Chaaya Village Habarana – 100% LED/CFL lighting, solar panel heaters and inverter Chaaya Blu Trincomalee – 90% type air conditioners on a replacement basis, as well Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa – 47% as Ecogen systems which recover waste heat from Chaaya Island Dhonveli – 32% air-conditioning units to produce hot water for guest Chaaya Reef Ellaidoo 28% rooms where applicable Cinnamon Lodge Habarana & Bentota Beach Hotel – being installed on a replacement basis Chaaya Citadel Kandy – plan to have 80% LEDs by 2012 Energy efficient heating ventilating & air conditioning Replacement of geysers with eco-gen units on a replacement basis, ongoing installation of inverter type A/Cs on a replacement basis and installation of variable speed drives at our resorts. All new retail outlets will be designed to maximise Ongoing Implemented at K-Zone and Union Place on natural lighting with the installations of skylights / glass panels and conversion of fluorescent light to include electronic ballasts Retail area managers will aim to conduct internal Ongoing Area managers have been assigned targets, and an incentive programme for energy energy audits for compliance of the initiatives rolled conservation has been established. out and establish a reward programme where 20% of the savings achieved is shared amongst the respective staff of the outlet The Consumer Foods sector will evaluate the usage Done Heat recovery of splash steam evaluated, alternative has been identified. of heat recovery of splash steam from the bottling plant to be used for the manufacturing line to reduce the furnace oil consumption in the boilers 50 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Commitments made in 2010/11 Status Comment on Progress The Group will aim to increase its overall energy Ongoing With energy being a focus area for the Group, this is a continuing initiative and the efficiency through embracing greener technologies Group continuously carries out feasibility studies of greener technologies across its and improved energy management practices business units. Existing plant & machinery and equipment is replaced with energy efficient versions on a replacement basis. All Group companies shall monitor emerging Ongoing During the year, Group companies identified their core sustainability risks, which are issues and keep abreast of regulatory changes, identified as risks faced by the company as a result of its impact on the environment technological innovations and stakeholder interests and community. With the Enterprise Risk Management process being closely linked with respect to bio-diversity to sustainability within the Group, impacts, risks and opportunities are now tracked through the risk management process based on a triple bottom line perspective. The Group shall carry out and support projects that Ongoing Business units of the Group have carried out awareness campaigns at schools in conserve and raise awareness about the importance areas close to their operations with regard to creating awareness among children on of maintaining the integrity of essential ecosystems conserving essential eco-systems. The Group will aim to monitor the impact on Ongoing ‘Leopard Guardians’ research project to be undertaken with support of an biodiversity hot spots due to increase in tourist internationally renowned research team to identify the behavior of leopards in and inflow around Chaaya Wild Yala. The Group will aim to increase quantity of materials Ongoing A plastic recycling project commenced as a pilot project at the Union Place Keells recycled and improve its recycling programmes Super outlet. The Group continues to recycle its paper across its office locations. The Group will aim to improve the internal energy Ongoing The Group is in the process of establishing systems and processes to identify, track efficiency targets set by each business unit and monitor such targets. Our People The Group will aim to roll-out a manager Done Total of 1930 hours have been provided as training through the Manager and development programme and a leadership Above Leadership Development Programmes, which included the Harvard Business development programme (AVP/ VP) which would Publishing Programme for Managers and AVP and above staff. deliver a total 1,100 on-line training hours in these categories For middle management levels, the Group will Done The programme was carried out and it delivered 77.8 hours of training on average aim to offer a customised programme taking into per participant consideration the expected level of competency and the technical skills required. This would be an 80 hours programme per participant and will be a development item every year in the training calendar With respect to capability development the Group Ongoing The learning platform has been developed and e-learning modules are in the will aim to use an E-learning platform to reach 1,000 process of being developed. executives and above level employees over a period of 12 months Ethical Business The Group will aim to formulate a child labour Ongoing The Group has zero instances of child labour and has recorded three instances of remediation policy and deploy it across its relevant young workers being employed as per the guidelines stipulated by the Employers stakeholders Federation of Ceylon. The Group has also put in place a process to identify and assist value chain partners to remedy any identified instances of child labour within their operations. Social Responsibility The Group will aim to improve its process to collect Ongoing The Group carries out impact assessments at entry, exit and during implementation feedback and analyse impact on community for the of the project. This would continue to be practiced for all significant community various ongoing projects by the business units engagement activities. Annual Report 2011/12 51 John Keells Holdings PLC Short and Medium Term Sustainability Commitments Focus Commitments Entrenchment of • The Group will endeavor to implement an enterprise-wide sustainability system to facilitate sustainability performance Sustainability tracking • Continue necessary training and awareness sessions with regard to sustainability Talent Management • The Group will endeavor to extend its E-learning platform to cover all Group companies with a view to making training more accessible and delivery efficient • Continue to carry out manager development programmes within the Group to develop staff for higher management roles Occupational Health • The Group will identify and map occupational diseases and serious diseases of the relevant sectors and Safety Environment • The Group will continue to implement energy conservation initiatives and stimulate behavioural changes in staff through Conservation awareness campaigns with a view to optimising energy usage • The Group will continue the process of establishing systems and processes to identify, track and monitor such efficiency targets for business units • The Group will continuously explore areas that could be powered through renewable energy sources and cogeneration projects • The Group will identify and install divisional water meters with a view to reducing the consumption of water • Assess feasibility and commission sewerage treatment plants at locations with high water usage • The Group will identify and evaluate initiatives with a view to partially offsetting its carbon footprint • The Group will explore avenues through which it could carry out efficient management of e-waste • The Group will broad base the methodology of waste sorting with a view to minimising its impact on landfill and other forms of waste disposal • The Group will initiate biodiversity conservation projects with partner organisations with a view to safeguarding the country’s natural biodiversity resources • All Group companies will continue to monitor emerging issues and keep abreast of regulatory changes, technological innovations and stakeholder interests with respect to bio-diversity • The Group will aim to achieve Green Globe Certification for all currently operating Sri Lankan City Hotels and Resorts as well as the Maldivian Resorts by March 2013 and LEED Certification for Chaaya Bey which is currently under construction Ethical Business • The Group will provide assistance to its value chain partners in identifying any instances of child labour within their operations Social Responsibility • The Group will augment the risk review process to capture the full spectrum of risk mitigation actions • The Group will provide rainwater harvesting facilities to selected homes through its village adoption programme in a bid to improve access to water in such villages • The Group will provide solar powered lighting in selected homes through its village adoption programme in a bid to improve access to electricity to such villages • The Group will continue and extend its recycling projects based on feasibility • The Group will continue to carry out impact assessments for all significant community engagement activities undertaken The sustainability information provided in this report has achieved a ‘GRI Application Level Check‘ by the Global Reporting Initiative and has been assured by Det Norske Veritas AS. The Assurance Statement and the GRI Application Level Check can be found in subsequent pages. A detailed discussion of the Group’s economic, environmental and social performance, can be found in the “Triple Bottom Line Discussion and Analysis” section of this report. 52 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Annual Report 2011/12 53 John Keells Holdings PLC Assurance Statement Introduction Verification Methodology Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with John Keells Holding PLC (‘JKH’ or ‘the Company’) to carry out an independent / the AA1000AS (2008) and the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability assurance engagement on the JKH Annual Report 2011 / 12 (‘the Report’) in its Reporting.1 The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: printed format. This assurance engagement has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative 2011 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 • Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and (GRI G3.1) and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS Responsiveness as set out in the AA1000AS (2008); the Reliability of (2008)). The verification was conducted during March, April and May 2012, for the specified sustainability performance information, as required for a Type 2, year of activities covered in the Report i.e. 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. moderate level assurance engagement, • Adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental as set out in DNV’s Protocol, and and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV states • The principles and requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an application level B+. its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included As part of the engagement, DNV has verified the statements and claims made in the Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. DNV expressly disclaims system, information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make • Reviewed the company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its based on this Assurance Statement. materiality determination process; The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of JKH • Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the and readers of the Report. The management of JKH is responsible for all Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, information flow and controls; analysing and reporting the information. DNV’s responsibility regarding this • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made verification is to JKH only and in accordance with the agreed scope of work. available by JKH; The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and • Visited the Head-Office, other sector head offices, Tea factory at Galle, information provided to us is complete and true. Union Assurance office at Colombo, Cinnamon Lodge Hotel at Habarana; • Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and Scope, boundary and limitations of Assurance decision-makers from different divisions and functions of the Company; The scope of work agreed upon with JKH includes verification of the following: • Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the • The content of the sustainability performance reported in the Report i.e. company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report; review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in • Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering the Report as well as references made in the Report; and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in • Evaluation of the AccountAbility principles and specified performance the Report. information, described below, for a Type 2, moderate level of assurance, in accordance with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for • Information relating to company’s sustainability issues, responses, improvement reported to the management of the Company and are considered performance data, case studies and underlying systems for the for drawing our conclusion on the Report; however they are generally management of such information and data; consistent with the management’s objectives: • Information relating to company’s materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement processes; • Evolve an issue-based multi-stakeholder engagement process to fully map • Confirm that the Report meets the requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an stakeholder expectations and needs for each sectors, in the reporting cycle; Application Level ‘B+’, as declared by JKH. • Implement a continuous and systematic quality assurance procedure for data management system to further improve the quality of reported The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report, covering entities over which sustainability performance data; JKH has management control and significant influence as explained in the • Fully report on key material performance indicators that are partially report; during the verification process, there were no limitations encountered reported, in the subsequent reports. on the scope for the assurance engagement. 1 www.dnv.com/services/assessment/corporate_responsibility/services_solutions/sustainabilityreporting/order/ 54 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information Specific evaluation of the information on sustainability Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at corporate office performances and site were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified We consider the methodology and process for gathering information developed during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, by the Company for its sustainability performance reporting is appropriate interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected. and the qualitative and quantitative data included in the Report, was found to be reliable, identifiable and traceable; the personnel responsible were able Hence in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data. We also assessed 2, moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified the reported progress against the company’s commitments as disclosed in its sustainability data and information presented in the Report is generally reliable previous report and observed that the Report presents a faithful description of and acceptable. the sustainability activities and the goals achieved. Additional Parameters as per DNV’s Protocol Conclusions Completeness: The report covers 30 core performance indicators for the In line with the global sustainability trend. JKH has adopted sustainability application level ‘B’; some of the reported core indicators have been reported as the focus of all of their activities i.e. the sustainability risk management partially and the rationale behind partial reporting are explained within the initiatives have been adequately established including the linkage between the Report; organisational core risks, its impacts and the associated sustainability (TripleIn our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is bottom-line) challenges. ‘Acceptable’. In our opinion the Report, provides a fair representation of the company’s Neutrality: The sustainability performance and related issues are reported in sustainability policies, objectives, management approach and performance during this report in a transparent and balanced manner, in terms of content and tone. the reporting year. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. DNV confirms that the GRI Application Level ‘B+’ has been attained in AA1000AS (2008) Principles reference to the various application levels defined in the GRI G3.1. Inclusivity: As a part of its stakeholder engagement process, the Company engages with its identified stakeholders through different modes and at determined intervals and the inputs from the stakeholder engagement has been taken into account with due regard to materiality. For Det Norske Veritas AS, In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality: The Company has identified selected aspects for reporting based on the internal stakeholder engagement process for the reporting period and Nandkumar Vadakepatth determined its relative materiality of the selected aspects; in our opinion the Lead Verifier identified material aspects have been appropriately prioritised and responded Head-Sustainability & Business Excellence Services(South) to in the Report, however Company may evaluate and report all the material Det Norske Veritas AS, India aspects based on the guidelines and frame work adopted for sustainability performance management. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Federica Pagnuzzato Reviewer Responsiveness: We consider that the Company has responded adequately DNV Business Assurance, Italy. to key stakeholder concerns, through its policies and management systems Bangalore, India, 17th May 2012 and the same are adequately reflected in the Report and provides a balanced representation of material issues related to the company’s sustainability performance. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Annual Report 2011/12 55 John Keells Holdings PLC Sustainable risk ratings to the management of RISK management core sustainability risks. The John At JKH, sustainability and risk Keells Group has thus continued MANAGEMENT management are inter-related, to embrace and further integrate with the focus firmly on minimising the concept of the Triple Bottom risk and seizing opportunities in Line, with business units being a socially and environmentally evaluated on both financial and Risk management at John Keells is a responsible manner. The Groupsustainability performance as of wide stakeholder engagement this year. vital means of ensuring the Group’s acts as a means of identifying risk sustainable growth and success. The issues which are then mapped Risk management risk management process guarantees to the relevant Global Reporting during the reporting that Group companies are able to Initiative (GRI) framework or year addressed by the relevant risk During the second quarter, the identify and manage risks effectively matrices, to be monitored and Enterprise Risk Management with an ultimate view of protection reported on. division in conjunction with the and enhancement of stakeholder heads of business units and This year has also seen the heads of divisions, undertook a value. The process comprehensively comprehensive risk assessment of evolution of the risk management identifies, monitors and mitigates process to include the all structural, operational, financial significant structural, operational, identification of ‘core sustainability and strategic risks that might prevent each Group company from financial and strategic risks that risks’ by each business unit. meeting its objectives. During such These are risks which have been may prevent the Group meeting its identified as having the potential risk reviews, the Enterprise Risk objectives. to catastrophically impact the Management division facilitated long term sustainability of the and acted in the capacity of business should these risks occur. catalysts, in assisting each Group Further entrenching sustainable company in identifying its overall John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) report is presented to the Board risks. Based on past information risk management within the takes a bottom up approach to risk Audit Committee of JKH. and horizon scanning, Group Group, key performance indicators management, starting the process companies carried out risk ratings The risk management process and for each core sustainability risk with risk identification and review for each of the risks identified, by information flow is depicted below. have been established for each at the business unit level, using way of assessing the impact and company, linking organisational a universal risk register unique to the Group. The level of each risk is measured using a formula that assesses each risk in terms of the level of severity, impact to the organisation and likelihood of John Keells Business External Business Organisation Analysis & Technology & occurrence. It is the responsibility Risk Universe Strategies & Environment Process & People Reporting Data Headline Policies of the business units to nominate Risks risk owners and ensure that each risk item on respective risk Risk matrices is tracked, managed or Presentation JKH PLC Audit Committee mitigated over the course of the John Keells Group Review Risk year. Business unit risk matrices Report & Action Risk Group Executive Committee (GEC) Enterprise Risk Management are reviewed quarterly, ensuring Normalisation that risk items are continually updated based on market and Listed Company Audit Committee BU Review & Group Business Process Review business unit conditions. Group Sector Risk Management Committees validate Risk Validation Report & Action Group Management Committee (GMC) company risk matrices and Sustainability Integration these are presented to the Audit Committees of listed companies. BU Risk Report Risk Business Unit & Action Group risks are then consolidated Identification and profiled at the Group Executive Operational Units Committee Level and a Group risk Report Content 56 Group Highlights / Governance Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information / Supplementary Information probability of occurrence. At the conclusion of these risk assessments, Globalisation and international competition the Management Committees of each of the industry groups were Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 appraised of the high level risks and core sustainability risks that Risk rating Moderate Ultra high Moderate emerged during the risk review process. In the case of listed companies, the risk registers and mitigation action plans were presented for review by the respective Audit Committees. Status and action plan With more and more globally renowned businesses regarding Sri Lanka In the context of the Group risk review, the risks identified by Group as a potential investment destination, it is imperative that the Group companies which have a bearing on the overall risk rating of the Group is able to match global standards in serving customer needs in order were consolidated in the Group risk register, and were presented and to maintain market share and competitive advantage. We believe that reviewed by the Group Executive Committee. The Group risk register the impact to the Group is two-fold, both in terms of meeting customer comprises those risks affecting the whole Group, core sustainability needs, as well as attracting and retaining our talent pool. The Group is risks and other structural risks such as political risks, foreign exchange addressing this through enhanced training programmes and research and risks, etc. This was subsequently presented for review to the John Keells development capabilities, and is continually looking to establish best Holdings PLC Board Audit Committee. practice benchmarks. For the financial year ending 2011/12, below are some of the key items Macro economic and political environment included in the Group risk register along with the status and action plan Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 for each. Risk rating Low Moderate Moderate Legal and regulatory uncertainties Status and action plan Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 With the continuing focus of the Government on infrastructure Risk rating High Moderate High development and the peace dividend resulting in increased tourism and foreign direct investment, the year in review began positively for the Status and action plan Group. Whilst the Sri Lankan Government has made considerable progress in securing confidence of investors through certain changes made to Though faced with recent increases of commodity and fuel prices, the regulatory aspects, certain regulatory inaction during the year has led Group remains optimistic about its ability to overcome such challenges. to investor uncertainty. Our internal processes to identify changes in the In addition, increased lending rates and foreign exchange rates have had legislative environment and our risk management process have enabled an adverse impact on the investment climate as compared to the previous the Group to proactively assess the impact of such changes enabling it to year. adapt as appropriate. The Group is also working with various fora such as industry associations and chambers with a view to bringing in clarity The Group’s senior management are active participants in key policy and consistency in this current legislative and regulatory environment. making bodies and will continue to support and encourage the Government’s efforts to bring about sustainable development and Employees and human resources management economic growth. Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Financial exposure Risk rating High High Moderate Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Status and action plan Risk rating Low Low Moderate With the economic development envisaged in all sectors of the economy as well as increased global presence, there is increased competition for Status and action plan high calibre employees. In order to maintain our competitive advantage The centralised treasury and finance functions of the JKH Group are and to sustain growth and performance, the Group believes in retaining responsible for the management of the Group’s financial risks together quality employees through our various talent management programmes, with its liquidity and financing requirements. Treasury and finance such as career development, performance recognition and short term and operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines long term focused rewards and benefit plans. approved and monitored by the GEC. The finance and treasury framework is reviewed regularly and is fine tuned to meet the Group’s current During the year, the Group conducted a Voice of Employee survey in order and anticipated operating needs. This framework also facilitates the to better understand the needs of the staff which is a continuation of execution of Board approved strategies for interest, currency and liquidity our work carried out under the ‘Great Place to Work Trust Index’ survey management. Whilst the financial markets were somewhat volatile carried out in the year 2010/11. The results of these findings will be used towards the end of the financial year, the proactive strategies adopted by the Group to further enhance our talent management programmes during the year coupled with the Group’s strong balance sheet and in a bid to attract and retain quality talent in this current competitive availability of adequate funding sources, warrant continuation of the risk environment. rating at ‘low’. Annual Report 2011/12 57 John Keells Holdings PLC Risk Management Reputation and brand image During the year, the Group set in place a Disaster Management policy, Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 encompassing all disaster recovery plans of business units and office locations. Within this policy, the Group identified business continuity Risk rating Low Low Moderate teams, communication structures, alternate locations and alternative business processes in the event of any significant disruption to business Status and action plan operations. JKH’s continuing focus on sustainable development has resulted in the Group receiving positive media exposure through its extensive community Information technology dependency engagement and social infrastructure projects through the John Keells Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Foundation. In addition, the Group is also focused on product stewardship and tracks its performance via product responsibility indicators under Risk rating Low Low Moderate the GRI framework and a stringent quality assurance process. The Group also abides by the ICC Code of Advertising in all its marketing and Status and action plan communication material. While the Group’s operations are reliant on information technology stringent security measures, disaster recovery procedures and business Environment, health and safety continuity plans implemented Group-wide ensure the mitigation of Financial year 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 significant IT risks. This is enabled through the increased centralisation of IT systems throughout the Group, allowing for a uniform approach to Risk rating Low Low Moderate IT security and enforcement. Status and action plan With the further entrenchment of sustainability, the Group has increased its focus on environment, health and safety aspects pertaining to operations of the Group. Processes have been set in place to capture such concerns on quarterly basis through the sustainability reporting process. The Group OHS Task Force has successfully implemented ISO18001 in the majority of Group companies not operating in an office or IT environment. With the opening of new hotel properties during the year, the OHS Task Force will ensure that the OHSAS certification will be obtained for these properties as well. 58 Purpose Driven An ongoing determination to exceed our own achievements, goals and expectations is the force that drives us on and upward. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS Annual Report 2011/12 59 John Keells Holdings PLC Consolidated Group Performance In keeping with the integrated nature of this year’s report, the Management Discussion in oil prices and growth of imports, both interest rates and Analysis section (MD&A) will not only explain how the Group’s strategies and actions and exchange rates experienced significant volatility. have transpired into results, but will also cover the sustainability impacts in achieving Notwithstanding the fact that the impact of these these results. Accordingly, the management discussion will include analysis of the changes maybe more fully witnessed in the ensuing year, performance of the Group within the context of a dynamic economy as well as analysis a discussion of the macro-economic variables is relevant and discussion of the primary sustainability indicators within the reporting boundaries of in enabling a deeper understanding of the Group’s the Group. The boundaries for sustainability reporting include companies within the sphere performance during the year under review. of influence as outlined in the Introduction to the Report. The MD&A will also cover the financial and key sustainability indicators impacting each of the businesses and also the The following table discusses the major variables that key factors affecting the business, outlook and the sustainability agenda for the ensuing had, and continue to have, where applicable, a material year. impact on the performance of each industry group, and resultantly the Group, viewed as a whole. Detailed The economy discussions of Group strategies are also covered in the Chairman’s Message and the Industry Group Analysis From a macro-economic perspective, the year under review from April 2011 to March section of the Report. The study of external risks and 2012, was largely a tale of two halves. In the first half of the year, the country continued impacts is comprehensively covered under a structured to record significant growth while the fiscal and monetary policy was stable. Interest rates framework within the Sustainability Integration and Risk remained relatively static and the Rupee traded within a fairly narrow range of Management section of the Report. Rs. 109.50 to Rs. 110.50. However, in the second half of the year, as a result of increased consumption driven by high credit growth, and a high trade deficit driven by increases Macro variable Movement Cause Impact to JKH GDP growth was 8.3% for The industry and service sectors posted 10.3% and 8.6% The growth in GDP enhanced the 2011 compared to 8.0% in growth rates respectively during 2011. However, the sentiments of both businesses and GDP growth 2010. agricultural sector witnessed a growth of 1.5% during 2011 consumers alike, which positively vis-à-vis 7.0% growth during the preceding year mainly on impacted the Group’s businesses as the account of floods occurring in agriculturally important a result of high consumer spending, areas of the country during 2011. The growth of the industry increased tourist arrivals and higher sector of the economy was driven by improved levels of trade activity. production catering to amplified levels of domestic and export oriented demand. The services sector of the country too marked a considerable growth on account of improved performance of the wholesale and retail spheres. The annual average Overall inflation remained modest throughout the year. The price hikes in all categories of CCPI was 5.9% in March However, supply side shocks pertaining to the harvest refined fuel and electricity rates during Inflation compared to 6.2% in the of main crops as a result of unfavourable rainfall caused the latter portion of the year, primarily previous year. the CCPI to increase during October 2011, although had an impact on the Consumer Foods this trend reversed during the latter portion of the year and Retail business and Sri Lankan where food prices fell considerably on account of high based hotels, although these impacts output. The increase in global oil prices and the impact were only seen towards the end of of the devaluation of the Rupee in November 2011, and the financial year. The second wave of subsequently from February 2012 onwards, directly impacted impacts of these rate hikes in terms of key components of the CCPI. wage inflation and other impacts is yet to be seen. 60 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Macro variable Movement Cause Impact to JKH AWPLR increased to 12.8% The continued growth in bank credit resulting in high Whilst the increase in local currency in March 2012 from 8.98% consumer spending and a growing trade deficit necessitated borrowing costs had an impact on Interest rates – in the previous year. The an increase in policy rates and also resulted in higher earnings, this was adequately offset Sri Lanka three month Government secondary market interest rates. by the interest income generated from treasury bill rate increased the Group’s significant cash reserves to 11.0% by March 2012 and short term investments which also vis-à-vis 6.98% in the benefited from the upward movement previous year. in rates. From a borrowing perspective, the Group’s risk exposure to rising Rupee interest rates is somewhat mitigated as a result of relatively large borrowings having ‘capped’ interest rates. 3 month LIBOR increased The impact of the European sovereign debt crisis was felt The increase in US dollar LIBOR to 0.4682% in March across the globe resulting in lower growth forecasts and a resulted in marginally higher finance Interest rates 2012 from 0.3045% in the delay in the global recovery process. Renewed uncertainty costs on the IFC loan and dollar global corresponding period of the and increased default risk in the Euro zone resulted in higher denominated debt in the Maldives. preceding year. Swap costs interest rates. However, the firm commitment of the FOMC to Given the views of the market and for a five year interest rate maintain interest rates at an exceptionally low level till 2013 the FOMC, the Group did not enter swap fell to 1.25% levels ensured moderation of the yield curve and lower rates on into arrangements in fixing its interest from 2.31% levels last year interest rate swaps. rates through swaps as it was believed that floating interest rates would be more beneficial. The Sri Lankan Rupee The widening trade deficit as a result of high import demand The depreciation of the LKR had a (LKR) depreciated to Rs. and an increased petroleum import bill resulted in the positive impact on businesses with Exchange rate 128.10 as at 31st March LKR experiencing pressure towards the latter half of the foreign currency denominated revenue 2012 against the US dollar year. In February 2012, the CBSL allowed a free float of streams. Leisure benefited from the compared to Rs. 110.40 the LKR to protect foreign currency reserves and to ensure depreciation, while Property also had seen last year. competitiveness of the currency against regional peers. a positive impact due to a portion of The Emperor inflows emanating in US dollars. The Consumer Foods and Office Automation sectors were negatively impacted as a result of the depreciation and had to take necessary steps to ensure protection of margins. The Group took proactive steps, wherever and whenever possible, to manage the volatility in the forex market. Note: AWPLR average weighted prime lending rate; CBSL Central Bank of Sri Lanka; CCPI Colombo consumer price index; FOMC Federal open market committee GDP gross domestic product; IFC International Finance Corporation; LIBOR London inter bank offer rate; LKR Sri Lankan Rupee Management discussion Revenue Revenue composition In the year under review, Group revenue increased by 27 per cent to (Percentage) Rs. 76.70 billion [2010/11: Rs. 60.50 billion] primarily due to increases 8 3 6 4 26 26 in Transportation, Leisure and Consumer Foods & Retail (CF&R). 13 14 Transportation and CF&R continue to dominate the contribution to Group revenue, accounting for over a half of Group revenue. Revenues 2012 2011 emanating from domestic sources were Rs. 66.40 billion. Whilst the Group will continue to explore growth opportunities in the region, 25 20 26 20 4 4 the primary focus of the businesses would be to capitalise on the growth prospects in Sri Lanka, where the JKH knowledge base Transportation Leisure Property CF&R and competitive advantage is greater. Group revenue, inclusive of Financial Services IT Other associate company revenue, increased by 24 per cent to Rs. 86.39 billion [2010/11: Rs. 69.82 billion]. Annual Report 2011/12 61 John Keells Holdings PLC growth in gross profits was driven by increases in Leisure, as a result Consolidated Group of improved hotel profitability and by Ceylon Cold Stores on account of higher revenues. Whilst gross profit growth was driven by revenue Performance growth, the gross margins did not suffer, showcasing the efficiency in achieving such revenues. The gross margin of the Group improved to 23.7 While Group revenue increased 27 per cent, the carbon footprint of the per cent from 22.6 per cent in the previous year. Of the main contributors Group increased only 13 per cent to 73,753 metric tons. As a result, the to gross profits, a majority recorded improved margins – some fairly carbon footprint (MT) per million Rupees of revenue reduced from 1.08 to significantly. Other operating income declined by Rs. 1.96 billion, largely 0.96 times, demonstrating the improved efficiency in generating revenue on account of the capital gain in the previous year. and the success of the various sustainability initiatives across the Group, further details of which can be found in the Environmental Impact section During the year under review, the combined administrative, distribution of the Annual Report. and other operating expenses were Rs. 13.12 billion as against Rs. 11.50 billion in the previous year, an increase of 14 per cent. The Carbon footprint and footprint in MT per Rs. million of revenue main increases were from the Insurance sector and Leisure. Energy MT costs across the Group amounted to approximately 10 per cent of total 90 costs. The Group is conscious of the need to continuously reduce its 75 1.29 carbon footprint and has many initiatives in place. The increases in fuel 1.08 prices and electricity tariffs have further amplified the need to optimise 0.96 60 2.3 energy consumption across the Group. The total energy saved from 45 heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) improvements and other energy initiatives amounts to approximately 1.03 million kWh, which is 30 approximately equal to a saving of 1 per cent of total energy costs. 3.2 1.9 15 1.9 0 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins Carbon footprint (MT) Carbon footprint (MT) per Rs. Mn of revenue Rs. Mn. 18,000 Earnings before interest and tax 15.9% 15.3% 16.4% 15,000 13.6% 15.7% During the year under review, the earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) increased by 19 per cent to Rs. 13.58 billion [2010/11: Rs. 11.43 billion]. In 12,000 terms of the composition of EBIT, Leisure was the primary contributor with 9,000 a 33 per contribution, followed by Transportation and CF&R respectively. Group EBIT composition 6,000 (Percentage) 1 1 3,000 11 26 24 26 0 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 21 2012 1 2011 EBIT Depreciation/amortisation EBIT margin (%) 11 7 25 33 6 Industry group EBIT margins 7 Transportation Leisure Property CF&R The Group EBIT margin reduced to 15.7 per cent from 16.4 per cent in the Financial Services IT Other previous year the primary reason being the capital gain as discussed before. Eliminating the capital gain and the gain in fair value in both All industry groups achieved growth in EBIT, with the exception of Other, years, the EBIT margins were 14.1 per cent and 13.1 per cent in 2011/12 including Plantation Services, which included a capital gain of Rs. 1.79 and 2010/11 respectively. billion last year as a result of sale of shares of Asian Hotels & Properties PLC (AHPL) and John Keells Hotels PLC (KHL). While the current year EBIT The EBIT margin of certain industry groups were lower on account of a of CF&R was boosted by the fair value gain on investment property of Rs. higher contribution of revenues emanating from relatively lower margin 1.11 billion, the performance from the normal operations of the Consumer businesses. EBIT margins of all sectors within Leisure improved. The Foods sector was strong resulting in an EBIT of Rs. 1.72 billion as against EBIT margin of Property was negatively impacted as a result of the an EBIT of Rs. 683 million in the previous year. recognition of revenues and profits from ‘Onthree20’, where the margins were relatively lower than ‘The Emperor’. The EBIT margin of CF&R In absolute terms, EBIT grew by Rs. 2.16 billion. The growth in EBIT was was positively impacted by the fair value gain on investment property. largely through a growth in gross profits by Rs. 4.52 billion (a 33 per Excluding this gain in the current year, the comparable EBIT margin would cent increase over the previous year) and an increase in the fair value be approximately 8 per cent in 2011/12. of investment property by Rs. 946 million (over the previous year). The 62 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information EBIT margins (%) 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Profit after taxation Transportation 15.4% 16.1% 16.9% Group profit after taxation (PAT) increased by 22 per cent to Rs. 11.07 Leisure 25.5% 20.3% 12.9% billion [2010/11: Rs. 9.06 billion], with all industry groups, with the Property 26.7% 34.1% 24.0% exception of Other, including Plantation Services, making a positive Consumer Foods & 12.8% 3.7% 2.6% contribution to PAT. Other, including Plantation Services, made a negative Retail contribution to PAT largely as a result of a higher withholding tax charge Financial Services 13.1% 13.8% 9.0% of Rs. 240 million on intercompany dividends, as against Rs. 97 million Information Technology 2.6% 2.9% 0.6% in the previous year, coupled with a reduced contribution to PAT from Other 7.4% 87.1% 83.6% Plantation Services. Of the industry groups, Leisure and Transportation were the highest contributors with PATs of Rs. 3.71 billion [2010/11: Rs. Overall Group 15.7% 16.4% 13.6% 2.32 billion] and Rs. 3.27 billion [2010/11: Rs. 2.78 billion] respectively. The CF&R contribution to PAT increased to Rs. 2.38 billion [2010/11: Rs. Finance expenses 230 million]. Excluding the impact of the fair value gain on investment The finance expenses of the Group declined to Rs. 671 million [2010/11: property at Ceylon Cold Stores of Rs. 1.11 billion, the CF&R contribution Rs. 796 million], a reduction of Rs. 125 million. Leisure and the holding to PAT was Rs. 1.27 billion a five-fold growth over the previous year. company account for 62 per cent of total finance expenses. Driven by rising interest rates in the second half of the year, the interest rates on Excluding the impacts of non recurring items such as the capital gain Rupee denominated debt, which accounted for approximately half of from the previous year and the fair value gain on investment property, in total debt, increased. Whilst finance expenses decreased compared with both the current and previous years, the PAT would be Rs. 8.36 billion for the previous year, total debt increased as at the year end. This increase 2011/12 and Rs. 5.98 billion for 2010/11 – a growth of 40 per cent. in debt occurred largely on account of the increase in debt in the fourth quarter, whilst the impact of the translation of the dollar denominated debt also increased the Rupee equivalent of debt. The interest cover of Minority interest the Group increased to 20.2 times driven by a significant growth in EBIT Minority interest (MI) increased to Rs. 1.29 billion [2010/11: Rs. 818 coupled with a reduction in the finance expense. million] largely due to the increased contribution to PAT from Ceylon Cold Stores where the minority holding is relatively higher. The MI share of profits through the hotel operations in Leisure also increased on account Finance expenses and interest coverage of higher profits recorded by the respective companies. Rs. Mn. 2,000 20.2 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,600 The profit attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 19 per 14.4 1,200 cent to Rs. 9.78 billion [2010/11: Rs. 8.25 billion]. The net profit margin of the Group decreased to 11.3 per cent as against 11.8 per cent in the 800 previous year as a result of the impact of the capital gain discussed 5.1 4.7 above. Excluding the capital gain and the gain in fair value in both years, 5.8 400 net profit margins were 9.7 per cent and 8.6 per cent in 2011/12 and 2010/11 respectively. 0 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Finance expencses Interest cover Profit attributable to equity holders and profit ratio Taxation Rs. Mn. 10,000 Group tax expense increased by 18 per cent to Rs. 1.84 billion [2010/11: Rs. 1.57 billion]. Leisure, CF&R and Financial Services were the largest 8,000 11.3 contributors to the Group tax expense with Rs. 464 million, Rs. 361 million 10.0 11.8 9.1 9.0 and Rs. 321 million respectively. The effective tax rate on Group profits 6,000 reduced marginally to 14.3 per cent in 2011/12 as against 14.7 per cent in the previous year. The reduction in the effective tax rate was primarily 4,000 driven by the reduction in corporate taxes with effect from 1st April 2011. 2,000 Resultantly, the effective tax rate in CF&R and Financial Services – two industry groups with high effective tax rates, reduced significantly. The 0 effective tax rate of Leisure increased as a result of a relatively higher 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 proportion of income emanating from taxable hotel operations, including Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Profit % the impact as a result of the imposition of a business profit tax in the Maldives which was effective from mid last year. For further details on tax impacts of the Group, refer the Notes to the Financial Statements of the Annual Report. Annual Report 2011/12 63 John Keells Holdings PLC till 2015. A more detailed discussion on the individual impacts to the Consolidated Group respective businesses is found in the Industry Group Analysis section of the Annual Report. Performance Contribution to the Sri Lankan Rs. million Q1 Q2 FY 2011/12 Q3 Q4 Total economy Revenue 15,692 17,441 21,137 22,429 76,700 The economic value statement depicts the generation of wealth and PBT 1,883 2,121 3,418 5,489 12,910 its distribution among the stakeholders by acting responsibly in all Transportation 742 724 879 1,121 3,467 of our businesses/social activities throughout the entire value chain. It also reveals the amounts reinvested for the replacement of assets Leisure 374 667 1,002 2,133 4,176 and retained for the growth and development of operations. Further Property 85 (11) 319 582 975 information pertaining to the economic value as per the Global Reporting CF&R 207 326 532 1,672 2,736 Initiative (GRI) Indicator EC1 is available in the Economic section of the Financial 422 260 606 142 1,429 Annual Report. Services IT (20) 47 65 42 134 Economic value statement Other 74 108 15 (203) (7) For the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 Profit 1,368 1,557 2,733 4,117 9,775 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn attributable to shareholders Direct economic value generated Total assets 112,120 114,066 119,112 133,938 133,938 Revenue 76,700 60,500 Total equity 67,818 69,655 72,521 80,040 80,040 Interest income 2,771 2,748 Total debt 14,724 14,668 15,817 20,068 20,068 Dividend income 104 63 Share of results of associates 2,860 2,641 IFRS convergence Profit on sale of assets & other income 1,386 3,367 Valuation gain on IP 1,413 468 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) made a 85,234 69,787 commitment to converge with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by January 2012. Accordingly, the ICASL has published the Sri Economic value distributed Lankan version of IFRSs and IASs (International Accounting Standards) as Operating costs 59,116 47,506 SLFRSs and LKASs. These have been gazetted as at 30th December 2011 Employee wages & benefits 8,091 6,873 and are effective for entities with financial reporting periods beginning on Payments to providers of funds 4,278 3,482 or after 1st January 2012. Payments to Government 3,595 3,194 Community investments 59 46 As mentioned in the Chairman’s Message, the Group is well prepared to meet the IFRS convergence requirements. The Group embarked on a 75,139 61,101 special IFRS project as early as in the fourth quarter of 2009 and outlined Economic value retained a convergence approach which entailed the creation of IFRS awareness Depreciation 1,863 1,700 teams, development of technical competencies across the Group, Amortisation 771 609 establishing expert support where necessary, drawing up a clear timetable Profit after dividends 7,461 6,377 for implementation and aligning systems and processes to facilitate convergence. Further details on the process and methodology adopted can 10,095 8,686 be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. Return on capital employed and return Impact to financial statements on equity All Group companies have reconstructed SLFRS/LKAS opening balance The Group return on capital employed (ROCE) increased to 14.9 per sheets as at 1st April 2011 and have also identified and constructed cent as against 14.7 per cent in the previous year. The increase in ROCE SLFRS/LKAS provisional income statements for the financial year ended was achieved through the improvement of the Group’s asset utilisation 31st March 2012. efficiency, whilst EBIT margins were lower compared to the previous year due to reasons discussed before. Group capital employed increased to (Rs. billion) SLAS (current) SLFRS/LKAS Variance Rs. 100.12 billion in the current year as against Rs. 81.84 billion in the (provisional) previous year. For further details on the ROCE of each of the industry Revenue 76.72 77.32 0.60 group refer the Portfolio Movement and Evaluation and the Industry Group Profit before tax 12.91 12.92 0.01 Analysis sections of the Annual Report. As shown above, the adoption of IFRS does not have a material impact ROCE = EBIT x Asset x Assets/ to the revenue or profit of the Group. The most significant impact to the margin turnover (debt+equity) Group would have been the revenue recognition policy on the sale of 2011/12 14.9% = 15.7% x 0.71 x 1.34 apartments. However, the adoption of the standard has been deferred 2010/11 14.7% = 16.4% x 0.67 x 1.34 64 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Industry group-wise Outlook % ROCE comparison Transportation 22.5 The Sri Lankan economy will continue its growth momentum in the 21.0 13.2 ensuing year, albeit at a slower pace than in 2011, as a result of the Leisure 9.3 increase in interest rates, depreciation of the Rupee and possible Property 11.5 12.3 reduction in discretionary incomes. The measures taken by the policy Consumer Foods & Retail 12.5 35.3 makers are beginning to take effect and as a result the trade deficit Financial Services 21.2 is likely to improve, thereby reducing the pressure on the currency. 20.5 Considering the lag effect of these measures, the inflationary impacts Information Technology 8.6 7.7 caused by high oil prices globally and the secondary impacts of fuel price 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 revisions, consumer spending could witness a relative stabilisation in 2011/12 2010/11 the ensuing year. The increase in interest rates, and the possibility that interest rates could rise further before stabilising, is likely to impact discretionary spending. Following is a high level overview and rating of The following graph illustrates the ROCE and capital employed of each the possible impacts to our businesses, taking into account all things industry group and their relative EBIT contribution. equal, impacts of macro-economic factors, notwithstanding aspects such as competitive forces. The ratings would reflect the level of negative ROCE, capital employed and EBIT impact as a result of the macro-economic factors discussed. ROCE (%) size of bubble represents the relative contribution to EBIT in Rs. Mn • Transportation – Trans-shipment volumes are unlikely to be 35 2,827 significantly affected. Considering the high weightage towards transCF&R 30 shipment, a possible fall in domestic trade volume is unlikely to hurt 25 3,481 revenues materially, although margins will be affected if domestic 1,433 Transportation volumes drop significantly. The bunkering business is also unlikely 20 Financial Services to be affected, although it will be exposed to global market volatility 15 in crude oil prices and competitive forces regionally and locally. 4,447 182 1,014 Leisure Considering the higher weightage of earnings from Ports & Shipping 10 Property IT and the bunkering business, the rating is Low. 5 • Leisure – The volatility in the domestic economy will place pressure on the margins of the Sri Lanka based hotels as a result of the 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 increase in input costs, in addition to increased financing costs. Capital employed Rs. Bn Whilst events in key generating markets can impact arrivals, our view is that revenue generation should be strong, particularly due to some The return on equity (ROE) of the Group reduced to 15.0 per cent as pricing flexibility on account of a more competitive Rupee. Barring against 15.1 per cent in the previous year. The ROE decrease was partly significant political turmoil in the Maldives, the operations are attributable to the decrease in the common earnings leverage where as expected to continue their growth momentum, although profitability discussed above, a relatively higher proportion of profits were generated will be affected due to the imposition of a tax on business profits. by businesses with higher minority interest. Considering the likelihood for continued revenue growth the overall rating is Low. ROE = ROA x CEL* x CSL** • Property – While the increase in interest rates and the depreciation 2011/12 15.0% = 9.1% x 0.88 x 1.87 of the Rupee would usually negatively impact property development, the impact to the Property group in the ensuing year is likely to be 2010/11 15.1% = 8.7% x 0.91 x 1.91 limited as the key project ‘OnThree20’ is largely pre-sold. The pricing * CEL common earnings leverage; ** CSL capital structure leverage of apartments in Rupees ensured that customers are not exposed to the impact of a depreciating Rupee, and hence the possibility of cancellations is remote. Whilst there is an exposure to the Property ROE vs ROCE group as a result of the depreciation of the Rupee, certain mitigatory measures have been evaluated, and where possible, implemented. 15.1 15.0 In any event, the impact in the context of the project is relatively 14.7 14.9 immaterial. From a longer term perspective, if the macro-economic 13.9 conditions do worsen and remain protracted, the ability to start new projects could be hampered. Considering the relatively low volatility of earnings, the impact is rated Low. 12.5 12.0 • Consumer Foods & Retail – As discussed the possibility of reduced 10.9 discretionary consumer spending can potentially have a negative 10.8 10.6 impact on the Beverages, Frozen Confectionary and Convenience Foods businesses. Production costs are also likely to rise as a result of the reasons discussed before. The ability to pass on these cost 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 increases to the customers will need to be studied based on market ROE ROCE conditions, affordability and comparatives of substitute products Annual Report 2011/12 65 John Keells Holdings PLC consumer spending and constraints of borrowing limits in energy sources and Consolidated Group possible rationalisation of relation to the scale and nature of cogeneration projects corporate spending budgets, projects under consideration. Performance the growth prospects of the • Identify and install divisional water meters with a view to Office Automation and mobile Our ‘purpose driven’ and integrated reducing the consumption of available to consumers. The phone businesses could be approach to management is water usage significant investments in impacted in the shorter term. reflected in the operational and upgrading the manufacturing The BPO operations based financial strategies as well as • Assess feasibility and capabilities in the beverage out of India and the US are the sustainability agenda for the commission sewerage bottling plant and impulse ice expected to grow considering ensuing year. treatment plants at locations creams range will improve the investments in the back with high water usage productivity and efficiency end infrastructure and the Whilst the Group has made • Identify and evaluate and are expected to reduce marketing capability and track vast strides in its sustainability initiatives with a view to pressures on margins. The record that is being developed. initiatives and reporting, we are partially offsetting our carbon anticipated growth in the Considering the higher conscious of the need to further footprint hospitality industry will weightage of earnings from entrench the spirit of sustainability however have a positive Office Automation, the impact • Explore avenues through at all levels of staff across the impact. Whilst the overall is rated Medium. which e-waste may be Group. With this in mind, the trend of growth in modern efficiently managed While the discussion above Group will endeavor to implement trade will positively impact highlights the potential impacts an enterprise wide sustainability • Broad base the methodology the Retail sector, the possible to the Group, we continue to system to facilitate sustainability of waste sorting with a view reduction in discretionary be positive on the prospects of performance tracking and continue to minimising its impact on spending in the ensuing year the country and the economy. with awareness sessions and landfill and other forms of could impact basket values The focus of the Group will be necessary training. The importance waste disposal and margins. Overall impact is to continue our expansion in the of talent management and the Medium. • Initiate biodiversity growth areas of the economy. initiatives taken in this regard conservation projects with • Financial Services – The under Further details on the outlook and are discussed in detail under the partner organisations with penetration of life insurance plans of each industry group can Our People section of the Annual be found in the Industry Group a view to safeguarding the and other socio-economic Report. The Group will endeavour Analysis section of the Report. country’s natural biodiversity factors will continue to to extend its E-learning platform From an overall perspective, resources positively impact the insurance to cover all Group companies with industry. Whilst a possible the focus on managing working a view to making training more reduction in disposable capital will be given further accessible and delivery efficient. Considering the scale and incomes could impact the prominence considering the higher With increased scale in operations, complexity of the Group’s life insurance segment, we financing costs and possible the need to develop staff for higher operations and the dynamic do not anticipate this to be liquidity constraints that may management roles is ever more changes to the business significant. The increase in impact the broad market. Whilst critical and we will continue the environment, the Group will interest rates will also have the leverage ratios of the Group manager development programmes augment the risk review process a positive impact on the are comfortable, the debt level to meet this requirement. to capture the full spectrum of life and general investment increased in Q4 of 2011/12, with risk mitigation actions. Whilst portfolios. The banking sector total debt at Rs. 20.07 billion. sustainability is the cornerstone The triple bottom line focus of is likely to be impacted with Increases in interest rates will of corporate actions, the Group the Group ensures we look at all the imposition of a ceiling on have an impact on the total will continue to focus on its social aspects of performance. Whilst credit growth rates as well financing expense of the Group, responsibility initiatives under environmental conservation is one as a squeeze on margins. although certain mitigatory factors the auspices of the John Keells of the key pillars of sustainability, Whilst equity markets have such as having interest rate caps Foundation. Some of the key the need to focus on energy come off from previous highs, on certain facilities will reduce the initiatives under the agenda for consumption is further exacerbated uncertainty in corporate exposure. The efforts of the Group, 2012/13 are to: by the increase in fuel and earnings may dampen equity particularly in the last few years, • Provide rainwater harvesting electricity prices. The following investments in the ensuing where there was a relentless focus facilities to selected homes, key initiatives will be conducted in year and hence growth on improving processes, reducing through the village adoption the ensuing year: prospects maybe somewhat waste and enhancing productivity, programme, in a bid to should stand in good stead relative • Continue to implement energy curtailed. In spite of a higher improve access to water to competition. Whilst the Group conservation initiatives and contribution to earnings from has adequate cash reserves and stimulate behavioural changes • Provide solar powered lighting Insurance, the impact is rated funding, we will continue to in staff through awareness in selected homes through its Medium. engage with banking and noncampaigns with a view to village adoption programme • Information Technology – banking sources for our future optimising energy consumption Coupled with the increase in funding requirements, particularly • Continue and extend recycling • Explore areas that could be prices due to the depreciation considering the possible projects based on feasibility powered through renewable of the Rupee, reduced 66 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Capital Resources and Liquidity Summary of key balance sheet items 2012 2011 Change Change Item Explanatory highlights for YoY changes Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn % Property plant & 34,290 28,628 5,662 20% • Addition of Rs. 2.04 billion due to the refurbishments of Cinnamon Lakeside, Chaaya equipment Wild and Chaaya Tranz • Addition of Rs. 1.54 billion due to the construction of Chaaya Bey • Rs. 585 million gain arising from the revaluation of PPE of John Keells PLC • Consolidation of the assets of JK BPO amounting to Rs. 337 million due to the company being consolidated as a subsidiary • Increase offset by depreciation charge of Rs. 1.86 billion Leasehold property 10,282 9,516 766 8% • Increase of Rs. 783 million due to the exchange gain on the conversion of lease values of Dhonveli and0 Elaidhoo Investment property 7,631 5,386 2,245 42% • Fair value gain on IP of Rs. 1.11 billion at CCS and Rs. 100 million at TransAsia • Addition of the 6 acre property at Kapuwatte, Ja-ela valued at Rs. 528 million • Fair value gain of Rs. 207 million at AHP (Crescat Boulevard) Investments in 15,693 14,670 1,022 7% • Associate company profits of Rs.2.64 billion, offset by dividends of Rs. 2.49 billion associates • Exchange gain of Rs. 1.18 billion on translation of the share of net assets of SAGT • Investment of Rs. 228 million in Sancity Hotels & Properties • Transfer of the associate investment in AuxiCogent BPO Solutions Private Limited due to the company becoming a subsidiary Other investments 12,379 11,792 586 5% • Investment of Rs. 1.00 billion in the private placement of Access Engineering Limited • Decrease in investments of UA amounting to Rs. 414 million Other non current 3,500 3,231 269 8% • Rs. 386 million relating to construction advance payments for OnThree20 assets • Addition of Rs. 1.02 billion pertaining to the apartment project of BOCPL • Decrease of Rs. 1.87 billion due to the transfer of the work in progress of The Emperor apartments to cost of sales Inventories 4,372 3,144 1,229 39% • LMS higher global oil prices and the depreciation of the Rupee resulting in an increase in the value of inventory and arrival of stocks at the end of the month • JKOA – inventory of mobile phone stocks and other products for the season Trade and other 13,972 12,072 1,900 16% • Primarily from LMS, CCS and JKOA due to higher operating volumes receivables • Consolidation of the receivables of JK BPO Short term 29,034 18,994 10,041 53% • LMS – due to increased profitability investments and • UA – due to a higher allocation of funds in short term investments cash in hand • AHP due to the receipt of the final tranche of payments for The Emperor apartments which were handed over and the cash generation due to the better performance of Cinnamon Grand Shareholders’ 71,176 59,587 11,589 19% • Profit for the year of Rs. 9.78 billion, surplus on revaluation of Rs. 1.41 billion and net equity exchange gain on associate company share of net assets of Rs 1.21 billion, offset by dividends of Rs. 2.31 billion Insurance provision 14,745 12,663 2,082 16% • Net increase in UA’s life funds Non current interest 12,284 8,353 3,932 47% • Loans obtained for the refurbishments of Chaaya Tranz and Chaaya Wild and the bearing borrowings constructions of Chaaya Bey • Consolidation of the borrowings of BOCPL • Increase in the Rupee value of the IFC loan due to the translation effect offset by repayment of the two scheduled repayments for the year Trade and other 15,398 12,380 3,018 24% • LMS on higher volumes similar to receivables payables • Consolidation of trade and other payables of JK BPO Current portion of 2,409 2,134 275 13% • Increase of the IFC loan portion of JKH due to the depreciation of the Rupee interest bearing borrowings Bank overdraft 4,347 3,904 443 11% • Increase at LMS and JKOA due to higher working capital requirements Note: AEL – Access Engineering Limited; AHP – Asian Hotels & Properties; BOCPL British Overseas Colombo Private Limited; CCS – Ceylon Cold Stores; IFC – International Finance Corporation; IP – investment property; JKMR – John Keells Maldivian Resorts; JMSL – Jaykay Marketing Services; JKOA – John Keells Office Automation; JKRP – John Keells Residential Properties; JKSB John Keells Stock Brokers; KFP – Keells Foods Products; KHL – John Keells Hotels; LMS – Lanka Marine Services; NTB – Nations Trust Bank; UA – Union Assurance Annual Report 2011/12 67 John Keells Holdings PLC Balance sheet structure Liquidity management Rs. Bn. Rs.Mn. Assets Liabilities 50 23,993 29,045 40 19,012 19,449 18,344 29,905 22,337 15,216 19,559 30 8,865 23,648 12,229 41,977 22,838 7,608 37,920 20 6,430 29,527 71,176 59,587 49,832 10 34,565 38,144 44,572 0 98,658 110,292 133,938 133,938 110,292 98,658 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Current liabilities Current assets Cash and short-term investments Property, plant & equipment and leasehold property Shareholders’ funds Other non current assets Minority interest Inventory and receivables Non current liabilities Cash, short term investments and other current assets Current liabilities Balance sheet property increased mainly due Cash flow Leverage and to a fair value gain of Rs. 1.11 structure billion at CCS. The investments in Cash and cash equivalents capital structure associates increased mainly due increased by Rs. 7.97 billion to Total assets increased by Rs. Capital structure 23.65 billion to Rs. 133.94 billion to an exchange gain of Rs. 1.18 Rs. 19.81 billion by the end of the year [2010/11 restated: Rs. 11.84 Total assets of Rs. 133.94 billion [2010/11: Rs. 110.29 billion] billion on translation of the share billion]. Net cash from operating were funded by shareholders’ primarily due to increases in of net assets of SAGT. activities increased to Rs. 16.48 funds (53 per cent), minority property plant & equipment billion as against Rs. 8.50 billion interest (7 per cent), long term (PPE), investment property and Working capital due to increased profit before creditors (22 per cent) and short investments in associates as Net working capital of the Group working capital changes, thus term creditors (18 per cent). Thus, described in the summary table. increased to Rs. 23.40 billion significantly increasing the cash the long term funding of assets [2010/11: Rs. 14.78 billion] due generated from operations. Net was Rs. 109.94 billion – 82 per Non-current assets to an increase in short term cash used in investing activities cent of total assets. Non-current assets of the investments and cash. The overall was Rs. 9.00 billion [2010/11: Rs. Group were Rs. 86.55 billion working capital requirements of 4.47 billion]. In the current year, Debt [2010/11: Rs. 76.06 billion], an the Group pertaining to inventory cash invested for the purchase The total debt of the Group was increase of Rs. 10.49 billion. and trade and other receivables of property, plant and equipment Rs. 20.07 billion [2010/11: Rs. Non-current assets increased increased in tandem with the was Rs. 5.49 billion [2010/11: 14.64 billion], an increase of Rs. primarily as a result of increases growth in volumes, although Rs. 4.98 billion] which is a 10 5.43 billion from last year. The in PPE, investment property this was offset by an increase percent increase from the previous catalyst for the increase in debt and investments in associates. in trade and other payables. The year. This capital expenditure was the borrowings on account of Refurbishments to Cinnamon nature of some of the consumer was largely in the Leisure and refurbishments in Leisure. While Lakeside, Chaaya Tranz and Chaaya related businesses are such that Consumer Foods & Retail industry total debt levels did increase, Wild were the main reasons for working capital requirements have groups which accounted for Rs. the depreciation of the Rupee the increase in PPE. Investment increased significantly. 4.16 billion and Rs. 1.02 billion resulted in a translation loss on respectively. Net cash used in foreign currency denominated financing activities was Rs. 496 2011/12 2010/11 borrowings at the holding company million [2010/11: Rs. 6.79 billion]. Current ratio (times) 2.0 1.8 and Maldivian Resorts. These This decrease was mainly due Quick ratio (times) 1.8 1.6 impacts were offset to a large to the proceeds from borrowings Net working capital (Rs. Mn) 23,396 14,779 extent by the intentional strategy obtained for refurbishments of of maintaining dollar denominated Asset turnover (times) 0.7 0.7 Chaaya Tranz and Chaaya Wild cash reserves as a ‘natural Capital employed (Rs. Mn) 100,108 81,836 and for the ongoing construction of hedge’. Given the possible upward Total debt (Rs. Mn) 20,068 14,641 Chaaya Bey. movement of interest rates, the Net debt (cash) (Rs. Mn) (8,548) (4,168) Group will continuously monitor Debt/equity ratio (%) 25.1 21.8 its borrowings and will look to Net debt (cash)/equity ratio (%) (10.7) (6.2) rationalise any borrowings if it Long-term debt to total debt (%) 61.3 57.2 is financially prudent, given the Debt/total assets (%) 15.0 13.3 interest rate differentials between Debt/EBITDA (times) 1.2 1.1 investment and borrowing rates. 68 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information During the year, Maldivian Resorts Treasury finance in certain businesses, repaid a portion of its short term from an overall perspective the debts utilising its cash reserves management Group benefitted as a result of the built up as a result of the improved The depreciation of the Rupee enhanced yield on its short term cash inflows from operations. commencing from November investment and cash balances. In 2011 had an adverse impact on a any event, of the total debt across The debt to equity ratio of the handful of businesses within the the Group, approximately half is Group was 25.1 per cent as Group. However, businesses with foreign currency denominated against 21.8 per cent in the foreign currency denominated and not impacted by the rise in previous year. The net debt (cash) revenue streams benefitted local interest rates. The Group to equity ratio was (10.7) per although this benefit will accrue was also successful in negotiating cent as against (6.2) per cent in over a period of time. Certain satisfactory ‘caps’ on some of the previous year – leaving much export businesses were negatively the new long term debt facilities headroom considering the Group’s impacted as a result of mark which will further mitigate interest target net debt to equity net debt to market losses on forward rate risk. ratio of 50 per cent. Considering contracts, although these were more than offset by existing cash volatile liquidity conditions in Credit facilities the market, it is considered reserves and the benefit through JKH retained its AAA(lka) rating prudent to continue maintaining the un-hedged component of cash from Fitch Ratings Lanka Limited relatively lower leverage ratios inflows. on account of its strong balance at present. The low leverage sheet and steady performance. ratios demonstrate the borrowing Whilst businesses which were In addition to its sizeable cash capacity of the Group to fund its funded with US dollar debt were reserves, the Group continues to next phase of growth. Reinforcing impacted by translation losses, have significant credit facilities this position, the debt to EBITDA these were offset to a large extent available with banks in Sri Lanka. cover remained at 1.2 times, which through maintaining a ‘natural The utilisation of a majority of the was a marginal increase from the hedge’ as discussed above. Dollar funding lines available, particularly previous year. Long term debt to denominated debt continues to at a holding company level has total debt increased to 61.3 per carry a yield advantage against not been necessitated due to cent from 57.2 per cent in the Rupee borrowings. However, the availability of cash reserves. previous year mainly on account of the Group has always been However, the company is looking the increased borrowing obtained conscious of the need to match to proactively manage potential to fund the refurbishments and for such liabilities with corresponding funding requirements and we the construction of Chaaya Bey. inflows in order to manage will continue to have a few large The Leisure industry group and the exposures, and hence will stand-by loan facilities with some holding company continue to have evaluate such alternatives very large banks. The current cash the largest share of the overall closely. As the outlook for the position of the Group and leverage debt. Rupee continues to be somewhat ratios demonstrate its ability to uncertain, the Group will continue leverage its balance sheet further Statement of its conservative and prudent approach in managing its foreign if the requirement arises. changes in equity currency exposure. Total equity increased by Rs. 12.85 billion to Rs. 80.04 billion The adjustment in monetary [2010/11: Rs. 67.19 billion]. The policy rates and market forces led increase was primarily due to a to an increase in interest rates. profit contribution of Rs. 11.07 Whilst the increase in interest billion, surplus revaluation of Rs. rates does impact the cost of 1.41 billion, although offset by dividends paid of Rs. 2.31 billion. Annual Report 2011/12 69 John Keells Holdings PLC Portfolio Movement and Evaluation ROCE vs Capital Employed 2011/12 ROCE (%) 143.6 Hotel Management 143.6% 50 Destination management 52.8% Consumer foods 42.1% 40 Plantation Services 18.2% 30 Financial Transportation 22.5% Services 21.2% Retail IT 20 6.9% Hurdle Rate 15% City Hotels 14.1% 8.7% Property 11.5% Maldivian Resorts Sri Lankan 10 9.6% Resorts 7.6% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Rs. Bn. Average capital employed Portfolio management and to brand, image and reputation per cent over the previous year. margins. Destination Management evaluation is a continuous process in conjunction with the The bunkering business, which recorded a ROCE of 52.8 per cent at John Keells Holdings and anticipated returns was the primary contributor to due to improved volumes, price has been the foundation for the the Transportation sector, also revisions and exchange gains creation of shareholder wealth JKH’s hurdle rate (or required improved its margins compared to resulting in higher EBIT margins. over the years. Whilst the Group is rate of return) is a function of the previous year. As depicted in the portfolio presented with many opportunities the weighted average cost of evaluation graph above, Hotel in varying industries, the Group capital (WACC), derived from the Management and Destination Fuelled by the overall growth continues to follow the successful Group’s cost of equity, cost of Management are the highest in the tourism industry, all four methodology in evaluating its debt, target leverage, tax rates in terms of the ROCE, given the sectors within the Leisure industry portfolio, which also helps guide and the value creation premium service providing nature of the two group saw a significant growth its investment evaluation and required over and above the businesses. in ROCE, resulting in the industry strategies. The evaluation and WACC. Strategic business units group reaching a ROCE of 13.2 per review process undertaken for are assessed for risk under cent in the current year against The ROCE of Property industry this purpose comprises of four headings such as customer the 9.3 per cent ROCE achieved group reduced marginally to filters which critically evaluate the orientation, suppliers/JV partner in 2010/11. The ROCE of City 11.5 per cent from 12.3 per cent investment or divestment decisions dependence, risk of international Hotels increased to 14.1 per cent in the previous year. During the as explained below. entrants, labour dependence, from 10.8 per cent recorded in year, a greater portion of revenue cyclicality, dependence on the Sri • Financial filter – cornerstone of the previous year, mainly driven was recognised on account Lankan economy and regulatory the decision criteria based on by higher revenue generation of the relatively lower margin dependence. The present hurdle the JKH hurdle rate from its asset base coupled with ‘OnThree20’ project as opposed rate of the Group is 15 per cent. improved EBIT margins. Sri Lankan to the high margin up market While the cost of debt has • Growth filter – evaluates the Resorts improved its ROCE to residential project ‘The Emperor’. increased significantly over the last industry attractiveness and the 7.6 per cent from 3.8 per cent in This was the primary reason for few months, the hurdle rate has growth opportunities the previous year. EBIT margins the reduction in EBIT and hence not been revised on the basis that increased significantly on account ROCE. • Strategic fit – evaluates the long it is a long term target, and any of higher operating revenues and term competitive advantage revision would be warranted only margins. However, whilst revenues The Consumer Foods & Retail of a business/industry by if the above mentioned indicators did increase considerably, given industry group saw an increase evaluating the strength of are expected to change over the the large investments in the in ROCE from 12.5 per cent to competitive forces, specific long term as well. refurbishment of Chaaya Wild, 35.3 per cent. In the current industry/business risks, ability Chaaya Tranz and the ongoing year, the Consumer Foods sector to control value drivers and The Transportation industry construction costs of Chaaya Bey improved its ROCE to 42.1 per cent the competencies and critical group improved its ROCE to resulting in an increase in capital as against 15.3 per cent in the success factors already inherent 22.5 percent compared to 21.0 employed, the asset utilisation previous year. Whilst the ROCE to the Group company per cent achieved last year. The was similar to last year. The ROCE was positively impacted by the increase was due to the increased of Maldivian Resorts increased to • Complexity filter – considers fair value gain on revaluation of earnings achieved particularly by 9.6 per cent from 6.3 per cent in factors such as senior investment property at Ceylon Cold the Transportation sector which the previous year, primarily as a management time and the risk Stores, the ROCE excluding this saw an increase in EBIT of 52 result of an improvement in EBIT 70 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information impact was still well above the hurdle rate of the Group as a result of Information Technology improved its ROCE to 8.6 per cent compared higher operating EBIT margins. While revenues did increase considerably, with 7.7 per cent recorded last year. The IT group saw strong revenue the increase in capital employed on account of the revaluation as well as growth from Office Automation and the BPO operations, resulting in capital expenditure at Ceylon Cold Stores, meant the asset turnover in better asset utilisation in spite of the increase in capital employed in consumer foods declined marginally. The ROCE of Retail improved to 6.8 both these businesses. However, overall EBIT margins were impacted per cent from 3.2 per cent mainly due to the increase in EBIT margins. The by the reduction of EBIT margins in Office Automation as a result of the capital employed increased on account of the equity infusion to fund the increased share of revenues emanating from the relatively lower margin outlet expansion and increased working capital requirements. mobile phone business. The ROCE of the Financial Services industry group increased to 21.2 per Plantation Services recorded a ROCE of 18.2 per cent, much lower than cent, marginally above the ROCE of 20.5 per cent in 2010/11. The overall the ROCE of 34.8 per cent achieved in 2010/11 as a result of shrinking industry group EBIT margin fell to 13.1 per cent from 13.8 per cent mainly margins and a fall in revenues. as a result of the reduction in profitability of Stockbrokers due to the low activity in the stock market. Portfolio movements Capital employed Rs. billion 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Transportation Leisure Property CF&R Financial Services IT Other 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Investments Rs. 2.73 billion in South Acquired a 24.6 stake in Acquired 5.604 million (14.9 per cent) in Invested Rs. 515 million by subscribing to the Asia Gateway Terminals Central Hospital (Pvt) Ltd for Union Assurance PLC for Rs. 841 million Ceylon Cold Stores PLC rights issue. A portion and increased stake to 42.2 Rs. 900 million of the proceeds was infused as equity into percent JayKay Marketing Services Limited to fund the expansion of its supermarkets. Rs. 170 million in Keells Gained full control of Invested Rs. 600 million by subscribing to International Tourist and Hoteliers Limited Food Products and Mackinnons American the rights issue of its fully owned subsidiary invested Rs. 350 million in its fully owned increased stake to 83.2 Express Travel (Pvt) Ltd with Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd for the subsidiary Beruwala Holiday Resorts Private per cent the purchase of a 30 per cent purpose of funding the construction of Limited for the purpose of funding the stake for Rs. 14 million Chaaya Bey ongoing construction of Chaaya Bey Beruwala Rs. 598 million in Ceylon Additional equity infusion of Purchase of shares in John Keells Invested Rs. 522 million for the acquisition of Cold Stores and increased Rs. 40 million to John Keells Residential Properties for Rs. 925 million in a 6 acre land in Ja Ela stake to 80.5 per cent Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd exchange for the Union Place Land Rs. 101 million in John Beruwala Holiday Resorts Invested Rs. 219.4 million to convert Nations Invested Rs.228 million in Sancity Hotels a Keells PLC and increased (Pvt) Ltd purchased a 4.6 Trust Bank warrants to shares joint venture project with Sanken Lanka the stake to 86.9 per cent acre block of land for Rs. 232 (Private) Limited to construct a business hotel million in Colombo Rs. 1.12 billion investment Invested Rs. 251.6 million Additional equity infusion of Rs. 65 million to in Union Assurance and to convert NTB warrants to John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd increased stake to 80.6 shares. per cent USD 0.5 million for Subscribed to 195 million Invested Rs. 947 million by participating in remaining 49 per cent shares from the John Keells a rights issue of its subsidiary International of Mackinnons Keells Hotels PLC rights issue Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd thereby increasing Enterprises and Mackinnons investing Rs. 1.95 billion its effective share holding to 98.39 percent Keells Air Services USD 5.72 million for 44 per Purchased the head lease of Dhonveli Island cent equity stake in Quattro for a period of 18 years Finance & Accounting Solutions Invested Rs. 485 million by participating in a rights issue of its subsidiary Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd and thereby increased its effective share holding to 98.65 per cent. Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd thereafter invested Rs 485 million in Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd for the purpose of funding the refurbishment and upgrading of Coral Gardens Hotel Annual Report 2011/12 71 John Keells Holdings PLC Portfolio Movement and Evaluation 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Mergers and Walkers Air Services Ltd was restructuring amalgamated with Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd with the surviving entity being Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd Stake in Information Systems Associates divested to John Keells Computer Services for Rs. 47 million Trinco Holiday Resorts purchased the Club Oceanic hotel for a net consideration of Rs. 301 million Divestments 20 per cent stake in AMW 150 million shares from Divested 11.62 million shares (5.25 per cent) for a consideration of Rs. the John Keells Hotels PLC of Asian Hotels and Properties PLC for Rs. 1.92 billion 1:3 rights issue for Rs. 751 1.98 billion million Remaining 26 per cent of Remaining 26 per cent stake Divested 37.5 million shares (2.58 per cent) Keells Restaurants for a in KBSL for Rs. 23 million of John Keells Hotels PLC for Rs. 787.5 consideration of Rs. 49 million million Remaining 22 per cent of Divested the head lease of Alidhoo Island in Crescat Restaurants for Maldives a consideration of Rs. 12 million Changes in Repurchase of 25.5 million Repayment of Rs. 2 billion of JKH capital shares amounting to Rs. debentures 2.30 billion USD 75 million loan from the International Finance Corporation 72 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Industry Group Analysis Industry Group Financial Highlights REVENUE * Rs. billion (Percentage) LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 8 3 6 4 5 PROP CF&R 5 26 26 TRP 24 IT 13 14 16 2011/12 22.60 17.42 3.79 22.02 10.91 6.95 2.68 2012 2011 2010 2010/11 18.31 13.81 2.49 18.36 9.50 4.23 3.12 20 2009/10 14.18 11.50 1.62 15.84 9.43 2.59 2.82 25 20 26 20 27 4 4 3 EBIT Rs. billion (Percentage) LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 1 1 PROP CF&R 11 26 24 26 30 TRP 30 IT 2011/12 3.48 4.45 1.01 2.83 1.43 0.18 0.20 21 2012 1 2011 2010 2010/11 2.94 2.80 0.85 0.68 1.31 0.12 2.72 11 2009/10 2.39 1.49 0.39 0.42 0.85 0.02 2.36 7 33 6 25 11 19 7 5 5 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Rs. billion (Percentage) LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 18 17 17 17 TRP 17 19 IT 2 2 2 2011/12 16.81 36.71 9.95 9.06 7.11 2.43 18.03 7 2012 8 2011 9 2010 2010/11 14.17 30.69 7.73 6.97 6.39 1.77 14.10 9 5 9 2009/10 13.80 29.57 6.13 4.00 6.40 1.39 12.43 10 37 38 8 40 9 TOTAL ASSETS Rs. billion (Percentage) LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 14 PROP CF&R 14 15 14 15 TRP 15 IT 3 2 2 2011/12 20.35 41.24 10.35 12.69 26.81 3.34 19.16 20 2012 22 2011 2010 2010/11 16.19 33.71 8.67 10.26 23.96 2.42 15.09 22 33 31 2009/10 14.83 32.54 6.99 7.02 21.46 1.74 14.08 9 31 9 7 8 8 7 EMPLOYEES Number (Percentage) LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 5 5 5 9 11 PROP CF&R 10 TRP IT 9 9 8 2011/12 594 4,843 99 3,147 1,047 1,114 1,112 9 2012 10 2011 9 2010 40 2010/11 572 4,459 99 3,029 1,121 979 1,130 39 2009/10 543 4,319 104 2,878 996 818 1,227 26 41 1 27 1 26 1 CARBON FOOTPRINT MT (Percentage) LEISURE FIN SER 5 1 6 OTHER 2 21 2 TRP PROP CF&R IT 2011/12 906 35,162 1,449 29,477 1,610 1,406 3,743 2012 2011 2010/11 319 34,926 2,407 21,938 1,412 614 3,907 53 48 33 2009/10 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 40 2 4 * Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue TRP Transportation industry group FIN SER Financial Services industry group ** For associate companies, the capital employed is representative of the Group’s LEISURE Leisure industry group IT Information Technology industry group PROP Property industry group OTHER Others, including Plantation Services equity investment in these companies CF&R Consumer Foods & Retail industry group Annual Report 2011/12 73 John Keells Holdings PLC > Ports & Shipping Transportation > Transportation South Asia Gateway Terminals continued its strong performance by handling 1.94 million TEUs during the year Vision and scope Key indicators The Transportation industry group carries the vision to be recognised as a leading provider of transportation solutions and related services through (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 a balanced portfolio of businesses in selected markets. Businesses of the industry group offer an array of transportation related services in Revenue1 22,604 18,314 23.4% 14,177 Sri Lanka and the region and these operations comprise of South Asia EBIT 3,481 2,941 18.4% 2,391 Gateway Terminals in the port of Colombo, a marine bunkering business, PBT 3,467 2,929 18.3% 2,366 joint venture / associations with leading shipping and air transportation PAT 3,271 2,781 17.6% 2,282 multinationals and logistics, travel and airline services in Sri Lanka, India Total assets 20,352 16,185 25.7% 14,831 and the Maldives. Total equity 15,304 13,954 9.7% 13,498 Total debt 1,509 218 593.3% 298 Contribution to JKH Group Capital employed2 16,813 14,172 18.6% 13,796 No. of employees3 594 572 3.8% 543 1 26 26 17 EBIT per employee3 5.9 5.1 14.0% 4.4 Carbon footprint (MT)4 906 319 183.7% N/A CAPITAL CARBON REVENUE EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 74 74 83 99 2 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 3 No of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies and DHL Keells (Private) Ltd 74 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Sector highlights Ports & Shipping Transportation Businesses within the sector Operations of a private container terminal Logistics services which include operations of DHL Air Express in the port of Colombo on a BOT basis under in Sri Lanka in a JV with Deutsche Post, third party logistics and South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) freight forwarding solutions under the John Keells Logistics brand, bunkering services under Lanka Marine Services (LMS) Associate company stake in Maersk Lanka Representation of airlines as general sales agents through Mack Air in Sri Lanka and through its subsidiary in Maldives – on-line operations by Jet Airways and Gulf Air and off-line representation of number of airlines. Travel agency business through Mackinnons Travels Revenue and growth Rs. 5.23 billion, increase of 7% Rs. 17.38 billion, increase of 29% EBIT and growth Rs. 2.27 billion, increase of 6% Rs. 1.21 billion, increase of 52% Carbon Footprint Not within the boundary of sustainability 906 MT reporting Key developments during the • SAGT installed two new Super Post • Airline SBU launched the B2C internet booking engine which is year Panamax cranes enabling it to better handle the first end-to-end internet engine launched by a Sri Lankan the larger, newer container vessels outbound travel agent • LMS became the first bunkering company to supply bunkers to vessels calling at the port of Kankasanthurai in the North of the country • LMS launched a B2B web portal for their key customers, becoming one of the few suppliers in the world to do so Key external/internal variables • Disruptions at key Indian ports that are • Differentiation of product offering by medium to large scale affecting business origins/destinations for trans-shipment players through building an asset based business model with the cargo over Colombo intention of providing a total logistics solution • Continuous rise in international petroleum prices • Expansion of storage capacity at the JCT run Bloemendhal Oil terminal by adding a new 5000 MT tank during the year Note: B2B Busuness to Business; B2C Business to Consumer; BOT Build Operate and Transfer; JCT Jaya Container Terminal; SBU Strategic Business Unit Integrated operational to handle a higher load capacity and information about their operator in the country by adding review and discussion and have a wider reach, enabling transactions online. During the to its portfolio of customers and During the year under review, it to service large vessels more year, the bunkering business faced service offering. One of the bigger South Asia Gateway Terminals efficiently. This augmentation will increased competition from Indian challenges faced by the Logistics (SAGT) handled 1.94 million twenty also contribute towards enhancing ports on account of India being a segment was the increased cost foot equivalent units (TEUs), with the productivity, and thus capacity, net exporter of fuel oil and also of material handling equipment trans-shipment volumes being of the terminal. due to the favourable changes as a result of the depreciation of the largest contributor (78.9 per in Indian bunker tax regulations. the Rupee, thus directly impacting cent) as in the past. However, The bunkering business This enabled some suppliers in the the competitiveness of newly the domestic volumes handled experienced growth driven leading Indian ports to sell bunkers built logistics facilities. John increased by 14 per cent against primarily by the increase in at prices close to Singapore prices Keells Logistics in partnership the previous year driven mainly by volume and the continued upward although service issues at these with USAID implemented a cold the growth in the country’s import movement in global oil prices. locations remained a challenge. chain for agricultural and fisheries trade volumes in the first half Introduction of the Business to products in the North and East of of the year. SAGT installed two Business (B2B) web portal – one During the year, John Keells Sri Lanka at a joint investment new ‘Super Post Panamax’ ship of the few of its kind in the Logistics Limited (JKLL) further of more than Rs. 400 million in to shore cranes, in addition to the world, enabled customers to expanded its business as a September 2011. Under the first new crane purchased last year. access various types of services key third party logistics (3PL) phase of the project, transportation The new equipment is expected Annual Report 2011/12 75 John Keells Holdings PLC The airline representation business Financial review Transportation will continue to be affected by the The Transportation industry group witnessed an overall growth during vagaries of frequent re-evaluation the financial year 2011/12 with both sectors performing better than the of routes and frequencies by previous year. Revenues grew by 29 per cent to Rs. 17.38 billion [2010/11: their principal airlines, with the Rs. 13.43 billion]. Revenues, including associate company revenues, resultant effect on revenues and grew by 29 per cent to Rs. 22.60 billion [2010/11: Rs. 18.31 billion]. The performance. Operations of this Transportation industry group EBIT increased by 18 per cent to Rs. 3.48 segment in India were ceased billion [2010/11: Rs. 2.94 billion]. during the year. Revenue SAGT installed two new Super The Transportation group, 23% 77% Post Panamax cranes enabling it excluding SAGT and DHL as 2011/12 to better handle the larger, newer these two entities are beyond the 27% 73% container vessels sustainability reporting boundaries 2010/11 of the Group, has a total carbon of goods from the North and East footprint of 906 MT, amounting to 33% 67% 2009/10 is carried out by the logistics arm 1 per cent of the Group’s carbon and in the second phase, cold and footprint. This amounts to a carbon 0 20 40 60 80 100 ambient storage and processing foot print of 0.22kg per Rs. 1,000 Ports & Shipping Transportation facilities will be established in of revenue. The Transportation identified locations. group places great emphasis on health and safety and towards EBIT The Airlines segment performed this end John Keells Logistics 65% 35% obtained ISO18000 and OHSAS 2011/12 reasonably well during the year with the travel agency business certification. During the year, 73% 27% securing several awards including only one occupational injury was 2010/11 ‘Top Travel Agent’ awards from reported with just 2 lost days due 90% 10% many airlines including Cathay to such injury on average. The 2009/10 Pacific, Jet Airways, Malaysia Transportation sector provided 8.3 0 20 40 60 80 100 Airlines and Singapore Airlines. hours of training per employee. Ports & Shipping Transportation Return on capital employed Outlook • ROCE increased to 22.5 per cent against 21.0 per cent in the last year The overall shipping and logistics Industry is gearing to gather greater momentum with the completion of mega industry specific investment • EBIT margins fell to 15.4 per cent from 16.1 per cent as a result of projects. We believe the Group’s ports and bunkering businesses will revenue growth which was largely driven by the bunkering business benefit from these developments in the future. Bunker volumes are • Asset utilisation improved to 1.24 as against 1.18 offsetting the also expected to grow due to the anticipated increases in the number negative impact on ROCE due to reduction in EBIT margins of fishing crafts calling at the Colombo port and due to special projects such as the Colombo South Harbour Development project and petroleum exploration projects. Whilst the 3PL business of John Keells Logistics will add to its portfolio by constructing and managing state of the art warehousing complexes ROCE and diversifying its service offering further, the freight forwarding FY 11/12 : 22.5% businesses in India and Sri Lanka plan to enter into a strategic alliance FY 10/11 : 21.0% with a global freight forwarding partner to expand their operations in the region. Convergence to IFRS The convergence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Assets/ Asset EBIT is expected to have a minimal impact on the Transportation industry (debt+equity) turnover margin group. Whilst immaterial, the main impacts are in the freight forwarding 1.18 1.24 15.4% and a portion of the air travel segments, where it is required that gross revenues are recognised instead of the current practice of recognising the net revenue. Despite this having a substantial positive impact on the top line, there is no impact to the bottom line as a result of this treatment. 76 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information > City Hotels Leisure > Sri Lankan Resorts > Maldivian Resorts > Destination Management > Hotel Management An interior illustration of Chaaya Bey Beruwala which is scheduled to open in August 2012 Vision and scope Key indicators Representing JKH’s single largest net asset exposure, the Leisure industry group encompasses two city hotels that offer 40 per cent of (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 the five star room capacity in Colombo and seven resort hotels spread in prime tourist locations all over Sri Lanka and three resorts in the Revenue 17,422 13,810 26.2% 11,500 Maldives offering beaches, mountains, wildlife and cultural splendour EBIT 4,447 2,799 58.9% 1,485 under the two brands ‘Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts’ and ‘Chaaya PBT 4,176 2,492 67.6% 1,011 Hotels and Resorts’. The Leisure industry group also has destination PAT 3,712 2,319 60.1% 973 management businesses in Sri Lanka and India. Total assets 41,243 33,711 22.3% 32,539 Total equity 28,636 25,317 13.1% 23,535 Total debt 8,077 5,377 50.2% 6,040 Contribution to JKH Group Capital employed1 36,713 30,694 19.6% 29,574 48 No. of employees2 4,843 4,459 8.6% 4,319 20 33 37 EBIT per employee2 0.9 0.6 46.3% 0.3 REVENUE CAPITAL CARBON Carbon footprint (MT)3 35,162 34,926 0.7% N/A EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity 80 67 63 52 investment in these companies 2 No of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 3 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2011/12 77 John Keells Holdings PLC Leisure Sector highlights City Hotels Sri Lankan Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management The businesses Cinnamon Grand – 501 7 resort hotels in Sri Lanka3 resort hotels in the Maldives Walkers Tours & Whittal Boustead within the sector rooms 798 rooms – 340 rooms inbound tour operations Cinnamon Lakeside (CLS) Inbound tour operations in India – 340 rooms Revenue & growth Rs. 5.99 billion, growth Rs. 2.31billion, growth of Rs. 4.54 billion, growth of 12% Rs. 4.58 billion, growth of 30% of 25% 60% EBIT & growth Rs. 1.94 billion, growth Rs. 587 million, growth of Rs. 1.09 billion, growth of 70% Rs. 403 million, growth of 112% of 36% 270% Carbon footprint 18,517 MT 8,722 MT 7,312 MT 610 MT Key developments • Completed the • Reopened Chaaya • Head lease of Hakura Island • Developed new products to cater during the year refurbishment of Wild Yala in November extended by a further 25 to niche segments 216 rooms at CLS in following a Rs. 440 million years from 2022. September refurbishment • Joint venture with • Reopened Chaaya Tranz Sanken Lanka (Private) Hikkaduwa in November Limited to construct following a Rs. 1.34 billion a 240 room business refurbishment hotel in Colombo • Construction work on Chaaya Bey Beruwala progressing as scheduled Key external/ • Depreciation of the • Depreciation of the Rupee • Long haul travel being • A number of hotels under part / internal variables Rupee affected by high cost full refurbishment • Increase in electricity affecting the of air travel coupled • Increase in electricity tariffs and fuel costs • Depreciation of the Rupee businesses with economic issues in tariffs and fuel costs • Possible shortage of traditional European markets • Increased transportation cost due • Possible shortage of experienced/trained staff to fuel price increases • Political unrest witnessed in experienced / trained in the future Maldives staff in the future • Increasing interest rates • Increase in Goods and services tax from 3.5% to 6% during the year, with a further increase to 8% from 1 January 2013 Hotel Management Integrated operational 53 per cent increase over 2010 Sri Lanka as well as the Maldives sector review and discussion followed by East Asia (41per cent), have seen a slowdown in the In addition to the sectors The Leisure industry group Eastern Europe (39 per cent) and growth of arrivals from these referred to in the above table, benefitted from the increased South Asia (35 per cent), albeit countries, although increased the Hotel Management sector, arrivals to the country and the off a small base. The growth in arrivals from the Asian region has which includes Keells Hotel continued focus on enhancing arrivals from traditionally strong more than compensated for this Management Services Limited efficiency and effectiveness of its Western Europe was 23 per cent, impact. (KHMS), functions as the hotel operations. During the calendar indicating a shift to new markets. management arm of the Leisure year 2011, foreign arrivals to India accounted for 171,374 The depreciation of the Rupee industry group. The sector Sri Lanka were 855,975 [2010: arrivals which is 35 per cent had a positive impact on revenue achieved an EBIT of Rs. 430 654,477] which is a 31 per higher than last year. of City Hotels since the rates million – a growth of 11 per cent cent increase over last year, are generally quoted in US on the back of an improvement in with arrivals from all the major Due to the higher cost of air dollars. While several new hotel the performance of hotels under generating markets recording travel and continuing economic projects have commenced in the management. The carbon footprint an increase. Of the high growth challenges experienced in some of city, construction is expected to of the sector is 224 MT. markets, the Middle East recorded the traditional tourism generating take a couple of years to reach the highest YOY growth with a markets such as the UK and Italy, 78 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information completion. Currently, both the Group’s city properties have been Leisure provides employment to over 4,500 staff across its fully refurbished and are fully geared to meet the anticipated businesses and strives to provide employment to people in increase in demand for rooms in areas of such operations. It places emphasis on continuous Colombo. training and development, with an average of 38 hours of training provided per employee per annum Leveraging on its unique location beside the Beira lake, Cinnamon and Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa Lakeside launched ‘8°on the (formerly known as Coral Gardens Lake’, a floating restaurant on a Hotel) reopened in November two-storey catamaran-based boat. after undergoing an extensive With a capacity to accommodate refurbishment with a collective one hundred guests across an investment of approximately open upper and air conditioned Rs. 1.78 billion. During the five lower deck, this one-of-a-kind month period since commencing restaurant in the city provides operations, both resorts have guests a refreshingly new enjoyed high occupancies and perspective of the city of Colombo. are commanding relatively higher The refurbishment of 216 rooms average room rates. which commenced in 2009 was completed in September 2011, The construction of the 200 room enabling Cinnamon Lakeside to hotel in Beruwala – ‘Chaaya Bey’, command higher average room on the southern coast of Sri Lanka rates. Private Limited) took the necessary carbon footprint per guest night is progressing as scheduled and steps to obtain an extension of with international hotel chains, is expected to be operational in Cinnamon Grand continued to the head lease of Hakuraa Huraa and this was 40 kg per guest night August 2012. lead and significantly out perform for a period of twenty five years across all our hotels. Similarly, the its competition. With the recent commencing from 27th August Destination Management sector During the 2011 calendar year, recorded a carbon footprint of 7.45 refurbishment of the ‘Taprobane’ 2022. 931,333 tourists visited Maldives kg per client serviced. Both carbon and ‘Breeze’ restaurants, the in comparison to 791,917 during foot prints were calculated under hotel has now been completely Demonstrating the results of our 2010. The highest growth was scope 2 of the ‘GHG protocol’ – the refurbished and its market share pursuit of skills development from the Chinese market with internationally accepted practice in penetration has been well above pertaining to service, the Group’s 198,655 arrivals during 2011 in such computations. its fair share in the city. Maldivian resorts were the only comparison to 118,961 in 2010. Due to its growing importance, hotels in the Maldives to receive JKH has partnered with Sanken gold medals for their service In spite of increased operations, there was greater focus on Lanka (Private) Limited to build excellence from TUI, the parent the total electricity consumed marketing the Maldivian Resorts and manage a 240 room select company of many leading tour and generated during the year in the Chinese market during the service business hotel in Colombo, operators. decreased by 1.4 per cent to 44.06 year. for which construction has million kWh, primarily attributable commenced. This project is one The Destination Management to the many energy saving Consequent to the second initiatives carried out across of the first major hotel projects sector continued to focus on amendment to the Maldives the hotels such as generation of in Colombo to get off the ground specialist market segments and Tourism Law, Fantasea World heated water using cogeneration, following the end of the conflict. promoting inbound tourism from Investments Private Limited (100 eco-gen systems, replacement of per cent owned subsidiary of the emerging markets such as As planned, both Chaaya Wild Yala India, China and the Middle East. incandescent bulbs with LED and John Keells Maldivian Resorts CFL lighting, installation of variable (formerly known as Yala Village) speed drives and the replacement The carbon footprint of the Leisure of conventional air conditioners industry group was 35,162 MT for with hybrid air conditioners. the year, which has increased by Cinnamon Lakeside approximately 1 per cent despite the re-launching of Chaaya In keeping with the Group’s launched ‘8°on the Tranz in the third quarter of the water policy, Leisure began Lake’, a floating year (this resort was closed for the installation of meters to restaurant on a tworefurbishment for 11 months in track its water consumption storey catamaranthe previous year). In the year and set in place management based boat under review, the hotels within processes to control usage. The the Leisure group commenced a water withdrawal by the Leisure process of benchmarking their industry group constitutes 55 per Annual Report 2011/12 79 John Keells Holdings PLC such as HIV and AIDS with over Rupee denominated to avoid creating exposure to exchange rates Leisure 19,000 people benefitting from this fluctuations and were considered only to the extent where there was a campaign. ‘natural hedge’. The Leisure group carried out The reduction of the tax rate on profit from operations from 15 per cent to cent of the Group’s total water several community engagement 12 per cent with effect from 1st April 2011 had a positive impact on the withdrawal, amounting to 1.02 projects in addition to supporting bottom line of Sri Lankan Resorts and Cinnamon Lakeside. million cubic meters during the the activities of the John Keells year. The hotels consumed on Foundation. Some of the projects In the Maldives, a business profit tax of 15 per cent was introduced average 1.2 cubic meters (1,200 carried out include ‘Project during the year which affected all three resorts within the sector. Further, liters) of water per guest night. Leopard’, a unique method of effective from September 2011, the Goods & Services tax was increased All waste water discharged is safeguarding the livestock of from 3.5 percent to 6 per cent. currently being treated, either farmers which in turn protects the through on-site treatment facilities leopard population in and around Revenue or discharged into public sewer the Yala National Park. Further, systems. Several hotels are in 35% 13% 26% 26% jeep drivers providing excursions the process of augmenting their 2011/12 into the Yala National Park have existing treatment facilities and also been provided training on 35% 10% 29% 26% installing new facilities where 2010/11 environmental responsibility. All required. hotels strive to source their fresh 28% 8% 42% 22% produce from local suppliers in 2009/10 Waste management systems are a bid to enhance the economic 0 20 40 60 80 100 being gradually improved across activity in their areas of operation the hotel properties under the and in addition have also carried Hotel Management City Hotels Sri Lankan Resorts tenets of ‘Reduce, Reuse and out medical camps and local Maldivian Resorts Destination Management Recycle’. The total waste sent to infrastructure development during landfill was 2.17 kg per guest night EBIT the year. across our hotels, with the larger 10% 44% 13% 24% 9% portion of waste being generated 2011/12 from the City and Maldivian Financial review The Leisure industry group 14% 51% 5% 23% 7% properties. The Leisure industry 2010/11 continued its strong performance group as a whole recycled 41 per during the year with all sectors cent of its waste generated using 16% 36% 2% 38% 8% witnessing significant growth in 2009/10 methods such as composting, revenue and EBIT. Overall revenue manufacture of by-products and 0 20 40 60 80 100 grew by 26 per cent to Rs. 17.42 recovery. billion [2010/11: Rs. 13.81 billion] Hotel Management City Hotels Sri Lankan Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management and EBIT grew by 59 per cent to Leisure provides employment Rs. 4.45 billion [2010/11: Rs. 2.80 to over 4,500 staff across its businesses and strives to provide billion]. Higher occupancies and Return on capital employed average room rates contributed to ROCE increased to 13.2 per cent as against 9.3 per cent mainly on employment to people in areas the increase in both revenue and account of the growth in EBIT margins. All the sectors saw an increase in of operations. It places emphasis EBIT. EBIT margins. The asset turnover increased only marginally from 0.42 to on continuous training and 0.46 as a result of relatively lower revenue growth due to closure of some development, with an average of These results were achieved in hotels for refurbishment. 38 hours of training per employee spite of the closure of the Coral provided to its staff. Many of Gardens hotel (now branded as the hotels are ISO 18000 OHSAS Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa) and certified and continue to track Yala Village hotel (now branded ROCE the number of lost days due to as Chaaya Wild Yala) till October FY 11/12 : 13.2% occupational injuries which has and part of the rooms of Cinnamon FY 10/11 : 9.3% seen a reduction during the year, Lakeside being closed till even though the total number of September due to refurbishment. injuries has seen an increase. This indicates that Leisure has managed to reduce the incidence Out of the investment in hotel of serious injuries although the refurbishment, a majority of capital Assets/ Asset EBIT occurrence of less serious injuries was debt funded with a view margin (debt+equity) turnover has risen. The hotels provide to enhancing returns. While the 25.5% 1.11 0.46 training and awareness to its financing cost of foreign currency employees, their families and the denominated debt was lower, such community on serious diseases borrowings were intentionally 80 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Waste management systems are being gradually improved across the hotel properties under the tenets of ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’. The Leisure industry group as a whole recycled 41 per cent of its waste generated using methods such as composting, manufacture of by-products and recovery Outlook to be adopted. The increase in If Sri Lanka’s anticipated arrival interest rates in Sri Lanka will target of 2.5 million tourists by result in increased financing hotel ventures. The strategy will be to expand the inventory 2016 is achieved, there will be a cost for the Sri Lankan resorts of hotels under management, not necessarily owned by the shortage of room inventory in the since recent refurbishments Group. medium to long term. With both were financed through Rupee hotels in the city and most of our denominated debt. The Leisure group is committed to sustainable tourism and Sri Lankan resorts hotels having will continue to improve our processes and strive to reduce undergone refurbishments in the The Maldivian Resorts sector will our impact on the environment and community we operate recent past, our properties are well continue to actively market the in through ongoing efficiency improvement initiatives and placed to benefit from an upsurge resorts in the traditional European by obtaining of certifications such as Green Globe and ISO in arrivals. markets and the newly emerging 18000. Chinese market and focus on All sectors will be investing further developing selected market Convergence to IFRS in training and developing their segments such as surfers, divers An industry group wide analysis was conducted to ascertain human resources and further and honeymooners.The Goods & the impact of adopting IFRS guidelines on future financial extending their IT advantage by Services tax which is currently 6 reporting. This study identified a few areas where corrective unifying systems and processes per cent, is likely to be increased actions, amended processes and disclosure requirements and by enhancing our web to 8 per cent. were required. Some of the specific aspects which were presence. All businesses will identified included inter-company borrowings, provision continue to embark on energy With the growth of the tourism of financial guarantees, recognition of tour income and saving initiatives and green sector in Sri Lanka, the inbound accounting for complementary offers. However, it is expected practices to reduce their carbon tour operation industry has seen that there will not be a material impact on the businesses foot print. a number of new entrants. Thus, with the adoption of IFRS. in order to further differentiate A soft refurbishment of rooms at itself, the group’s Destination Chaaya Island Dhonveli is being Management sector plans to planned for 2012. Chaaya Citadel introduce novel concepts such as will undergo refurbishment and offering unique experiences for will be re-opened in November visitors including the ‘Live like a 2012. local’ concept with community participation and introducing a ‘green vehicle’ fleet using hybrid The volatility in exchange rates cars for tourist transport. will have a direct impact on revenues since contracts are entered into in US dollars. The The outlook for Hotel Management movements will be continuously continues to be positive, with monitored and proactive risk the portfolio of hotels under mitigation strategies will continue management expected to increase with the addition of Chaaya Bey in August 2012, and other new Annual Report 2011/12 81 John Keells Holdings PLC > Property Development Property > Real Estate Construction of ‘The Emperor’ apartment project was completed during the year Vision and scope Key indicators Owning a significant land bank in prime areas of Colombo, the Property industry group is one of the largest private sector proprietors of real (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 estate in Colombo. Revenue 3,790 2,494 52.0% 1,620 The Property Development sector concentrates primarily on development EBIT 1,014 851 19.2% 388 and sale of residential apartments such as the ongoing ‘OnThree20’ PBT 975 831 17.3% 378 project. This sector includes Asian Hotels and Properties PLC – the PAT 930 780 19.2% 342 developers of ‘The Crescat Residencies’, ‘The Monarch’, the newly Total assets 10,354 8,671 19.4% 6,986 completed 35-story luxury apartment complex ‘The Emperor’ and the Total equity 8,961 7,856 14.1% 6,119 up-market shopping mall ‘The Crescat Boulevard’. Total debt 990 (125) (894.3%) 14 Capital employed 9,951 7,732 28.7% 6,134 Management and operation of office sites within the city are handled No. of employees 99 99 0.0% 104 under the Real Estate arm. EBIT per employee 10.2 8.6 19.2% 3.7 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,449 2,407 (39.8%) N/A Contribution to JKH Group 4 7 1 10 CAPITAL CARBON REVENUE EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT 96 93 90 99 82 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Sector highlights Property Development Real Estate The businesses within Development and sale of residential apartments Renting of the commercial office sites and the the sector management of the Group’s real estate within the city. Owning and operating the Crescat Boulevard mall Revenue and growth Rs. 3.76 billion, growth of 54% Rs. 34 million, reduction of 31% EBIT and growth Rs. 912 million, growth of 17% Rs. 102 million, growth of 43% Fair value gain on revaluation of the Crescat Boulevard of Rs. 207 million Carbon footprint 1,353 MT 95 MT Key developments during • Completion and handing over of ‘The Emperor’ apartment • Upward revision of rental rates and achievement of the year units to the owners over 90 per cent occupancy across the sites • Acquisition of a 6 acre land in Ja-ela for development of a retail mall • Construction work on the new 475 unit ‘OnThree20’ apartment complex is progressing as per schedule • Entered into a joint venture to construct a luxury residential apartment project in Colombo Key external/internal • Interest shown by many regional and international players • Value of real estate which remained static for a variables affecting business reflecting the industry growth potential few years has moved up in the backdrop of overall economic development • Government progressively making available the land bank for commercial development in and outside Colombo • General improvement in the economy has seen a • Increase in overall construction costs as a result of higher surge in the demand for quality office space cost of construction materials, devaluation of the Rupee and the increase in borrowing costs Integrated operational 140,000 square foot retail mall in previous year as a result of the decreased electricity consumption review and discussion Ja-ela, a densely populated suburb due to the partial closure of the Crescat Boulevard for refurbishment of Colombo. and the continuing energy conservation methods employed. During During the year, construction the year, no occupational health and safety incidents were reported of ‘The Emperor’ residential involving our own workforce, either at construction sites or at Real apartment project was successfully Having achieved higher footfall Estate properties. The Property group increased its focus on health and completed. Out of the 163 units, subsequent to the partial safety and provided employees with required training with an average 160 units were fully paid for, refurbishment and higher demand of 11.5 hours of training per employee. whilst 112 units were handed over for space, the Crescat Boulevard to the respective owners as at saw its occupancy increasing to 98 the end of the financial year. The per cent. Growth in tourist arrivals Financial review development work of ‘OnThree20’ and its location within ‘Crescat The Property industry group witnessed significant growth during the is on course with the completion City’ augurs well for the future of year with revenues growing by 52 per cent to Rs. 3.79 billion [2010/11: of piling and substructure work the mall. Rs. 2.49 billion], primarily due to the revenue recognition of both and construction work on the ‘The Emperor’ and ‘OnThree20’ projects. EBIT increased by 19 per towers has already commenced. The Carbon footprint of the cent to Rs. 1.01 billion [2010/11: Rs. 851 million] due to the aforesaid Approximately 70 per cent out Property group was 1,449 MT, a revenue recognition cycles. of the 475 residential units were reduction of 40 per cent from the sold as at 31st March 2012. The Property Development sector also commenced the development of a Annual Report 2011/12 83 John Keells Holdings PLC Property “The Property Development sector Revenue will continue to work on revenue 99% 1% maximisation by way of optimising 2011/12 space utilisation and effective 2010/11 98% 2% pricing” 97% 3% 2009/10 Outlook Whilst striving to achieve our 0 20 40 60 80 100 financial and operational goals, the Despite the short term pressure Property Development Real Estate Property group has various plans on account of the currency in place to continue implementing depreciation and interest rate EBIT energy conservation initiatives hikes, the Property group is and to create awareness of the 90% 10% positive about the future and is importance of energy conservation, 2011/12 working towards the successful encapsulating our ‘Purpose Driven’ completion of the projects in the 92% 8% approach towards meeting all our 2010/11 pipeline. Accordingly, Property stakeholder needs. is continuously striving towards 78% 22% 2009/10 identifying and executing projects which yield superior returns Convergence to IFRS 0 20 40 60 80 100 and also taking necessary steps The most significant impact on Property Development Real Estate towards realising a ‘first mover’ the adherence to International advantage, a critical component Financial Reporting Standards in acquiring lands with strategic (IFRS) is the treatment for revenue development potential. Property recognition of the property Return on capital employed will also develop and expand development business, where • ROCE marginally reduced to 11.5 per cent as against 12.3 per cent in opportunities in the retail shopping it is required to recognise the the previous year. space in the growing suburbs apartment sale revenue only upon of Colombo, making use of the the completion of the construction. • EBIT margins reduced to 26.7 per cent from 34.1 per cent as the favourable shifts in socio-cultural However, the Institute of Chartered margins of the ‘OnThree20’are relatively lower than the high end behaviors of the fast growing Accountants of Sri Lanka has ‘The Emperor’ project. urban population. The cornerstone deferred the adoption of this of these developments will be standard till 2015 and revenue the continuous focus on driving recognition will continue on the efficiencies and managing costs. current basis. The impact on ROCE FY 11/12 : 11.5% revenue recognition of the Real FY 10/11 : 12.3% Considering the growth in Estate sector will be minimal as the rental market, population the current accounting treatment is growth, changing lifestyles and in line with IFRS. affordability, the housing market is shifting towards a rapid growth phase. Therefore, the Property Assets/ Asset EBIT (debt+equity) turnover margin Development sector will continue 0.40 26.7% to work on revenue maximisation 1.08 by way of optimising space utilisation and effective pricing to capitalise on these market dynamics. 84 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information > Consumer Foods Consumer Foods > Retail & Retail The newly installed machine for impulse frozen confectionary range Vision and scope Key indicators The Consumer Foods sector is home to a portfolio of leading brands including ‘Elephant House’ carbonated soft drinks and ice creams and (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 the ‘Keells’ and ‘Krest’ range of processed meats, all market leaders in their respective categories and supported by a well-established islandRevenue 22,022 18,358 20.0% 15,843 wide distribution channel. EBIT 2,827 683 313.8% 420 PBT 2,736 579 372.8% 288 The Consumer Foods sector competes in the following three major PAT 2,375 230 932.4% 88 categories beverages, frozen confectionary and convenience foods. Total assets 12,688 10,259 23.7% 7,025 Total equity 7,892 5,055 56.1% 3,181 The Retail sector focuses on modern organised retailing through the Total debt 1,167 1,919 (39.1)% 816 ‘Keells Super’ chain of supermarkets and in partnership with Nations Capital employed 9,060 6,973 29.9% 3,997 Trust Bank, has created ‘Nexus’, the most successful coalition loyalty No. of employees 3,147 3,029 3.9% 2,878 card in the country. EBIT per employee 0.9 0.2 298.3% 0.1 Carbon footprint (MT) 29,477 21,938 34.4% N/A Contribution to JKH Group 25 21 9 40 CAPITAL CARBON REVENUE EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT 75 79 91 60 Annual Report 2011/12 85 John Keells Holdings PLC Consumer Foods & Retail Sector highlights Consumer Foods Retail The businesses within the Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) – produces and markets a portfolio of JayKay Marketing Services (JMSL) – operates sector carbonated soft drinks under the ‘Elephant House’ and ‘KIK’ brand, the ‘Keells Super’ chain of modern retail outlets an energy drink under the ‘Wild Elephant’ brand and ‘Elephant House’ brand ice creams and related frozen confectionary products Keells Food Products (KFP) – produces and markets a range of Nexus Network – operates the Nexus loyalty processed meat products under the ‘Keells’ and ‘Krest’ brands programme in collaboration with Nations Trust Bank (NTB) Revenue & growth Rs. 10.16 billion, growth of 25% Rs. 11.86 billion, growth of 16% EBIT & growth Rs. 2.72 billion, growth of 324% Rs. 106 million, growth of 156% Carbon footprint 13,293 MT 16,184 MT Key developments during • Commissioned a dedicated full bottle storage facility for soft • Opened 2 outlets in Rajagiriya and Kalubowila the year drinks • Private label products under the ‘KChoice’ • Augmented the ice cream processing capacity by investing in brand expanded to cover 100 categories machinery • Opened two new ‘Keko’ departmental stores • Re-launched Elephant House Lemonade • Cardholder base of Nexus grew by 50 % • Introduced two new ice cream flavours during the year • Launched KIK Light • KFP introduced three new sausage variants Key external/internal • Increase in raw material inputs as a result of the depreciation of • Growth in per capita income will have a variables affecting the the Rupee and taxes positive long term impact on modern retailing businesses • Growth in per capita income, although disposable income may • Higher inflation through depreciation of reduce in the shorter term with increasing inflation the Rupee and other factors can impact • Weather conditions discretionary spending in the short term • Growth in tourism Integrated operational 175 million. Located in close Continuing with the revitalisation An investment of Rs. 200 million review and discussion proximity to the current production strategy of the ‘Elephant House’ was made to augment the existing facility, the warehouse overcame brand, a new shape and design of ice cream processing capacity with Driven by a growth in volumes, the bottlenecks in storage of finished the 400 ml returnable glass bottle the purchase of machinery and Beverage, Frozen Confectionary goods as a result of the increase in was introduced in April 2011. This extension of factory space to cater and Convenience Foods segments production at the factory. new design will be progressively to increased volumes. Two new continued to perform exceptionally rolled out across the range of premium ice cream flavours, Butter well in the year under review. The Signifying the trust and loyalty to returnable glass bottles. Based Crunch and French Vanilla were Frozen Confectionary segment the brand, ‘Elephant House’ Cream on consumer research, Elephant launched during the year, with recorded an above average Soda won the ‘People’s most House Lemonade was re-launched the latter flavour being produced growth while the Beverage and popular FMCG Beverage Brand’ with a refreshing taste and in the using extracts from locally grown Convenience Foods segments award for the 6th consecutive year new bottle. ‘KIK’ cola, which was vanilla seeds. Whilst extending enjoyed growth in line with at the People’s Awards, jointly introduced last year, consolidated its dominant position in the Sri the market. The Retail sector organised by Sri Lanka Institute of its position in the cola segment Lankan market, ‘Elephant House’ also witnessed an improved Marketing (SLIM) and The Neilsen and managed to gain market ice creams continued to enjoy over performance driven by higher company. A further affirmation of share even with the presence of 50 per cent market share in the basket values, footfalls and better the ‘Elephant House’ brand was leading international cola brands Maldives. During the year, Kuwait margins. the inclusion of Ceylon Cold Stores in the market. Furthermore, ‘KIK became the second international PLC as the 7th ‘Most Respected light’ was launched to address the destination the brand has ventured A new full bottle storage facility growing demand from the lifestyle into. Business Entity’ in 2011 as for soft drinks was commissioned conscious consumer segment. selected by LMD. during the year at a cost of Rs. 86 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information The one for ten rights issue of The carbon footprint of the commitment to the community, Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) was Consumer Foods & Retail industry CCS provides free water to several successfully concluded in July CCS launched group was 29,477 metric tons, up households in the vicinity of its 2011 with the company raising by 34 per cent from the previous factory, the quantity of which Rs. 648 million by issuing ‘KIK Light’ for year attributable to the increased is also included in the above 2,160,000 shares at Rs. 300 the lifestyle operational activity at CCS and mentioned water consumption per share. The proceeds were conscious KFP as well as the opening of two figures. used mainly to infuse equity consumer new supermarket outlets. CF&R into Jaykay Marketing Services segment consumed 38 million kWh of Waste management in the (JMSL) to support its expansion electricity during the year, up by 31 industry group comprises mainly and additional working capital per cent compared to the previous of recycling, reuse, incineration requirements and to partly fund the year. The carbon foot print per as per regulatory guidelines and capital expenditure requirement impacted the cost of imported raw liter of carbonated soft drinks and through landfill carried out by the of CCS. materials such as sugar used in ice creams produced by CCS was respective local authorities. The the manufacture of soft drinks and 0.11 kg. KFP recorded a carbon industry group recycles / reuses 34 In the Convenience Foods segment, ice creams, and casings used in foot print of 0.56 kg per kilogram per cent of the waste it generates. Keells Foods (KFP) introduced three the manufacture of sausages. The of processed meat manufactured. new innovative sausage variants businesses are taking mitigatory JMSL has a carbon foot print of The Consumer Foods & Retail – Cheesy Bites, Spicy Bites and action wherever possible and 50.39 kg per square foot of retail industry group provides Power Snack. feasible, to reduce the negative space. employment to approximately effect of these impacts through 3,000 employees. Consumer Foods measures such as hedging the As expected, CCS, which produces The Keells Super website provided training of an average of prices of imported raw materials, carbonated soft drinks, is the www.keellssuper.com which 3.32 hours per employee, while entering into forward contracts single largest consumer of water was launched in 2002 is the first Retail carried out an average of 97 and installing energy efficient within the Group, drawing and only on-line supermarket hours of training per employee. equipment and lighting. In order 5.86 liters of water per liter of in Sri Lanka. Following on from to sustain margins, steps will be carbonated soft drinks produced. the success of this site, Keells In keeping with our sustainable taken to increase the prices of The entire industry group withdrew Super has now expanded its sourcing drive, CF&R engages products wherever production 0.7 million cubic meters of water web presence into social media approximately 11,000 local costs have increased, giving due from the ground and pipe borne networks such as Facebook, community farmers who cultivate consideration to the price elasticity water. As part of its ongoing Youtube and Twitter. vegetables, spices and other raw of demand and increase in per capita incomes. In order to promote the Nexus loyalty programme several In keeping with its commitment Most of the low country and up initiatives such as the launching of special offers for Nexus card to protect and enhance the country vegetables sold at our retail environment, Keells Super holders, a focussed advertising chain Keells Super, are sourced from partnered and initiated a project to campaign and a revamp of the encourage its customers to recycle farming families in Thambuttegama Nexus website were undertaken during the year. These initiatives their used plastic containers. This (North Central Province), Suriyawewa resulted in the number of Nexus initiative, which is an ‘industry (Southern Province) and Nuwara first’ in Sri Lanka, commenced at card holders increasing by 50 per its outlet in Union Place, Colombo Eliya (Central Province), benefitting cent during the year. where collection bins were made hundreds of farmer families available to drop off plastic The recent hike in electricity tariffs bottles, which are subsequently and fuel prices and the sharp sent to a recycling facility. Keells depreciation of the Rupee have Super consistently has given had a direct negative impact on leadership and taken concrete the financial performance of the action to create environmental businesses of CF&R. The increase awareness and to support in electricity and fuel costs will conservation. Prior to this latest raise the manufacturing and initiative, it has set other industry distribution costs of the Consumer first’s, such as introducing a Foods businesses and impact the reusable cloth shopping bag and operating costs of supermarket the promotion of cardboard boxes outlets, where electricity to carry customers’ purchases. consumption is significant. The depreciation of the Rupee has Annual Report 2011/12 87 John Keells Holdings PLC Consumer Foods & Retail ROCE FY 11/12 : 35.3% FY 10/11 : 12.5% material such as ginger, cashew, treacle and vanilla required for the manufacturing process. Financial review Revenue of the industry group increased by 20 per cent to Rs. 22.02 Assets/ Asset EBIT (debt+equity) turnover margin billion [2010/11: Rs. 18.36 billion] with the Consumer Foods and the Retail sector’s recording a growth of 25 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. 1.43 1.92 12.8% The growth in the Consumer Foods sector was primarily driven by volume increases in soft drinks and ice creams, while the revenue growth in Retail was mainly due to higher footfalls. Outlook Both CCS and KFP expect the growth momentum to continue in all the The EBIT of the industry group increased to Rs. 2.83 billion [2010/11: Rs. categories they are presently engaged in. Due to the anticipated growth 683 million] primarily as a result of the significant growth in revenue and in demand for ice creams and processed meats, both CCS and KFP intend EBIT margins of CCS, JMSL and the contribution from the fair value gain making significant investments amounting to a total of approximately Rs. of Rs. 1.11 billion arising from the revaluation of investment property of 1.5 billion during 2012/13 to expand production and storage capacity. The CCS. Excluding this fair value gain, the EBIT of the industry group was Rs. Beverages business is unlikely to require significant investment as the 1.72 billion which is a 152 per cent increase from the previous year. expansion of capacity recently is expected to cater to market demand in the next few years other than for investment in returnable bottles and Revenue crates to cater for growth in volumes. 46% 54% 2011/12 CCS and KFP are making investments in research and development and 44% 56% will continuously explore the feasibility of introducing new products 2010/11 across all categories. 43% 57% 2009/10 The Retail sector continues to scout for strategic locations and has identified several sites to have large format stores and malls. It will also 0 20 40 60 80 100 seek to introduce the Keko departmental stores at appropriate locations. Consumer Foods Retail As part of the continuous drive to manage working capital and increase internal efficiencies, Retail will continue to focus on better inventory management to reduce the stock holding days. EBIT 96% 4% 2011/12 The ‘KZone’ mall, opened last year at Moratuwa, has seen encouraging results and the sector is now keen to expand this concept with stores 94% 6% of a similar format. As part of this strategy, plans are being finalised 2010/11 to develop a similar mall at the Kapuwatte site in Ja-Ela, which was 99% 1% acquired last year. 2009/10 0 20 40 60 80 100 Based on the success of the plastic bottle recycling pilot project launched at the Union Place outlet, Keells Super will be rolling this out to other Consumer Foods Retail outlets of the supermarket chain. Return on capital employed Convergence to IFRS The ROCE increased to 35.3 per cent against 12.5 per cent in the previous CF&R does not have any material impact arising from the adoption of year. IFRS from 2012/13. However, in the identification process, a few areas were highlighted such as revenue recognition of loyalty points awarded This increase in ROCE was mainly due to the increase in EBIT margin and recognising inbuilt incentives in operating leases, where a different to 12.8 per cent as against 3.7 percent in the previous year. The EBIT accounting basis will need to be considered to fall in line with the margin of CCS and JMSL more than doubled during the year compared to IFRS guidelines. These impacts are not material in the context of the the previous year. The fair value gain on investment property of Rs. 1.11 businesses. billion also contributed to increase the EBIT margin. Excluding this gain, the EBIT margin was 7.8 per cent during the year. 88 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information > Insurance Financial > Banking & Leasing > Stock Broking Services Launched Union Family Health Net, providing comprehensive surgical and hospitalisation insurance cover, during the year Vision and scope Key indicators The cluster of financial services companies offer a complete range of financial solutions including commercial banking, insurance, stock (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 broking, debt trading, fund management and leasing with the vision of becoming a leading player in the financial services sector offering a total Revenue1 10,909 9,501 14.8% 9,435 solutions package to our customers. EBIT 1,433 1,313 9.1% 848 PBT 1,429 1,333 7.1% 868 Contribution to JKH Group PAT 1,108 860 28.8% 530 Total assets 26,805 23,961 11.9% 21,461 2 13 11 7 Total equity 6,782 6,287 7.9% 6,270 Total debt 328 103 217.0% 126 REVENUE EBIT CAPITAL EMPLOYED CARBON FOOTPRINT Capital employed2 7,110 6,390 11.3% 6,396 No. of employees3 1,047 1,121 (6.6)% 996 87 89 93 98 EBIT per employee3 1.4 1.2 16.8% 0.9 Carbon footprint (MT)4 1,610 1,412 14.0% N/A 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 2 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 3 No of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2011/12 89 John Keells Holdings PLC Financial Services Sector highlights Insurance Banking & Leasing Stock Broking The businesses within Union Assurance (UA) offers Nations Trust Bank (NTB) offers John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) is one the sector comprehensive insurance solutions in complete banking solutions through its of the leading stockbroking companies general and life insurance segments network of branches for corporate, retail in Sri Lanka and has a number of trading and SME clients and is the franchise tie ups with leading foreign securities holder for American Express credit cards houses in Sri Lanka. Nations Leasing is the leasing arm of NTB Revenue and growth Rs. 7.63 billion, growth of 27% Rs. 2.98 billion, decrease of 1% Rs. 307 million, decrease of 36% EBIT and growth Rs. 596 million, growth of 54% Rs. 661 million, growth of 9% Rs. 176 million a decrease of 45% Carbon footprint 1,548 MT Not within the boundary of sustainability 62 MT reporting Key developments • Successfully re-launched ‘Union • 8 new branches were opened during • JKSB migrated to Direct FN Platform, during the year Advantage’ a health related the year which included 5 branches a comprehensive trading solution insurance rider outside the western province system • Implemented a claims tracking • Launch of Nations Car Loans • Strategic collaboration with CIMB system to monitor and manage to execute trades and produce co• Launch of Green Lease selected classes of non-motor branded research claims • Re-launched e-based motor insurance solution with enhanced features/functionality Key external/internal • Rising income levels, availability of • The interest rate cap on credit cards • Modest performance of the Colombo variables affecting unit linked products and increased which came into full force during the Stock Exchange impacted the business awareness are likely to increase year had a negative impact on net performance of JKSB the demand for life insurance interest margins • New regulations issued by the • New business generated mainly • With the post war economic Securities & Exchange Commission through the increased registration development, rapid expansion of the pertaining to broker credit of vehicles was mainly captured branch network primarily outside the by the new entrants rather than western province incumbent insurers • During the year, interest margins were • Changes in regulation leading to under pressure as a result of lower the separation of general and life lending rates whilst funding costs insurance divisions trended upwards due to increased competition for deposits • Directive issued by the Central Bank, requesting Commercial banks to ensure the overall credit growth in 2012 will not exceed 18% of banks’ loan book outstanding at the end of 2011 • Credit growth of up to 23% will be allowed for those banks, which finance the excess of up to 5% of the credit growth from funds mobilised from overseas 90 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Integrated operational for National Business Excellence review and discussion and also the Most Innovative Bank Award presented by World JKSB entered into a General insurance gross written Finance. strategic collaboration premiums of Union Assurance (UA) grew by 16 per cent from with CIMB to execute Rs. 3.70 billion to Rs. 4.30 billion Remittances through the banks’ trades and produce cowith most classes of general channels grew during the year. branded research insurance business contributing to With a view to providing more growth, while both the retail and effective remittance channels, corporate distribution channels the Bank entered into various expanded their business volumes. partnerships with global brands. John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) was affected by the performance of Life business maintained its In 2011, the pawning portfolio of the Colombo Stock Exchange where the benchmark All Share Price Index growth momentum, reporting an the bank grew by Rs. 200 million (ASPI) declined by 25 per cent over the last financial year and the Milanka impressive growth rate of 29 per a year on year growth of 80 per Price Index (MPI) declined by 29 per cent, giving back some of the gains cent. Based on an independent cent off a low base. Nevertheless, made after the end of the conflict. Trading volume was significantly lower actuarial valuation, Rs. 429 million the pawning business is under than the previous year. JKSB however recorded a healthy improvement in was transferred as surplus from constant review due to recent market share with strong growth in the foreign segment. The company’s the life fund which was 32 per cent volatility in gold prices. American distribution in the foreign segment was strengthened in early 2012 with higher than the surplus recorded in Express credit cards entered into a tie-up with CIMB, a leading financial services group in the South East the year 2010. The drop in interest agreements with several leading Asian region with an enhanced regional foot print. This partnership rates as well as the negative companies in the leisure, food also involves the distribution of co-branded research to the CIMB fluctuation of market prices of and beverage industries to offer clientele. JKSB implemented the Direct FN trading platform during the equity investments resulted in a 27 a variety of benefits to regular year. In addition to the standard online trading facility, the system is per cent decrease in investment card users with the intention of equipped with several other capabilities such as back office functions, income in 2011. Union Assurance enhancing its share of the credit risk management, investor account maintenance and broker front end, was awarded the Gold Award in card market. The bank undertook platforms which will be implemented in a phased out manner in line with the insurance sector and the award several initiatives on productivity the road map of the Colombo Stock Exchange. for Excellence in Performance and efficiency improvement to put Management Practices at National in place a well-structured reporting The carbon footprint of the Financial Services industry group was Business Excellence Awards and monitoring process. 1,610 MT for the year which was a 14 per cent increase in comparison conducted by National Chamber to the previous year. This translates to 15.32 kg of carbon emissions per of Commerce of Sri Lanka in The JKH Group currently holds 29.9 100 employees. The electricity consumption was 2.1 million kWh which recognition of its consistently per cent in Nations Trust Bank PLC. was only a 1.91 per cent increase compared to the previous year. Being a improving service standards and The Monetary Board has directed financial service oriented business largely having office based operations, staff management practices. that the Group reduces its share the Financial Services industry group consumed 19,782 cubic meters holdings in NTB to 15 per cent or of water. The industry group provides employment to over 1,000 staff. Nations Trust Bank (NTB) reported below, on or before the 23rd of In addition, Unions Assurance has also engaged over 5,000 insurance a growth in deposits and advances April 2012. JKH has written to agents across the country. The Financial Services group provided an of 38 per cent and 39 per cent the Central Bank requesting an average of 22 hours of training per employee during the year. respectively, outpacing the extension of the deadline and a growth of the market. A sound formal response is awaited. Financial review risk management framework The revenue of the industry group increased by 22 per cent to Rs. 7.93 alongside favourable economic conditions resulted in the bank Life business billion [2010/11: Rs. 6.48 billion] with a significant contribution coming from Union Assurance. Revenue, inclusive of associate company revenue, recording a healthy reduction in the non-performing loan ratio (NPL) of Union increased by 15 per cent to Rs. 10.91 billion [2010/11: Rs. 9.50 billion]. EBIT increased by 9 per cent to Rs. 1.43 billion [2010/11: Rs. 1.31 billion]. to 2.8 per cent for 2011 compared Assurance to 4.8 per cent reported in the previous year. The bank witnessed recorded a narrowing net interest margins growth of 29% during the year, and in response, to this the asset mix was shifted to high yielding assets, softening the impact of falling margins. NTB was the recipient of many awards during the financial year 2011 including the Joint RunnerUp award in the Banking sector Annual Report 2011/12 91 John Keells Holdings PLC Outlook potential, efforts are underway to transform Nations Trust Bank Financial Services Union Assurance is planning to into a nationwide bank while build scale in a cost effective continuing to embrace innovative manner, ensuring fixed costs are banking, robust risk management minimised through the use of and effective governance. Revenue technology and also by engaging 70% 27% 3% a majority of non-permanent 2011/12 sales force. UA will also invest in John Keells Stock Brokers is traditional distribution channels confident of consolidating its 63% 32% 5% and consolidate its position in position despite the modest 2010/11 the ‘Bancassurance’ distribution performance of the Colombo 53% 44% 3% space whilst leveraging on IT Bourse, whilst continuing to 2009/10 platforms, organisational structure strengthen its portfolio of foreign 0 20 40 60 80 100 and other resources as well as institutional investors. JKSB is through the strength of the brand. also taking necessary steps to Insurance Banking & Leasing Stockbroking The medium term outlook for introduce and implement the general insurance remains positive required systems and processes EBIT due to the growth prospects in to modernise its operations and the economy. Insurance rates prepare for the implementation of 42% 46% 12% 2011/12 are expected to harden, as the CSE roadmap. insurers attempt to maintain or 30% 46% 24% 2010/11 grow profitability by focussing Convergence to IFRS on generating positive results The convergence to International 31% 49% 20% from underwriting operations. 2009/10 Financial Reporting Standards Relatively low penetration levels, (IFRS) will not have any material 0 20 40 60 80 100 ageing population with retirement impact on John Keells Stock and health insurance needs, and Insurance Banking & Leasing Stockbroking Brokers. Significant impacts for growing affluence across most Union Assurance could arise segments of the market are set to from the classification and make life insurance an attractive Return on capital employed measurement of its investment business proposition. Opening up portfolio either as fair value • ROCE increased to 21.2 per cent against 20.5 per cent in the last year. of the North and East has renewed through profit and loss (FVTPL), economic activity across the • EBIT margins fell to 13.1 per cent from 13.8 per cent during the last available for sale through equity country and a general upturn in year. The banking sector saw a decrease in net interest income statement (AFS), loans and business confidence will enhance and an increase in the cost-income ratio, which drove EBIT margins receivables (LR) or held to maturity the positive outlook for the sector. lower. The Stock Broking segment’s EBIT margins fell as a result of (HTM). Significant impacts for NTB This outlook is not negated by the capital market taking a bearish turn. The Insurance sector’s EBIT could arise from the impairment the threat of new entrants given margins fell as a consequence of returns from investments made by of its loans and receivables the significant under penetration the insurance funds generating lower yields due to lower interest portfolio, whereby, the time based levels, especially in the life rates and a decline in the value of equity investments. provisioning methodology will be insurance segment. replaced by individually significant • Asset turnover marginally improved to 0.43 times from 0.42 times loans with objective evidence seen last year. Global and local developments being individually tested and other for the banking sector are likely loans being collectively tested for to be challenging in the shorter impairment. The need to recognise term with the recently mandated interest income and interest ROCE credit ceiling hampering growth expenses pertaining to longer FY 11/12 : 21.2% prospects of the banking industry. maturity assets and liabilities on FY 10/11 : 20.5% Although economic activity across the basis of effective interest rate the country is likely to slow down rather than on straight line basis in the short term, it is envisaged will also have an impact on UA that the domestic economic engine and NTB. will prove resilient, with growth underpinned by structural factors Assets/ Asset EBIT (debt+equity) turnover margin such as the unlocking of previously 3.76 0.43 13.1% war-torn areas, the rebuilding of infrastructure and rising income levels. Towards unleashing its true 92 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information > IT Services Information > Office Automation > IT Enabled Services Technology John Keells Office Automation, national distributor for Samsung phones in Sri Lanka, launched the Smart phone showroom in Colombo Vision and scope Key indicators The Information Technology industry group has a vision of providing quality, world-class information communication technology services from (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 BPO, software services and information integration to office automation by offering end-to-end ICT services and solutions. With a strong Revenue1 6,947 4,229 64.3% 2,590 customer base in Sri Lanka, the rest of South Asia, as well as the UK, EBIT 182 122 48.6% 16 Middle East, North America, Scandinavia and the Far East, the IT group PBT 134 114 17.3% 14 is at the forefront of making Sri Lanka an ICT hub in South Asia. PAT 64 (22) 390.4% 18 Total assets 3,338 2,419 38.0% 1,736 Contribution to JKH Group Total equity 1,871 1,651 13.4% 1,360 Total debt 560 124 352.9% 25 8 1 2 2 Capital employed2 2,432 1,774 37.0% 1,386 No. of employees3 1,114 979 13.8% 818 CAPITAL CARBON REVENUE EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT EBIT per employee3 0.2 0.1 30.6% N/A Carbon footprint (MT)4 1,406 614 128.9% N/A 92 99 98 98 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 2 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 3 EBIT per employee is calculated excluding the employees of associate companies 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies Annual Report 2011/12 93 John Keells Holdings PLC Sector highlights IT Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services The businesses within the Operations of John Keells Operations of John Keells Office Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) sector Computer Services offer software Automation, agents for Toshiba office operations, primarily in the Voice services to a wide range of clients equipment in Sri Lanka command a vertical through JK BPO and the Finance in Sri Lanka and overseas dominant market position & Accounting (F & A) vertical through Quattro Finance & Accounting (QF & A) Operation of Information Systems Currently operates approximately 1,000 Associates (ISA) in partnership seats with operations in India and the US with Air Arabia Core focus areas are in National distributor for Samsung Shared service function of the Group development of aviation related mobile phones and other office as well as for external clientele under software and hotel reservation automation products such as printers InfoMate in the F & A payroll verticals management systems and RISO duplicating solutions Revenue and growth Rs. 469 million, growth of 17% Rs. 4.45 billion, growth of 73% Rs. 2.03 billion, growth of 62% EBIT and growth Rs. 14 million, growth of 167% Rs. 253 million, growth of 20% Negative of Rs. 86 million, reduction from negative Rs. 21 million of 27% Carbon footprint 296 MT 410 MT 701 MT Key developments during • ISA added new customers to • Samsung mobile handset business • A satellite BPO initiated in Seenigama, the year its portfolio of low cost carriers achieved a more than five fold the second under the rural BPO in the Middle East and African improvement in market share in line concept pioneered by Infomate regions with the global positioning of the brand • BPO business in India acquired a number of high profile customers mainly from USA and Canada Key external/internal • Global distress among key • Sharp depreciation of the Sri • Sri Lanka’s large pool of qualified variables affecting business aviation clients caused some Lankan Rupee in the second half of accountants and the country’s target set-backs the year dampened demand to achieve US $ 1 billion in ICT exports is contributing to the growth of Sri • Growth of the tourism industry • Policy initiatives to increase ICT Lankan BPO operations in Sri Lanka propelled the fully penetration locally as well as web-based Zhara Hospitality boosting the IT/ITES export industry • John Keells BPO Solutions India is Suite to gain increasing with particular emphasis on well positioned to participate in India’s acceptance among start-ups and mobile applications lead to greater enhanced share of 58 per cent in the newly refurbished properties demand for laptops and other global outsourcing market share mobile devices Note: ICT Information and Communication Technology; IT Information Technology; ITES Information Technology Enabled Services Integrated operational entrants, the flagship online destinations. The cost-effective demand were visible towards the review and discussion reservation system ‘Accelaero’ Software-as–a-Service (SaaS) latter part of the year. Amongst now supports approximately based pricing model, coupled the office automation products, the The Software Services business 10 million passenger bookings with the rapid spread of reliable traditional Toshiba copier business continued to grow above industry worldwide annually. internet access and connectivity maintained its dominant market rates with new customer is expected to further boost the position amidst the competition acquisitions in geographies such Continued growth in the tourism prospects of this product in the faced from rising parallel imports as Scandinavia and Australasia, industry in Sri Lanka propelled future. and increased competition in the along with the repeat business the fully web-enabled ‘Zhara lucrative consumables market from long-standing customers in Hospitality Suite’ to gain John Keells Office Automation arising from the availability of the traditional Middle Eastern increasing acceptance among (JKOA) witnessed substantial compatibles. Toshiba laptops markets. During the year, new start-ups and newly refurbished growth in both of its business lines enjoyed a rapid volume growth low cost carriers were added to properties throughout the Office Automation and Samsung with a competitively priced new the customer portfolio from the country. Plans are afoot to step mobile phones. The depreciation product offering targeted at the traditional Middle Eastern market up marketing efforts targetting of the Rupee led to the erosion of growing home and small business as well as from the African market. emerging regional tourist margins and signs of dampened markets. The island-wide service With the inclusion of these new capability of the Office Automation 94 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information been taken a step further with its second satellite BPO in A satellite BPO was initiated in Seenigama proving to be another success. The company is exploring Seenigama, the second under the rural the possibility of establishing BPO concept pioneered by Infomate similar facilities in other areas. Discussions are underway to The flagship online establish the next satellite facility. reservation system ‘Accelaero’ annually John Keells BPO Solutions supports 10 million launched its brand new, state passenger bookings of the art facility in a special worldwide economic zone located in Gurgaon, India in March 2011 to cater to rising demand from its growing business was one of the key customer base. The new site is enablers of winning the trust of the a 50,000 square foot facility with customers and attracting repeat 750 agent seats and is equipped customers. The Samsung mobile with the latest technology from national distributorship, which was Cisco, Aspect, NICE, Microsoft and acquired by JKOA two years ago, Dell to support the global client has been making rapid progress. base made up of market leaders The smart phone segment in across a wide range of industries. Financial review particular achieved excellent This facility is envisioned to The Information Technology industry group recorded a substantial 91 per results in line with the global consolidate the position of the cent growth in revenues to Rs. 5.93 billion [2010/11: Rs. 3.11 billion]. performance of the segment. Indian BPO operation fuelled by Revenue was driven largely by growth in sales in the Office Automation the favourable industry landscape sector which contributed 75 per cent to the IT group’s topline. Revenue, prevalent in India. Infomate, the Sri Lankan based inclusive of associate company revenue, increased by 64 per cent to Rs. business process outsourcing unit 6.95 billion [2010/11: Rs. 4.23 billion]. EBIT increased by 49 per cent to Rs. which currently caters mainly The carbon footprint of the IT 182 million [2010/11: Rs. 122 million] continuing the growth momentum to the JKH group companies group was 1,406 MT up from 614 of the business which was also primarily driven by Office Automation. benefitted from the process MT primarily as a result of the and productivity enhancement increased volume of operations measures introduced during the in Business Process Outsourcing (BPO). The electricity consumption Revenue last year. Infomate recorded improved margins while correspondingly increased to 1.75 7% 64% 29% million kWh from 0.9 million kWh 2011/12 maintaining competitive pricing to key customers. The company in the previous year. The IT group 9% 61% 30% continued to expand its external continues to make a difference by 2010/11 customer base during the year, employing and training rural youth 15% 40% 45% with 11 per cent of total revenue in the villages of Mahavilachchiya 2009/10 being generated by serving third and Seenigama where BPO 0 20 40 60 80 100 party customers. Infomate was centers have been setup providing re-certified as ISO 27001 compliant necessary infrastructure and Software Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services for information security and technical support, creating confidentiality and also embarked livelihoods and endowing these on a carbon footprint reduction youth with technical knowledge EBIT programme in partnership with and experience. (47)% 8% 139% the ‘Enhancing Environmental 2011/12 Performance in Key Sri Lankan (55)% (18)% 173% Export Sectors’ (EEPEX) Project. 2010/11 The rural BPO concept pioneered (596)% 15% 681% by the company through its 2009/10 Mahavilachchiya facility has -600 -340 -80 180 440 700 Software Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services Annual Report 2011/12 95 John Keells Holdings PLC As per the statistics of ‘The Information National Association of Software and Services Companies’ of India Technology (Nasscom), India’s share in the global outsourcing market has increased from 51 per cent in 2009 Return on capital employed to 58 per cent in 2011 with the industry forecasted to grow by an • ROCE increased to 8.6 per cent as against 7.7 per cent in the estimated 15 per cent in FY2012. previous year. John Keells BPO Solutions is well positioned to participate in this • EBIT margins reduced marginally to 2.6 per cent as against 2.9 per growing market, and is targeting cent recorded in the previous year largely as a result of the revenue a higher than industry growth in growth emanating from the relatively lower margin Samsung mobile revenue during 2012/13. phone business. • Asset utilisation improved during the year to 2.41 from 2.04. Convergence to IFRS With the convergence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the IT industry group does not foresee any ROCE material changes to its financials. FY 11/12 : 8.6% Even though the treatment for FY 10/11 : 7.7% warranties as per IFRS varies with current treatment, the financials are unlikely to be affected, as the costs arising due to warranty claims are passed on to the respective principals of the Assets/ Asset EBIT (debt+equity) turnover margin products. 1.37 2.41 2.6% Outlook term, it is expected that favourable policy initiatives will give impetus As a result of the intense to the IT export industry, with competition for scarce skilled particular emphasis on mobile resources as well as competition applications, which will augment to grasp the opportunities the growth of demand for laptops, presented in the post-war mobile devices and other office scenario, several industry and automation products. policy level initiatives have been implemented, particularly in the form of fiscal incentives Infomate is planning to undertake to enhance the competitive several initiatives in the coming advantage of the IT services year, upgrading its IT platform business. and marketing its services to realise the full potential of the Sri Lankan BPO Industry. Towards The depreciation of the Sri Lankan this end, road-shows are planned Rupee is expected to dampen in selected overseas markets in demand and would erode margins 2012/13 since countries such as in many of the office automation Australia and United States have business offerings in the first half identified Sri Lanka’s potential in of the ensuing year with a gradual the sector. recovery expected in the second half, as the market adjusts to the new price levels. In the medium 96 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Other Including > Plantation Services > Other Plantation Services Dual manufacture of orthodox and CTC teas introduced at the Hingalgoda tea factory which is operated by Tea Smallholder Factories Vision and scope Key indicators The Plantation Services sector includes the operation of tea factories, tea and rubber broking and pre-auction produce warehousing. (Rs. million) 2011/12 2010/11 Chg % 2009/10 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF) is amongst the top manufacturers of Revenue1 2,684 3,119 (13.9%) 2,821 orthodox low grown teas and is also recognised as the producer of the EBIT 198 2,716 (92.7%) 2,359 best CTC teas in Sri Lanka. With over 140 years of experience in the tea PBT (7) 2,350 (100.3%) 1,612 trade, John Keells PLC is one of the leading tea brokers in the country. PAT (392) 2,115 (118.5%) 1,320 Our warehousing facility is the largest and one of the best state-of-the-art complexes in the country for pre-auction produce. Total assets 19,159 15,085 27.0% 14,081 Total equity 10,594 7,075 49.7% 2,298 The sector also consists of John Keells Holdings PLC including its Total debt 7,436 7,025 5.8% 10,133 divisions / centre functions such as John Keells Capital (JK Capital) and Capital employed2 18,030 14,101 27.9% 12,431 Strategic Group Information Technology division (SGIT), as well as several No. of employees3 1,112 1,130 (1.6%) 1,227 other auxiliary companies. JK Capital is the private equity arm of the EBIT per employee3 0.2 2.4 (92.6%) 1.9 Group and also provides financial advisory, structuring and capital raising Carbon footprint (MT)4 3,743 3,907 (4.2%) N/A solutions to external clients. The SGIT division which supports the group’s IT requirements also provides consulting services to external companies. 1 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 2 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies Contribution to JKH Group 3 No of employees and EBIT per employee are excluding the employees of associate 3 1 5 companies 18 4 Carbon footprint is calculated excluding associate companies CAPITAL CARBON REVENUE EBIT EMPLOYED FOOTPRINT 97 99 82 95 Annual Report 2011/12 97 John Keells Holdings PLC Other Including Plantation Services Sector highlights Plantation Services Other The businesses within John Keells PLC – leading tea and rubber broker JKH & other businesses the sector John Keells Warehousing – operating a state of the art warehouse John Keells Capital (JK Capital), a division of JKH, is for pre auction produce the private equity arm of the Group Tea Smallholder Factories (TSF) – operates 8 tea factories and is a The Strategic Group Information Technology (SGIT) leading manufacturer of low grown teas in the country, especially division which supports the Group’s IT requirements, the CTC variety also provides consulting services to external companies Revenue & growth Rs. 2.22 billion, decline of 21% Revenues from external sources is negligible as there are no significant operating businesses under this segment EBIT & growth Rs. 253 million, decline of 42% Rs. 55 million negative, decline of 102% Carbon footprint 3,339 MT 404 MT Key developments • Introduction of dual manufacturing facility in a factory vis-à-vis • Invested Rs. 1 billion in the Access Engineering Ltd during the year orthodox and cut tear and curled (CTC) teas (AEL) private placement. • Continued with the pioneering initiative to support tea small • SGIT appointed first-ever SAP Services partner in holders by providing technical and financial assistance Sri Lanka • Tea Smallholder Factories obtained 67% of its energy requirement from renewable sources Key external/internal • A levy of Rs. 3.50 per kg of tea was imposed at the point of • Depreciation of the Rupee affecting US dollar variables affecting the export denominated borrowings of JKH (company) and businesses Central Hospital (Pvt) Ltd • Political instability in the Middle East affecting key tea consuming countries • Weather conditions affecting the production of quality green leaf Integrated operational costs increased mainly due to for low grown teas at the Colombo The regulators of the tea industry review and discussion the increase in wage costs post Tea Auctions witnessed a drop of 5 are proactively focussing on During the year under review, conclusion of the latest collective per cent during the year mainly due maintaining the pure Ceylon Tea the country’s tea industry was bargaining agreement, higher to an increase in world production image in the international market. affected by the political instability fuel costs which increased the and the demand from the Middle In order to fund the marketing and in the Middle East which impacted transportation costs and the higher East region which was affected by promotional activities of Ceylon several key markets such as Syria electricity costs which increased the political turmoil in the region. Tea, a levy of Rs. 3.50 per kg was and Libya, whilst the embargo the manufacturing costs – this in imposed at the point of export as a against Iran, Sri Lanka’s second spite of generating a significant As part of the product Tea Promotional Levy. largest destination for Ceylon tea, portion of the power requirements diversification strategy of TSF, a has directly affected tea exports to via renewable sources. The green dual manufacturing facility was The pioneering initiative of TSF the region. leaf production in the low grown introduced at Hingalgoda tea to transfer knowledge and extend areas decreased during the year factory which now manufactures financial support to selected due to unfavourable weather orthodox and CTC teas. Hingalgoda growers to replant their lands, The performance of TSF for conditions. This intensified tea factory sells at the top end entered its second year. This the year was impacted by the competition for quality leaf which of the Colombo Tea Auctions and initiative intends to improve increase in production costs and resulted in the cost of green has received industry recognition the yield obtained from their in bought leaf costs, compounded leaf increasing over and above for producing teas of a consistent plantations which in turn would by a decrease in prices for the stipulated bought leaf price quality. sustain or increase the supply manufactured tea. Production formula. The average sales price of green leaf to the company’s 98 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information factories, while helping to improve requirement through renewable Revenue the income levels of the small energy sources such as biomass, 83% 17% holders. which constitutes 9.1 million kWh 2011/12 of electricity, while it obtains 4.3 million kWh from the national grid. 90% 10% With a view to improving 2010/11 process efficiency and customer The company consumed 22,674 convenience, the tea broking cubic meters of water in carrying 100% out operations, which is 4.2 liters 2009/10 division implemented a new system where delivery orders to of water withdrawn per kilogram 0 20 40 60 80 100 buyers were issued in an electronic of tea produced. Plantation Services Other format, thereby reducing the need for the buyer to come to its office The Plantation Services sector EBIT to collect the delivery orders. employs over 900 staff, with TSF having the largest staff count (28%) 128% 2011/12 John Keells Capital, the owing to the eight factories it investment banking arm of the operates. The majority of the 16% 84% staff at TSF are employed as 2010/11 Group completed several private equity mandates on behalf of non-executives and the company 20% 80% its clients during the year. SGIT voluntarily abides by the collective 2009/10 completed its first-ever SAP bargaining agreements applicable -20 10 40 70 100 implementation outside the to the plantation industry, even Plantation Services Other John Keells Group, where it though its operations are limited implemented all modules of SAP at only to the manufacture of tea. a reputed manufacturing company. During the year, the Plantation Return on capital employed Services sector provided an ROCE decreased to 1.3 per cent against 20.5 per cent primarily due to average of 8.5 hours of training a drop in EBIT margin. The inclusion of capital gains of Rs. 1.79 billion Central Hospital (Private) Limited per employee. boosted last year’s overall EBIT margin. Due to the factors discussed (owning company of ‘The Central’ above, the EBIT margin of TSF decreased from 7.5 per cent to 1.2 per cent hospital in Colombo) an associate company of the Group (investment Financial review this year. held under JK Capital, the private Total revenue of the other equity arm of the Group), managed businesses of the JKH Group to operationally breakeven during primarily consist of revenues from ROCE the year. This is a commendable the Plantation Services sector FY 11/12 : 1.4% achievement considering the since there are no other significant FY 10/11 : 20.5% fact that this was its first full operating businesses in this year of operations. However, cluster. The Plantation services the sharp depreciation of the sector recorded revenues of Rs. Rupee impacted its US Dollar 2.22 billion [2010/11: Rs. 2.81 denominated borrowings and billion] which is a decline of 21 per cent from the previous year mainly Assets/ Asset EBIT the corresponding exchange loss turnover margin on account of the 25 per cent drop (debt+equity) resulted in an overall loss for the 7.4% in revenues of TSF. 1.08 0.17 company for the year. The carbon footprint of the Total EBIT (including the holding Plantation Services sector was company) declined to Rs. 198 million from Rs. 2.72 billion Outlook Convergence to IFRS 3,339 MT for the year which recorded in the previous year. Political instability in the Middle The Plantations sector does not was an increase of 8.2 percent EBIT of the previous year included East, if continued could affect tea anticipate any material impact over the last year. The primary capital gains of Rs. 1.79 billion prices at the Colombo Tea Auction. arising from the adoption of IFRS consumer of electricity and energy from the sale of stakes in Asian TSF will continue to ensure from 2012/13. However, TSF has within the sector is Tea Small Hotels & Properties PLC and consistently high quality of the tea identified a few relevant areas such Holder Factories which operates Keells Hotels PLC. There were produced in its factories in order to as valuation of produce stocks and 8 factories in the Southern and no corresponding capital gains command a higher sales premium. the treatment of operating leases Sabaragamuwa provinces of recorded during the current year. In this respect it will seek to invest where changes will be required the country. TSF has recorded a carbon foot print of 0.58 kg per The EBIT was also impacted by further in upgrading and automating as per the IFRS guidelines. These kilogram of tea produced and is the exchange loss on the IFC loan its production facilities. impacts are not material within the conscious of taking steps to reduce following the depreciation of the Considering the current market context of the business. its carbon footprint. TSF produces Rupee against the US Dollar. environment, the private equity 67 per cent of its total energy arm of the Group will continue to explore and evaluate opportunities. Annual Report 2011/12 99 John Keells Holdings PLC Share Information JKH high and low share prices per month Rs. 250 225 200 Total number shares in issue as at 31/03/2012 844,120,046 175 Public shareholding 76.33% Stock symbol JKH.N0000 150 Newswire codes Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Bloomberg JKH.SL 30 day moving average High and low share prices Dow Jones P.JKH Reuters JKH.CM Above prices have been adjusted for the sub-division of shares The Colombo Stock Exchange witnessed a considerable downturn during stock market, the JKH share stood resilient, only recording a drop of 4 the period 1st April 2011 to 31st March 2012. The All Share Price Index per cent after taking into consideration the adjustment for the share sub (ASPI) fell by 25 per cent in tandem with the Milanka Price Index (MPI) division. which dropped by 29 per cent during the same period. The performance of the stock market was impeded by undue speculation which necessitated During March 2012, Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund Khazanah Nasional regulatory changes. Berhad, acquired a 8.8 per cent stake in JKH via its special purpose vehicle Broga Hill Investments Limited highlighting the confidence Net foreign inflows reached Rs. 8.4 billion during the financial year placed in the JKH share as an equity instrument capable of delivering compared to net foreign outflows of Rs. 26.2 billion in the previous year. sustainable value. This was mainly driven by the large volumes of foreign purchases during March 2012. Average daily turnover levels dropped to Rs. 1.83 billion The JKH share being a dynamic equity investment on the Colombo Bourse in 2012 from Rs. 2.8 billion in 2011. The drop in volumes in the market recorded a beta of 0.7 (note that the beta was calculated on daily JKH can be partly attributed to 25 rights issues mainly by the banking sector, share and market movements as measured by the ASPI for the 5 year which drew significant levels of liquidity away from the market. period from 1st April 2007 to 31st March 2012) as at the end of the current financial year end. The JKH share recorded a compounded annual The JKH share growth rate (CAGR) of 12 per cent after adjusting for the sub division of shares compared to CAGRs of 14 per cent and 5 per cent recorded The JKH share closed at Rs. 206.00 as at 31st March 2012 as against by ASPI and MPI respectively over the most recent five years. This is Rs. 214.20 (adjusted) in the previous year, recording a fall of 4 per cent. illustrated in the graph titled ‘JKH share performance vs ASPI and MPI’. The closing share price of Rs. 285.60 in the previous year was adjusted for the sub division of shares in June 2011, where three existing shares During the year under review, the global economy witnessed the were subdivided into four shares. With the market taking a bearish turn continued shift in investor confidence from developed economies to owing to the reasons mentioned above, the JKH share fell to a low of Rs. emerging economies in Asia. With the effects of the Greek sovereign debt 158.20 during January 2012. However, during the last quarter, the JKH crisis being felt across Europe, causing regional economies to cut down share regained most of the decline witnessed in the previous quarter’s on on consumption and savings, most Asian stock markets outperformed the back of strong foreign demand. The JKH share outperformed both the their western counterparts. The Jakarta Composite Index continued to ASPI and MPI. Despite the drop in ASPI of 25 per cent during the financial post a noteworthy growth of 12 per cent during the year ended 31st year, driven by the volatility in certain highly speculative counters in the Share volumes & relative JKH share compared with performance vs market (indexed) JKH share performance vs ASPI & MPI (indexed) key regional indices (indexed) Index No. of shares 80,000 Index Index 100 18,000 300 300 16,000 250 250 80 14,000 12,000 200 200 60 10,000 150 150 8,000 40 6,000 100 100 20 4,000 50 50 2,000 0 0 0 0 Apr-11 Jun-11 Aug-11 Oct-11 Jan-11 Mar-12 Apr-07 Jun-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-07 Jun-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 No of shares traded in '000s JKH ASPI MPI JKH ASPI MPI JKH Bombay Kuala Lampur Singapore 100 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information March 2012 while the Dow Jones Industrial Average and FTSE 100 The balance of Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), in ordinary share recorded growth rates of 7 per cent and negative 2 per cent respectively equivalents increased to 1.19 million as a result of the issuance of new during the same period. GDRs arising from the share sub division as at the end of the year vis-àvis 0.95 million at the beginning of the year. In spite of the fall compared with the previous year, the ASPI was resilient from a global/regional stand point and outperformed major stock Dividend market indices including the SENSEX Index of Mumbai and SGX’s STI over the last five years based on the compound annual growth rate. The dividend policy of JKH seeks to ensure a dividend payout which mirrors the growth in profits, whilst ensuring the availability of adequate funds to facilitate investments and deliver sustainable share holder value Issued share capital in the short, medium and long term. The total number of JKH shares in issue at the beginning of the year was 629.7 million. On 24th June 2011, the Board recommended for During the year, the company paid a total dividend of Rs. 3.00 per share. consideration and approval of the shareholders, at an Extraordinary The dividend payout ratio increased to 44.1 per cent [2010/11: 32.2 per General Meeting, that subject to the approval of the Colombo Stock cent], primarily due to the increase in the number of shares in comparison Exchange, the number of shares in issue be increased by way of a share to last year. sub division, whereby three (3) existing shares will be split to four (4). In addition to the shares in issue, approval was granted by way of an Based on the profits of 2011/12, in addition to the two interim dividends Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) held on 7th December 2011 where of Rs. 1.00 per share which were paid, the company also announced 0.75 per cent of the shares outstanding as at that date were approved a final dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share payable on 15th June 2012. In as employee share options (ESOPs). As a result during the financial absolute terms, the dividend paid and payable out of 2011/12 profits will year, 4.4 million shares were issued through the exercise of ESOPs and be Rs. 2.96 billion [2010/11: Rs. 1.88 billion], an increase of 58 per cent. 210.05 million additional shares were issued by way of a sub division of shares, resulting in the number of shares in issue increasing to 844.1 million by the year end. Also, there are 31.2 million shares equivalent Earnings per share of unexercised ESOPs as at 31st March 2012. These are eligible for The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the period increased by 18 immediate exercise as at the date of the Report. per cent to Rs. 11.49 [2010/11: Rs. 9.77] as profit after tax attributable to equity holders grew by 19 per cent. The items impacting the bottom line are discussed in the Management Discussion and Analysis section 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 of the Annual Report. The cash EPS increased by 30 per cent to Rs. 14.68 [2010/2011: Rs. 11.27] in the current year due to the increase of cash Market cap (Rs. billion) 173.89 179.84 113.98 earnings of 31 per cent from last year. Enterprise value (Rs. billion) 165.34 175.67 109.55 Market value added (Rs. billion) 102.71 120.25 64.15 The weighted average number of shares (diluted) increased to 850.98 EV/EBITDA (times) 9.5 13.1 10.9 million in 2011/12 from 843.97 million in 2010/11. Diluted EPS (Rs.)* 11.49 9.77 6.28 PER (diluted)* 17.9 21.9 22.0 Price to book (times)* 2.4 4.0 3.1 Price/cash earnings (times)* 14.7 11.3 8.6 Dividend yield (%)* 1.3 1.4 2.2 Dividend payout ratio (per cent) 44.1 32.2 39.3 TSR (%)* (2.5) 57.4 199.6 *Adjusted for the sub-division and repurchase of shares Market capitalisation Trend in composition of shareholders Distributions to shareholders and payout ratio Rs. Bn. % Rs. Bn. Payout % 200 13 25 26 22 5 100 180 174 81% 50 46 33 29 39 160 4 75 25 35 36 39 34 2.3 120 114 3 20 44% 50 76 39% 80 2 42% 32% 5 5 5 5 3 38 3.2 25 40 1 1 1 1 1 1 1.8 1.9 2.3 1.9 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 0 0 0 Executive directors and spouses Executives and connected parties 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Non executive directors and 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Public resident connected parties Public non-resident and GDRs Shareholders holding more than 10% Share repurchase Dividend Pay-out Dividend paid Annual Report 2011/12 101 John Keells Holdings PLC Price earnings Liquidity Share ratio During the year under review, Information 231.4 million shares changed The JKH share was trading at 18.0 times earnings as at March hands compared to 221.7 million 2012 as opposed to the 21.9 times shares transacted during the Total shareholder return (adjusted) posted last year. The previous year. The average daily decrease was a result of the JKH turnover of the JKH share read at The total shareholder return (TSR) of the share was -2.5 per cent during share (adjusted) declining by 4 Rs. 195 million which amounted to the year. This was on account of the fall of the share price of 4 per cent per cent and was fuelled by the 10.6 per cent of the daily average during the year. The 1-year treasury bill rate was at 7.3 per cent as at 01st increase in fully diluted EPS of 17 market turnover. April 2011. per cent during the financial year. Five-year total shareholder return (percentage) Distribution and 199.6 The broad market PER of the CSE composition of 117.7 stood at 14.4 times as at the end of the year under review, while shareholders 112.2 the PER of JCI of Indonesia was The total number of shareholders 57.4 21.3, SENSEX Index of Mumbai of JKH decreased to 9,312 from 38.3 was 13.9 and Singapore’s STI 9,639 seen last year. Out of the -17.8 -43.8 -2.5 was 15.8 times. JKH share has total number of shareholders, as -17.8 -53.8 historically been at a premium to at 31st March 2011, 76.3 per cent the market owing to its free float of the shares in issue were held 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 and liquidity and the consistent by public, while 1.4 per cent of the Annual TSR Cumulative TSR financial performance delivered by shares were held by the Executive the company. Directors and the balance 22.3 per cent by shareholders holding Market capitalisation and enterprise Price to book more than 10 per cent. In terms value of the domicility of shareholders, At the end of the year under 50.6 per cent of shares were held As at 31st March 2012, the market capitalisation of the company review the price to book value by residents and 49.4 per cent decreased by 3 per cent to Rs. 173.89 billion [2010/2011 Rs. 179.84 stood at 2.4 times [2010/11: 4.0 was held by non residents. This billion]. Nevertheless, the JKH market capitalisation represented 8.6 per times]. The net assets per share compares to 39.8 per cent held by cent of the Colombo Stock Exchange’s market capitalisation as at 31st increased by 19 per cent to Rs. non residents at the end of last March 2012 compared to 7.4 per cent as at the previous year end. The 84.32 [2010/11: Rs. 70.59]. year. enterprise value as at 31st March 2012 decreased by 6 per cent to Rs. 165.34 billion largely due to the reduction in the market capitalisation and net debt of the Group. Composition of shareholders 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of % % shareholders shares shareholders shares Executive Directors and spouses 4 11,502,416 1.4 4 8,452,015 1.3 Non Executive Directors and connected parties 3 114,680 0.0 1 4,136 0.0 Executives and connected parties 123 28,354,208 3.4 157 29,620,298 4.7 Public resident Institutions 621 161,705,264 19.2 694 149,983,231 23.8 Individuals 8,201 123,840,981 14.7 8,430 94,353,883 15.0 Public non-resident Institutions 112 321,289,175 38.1 104 178,545,941 28.4 Individuals 245 7,959,652 0.9 246 5,959,806 0.9 Global depositary reciepts 1 1,185,047 0.1 1 952,114 0.2 Shareholders holding more than 10% 2 188,168,623 22.3 2 161,820,943 25.7 Grand total 9,312 844,120,046 100.0 9,639 629,692,367 100.0 102 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Market information on ordinary shares of the company 2011/12 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2010/11 Share Information High 228.68* 210.00 212.00 220.00 228.68* 270.00* Low 158.20 158.20 161.80 183.00 199.00 132.75* Close 206.00 206.00 170.20 205.90 201.00 214.20* Dividends paid (per share) 3.00 1.00 1.00 0.00 1.00 3.00 Trading Statistics Number of transactions 24,617 8,173 6,431 5,333 4,680 27,107 Number of shares traded ('000) 231,367 120,870 44,692 46,338 19,467 221,701 % of total shares in issue 27.4 14.3 5.3 5.5 2.3 35.2 Value of all shares traded (Rs.million) 46,188 22,670 8,017 9,721 5,780 56,744 Average daily turnover (Rs.million) 195 378 134 154 107 237 % of total market turnover 10.6 27.7 12.6 6.4 4.3 8.5 Market capitalisation (Rs. million) 173,889 173,889 143,211 173,065 168,877 179,840 % of total market capitalisation 8.6 8.6 6.5 7.1 7.2 7.4 *Adjusted for the sub-division of shares Distribution of shareholders 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of % % % % shareholders shares held shareholders shares held Less than or equal to 1,000 5,352 57.5 1,352,155 0.2 5,791 60.1 1,636,699 0.3 1,001 to 10,000 2,673 28.7 9,345,261 1.1 2,632 27.3 9,445,792 1.5 10,001 to 100,000 988 10.6 28,241,168 3.3 922 9.6 26,676,841 4.2 100,001 to 1,000,000 203 2.2 62,120,363 7.4 215 2.2 69,682,337 11.1 Over 1,000,001 96 1.0 743,061,099 88.0 79 0.8 522,250,698 82.9 Grand total 9,312 100.0 844,120,046 100.0 9,639 100.0 629,692,367 100.0 Directors’ shareholding Employee share options* 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March Number of options exercised (million) S C Ratnayake 4,579,903 3,434,928 1997 0.02 A D Gunewardene 5,706,654 4,279,992 1998 0.16 J R F Peiris 1,215,859 737,095 1999 0.27 E F G Amerasinghe 5,514 4,136 2000 0.47 I Coomaraswamy Nil Nil 2001 0.02 T Das Nil Nil 2002 1.78 S Enderby Nil Nil 2003 2.30 A R Gunasekara* 107,866 N/A 2004 4.08 P D Rodrigo** N/A Nil 2005 1.53 S S Tiruchelvam 1,300 Nil 2006 2.04 2007 3.67 Options available under the 2008 4.06 employee share option plan of 2009 0.86 John Keells Holdings PLC 2010 8.12 S C Ratnayake 2,631,892 1,658,609 2011 10.23 A D Gunewardene 2,302,938 1,451,308 J R F Peiris 1,533,383 1,238,357 2012 4.38 *Appointed w.e.f 1 July 2011 *First exercised in FY1997 **Retired on 27 June 2011 Annual Report 2011/12 103 John Keells Holdings PLC Share Information Twenty largest shareholders of the company 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Number of shares % Number of shares % 1 Mr S E Captain 101,632,490 12.0 96,918,843 15.4 2 Janus Overseas Fund 86,536,133 10.3 64,902,100 10.3 3 Broga Hill Investments Limited 74,591,759 8.8 Nil Nil 4 Paints & General Industries Limited 40,325,338 4.8 20,771,633 3.3 5 Melstacorp (Private) Limited 27,846,346 3.3 Nil Nil 6 J.P.Morgan Clearing Corporation 27,468,042 3.3 28,317,277 4.5 7 Deutsche Bank AG London 23,129,102 2.7 18,603,279 3.0 8 Est. of Mr. A.A.N De Fonseka 19,952,358 2.4 14,964,269 2.4 9 Aberdeen Global Asia Pacific Equity Fund 19,047,737 2.3 14,885,803 2.4 10 Janus Aspen Series Overseas Portfolio 18,303,333 2.2 13,727,500 2.2 11 Aberdeen Global Emerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 15,502,743 1.8 5,141,364 0.8 12 Rubber Investment Trust Limited A/C no.1 14,326,103 1.7 10,802,178 1.7 13 Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd Life Fund 14,288,150 1.7 11,216,113 1.8 14 HSBC INTL NOM LTD-JPMLU-Schroder International Selection Fund 11,834,866 1.4 Nil Nil 15 Aberdeen Global Asian Smaller Companies Fund 11,530,150 1.4 5,727,113 0.9 16 HSBC INTL NOM LTD-Bp2s London-Edinburgh Dragon Trust PLC 9,936,664 1.2 7,452,498 1.2 17 Mr K Balendra 9,587,276 1.1 7,190,457 1.1 18 RBC Dexia Investor Services Bank S A Vontobel Fund 9,338,266 1.1 2,497,500 0.4 19 Aberdeen Asia Pacific Fund 9,074,229 1.1 6,805,672 1.1 20 Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 8,859,873 1.0 3,074,905 0.5 Employee share option plan as at 31 March 2012 Date of grant Shares Expiry date Option grant Shares Exercised Lapsed/ Outstanding Current granted price (Rs.) adjusted* cancelled price (Rs.)* PLAN 3 Award 2 10.04.2006 6,645,575 09.04.2011 157.25 10,301,859 8,953,047 1,348,812 120.74 Award 3 28.05.2007 10,551,062 27.05.2012 146.00 13,017,508 5,347,345 1,259,420 6,410,743 109.50 PLAN 4 25.03.2008 5,405,945 24.03.2013 120.00 6,806,006 1,071,188 255,550 5,479,268 90.00 PLAN 5 17.12.2009 6,126,960 16.12.2014 160.25 7,935,812 988,234 54,160 6,893,418 120.19 PLAN 6 09.12.2010 4,672,823 08.12.2015 292.00 6,214,104 9,800 108,829 6,095,475 219.00 PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 6,306,182 27,600 6,278,582 172.10 Total 39,708,547 50,581,471 16,397,214 3,026,771 31,157,486 *Adjusted for bonus issues/right issues and share sub-divisions 104 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Dividends since 1996/97 Share capital since 1996/97 Year ended 31 March DPS (Rs.) Dividends (Rs. ’000) Year ended 31 March Number of shares in issue (million) 1997 3.00 92,050 1997 32.02 1998 4.00 155,783 1998 40.21 1999 4.00 151,343 1999 40.47 2000 3.00 168,150 2000 61.18 2001 2.00 353,128 2001 183.56 2002 2.00 329,869 2002 185.35 2003 2.00 342,203 2003 187.64 2004 2.50 725,783 2004 300.08 2005 3.00 1,027,497 2005 331.63 2006 3.00 1,199,460 2006 400.00 2007 3.00 1,412,306 2007 552.94 2008 5.00 3,176,302 2008 635.99 2009 3.00 1,883,442 2009 611.35 2010 3.00 1,843,642 2010 619.47 2011 3.00 1,868,707 2011 629.69 2012 3.00 2,313,519 2012 844.12 History of scrip issues and repurchases since 1996/97 Year ended 31 March Issue Basis Number of shares (million) Ex-date 1997 Bonus 1:7 4.00 20-Jan-97 1998 Bonus 1:4 8.02 9-Jan-98 2000 Bonus 1:5 8.09 15-Jun-99 2000 Bonus 1:4 12.14 5-Jan-00 2001 Bonus 2:1 122.36 27-Jul-00 2004 Bonus 1:4 46.94 10-Jun-03 2004 Private placement n/a 24.00 21-Oct-03 2004 Rights @ Rs. 75* 1:7 37.42 7-Nov-03 2005 Bonus 1:10 30.02 13-May-04 2006 Bonus 1:5 66.34 11-May-05 2007 Bonus 1:7 57.16 13-Jun-06 2007 Rights @ Rs. 140* 1:5 92.10 23-Jan-07 2007 Bonus 1:7 78.96 13-Mar-07 2009 Repurchase 1:25 25.50 11-Oct-08 2012 Sub division 4:3 210.05 30-Jun-11 *unadjusted prices Annual Report 2011/12 105 John Keells Holdings PLC Share Information GDR history (in terms of ordinary shares, million) Financial calendar 2011/12 Year ended Opening Issued** Convertered/ Closing Interim financial statements 31 March balance Repurchased balance Three months ended 30 June 2011 27 July 2011 1994 4.50 4.50 Six months ended 30 September 2011 3 November 2011 1995 4.50 0.21 4.29 Nine months ended 31 December 2011 26 January 2011 1996 4.29 0.59 0.20 4.68 1997 4.68 0.27 2.80 2.15 First interim dividend paid on 24 November 2011 1998 2.15 0.28 1.06 1.37 Second interim dividend paid on 8 March 2012 1999 1.37 0.75 0.62 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 15 June 2012 2000 0.62 0.26 0.52 0.36 Annual Report 2011/12 1 June 2012 2001 0.36 0.72 0.23 0.85 33rd Annual General Meeting 29 June 2012 2002 0.85 0.17 0.68 2003 0.68 0.16 0.52 2012/13 2004 0.52 0.13 0.65 Interim financial statements 2005 0.65 0.06 0.71 Three months ended 30 June 2012 On or before 27 July 2012 2006 0.71 0.14 0.85 Six months ended 30 September 2012 On or before 1 November 2012 2007 0.85 0.12 0.97 Nine months ended 31 December 2012 On or before 31 January 2013 2008 0.97 0.14 1.11 Annual Report 2012/13 On or before 4 June 2013 2009 1.11 0.12 0.99 34th Annual General Meeting 28 June 2013 2010 0.99 0.01 0.98 2011 0.98 0.03 0.95 2012 0.95 0.32 0.08 1.19 *1 GDR equivalent to 2 ordinary shares ** First issued in FY1994 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and sub-division of ordinary shares 106 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS CONTINUED Triple bottom line discussion & analysis Annual Report 2011/12 107 John Keells Holdings PLC Economic Performance Economic policy The John Keells Group is committed in the areas it operates. The Group The Group’s performance driven to delivering sustainable economic also strives to provide services and compensation culture has led development activities towards the to increased productivity and performance and growth to all its diverse community within which it operates. the alignment of employee, stakeholders. management and stakeholder The Group’s commitment to interests. The Group has as always The John Keells Group has always The Group’s economic, social and delivery, ability to adapt to its ensured that it complies with all strived to build strong foundations environmental performance is environment and re-invent itself regulations and that all dues are to adhere to its goal of achieving driven by integrative management has enabled John Keells to remain settled on time. It is also committed sustainable growth. The Group and active oversight. Pragmatic competitive locally and globally. to purchasing products and services seeks shareholder returns and environmental spending and The constant review of portfolios, from communities and suppliers at quality earnings through sound risk measuring the impact of our emphasis on growth and stringent fair prices, whilst upholding high management and diversification. social programmes ensure they internal controls have allowed standards of business ethics and Conducting our businesses are targeted to the intended the Group to record double digit managing social and environmental in a sustainable and socially beneficiaries and stakeholders in earnings growth consistently. impacts efficiently. responsible manner we provide a cost effective manner. As part of Prudent financial management, The financial statements of the financial and non-financial value to carrying on business across three a strong balance sheet, healthy Group have been prepared in shareholders, business partners, geographical areas, the Group cash flows and the effective accordance with the provisions employees, local communities and identifies its obligation in terms of utilisation of resources and capital of the Companies Act No. 07 of other stakeholders. national legislature and strives to has ensured that the Group is in a 2007 of Sri Lanka and presented positively impact the local markets position to leapfrog competition. in compliance with the Sri Lanka 108 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Accounting Standards and provides for the growth and development of cent (2010/11 – 25 per cent) was such projects are specified in the information required by the Listing operations. paid to providers of funds; 50 per section “Social Responsibility” Rules of the Colombo Stock cent (FY 2010/11 – 49 per cent) of this report. The focus on Exchange. The direct economic value was distributed to employees and sustainability and related efforts generated by the Group during 22 per cent (FY 2010/11 – 23 per has increased across the Group All values given in this section the year ended 31st March 2012 cent) accrued to Government by during the reporting year; the costs are in Sri Lanka rupees unless amounts to Rs.85.23 billion way of taxes. associated with such efforts are otherwise stated. compared to the Rs. 69.79 billion reflected under separate headings for the last financial year. The economic performance of the in the books of the John Keells Economic Value sectors is described in detail in Foundation and in the books of Statement Of this, 69 per cent (FY 2010/11 the “Management Discussion and separate business units. The Economic Value Statement – 68 per cent) was expended to Analysis” section. depicts the generation of wealth business partners in terms of Comparative and its distribution among the purchasing goods and services A detailed breakdown of the sector information stakeholders by acting responsibly for operations whilst 12 per cent wise Economic Value Statement The presentation and classification in all of our businesses/ social (2010/11 – 12 per cent) of the can be found in the “Financial of the Economic Value Statement activities throughout the entire total economic value generated Information” section of this report. of the previous year has been value chain. It also reveals the was retained for future expansion amended, where relevant, for better amounts reinvested for the and strategic investments. Of the Projects relating to community presentation and to be comparable replacement of assets and retained remainder, approximately 26 per investments and services amounted with those of the current year. to Rs. 29.92 million and details of Economic Value Statement for 2011/12 Group Total For the year ended 31st March 2012 % 2011 % 2010 % Rs'millions Rs'millions Rs'millions Direct economic value generated Revenue 76,700 89.99% 60,500 86.69% 47,980 86.29% Interest income 2,771 3.25% 2,748 3.94% 2,947 5.30% Dividend income 104 0.12% 63 0.09% 44 0.08% Share of results of associates 2,860 3.36% 2,641 3.78% 2,556 4.60% Profit on sale of assets & other income 1,386 1.63% 3,367 4.82% 2,075 3.73% Valuation gain on IP 1,413 1.66% 468 0.67% 85,234 100% 69,787 100% 55,602 100% Economic value distributed Operating costs 59,116 69.36% 47,506 68.07% 37,327 67.13% Employee wages & benefits 8,091 9.49% 6,873 9.85% 6,138 11.04% Payments to providers of funds 4,278 5.02% 3,482 4.99% 3,565 6.41% Payments to government* 3,595 4.22% 3,194 4.58% 2,906 5.23% Community investments 59 0.07% 46 0.07% 30 0.05% 75,139 88.16% 61,101 87.55% 49,966 89.86% Economic value retained Depreciation 1,863 2.19% 1,700 2.44% 1,737 3.12% Amortisation 771 0.90% 609 0.87% 541 0.97% Profit after dividends 7,461 8.75% 6,377 9.14% 3,358 6.04% 10,095 11.84% 8,686 12.45% 5,636 10.14% * 2012 2011 2010 Payment to government by country Rs'millions Rs'millions Rs'millions Sri Lanka 3,041 2,690 2,221 Maldives 534 493 685 India 20 9.8 0.2 Other 1.1 1.1 0.4 3,595 3,194 2,906 Annual Report 2011/12 109 John Keells Holdings PLC investment are invested from Pension Act) shall apply only to Proportion of spending Economic time to time in suitable income foreign employees employed in on locally based Performance generating instruments keeping Maldives and their employers with suppliers in line with the investment limits effect from 1st April 2014. The Group makes its best prescribed in the guidelines, and endeavours to stimulate the the accounts of the funds are India: Sri Lankan economy and the Defined contribution audited every year. The committees Employees are eligible for community around its operational plan obligations and members meet once a year Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) sites by purchasing goods from to ratify the financial statements contributions according to the terms local suppliers wherever possible Sri Lanka: and all members of the funds are of the Employees’ Provident Fund (where ‘local’ is defined as those Employees are eligible for entitled to examine the audited and Miscellaneous Provisions Act suppliers conducting business in Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) financial statements and the entries No. 19 of 1952. Group companies Sri Lanka). contributions according to the applicable to them made during the and employees contribute 12 terms of the Employees’ Provident year in the registers. per cent each to the fund and it The Leisure industry group in Fund Act No. 15 of 1958 and its is managed by the Government particular plays a significant role subsequent amendments and We also abide by the country of India. Out of the employers in engaging with local suppliers, for Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) regulations for the Maldives and contribution of 12 per cent, 8.33 be it the fresh produce sourced contributions according to the India which is inclusive in the figure per cent (with a cap of INR 6,500/-) from vendors located in the close terms of the Employees’ Trust shown. is paid towards the employees’ surroundings of the Sri Lankan Fund Act No. 46 of 1980 and its pension scheme account and the Resorts, or the local tourism subsequent amendments. The Maldives: balance is directed towards the services provided to the clients companies contribute the relevant All local (Maldivian national) Employees’ Provident Fund account. by the destination management percentages of the eligible gross Employees are eligible for Maldives services of our Destination emoluments of employees to the respective Employee Provident Retirement Pension Scheme (MRPS) Defined benefit plan Management sector. As always, Funds and to the Employees’ Trust contribution according to the terms obligations the Group strives to maintain the of the Maldives Pension Act Law Employees are entitled to highest quality standards with Fund respectively, both of which are No. 8/2009 handled by Maldives retirement gratuity, payable under regards to goods and services externally funded. Pension Administration Office the Payment of Gratuity Act No. procured locally or internationally. (MPAO). The companies contribute 12 of 1983 and an employee with Currently, the Group estimates its Subject to the rules of the provident the relevant percentages of the more than 5 years of service will purchases from the local suppliers fund, to which such contributions eligible basic salary of employees receive half a months’ salary for through an analysis of its local are made, the Group contributes to the Maldives Retirement Pension every year of service on retirement versus foreign currency spend 12-20 per cent as the employer’s Scheme. or termination of service. relative to total purchases. The contribution and the employees contribute 8-15 per cent to their Group’s total cost of sales amount Subject to the rules of the Maldives The liability recognised by the respective provident funds. to Rs. 59.47 billion (which includes Retirement Pension Scheme, to Group in respect of employee The contributions are directly all payments made to suppliers which such contribution is made, benefit liabilities in the balance transferred on 15th day of every and providers of utilities) while Rs. the Group companies and the sheet is the present value of the month to the Employees’ Provident 17.7 billion is spent on purchases employees contribute 7 percent defined benefit obligation of the Fund, managed by the Central made from overseas suppliers. Thus each to the retirement pension Group at the balance sheet date Bank of Sri Lanka or to a private approximately 70 per cent of the scheme. The contribution is directly using the projected unit credit provident fund maintained by the Group’s payments have been made transferred on the 15th day of every method. Company. Furthermore, the Group to local parties. It is noted that a month to the Maldivian Retirement also contributes 3 per cent to the proportion of imported goods may Pension Scheme fund account The employee benefit liabilities of Employees’ Trust Fund managed by however be purchased from local maintained at Bank of Maldives PLC, listed companies with more than the Department of Labour. agents, and as such, the Group is in which is managed by the Maldives 100 employees are based on an the process of refining the method Pension Administration Office. actuarial valuation. The liabilities The private provident funds are for establishing its local supplier of all other companies in the Group controlled and administered by Regulation of participation and total spend. are based on the gratuity formula management committees appointed disbursement of benefits to foreign specified by Sri Lanka Accounting by the members and governed employees under the Maldives Standard 16, governing employee by an approved set of rules. The Pension Scheme Law no 7/2011 benefits. assets of the funds available for (1st Amendment to Maldives Defined contribution plan obligations Defined benefit plan obligations Rs. 000s 2012 2011 2010 Rs. 000s 2012 2011 2010 Employer contributions to the trust fund 100,754 87,264 76,680 Employee benefit liability as at 31 March 1,372,161 1,215,597 1,041,395 Employer contributions to the provident 474,308 426,957 359,041 Payments during the financial year 85,444 70,150 107,904 fund 110 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Environmental Impact Environmental policy The John Keells Group is committed to owned by us, but that we act as due to the insufficiency of systems promoting sound environmental practices guardians of such resources for and processes, this year, the future generations. Further, the Group has been able to install within our key businesses, through the Group understands that the very and commission the necessary establishment of policies and practices that sustainability of the Group and equipment as well as establish enable us to conduct our operations in a especially its Leisure industry the necessary mechanisms to sustainable and environmentally sound group, greatly depends on the track and capture water and waste manner. We will strive to continuously conservation of the environment. management information. identify all potential impacts on the With the above in mind, the Group The Group has established environment and manage such impacts has implemented a comprehensive policies and management whilst using our resources in a sustainable environmental management guidelines for the conservation of and efficient manner. system through which the Group the environment and its natural focuses on energy conservation, resources. While the management The John Keells Group’s country depends heavily upon controlling its carbon footprint, guidelines for energy, water and environmental policy stems from the natural environment and the conservation of biodiversity, the biodiversity are based on the its commitment to protect and biodiversity of our country as one optimisation of the usage of water reduction of usage, minimising conserve the environment for of the unique selling propositions and waste management. While impact and conservation, the itself, the community and for of its chain of hotels. The Group over the past few years the Group management guideline for the future generations. The Group realises that the environment was unable to report on the usage Group’s waste management and being the largest hotelier in the and natural habitats are not of water and waste management material usage is centered upon Annual Report 2011/12 111 John Keells Holdings PLC Environmental Energy Management The table depicts that the energy consumption of the Group has increased by 6.5 per cent, from Impact Energy Management Policy 631,769 to 673,113 gigajoules Minimising energy related environmental impact during the year 2011/12. The and enhancing the Group’s competitiveness increase is mainly due to the the tenets of ‘Reduce, Re-use through energy cost savings by embracing lean greater operational activity in our and Recycle’. Business units are energy management practices. Consumer Foods and Retail industry encouraged to take an active role With the increase in fuel costs and the resultant increase in electricity group, the re-launch of Chaaya in managing the environmental tariffs, energy conservation has continued to be an important aspect Tranz Hikkaduwa and Chaaya impacts of their products and for the Group. To this end, Group companies have focussed on various Wild Yala (which were closed for services and where possible to energy saving initiatives from the replacement of incandescent bulbs to refurbishment during the previous reclaim and recycle packaging CFL and LED bulbs, installation of variable speed drives, co-generation, year), increased occupancy across material used by them. The Group replacement of conventional air conditioners with hybrid air conditioners, our hotels resulting in a greater as part of carrying out an efficient as well as innovation within the Group through the implementation of number of room nights, and the operation, identifies the most renewable energy sources for aspects such as lighting. Details of such inclusion of vehicles owned by the optimal means of transporting its initiatives are covered in further detail in this section. company. It is noted that 142,050 raw materials and finished goods GJ have been generated through through its own and outsourced Group energy usage renewable energy sources including delivery network. The Group’s primary energy sources from which it obtains direct energy solar power and bio-mass. are diesel, petrol, liquid petroleum gas and furnace oil which are used to Business units are also power generators, boilers, kitchen and laundry equipment and vehicles Indirect energy for the Group is encouraged to identify owned by the companies, including speed boats. The Group measures its obtained through the National renewable energy sources and consumption based on logs maintained at each business unit, electricity Grid of the Ceylon Electricity much importance is placed on bills received from the utility providers and ledger entries. Usage is Board and the Lanka Electricity the conservation and efficient computed in gigajoules for each energy source. Company Ltd. During the year, use of energy through related the Group consumed 83.38 Description Consumption in Giga Joules investments. Many of our million kilowatt hours, which is 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 Group companies are involved an increase of approximately 10 Direct energy 363,480 360,704 372,932 in energy saving initiatives and per cent above the electricity Fossil fuel 209,463 192,246 230,882 use renewable energy sources consumed the previous year. The Diesel 149,270 122,979 133,410 such as solar power, bio-mass largest consumers were the Leisure Petrol 247 284 23,070 and cogeneration systems. Our and Consumer Foods and Retail Furnace oil 43,251 48,094 49,657 energy management processes are industry groups. While the energy Liquid petroleum gas 16,695 20,889 24,745 constantly updated in keeping with consumption of the Plantation Renewable energy 154,017 168,458 142,050 the latest technologies and best Services industry group is relatively Renewable energy (solar) 860 453 498 practices. high due to the operation of Tea Renewable energy (biomass) 153,158 168,005 141,552 Smallholder Factories, its carbon During the year, many awareness Indirect energy from foot print is comparatively lower programmes have been carried out National Grid 246,259 271,065 300,181 due to the utilisation of bio-mass in across various Group companies. National Grid hydro & the generation of electricity which Further, the Group’s Sustainability renewable* amounts to 9.1 million kwH for the division also launched a campaign 98,504 135,533 160,236 year in review. to further entrench sustainability National Grid thermal* 147,756 135,533 139,945 practices within the Group. This Total energy campaign which was carried out consumption 609,740 631,769 673,113 across the Group, focussed on the * Based on the generation mix statistics of the Ceylon Electricity Board conservation of energy and water among other sustainability related Energy consumption by industry group in GigaJoules aspects. 300,000 250,000 200,000 10% 150,000 electricity 100,000 generated 50,000 through 0 renewable Leisure Plantation Consumer Property Services Foods & TransFinancial portation Services IT Sector Other energy sources Retail 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 112 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Energy initiatives carried out during the year In addition, regular awareness campaigns were carried out to educate With increasing fuel costs resulting in higher fuel tariffs, the Group employees on the importance of energy conservation. continued its focus on implementing energy saving measures across its operating entities. Some of the key initiatives and the estimated savings considering the energy differential and forecasted operational intensity are as follows: Estimated Annual Savings through Energy Efficient Lighting Description of Initiative Saving Per Annum In KwH In GJ Replacement of regular lighting with CFL bulbs 214,749 773 Replacement of regular lighting with LED bulbs 167,000 601 Other initiatives (wave energy, photo cell changes etc) 3,000 11 Total from key initiatives of energy efficient lighting 384,749 1,385 Estimated Annual Savings through Other Energy Conservation Initiatives Description of Initiative Saving Per Annum In KwH In GJ Behavioural changes through awareness creation 223,000 803 Rationalisation of steam distribution system 75,000 270 Total energy saved from other energy initiatives 298,000 1,073 Estimated Annual Savings through HVAC improvements Description of Initiative Saving Per Annum In KwH In GJ Installation of inverter type ACs on a replacement basis 138,000 479 Installation of variable speed drive for central ACs 24,637 89 Replacement of geysers with Ecogen heaters 47,906 172 ‘Burning cash’ lampshade to symbolise cost implication of energy wastage Replaced piston type air compressor to screw type 48,000 172 Utilising waste heat from generators for water heating 94,200 339 Green Globe certification Total energy saved from HVAC improvements 352,743 1,269 Obtaining Green Globe certification for the hotel properties operated by the Group highlights our commitment to sustainable tourism as we seek to minimise our environmental impact and positively contribute to the local communities in which we operate. The Group has opted for Green Globe certification as it presents a method of benchmarking our processes in the Leisure sector with the rest of the world. With the end of hostilities Sri Lanka now competes with other destinations for world tourism. The Green Globe certification enables the Group to represent itself through an independent certification body and highlight its credibility, transparency, corporate social responsibility and sound environmental practices, which we believe creates strategic competitive advantage to our chain of hotels. The City Hotels, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo and Cinnamon Grand Colombo, the Sri Lankan and Maldivian Resorts, Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, Chaaya Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Village Habarana, Bentota Beach Hotel and Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, have all now obtained Green Globe certification. Of the above, Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo and Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo have also been recertified, exhibiting the continuous improvement needed by these properties in order to retain the Ecogen water heating at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana annually updated certification. Annual Report 2011/12 113 John Keells Holdings PLC Carbon footprint by energy type Environmental Electricity Impact Diesel Furnace oil Petrol LPG 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 The carbon footprint for the year is derived mainly from grid-based electricity which constitutes approximately 77 per cent of the Group’s energy requirement. Diesel constitutes 13 per cent of the Group’s energy requirement, while LPG, Furnace Oil and Petrol constitute the rest of the energy requirement. The energy intensive sectors of the Group include the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group (CF&R) and the hotels operated by the Group, which in total constitute 70 per cent of the Group’s energy consumption. Pier lighting at Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa using wave energy With the increase in tourist arrivals resulting in increased room occupancy and the re-launching of Chaaya Wild Yala and Chaaya Tranz Chaaya Citadel Kandy, Chaaya Chaaya Bey Beruwala, currently Hikkaduwa, as well as an increased level of operations in CF&R, the total Island Dhonveli and Chaaya under construction, is registered carbon footprint of the Group in the reporting year was calculated at Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa are with the U.S. Green Building 73,753 MT, up from 65,825MT in 2010/11, an increase of 12.5 per cent currently in the process Council (USGBC), the developers of compared to the previous year. of obtaining Green Globe the LEED Rating system, and is on certification, while the newly recourse to obtain LEED certification The carbon footprint of the Group has increased over the past 3 years launched Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa upon its completion by 2013. along with the economic growth and increase in operational activity of and Chaaya Wild Yala are due to the Group. The Group has created value not only for its shareholders but obtain the certification in 2012/13. Carbon footprint also for the communities in which it operates, through both direct and The total carbon footprint for indirect employment as well as stimulating economic activity in such LEED certification the Group is calculated based on communities. The Group is also a significant contributor to the economic Leadership in Energy & Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse activity of the country and would continue in its efforts to create value for Environmental Design (LEED) is a Gas Protocol, which includes direct all its stakeholders through sustainable development. globally recognised, independent, energy use through the burning third party verification that a of fossil fuels and indirect energy building or community was consumption through the use designed and built using of grid based electricity (Ceylon Source of Direct Unit of Usage Consumption Emission Carbon strategies aimed at achieving Electricity Board and the Lanka Energy Measure in TJ Factor (Kg/TJ) footprint (MT) high performance levels in areas Electricity Company). Diesel Liters 4,395,595 133.43 74,100 9,886 such as energy efficiency, water Petrol Liters 842,202 23.16 69,300 1,599 savings, indoor environmental The John Keells Group’s carbon Furnace oil Liters 1,567,639 49.66 78,000 3,873 quality, sustainable materials emissions have been measured LPG Kg 563,345 24.77 63,100 1,561 selection and sustainable site using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1: Direct energy 16,919 development. governed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Source of Indirect Unit of Usage Consumption Emission Carbon Development (WBCSD). The Energy Measure in Mwh Factor (Kg/ footprint emission factors have been derived TJ) (MT) from IPCC Guidelines for National Electricity Kwh 83,383,725 83,383.72 0.6816 56,834 Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Scope 2: Indirect energy 56,834 The Group’s carbon footprint was 73,753MT calculated based on the Carbon Source of Indirect Energy Carbon footprint (MT CO2eq) for Emission Factor Source of the 2011/12 IPCC Guidelines for National Scope 1: Direct energy 16,919 Group Carbon Greenhouse Gas Inventories and Scope 2: Indirect energy 56,834 Footprint published by the Institute for Global Total carbon footprint (MT CO2eq) 73,753 Environmental Strategies (IGES). 114 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 its operations with a view to reducing the intake Carbon footprint (MT CO2eq) 62,130 65,524 73,753 of fresh water. Revenue (Rs. millions) 47,980 60,500 76,700 Towards this, the Group has set out the following management guidelines Carbon footprint (MT CO2eq) per Rs. with regard to the usage of water, where Group companies with millions of revenue 1.29 1.08 0.96 significant usage of water shall establish systems and processes to: • Measure water withdrawal at source and identify water usage at key Carbon footprint (MT CO2eq) per Rs. millions of revenue points in its production and utilisation processes 1.50 • Conserve and reduce usage utilisation through various technologies, 1.20 process improvements and through stimulating behavioural changes in staff through awareness campaigns 0.90 0.60 • Harvest and utilise rainwater for purposes such as gardening and washing 0.30 • Control the quality and quantity of effluent discharge with proper 0.00 treatment through effluent treatment plants and sewerage treatment 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 plants etc. prior to discharge into the environment and sewerage network The Group’s carbon footprint has shown a decline over the past three Water • Identify whether low flow fittings and other such water saving measures could be utilised in any new property development years in relation to its revenue. Management This being the first year of tracking the Group’s water withdrawal, we We believe that this illustrates the As a part of our believe that this is the initial step towards protecting a vital natural commitment of the Group towards ongoing commitment resource which is also extremely important to the Group’s operations. the environment whilst meeting the needs of its other stakeholders to sustainability, the Measurement of the water withdrawn has been carried out through such as shareholders, investors, Group set in place the installation of water meters at the point of withdrawal at source employees and value chain partners. systems and processes in certain locations, while at other locations water usage is tracked to measure its water through water meters installed at the start of the distribution. While The industry group wise breakdown withdrawal from source water extracted from the ground and from natural surface water sources of the carbon footprint is shown during the year under are measured using water meters in most locations, certain locations below. With electricity consumption review. continue to estimate their water consumption based on the working being the primary source for the hours of the pump. Water obtained from the National Water Supply and carbon footprint within the Group, Water Management Drainage Board has been directly measured through the water meters the carbon footprint corresponds to Policy installed by the utility provider. the electricity consumed. However, The Group’s water as the Tea Smallholder Factories policy seeks to conserve (in the Plantation Services industry and optimise its use of group) obtain 67 per cent of their water obtained from electricity requirement through surface and ground renewable energy sources (mainly water sources and bio-mass), the carbon footprint wherever possible shall for this industry group is lower seek to re-use waste than its corresponding electricity water after treatment in consumption. Carbon footprint (in CO2 MT) by industry group 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 Leisure Consumer Plantation Property Financial IT Sector TransOther Foods & Services Services portation Retail 2010-11 2011-12 Water treatment plant at Ceylon Cold Stores Annual Report 2011/12 115 John Keells Holdings PLC Consumer Foods Environmental The Consumer Foods sector Impact comprising of Ceylon Cold Stores and Keells Food Products have implemented water conservation initiatives to minimise wastage 80% and optimise consumption. Some of these include, the installation of sub metering systems to monitor and control different functions to of the water optimise the water usage of each required for process, installation of Variable Speed Drives (VSD) in water gardening at the pumping processes to best fit the Sri Lankan demand conditions and thereby resorts is from minimise wastage, establishing treated waste of benchmarks per operational intensity factors and setting in water place strategies to achieve such benchmarks. Other Water treatment plant at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana As a Group, awareness campaigns Leisure are carried out regularly among The Leisure industry group employees of all the sectors on The chart below depicts the Group’s water withdrawal by source: comprising of mainly the Group’s the importance of water saving. hotel properties has installed Wash rooms of office premises Water withdrawal by source sub metering of water to monitor are equipped with water saving and review water consumption. devices such as urinal sensors, dual 9.7% cisterns and low flow aerators. This step has enabled the hotels to save a significant quantum of 37.8% Surface water wetlands, rivers, lakes, oceans etc water especially in the Maldivian Discharge of water and Ground water Resorts and is currently being water quality During the reporting year, the Rainwater harvested implemented at the Sri Lankan Group commenced tracking of its Municipality / Authority water sources Resorts. 52.4% water discharge and quality of 0.1% Some noteworthy initiatives such discharge from its operations. include the Sri Lankan resorts As mentioned in our 2010/11 Water Source Volume m3 % Sustainability Report, water utilising treated waste water for Surface water wetlands, rivers, lakes, oceans 178,085 9.7% approximately 80 per cent of the discharge was identified as a Ground water 961,655 52.4% water required for gardening, material stakeholder issue through Rainwater harvested 1,330 0.1% thereby displacing the requirement the stakeholder engagements. Municipality / Authority water sources 693,052 37.8% for water withdrawal from blue As stated, the Group was not Total 1,834,122 100.00% water sources. In addition Bentota in a position to report on this Beach Hotel, Cinnamon Lodge indicator due to the insufficiency Habarana and Chaaya Tranz of management processes, data As illustrated above, the Group’s water withdrawal has been mainly Hikkaduwa harvest rain water collection and reporting systems through the extraction of ground water and from the National Water to maximise their use of green in the past. This year, such Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB). The utilisation of the above water. Variable Speed Drives systems and processes have extracted volumes of water has been primarily by the Leisure industry (VSD) have been installed in all been implemented along with the group (hotels) and the Consumer Foods sector (Ceylon Cold Stores and Resorts (except Chaaya Wild Yala) necessary sewerage treatment Keells Food Products). The Leisure industry group accounts for almost 55 and Cinnamon Grand Colombo facilities, discharge water per cent of the total water usage of the Group, followed by the Consumer and Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo metering and discharge water Foods sector which accounts for approximately 39 per cent, while the to optimise water consumption quality testing by independent Plantation Services industry group consumes 2 per cent of the water according to the demand. Further, third parties. withdrawn by the Group. wash rooms in most hotels are Treated effluent is tested for Control strategies fitted with water efficient devices quality (to ensure adherence to Considering the consumption volumes, efficient water usage plays a such as dual flush and low flow regulatory requirements) and also vital role in Leisure and Consumer Foods sectors. These sectors have aerators to reduce the guest and measured to ascertain the quantity implemented significant changes to their operational systems in order to staff washroom consumption. prior to be being discharged optimise water usage without compromising on product quality. 116 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information into the environment. Effluent The Group utilises various forms The Group is in the process of the hotels and companies of the discharged into common treatment of sewerage treatment plants as a carrying out feasibility studies for Consumer Foods & Retail industry plants operated by municipalities measure to control its waste water commissioning sewerage plants groups apply robust processes to and the National Water Supply discharge. The discharge of Keells in these two locations while the measure and sort waste by type & Drainage Board of Sri Lanka is Foods is treated by a common two City Hotels, Cinnamon Grand on a daily basis, other locations estimated using the working hours waste water treatment plant of Colombo and Cinnamon Lakeside continue to estimate total office of the pump, but is not metered the National Water Supply and Colombo are currently in the process waste disposed by the extrapolation due to operational practicalities. Drainage Board prior to discharge of installing treatment plants. of periodic measurements. Through while Ceylon Cold Stores currently our current waste management Discharge method treats its production effluents prior Waste generation and processes we have identified The Group treats 38 per cent of its to discharge and intends to use disposal that the disposal of waste occurs waste water through its sewerage such treated waste water for the The Group’s waste management through the methods depicted and effluent treatment plants prior purpose of gardening. During the was yet another area identified overleaf. to discharging into the environment. final quarter, Ceylon Cold Stores through the 2009 stakeholder Waste water discharged through took steps to improve their effluent engagement which, as mentioned in Approximately 37 per cent of such sewerage treatment plants is treatment process and implemented the 2010/11 Sustainability Report, total waste generated is reused, continuously monitored to ensure internal process controls with regard the Group was unable to report recovered or recycled which that it meets regulatory levels. to its effluent management system. on due to the lack of necessary we believe to be a significant We are conscious not to release management processes, data percentage given the diversity any chemicals or substances that With the exception of Bentota collection and reporting systems in of the Group. Other forms of would harm the environment Beach Hotel and Chaaya Tranz the past. This year, we have set up waste management include through the discharge of waste Hikkaduwa, which discharge processes to collect and report on landfill after being collected by water. Approximately 50 per cent effluent into a common local such data. The Group policy with the municipality (37 per cent), of remaining waste water is sent to authority sewerage treatment regard to waste management is and incineration (25 per cent). municipal sewer lines and soaked plant, all other Sri Lankan Resorts based upon the tenets of ‘Reduce, The Group is mindful of the items into ground through soakage pits as have in-house waste water Reuse, Recycle’, and we encourage it sends for landfill and part of per regulatory guidelines. treatment plants which treat the our employees to be conscious in its hazardous waste is managed waste water to well above Central terms of reducing consumption, through specialised contractors As the discharge of waste water Environmental Authority standards. and reuse and recycle wherever who export for recycling while in suburban and urban areas Such water is utilised by the possible. In line with this, several the balance is stored in-house. is usually to the city sewerage hotels for washing and gardening recycling initiatives have been Further analysing the significant system, in a bid to reduce the purposes. In the Maldives, Chaaya implemented across the Group. methods of disposal, it is noted burden on public infrastructure, the Reef Ellaidhoo has its own waste that of the total waste that is Group is continuously looking at water treatment plant while Chaaya As expected, the biggest reused, recovered or recycled, the improving its systems by installing Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa and Chaaya contributors to the Group’s largest contributors are the Leisure further treatment plants where Island Dhonveli discharge sewerage solid waste are the Leisure industry group accounting for 56 necessary. through soakage pits as approved and Consumer Foods & Retail per cent and Consumer Foods and by the Maldivian authorities. industry groups, contributing to Retail industry group contributing approximately 96 per cent of the 43 per cent. Of the total waste total waste generated by the Group. sent for landfill, the largest Water discharge by method Waste collected in other locations contributing industry group are 13% is minimal and mainly consists of Leisure accounting for 77 per cent, 36% To Municipality sewerage / paper/office waste. As such, while while Consumer Foods and Retail NWSDB drainage lines 13% Treated and recycled/reused (for purposes such as gardening/farming etc) Treated and discharged Direct discharge as per guidelines 29% 9% Through soakage pits Water Discharge in Cubic Meters To Municipality sewerage / NWSDB drainage lines 562,366 36% Treated and recycled/reused (for purposes such as gardening/farming etc) 136,405 9% Treated and discharged 441,187 29% Direct discharge as per guidelines 197,094 13% Through soakage pits 197,719 13% Total waste water discharged 1,534,771 100% Effluent treatment plant at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Annual Report 2011/12 117 John Keells Holdings PLC been carried out to sort waste a noteworthy initiative in Environmental generated at hotels by type such converting its kitchen waste Impact as food waste, plastics and oil to biofuel to be used in paper, so that varying strategies their garden tractors, thereby could be applied in the disposal displacing the requirement for contributes 14 per cent and Plantation Services contribute 9 per cent of such waste. fossil fuels. (mainly Tea Smallholder Factories). The Consumer Foods and Retail sector accounts for 99 per cent of the waste that is incinerated. • All Sri Lankan Resorts send Significant spillages a portion of their waste to and monetary value of external contractors who significant fines and recycle or reuse such material. non-compliance with Waste disposal by method Some such items include glass environmental laws 1% 8% bottles, plastic bottles and and regulations Reuse containers, cardboard and The Group defines significant spills 17% 37% Recycling paper, food waste to piggeries as those spills that are financially Composting and used kitchen oil for steam material and are reflected in the Recovery 3% boilers. In addition, more than audited financial statements as Incineration Landfill 50 per cent of garden waste an exceptional item or in the 9% On-site storage generated at the Sri Lankan notes to the accounts, of the Resorts is composted and companies coming under its 25% used as fertilizer. Incidentally, sphere of influence. During the Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, year, no company of the Group Waste Disposed by Method (in Kg) Bentota Beach and Chaaya reported significant spillages. Reuse 641,385 8% Blu Trincomalee have started Risk of environmental pollution Recycling 1,405,873 17% organic farming which utilises resulting as a risk of spillage is Composting 257,565 3% composted fertilizer made out also included as a risk item in the Recovery 778,879 9% of waste. risk reviews of the relevant Group Incineration 2,117,421 25% companies, and risk mitigation Landfill 3,106,312 37% strategies and preventive On-site storage 48,764 1% maintenance systems have been Total 8,356,199 100% implemented as applicable. For the financial year 2011/12, none of the John Keells Group As part of our waste management process, the following are some of the companies were fined or levied 37% key initiatives undertaken by Group companies: monetary or non-monetary • John Keells Office Automation currently collects the used toner sanctions for non-compliance cartridges from its institutional customers and provides it to an of environmental laws and E-waste collector who ensures that such waste is disposed in an of waste regulations in any of the countries environmentally responsible manner. generated is rewhere operations of the Group • Group-wide awareness campaigns to educate employees to reduce used, recovered took place. paper and other waste generated by operations. or recycled by Biodiversity the Group • Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) uses Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) Conservation bottles for disposable packaging and CCS continuously encourages the usage of glass bottles to reduce the impact on environment by Biodiversity • Chaaya Wild Yala has a bio plastic containers. CCS has also started sorting of waste for reusing, Conservation Policy gas plant in operation which recycling and recovering. Keells Food Products has sub-contracted The Group shall seek digests the total volume of an external company to manage its waste in an efficient and to conserve, and where hotel food waste. The Group environmentally sound manner. possible, enhance has already carried out a biodiversity of the • Keells Super has recently launched a pilot project at its Union Place feasibility study and is planning locality through the outlet to recycle plastic containers which would be rolled out to the the implementation of bio gas adherence to local and rest of the outlets if feasible. It has also introduced a rewards system projects for all resorts which Governmental laws and through its Nexus Loyalty card to discourage the use of polythene will be completed by the end of the implementation bags in favour of the reusable Keells Super ‘Red Bag’. year 2012/13. of best practices • Cinnamon Lodge Habarana relating to conservation • Waste is measured daily and recorded in all hotels to monitor, control and has recently commenced and protection of manage the waste generation and disposal. Further, initiatives have also 118 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information biodiversity in areas shall fall within the purview of where operations of the the Group’s biodiversity policy. Group are carried out. • At a minimum, all such Group The Group understands companies shall comply and acknowledges with all applicable local and its responsibility governmental legal / regulatory in conserving and obligations. In the event the protecting the Group feels that existing legal biodiversity of the requirements are insufficient to areas where it carries cover the Group’s operations, out operations in, not sound management practices only for the purpose of and procedures will be applied ensuring a sustainable to ensure that the biodiversity business, but to take of the area is protected. Wild life in an around Chaaya Wild Yala care of the planet and • The Group will share best preserve its diversity, practices with regard to the business unit. Comparing the ‘Project Leopard’ is a conservation beauty, resources and conservation of biodiversity changes of the diversity of species attempt that was initiated on the strength for future within the Group and ensure included in the survey, enables 31st of July 2010, by Chaaya Wild generations. that all relevant personnel are us to continuously monitor the Yala (then known as Yala Village) With Sri Lanka being recognised provided with the skills and impact of our operations on and the John Keells Foundation, as a biodiversity hotspot of the knowledge to comply with the surrounding environment. at a remote cattle farming village world, the John Keells Group the biodiversity policy of the The annual survey recorded no off Nimalawa, Kirinda, and has understanding the global and Group. significant deviations from the continued into the year 2011/12. national value of this natural flora and fauna recorded in the • All Group companies shall previous year. Under the funding of the John wealth, seeks to conserve the monitor emerging issues and Keells Foundation and Exodus biodiversity of the localities in keep abreast of regulatory In further strengthening our UK, a total of 25 steel pens which its businesses operate in, changes, technological conservation initiatives, the Group (with an investment of Rs. 1.7 creating a minimal footprint on the innovations and stakeholder carried out various projects to million) have been donated to environment. interests. The Group shall increase awareness of the need the village folk of Rotawewa, This is done through the carry out and support projects for cohabitation between human Banduwewa,Thambarawewa, implementation of a Group-wide that conserve and raise populations and its surrounding Kotigala, Julpathana, policy on the conservation of awareness on the importance environs. This includes the Lokugaswala, and Amaraweva biodiversity and the adherence of maintaining the integrity of following: since inception, replacing the and conforming to the standard essential ecosystems. traditional stick and barbed of ISO14001 Environmental Project Leopard wire pen. Simultaneously, the • The Group shall continue to project has assisted in preventing Management Systems at selected Yala National Park, situated in work with the Government, needless leopard deaths; thereby Group companies. Currently southern Sri Lanka, is renowned academia, non-governmental acting as an effective conservation Bentota Beach Hotel, Chaaya for its high density of biodiversity; organisations, business effort in the Yala National Park. Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Citadel of which leopards are a star associations and other Kandy, Chaaya Village Habarana, attraction. However, the growing interested stakeholders in Towards assessing project impact, Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Chaaya population of leopards at Yala has striving to develop effective Chaaya Wild Yala naturalists Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Cinnamon led them to venture out of the park and sustainable legislature have been in contact with the Grand Colombo, Walkers Tours and into the surrounding agricultural and solutions to minimise the beneficiaries at least once or Whittal Boustead Travels have all and pastoral lands where their impact on the biodiversity in twice a month to monitor any obtained ISO 14001 certification. natural prey basin shrinks. This has the areas of operation. leopard killings following the resulted in these cats preying on In keeping with the Group’s donations of the pens and there In line with the Group’s young cattle among the many cattle biodiversity policy, all companies have been no reported killings biodiversity conservation and farms that exist on the periphery of of the John Keells Group have in the post-donation period. On management guidelines, the Group the National Park. These leopard been issued with the following random site visits undertaken by companies that operate in close attacks on cattle have prompted management guidelines. the naturalists, they have often proximity to any protected areas, retaliatory attacks by farmers observed leopard paw prints carried out their annual surveys against the leopards, resulting in • All companies including new around the pen, but no cattle through the Group’s naturalist an estimated 10-12 leopard deaths companies which may be killings have been reported thus team Nature Trails, which annually, along the boundary of the acquired merged or formed, far. recorded visible flora and fauna park. and in which the Group exercises management control, in the premises of each identified Annual Report 2011/12 119 John Keells Holdings PLC employees and villagers, which Environmental in turn would help to protect such species. Impact Hotels & Manufacturing Warehouses Celebrating World Environment Day, World Chaaya Wild Yala, in collaboration Tourism Day and World with the Nature Trails team Oceans Day and the Sri Lanka Tourist Board, During the year several tree also carried out awareness planting and beach/reef cleaning programmes for the jeep drivers campaigns, as well as awareness and wildlife trackers on ethics programmes on conservation, were and behaviour within the National carried out among resort hotels Parks – to complement its efforts (both Sri Lankan and Maldivian), in leopard conservation. commemorating the World Environment Day, World Tourism Offices & Retail Leopard Guardians Day and World Oceans Day. In an effort to understand the Yala’s big cats, Chaaya Wild Yala Locations in proximity and Keells Hotel Management to biologically diverse Services Ltd. are in the process areas Ref Location / Company Name Ref Location / Company Name of launching a comprehensive For the purpose of assessing 1 Auxicogent International Canada 40 Mack Air leopard research effort based at its impact on biodiversity of the 2 Ceylon Cold Stores Offices 41 Mack Air Services Maldives Yala. This will be done with the locality in which its operations are 3 Crescat Boulevard 42 Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co (Shipping) collaboration of local conservation conducted in, the Group considers 4 Facets 43 Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co Ceylon scientists. the type of its operations and the 5 Infomate 44 Mackinnons Keells Financial Services level of the area in terms of its 6 International Tourists & Hoteliers 45 Mackinnons Travels biodiversity. The Group classifies 7 JayKay Marketing Services 46 Mortlake Butterfly garden 8 JK Packaging 47 Nexus Networks its operations into manufacturing Another ongoing conservation 9 JK Properties 48 Resort Hotels operations, hotels & warehousing effort is the ‘butterfly garden’ 10 John Keells 49 Serene Holidays operations and offices and retail set up by the Group’s naturalists 11 John Keells Air Services India 50 Union Assurance operations based on the possible at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana 12 John Keells BPO Alpha 51 Walkers Tours severity of impact. The localities which is an ecologically rich plot 13 John Keells BPO Holdings 52 Whittal Boustead Real Estate in which these operations are of land that has been maintained 14 John Keells BPO International 53 Whittal Boustead Travel situated are classified into by hosting plants to enrich the 15 John Keells BPO Investments 54 Rajawella Hotels (Land Only) urban areas, suburban areas 16 John Keells BPO Solutions India 55 Trinco Walk Inn (Land Only) habitat and attract butterflies. The and operation located close to 17 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka 56 Wirawila Walk Inn (Land only) main objective of this project is to biologically diverse areas, which 18 John Keells BPO Solutions US 57 Chaaya Bey Beruwella (Yet to launch) conserve and protect such species takes into consideration the level 19 John Keells Holdings 58 Bentotal Beach Hotel whilst simultaneously creating of biodiversity. 20 John Keells Holdings Mauritius 59 Chaaya Blu Trincomalee awareness about the significance 21 John Keells Computer Services 60 Chaaya Citadel Kandy of butterflies in protecting 22 John Keells Computer Services UK 61 Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa biodiversity amongst guests, 23 John Keells Hotels 62 Chaaya Village Habarana 24 John Keells Hotels Mauritius 63 Chaaya Wild Yala 25 John Keells International 64 Cinnamon Lodge Habarana 26 John Keells Logistics India 65 Chaaya Island Dhonveli 27 John Keells Maldivian Resorts 66 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo 28 John Keells Office Automation 67 Chaaya Lagoon Hakura Huraa 29 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela 68 Cinnamon Grand Colombo 30 John Keells Residential Properties 69 Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo 31 John Keells Singapore 70 John Keells Logistics 32 John Keells Software Technologies 71 John Keells Logistics Lanka 33 John Keells Stock Brokers 72 John Keells Warehousing 34 John Keells Teas 73 Lanka Marine Services 35 Keells Consultants 74 Tea Smallholder Factories 36 Keells Food India 75 Transware Logistics 37 Keells Hotels Management Services 76 Whittal Boustead Cargo 38 Keells Realtors 77 Ceylon Cold Stores Factory 39 Keells Shipping 78 Keells Food Products Steel pens donated to village folk for Project Leopard 120 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information The Group reports on its manufacturing, hotels and warehousing operations that are located close to biologically diverse areas. The locations situated in and around protected and biologically sensitive areas have been considered for reporting. Locations where no operations take place have not been reported on. The locations and their proximity to biodiversity hotspots and protected areas in Sri Lanka and the Maldives islands are depicted below and overleaf. Annual Report 2011/12 121 John Keells Holdings PLC Environmental Impact Locations in the Maldives North Malé Atoll Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo HP Reef North Ari Atoll Malé Chaaya Island Dhonveli Maaya Thila Fish Head Meemu Atoll Chaaya Lagoon Hakura Huraa Subsurface Type of Size of Site in Ref Operating Entity Geographic Location Land (Sq Mtr) Operation Km2 58 Bentota Beach Hotel Bentota Nil Hotel 0.0446 59 Chaaya Blu Trincomalee Trincomalee Nil Hotel 0.1143 60 Chaaya Citadel Kandy Kandy Nil Hotel 0.0234 61 Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa Hikkaduwa 3,600 Hotel 0.0176 62 Chaaya Village Habarana Habarana Nil Hotel 0.0378 63 Chaaya Wild Yala Yala Nil Hotel 0.0405 64 Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Habarana Nil Hotel 0.1031 65 Chaaya Island Dhonveli North Malé Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.1496 66 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo North Ari Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.0556 67 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa Meemu Atoll Maldives Nil Hotel 0.0543 122 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Our people Our employees are essential to our was given towards capability Selected interns were exposed to success and we believe that the greater building of undergraduates in the nine different industries within a market with a view to increasing six week long internship including the investment in their development, the their future employability. Two hands-on work experience. As part stronger and more sustainable the returns. such initiatives were the Fast Track of skill development, the interns The culture at the John Keells Group Internship Programme and the were trained in business etiquette, allows our employees to question accepted Arrow Work Readiness Programme teamwork and showcasing norms, test new ideas, and to see mistakes which were in addition to the leadership skills through an as an opportunity to learn. Strong values current strategies used by the out-bound training together with Group and its sectors. a programme on creating their such as Innovation, Integrity, Caring, personal brand. Further, the interns Excellence and Trust help our employees were required to work on a project Fast Track Internship to develop and positively contribute to our Programme and make their recommendations stakeholders. Conducted in partnership with on a given topic to the senior Ceylon Tobacco Company and management of the Group as Human Resource policies, talent acquisition and talent Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking part of their skill development. practices and operating processes retention. Corporation, Fast Track provided The programme was a success, play a pivotal role in human corporate exposure to Sri Lankan receiving over 800 applications in capital management. The John Capability building the first year. undergraduates pursuing their Keells Group leadership together Enabling and empowering studies both in Sri Lanka and with the Human Resources the future workforce ensures abroad whilst providing a stepping division constantly envisions new capability building at grassroot stone towards their future careers. strategies and initiatives towards level. This year, enhanced focus Annual Report 2011/12 123 John Keells Holdings PLC Our employees Our People Information regarding employees and workforce has been obtained through the Human Resources Management (HRM) module of the Group’s ERP system as well as the HRM modules of individual companies. Our workforce as at 31st March 2012 totals 18,060 of which 11,748 are employees while 6,312 are supervised workers or workers deployed by third party contractors. Of these 6,312 workers, 85 per cent are insurance sales Arrow Work Readiness agents of Union Assurance PLC who are engaged on a sales and distributor arrangement with Union Assurance. Programme The employee numbers set out in the chart comprise full time employees as per the relevant national legislation. The objective of the programme The Group has increased its number of employees by 5 per cent during the reporting year, with the main was to prepare students and provide contributing industry groups being Leisure, Consumer Foods and Retail, and IT. the necessary skills to enable them to successfully seek employment. Employee diversity The sessions included an induction Gender and age are two of the key parameters considered by the Group in terms of tracking employee diversity. to the John Keells Group, training The Group has maintained its gender percentage as per the previous reporting year. in interviewing skills, résumé Employee Diversity Contractor's Personnel Diversity Workforce Diversity preparation, business etiquette, 4% communication skills and finally, 22% 16% an internally designed out-bound training as part of experiential learning. In the first year, the Arrow received 210 applications and 130 78% 84% of them were selected to be a part 96% Male Female Male Female Male Female of the programme. Four candidates were hired during the programme by various businesses of the Group. Employee diversity in key decision making bodies in the organisation The Group Executive Committee is the overlay structure that implements under the leadership and direction The remaining candidates’ resumes of the Chairman-CEO, the policies and strategies determined by the Board. The Group Operating Committee were added to the Group’s candidate provides a platform to share learning on issues that cross industry groups, sectors, business units and functions data base to draw upon as the need while the Group Management Committees are dedicated and focussed towards designing, implementing and arises. monitoring the best practices in their respective industry groups, sectors, functions and strategic business units. Career guidance The diversity within these governance bodies is as follows: The Group continues to participate in career fairs conducted by Board of Directors Group Executive Committee Group Operating Committee universities and professional 11% 11% 19% institutes. At these sessions the undergraduates are offered an opportunity to acquire skills enabling them to successfully seek 89% 81% employment and receive guidance 89% on to making an informed career Male Female Male Female Male Female choice. The Final Step programme All Board Directors are over the age of 50, while 4 members of the Group Executive Committee are between organised by the John Keells the ages of 30-50 and five members are over 50 years of age. 11 members of the Group Operating Committee Foundation is another initiative (including the Group Executive Committee) are between the ages of 30-50, while 10 are over the age of 50. which allows an undergraduate to acquire the skills necessary when joining the professional work force. Our Values Total Employee Count Male Female Total INNOVATION AVP & above 95 20 115 Managers 413 61 474 Assistant managers 398 99 497 INTEGRITY Executives 1,307 520 1,827 Non-executives 6,948 1,887 8,835 CARING EXCELLENCE Total employees 9,161 2,587 11,748 Contractor’s personnel 6,085 227 6,312 Total workforce 15,246 2,814 18,060 TRUST 124 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Type of employment The trend of employee distribution across type, region and gender over The Group considers the type of employment it offers within the the past three years is as follows. categories of permanent and contract employment. The following depicts the gender-wise breakdown within the said types of employment. 2011-12 2010-11 2009-10 Employment type Given the industry and business norms governing the Leisure and Consumer Permanent 66% 67% 68% Food and Retail industries, these industry groups are the highest contributors Contract 34% 33% 32% to the Group’s contract staff which accounts for 34 per cent of total Employment by region employees. Initiatives have been introduced by the Retail and IT industry Local 89% 90% 89% groups to convert contract staff to permanent status by offering learning and Foreign 11% 10% 11% development opportunities and identifying high performers for permanent Employment by gender positions which would arise in the future to match their skills and expertise. Male 78% 78% 78% Female 22% 22% 22% Workforce by Type Male Female Total Of the total new hires in the Group during the reporting period, 13.4 per Employees permanent 5,886 1,856 7,742 cent is from the executive and above cadre. The main reason for this Employees contract 3,275 731 4,006 increase is expansions in the Leisure industry group, with the opening Contractor’s personnel of refurbished properties Chaaya Tranz and Chaaya Wild, and also the contract 6,085 227 6,312 increase in new retail outlets. The Leisure and Retail industry group Total workforce 15,246 2,814 18,060 account for the highest percentage of the total new hires of the Group at the non-executive level and on contract basis, this being the result of the nature of their operating model and industry. Workforce by type of employment The Group’s new hire attrition is at 4 per cent, excluding the Retail and Leisure industry groups where attrition is expected to be high and is 35% 43% Employees permanent considered to be an industry norm. The Group’s total executive and above Employees contract attrition stands at 15.6 per cent, which includes the BPO, Retail and Contractor’s personnelcontract Leisure sectors, where high attrition is expected. Proactive initiatives have been taken to address attrition in industries with high staff turnover. The compensation model of the Retail sector was 22% revisited making it more attractive based on the demographics of the nonexecutive employees. The sector also continues to pay the joining bonus which assists employees from outstation areas to settle themselves in Employment by region the appointed outlet area. Further, Retail sector employee engagement While 11 per cent of our employees are employed outside the country, strategies have focussed on involving employees in decision making, mainly in the Maldives and India, 89 per cent of the staff is employed offering employees the opportunity to share their ideas, and thus ensuring within Sri Lanka. inclusivity. Initiatives taken to foster the above strategy are Young Forums in the sector, with representation from each outlet, and Supiri Hamuwa, Workforce by Region a town hall meeting offered to all staff, encouraging participation and Male Female Total a sense of belonging. In addition, Keells Radio, a radio station manned Employees local 8,160 2,329 10,489 by employees, broadcasts to all outlets every morning and has created Employees foreign 1,001 258 1,259 excitement and engagement amongst employees. The station allows the Contractor's personnel local 5,933 214 6,147 employees at the various outlets an opportunity to get to know each other, Contractor's personnel foreign 152 13 165 ensures that recognition schemes reaches all employees of the sector Total 15,246 2,814 18,060 and provides sector wide communication to reach each employee directly. The Retail Academy offers industry and job based training to staff and a familiarisation programme organised by the Human Resource team. Workforce by region 1% The Leisure sector has partnered with the Sri Lanka Institute of Hospitality Management to provide employment in its hotel properties. Employees local The sector continues to work with the Emirates Academy of Hospitality 34% 58% Employees foreign Management to offer all its employees a learning experience which will Contractor's personnel local assist the sector to be amongst the best in the global market. While Contractor's personnel foreign offering its employees great opportunities for learning and development, the Leisure sector has also focussed on upgrading accommodation 7% facilities of staff at its properties. The Group believes that these initiatives would contribute to the reduction in attrition in these sectors. Annual Report 2011/12 125 John Keells Holdings PLC responsible to maintain at 70 per Our People cent or above. The cumulative score will represent the John Keells Group’s VOE score. The results will be captured, analysed and action The Group has also witnessed many returning to work in Sri Lanka from plans will be drawn up to address overseas, and has managed to attract them to the Group, especially the concerns of our employees and in the Leisure industry group. The Group has also been able to attract build on our strengths. specialist technical expatriate staff who in turn bring in global expertise and knowhow. Collective bargaining Our policy on collective bargaining The total attrition by gender, age and region are as follows. ensures that formal and informal types of collective bargaining are Total attrition by gender Total attrition by age group Total attrition by region prevalent in the Group. While 2% 3% formal collective agreements 19% 34% are found in the Consumer Food sector and the Plantation Services sector, the Retail sector engages in salary negotiations and ensures 66% 79% 97% that employee views are given due Male Female Aged less than 30 Aged 30-50 Aged over 50 Foreign Local consideration. In addition, the Tea Smallholder Factories PLC in the The attrition of new hires by gender, age and region are as follows. Plantation Services sector is not a signatory of a collective agreement, New hire attrition by gender New hire attrition by age group New hire attrition by region 2% but the company customarily 15% follows the same structure 29% 35% governing the plantation industry of the country with regards to terms and conditions of employment. 65% 83% 71% Employees Covered By Male Female Aged less Aged 30-50 Aged over 50 Foreign Local than 30 Formal Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) Employee engagment Consumer Foods and The John Keells Group believes in constant dialogue with all our Voice of Employees survey Retail 1,834 employees and the creation of organisation citizenship and commitment, A ‘Voice of Employees’ (VOE) survey was conducted during the Plantation Services 887 ensuring the success of employee relations. We strongly believe in reporting year as a dip stick study Property 5 employee engagement as an enabler of positive social impacts for our to check the employee pulse of Percentage of employees organisation. We recognise the rights of our employees and provide the employees in the organisation. covered by CBAs 23% forums, support groups and policies to hear and address their concerns and resolve issues and conflicts in a fair and transparent manner. The Group will use the results as Resort hotels have entered into a people management index and The following employee engagement activities are practiced within the Memoranda of Understanding monitor its progess as a measure Group: (MoU) with employee every year. Each business unit and • Open Door Policy representatives covering 244 sector will have an individual VOE • Ombudsperson employees in limited areas. score which the respective profit • Employee direct access to the Chairman through a dedicated and center managers and sector heads secure e-mail address Chairman Direct • Regular skip-level meetings • Joint Consultative Committees • Young fora at Group level and sector levels • Welfare Committees • Joint Operating Committees • Business Improvement Committees • Innovation Teams • CSR Volunteerism • Peer and subordinate evaluation at manager and above levels • John Keells Group Sports Club • JK Connect, JK Blog and other e-communication channels 126 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Performance centric with the management spending programme done in partnership More than just a culture 400 hours over 50 days. with the Post Graduate Institute workplace All employees of the Group undergo of Management continues for 10 As an equal opportunity employer, regular appraisals to receive Learning and days covering ten modules. The the John Keells Group does not feedback on their performance. The development programme’s in-built design allows discriminate on the basis of gender, Learning and development (L&D) the trainees to use their learning Group performance management race, nationality, age, social origin, is a dedicated function at all on the job while continuing the policy requires bi-annual formal disability, religion, or any other business units and is also driven other modules. Harvard Business feedback to be provided to the basis. Employee policies from by the Group Human Resources Publishing India acted as the executive cadre, and to all others talent acquisition to talent retention division with regards to new Group’s leadership training partner at least once a year. While formal are applied to employees based strategies , policies and initiatives. for manager and above levels feedback is a scheduled occurrence, on their performance and merit. The Group believes in business during the year. The Learning the performance-centric culture of Employee hiring is done based on focussed training for all staff to Management System / e-learning the John Keells Group encourages the Recruitment Policy and the Policy impart expertise necessary for initiative that the Group embarked and facilitates constant employee on Equal Opportunity, and supported employees attached to different on during the last financial year feedback at all levels. by a Role Clarification document. businesses and industry groups. has allowed each business unit to The Group’s operating structure is Career Committees are the decision Further, the Group focuses upload their respective e-learning designed in a manner that ensures making bodies for decisions its training on competency catalogues while having access all people-related decisions are made with regard to employee development and leadership to the Group’s main catalogue for made by committees and not by performance for executives development for all employees to competency training. individuals. Decisions relating to and above staff levels. Career address current and future learning hiring, performance, promotion, Committees are convened annually needs. The Group’s employees The Group’s internal training learning and development, career at the end of the performance have spent a total of 466,040 faculty caters not only to the development, compensation appraisal cycle, and are held at hours on training, averaging 40 entry-level, but also offers many management and talent management each business unit for executive hours per employee, an increase other complex trainings in an are also made in this manner. and assistant manager level of 33 per cent compared to the array of competencies. The staff, at each sector for manager previous year. pool of internal training faculty The Group lays emphasis on level staff and at Group level for consists of 189 employees from creating a favourable working The Group has provided on multiple functions. This has also assistant vice president and above environment for its employees and average 42 hours of training assisted in the Group offering all level staff. its human resources policies and to its male employees while our employees the opportunity practices enable us to attract and The objective of these Committees providing 36 hours of training to to go beyond their assigned role. retain high calibre employees. The is to assess employee performance its female employees. The training The Group’s L&D philosophy and John Keells Group fosters a culture as a committee rather than by a provided to non-executive staff practices are flexible and dynamic, of inclusivity and trust at all times single supervisor, thereby ensuring was on average 45 hours per accommodating life-long learning, with all our employees committed impartial assessments and employee, while training provided crucial to building a sustainable to making John Keells ‘More than enabling benchmarking at each to executive staff cadre was an competitive advantage. just a Work Place’. level. The Committees’ agenda average of 26 hours per employee. looks at performance, learning Total training hours by staff category With the Leisure industry group’s and development, the Group Non-executives focus on learning and development, talent pool, succession planning, the training hours provided to non Executives employee promotions, lateral executive staff has significantly Assistant managers moves and career aspirations increased. The Group also offers amongst others. The month of May Manager leadership training at all levels is dedicated to Career Committees using various strategic partners. AVP & above and the Group has in the past year, The assistant manager level conducted 33 Career Committees 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 300,000 350,000 400,000 Annual Report 2011/12 127 John Keells Holdings PLC Health & Safety John Keells Holdings PLC places paramount importance on Occupational Work’ by a majority of the work were undertaken by the Group’s Health and Safety (OHS). Driven by force. The overall safety of the OHS Task Force, keeping in mind the John Keells Group’s OHS policy, all work place and the procedures and its objective of obtaining the business units within the Group have been practices in place in this regard, OHSAS certification for all Group received one of the highest ratings companies other than those empowered to undertake any measure it by the staff during this survey. operating in an office and IT may deem necessary to ensure that it is a environment. Last year, a training ‘Safe Place to Work’. This year, goals and targets with programme was carried out for respect to OHS were set at the the sector and business unit The John Keells Group in its quest alleviating hazards in the working beginning of the financial year representatives, on how to carry to be a ‘sustainable’ organisation, environment during the reporting by all business units. In addition, out a gap analysis to determine began the initiative to be a more year. Numerous awareness the Group Sustainability division the current position and arrive OHS friendly organisation by programmes were conducted introduced quarterly sustainability at the improvements required giving OHS priority within all its Group-wide and it was seen that reporting where information was towards obtaining the OHSAS industry groups. the employees showed a keen collated on all indicators including certification. This programme was interest towards adopting safe OHS, in a consistent and timely conducted by a lead auditor of one With the Group’s processes and practices at the work place. manner across the financial year. employees maturing, drastic of the leading OHSAS certification improvements were witnessed In the recently concluded ‘Voice audit firms in the country. In addition to the programmes throughout all business units of Employee’ survey the Group conducted by the respective Following this training towards monitoring and was considered a ‘Safe Place to business units, various actions programme, meetings were 128 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information arranged with all relevant and janitorial services, and has reduced indicating that the majority of injuries occurring this year business units and third party the external insurance sales had been on average relatively minor in nature. consultants to assist the business agents of Union Assurance units in the implementation of the have not been included in the OHSAS certification. Currently assessment of health and safety Occupational injury rate almost all Group companies issues. Being the first year of (No. of injuries per 100 employees) have embarked on the process reporting on the health and safety of obtaining the certification and issues of the total workforce are in varying stages along the the Group has not been able to 2011/12 certification process with gap finalise the necessary systems analyses being completed. A and procedures to capture few Group companies including occupational health and safety 2010/11 Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, John details of such personnel, Keells Warehousing and the but intends to include such 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 Keells Super outlets at Crescat, outsourced employees within its Union Place and Rajagiriya have assessments in the future. progressed rapidly in this sphere, 2010/11 2011/12 with their final audits having been During the period of assessment, No. of staff affected by occupational injuries 180 229 carried out during April 2012. one occupational fatality was recorded from the Karavita Total number of employees 11,562 11,748 The following Group companies Factory of Tea Smallholder Occupational injury rate (number of injuries per currently possess ISO 18001 Factories Limited as a result 100 employees) 1.56 1.95 certification: Bentota Beach of a road side accident. No Hotel, Chaaya Village Habarana, occupational diseases were Chaaya Citadel Kandy, Chaaya recorded from any of the Group TPDL as a % of total person days in the period Blu Trincomalee, Chaaya Lagoon companies. Hakuraa Huraa (Maldives), Chaaya Island Dhonveli Injury Rate is defined under the 2011/12 (Maldives), Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo GRI guidelines as the frequency of (Maldives), Cinnamon Grand injuries relative to the total time Colombo, Cinnamon Lakeside worked by the total workforce 2010/11 Colombo, John Keells Logistics in the reporting period. During Limited and the Broadlands the period, a total of 229 staff 0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 Tea Factory of Tea Smallholder members were affected by Factories Ltd. occupational injuries. The Group monitors and reports Lost Day Rate is defined under 2010/11 2011/12 on rates of injury, occupational the GRI guidelines as the impact Total Person Days Lost (TPDL) 2,403 1,853 diseases, lost days, absenteeism of occupational accidents and Total number of Person Days in the period 4,082,890 4,091,542 and total number of work-related diseases as reflected in time off TPDL as a % of total Person Days in the period 0.06% 0.04% fatalities of its employees. work by the affected workers. The Group records incidents of The calculation of ‘lost days’ This year a new definition for an ‘Absentee’ was defined for the John occupational health and safety commences from the day after Keells Group, with the term being defined as an employee absent from and occupational diseases the injury takes place and such work without authorisation from the management. through its management calculation entails calendar days. processes which include accident To this extent, minor occupational Absentee Rate refers to a measure of actual absentee days lost as logs, attendance registers and injuries/diseases that occur defined above, expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be other records. The Group also causing an employee to be unable worked by the workforce for the same period. Here the Group took these reports on programmes carried to report to work for less than one days as the total number of days in the period for purpose of calculation. out on education, training, day have been excluded. The total counselling, prevention and person days lost for the Group for The table below depicts the percentage of the Absentee Days in respect risk control programmes in the reporting period was 1,853. of the total person days in the period. place to assist workers, their The charts illustrate that while families and the community 2010/11 2011/12 the number of occupational regarding serious diseases and Total Absentee Days (TAD) 29,268 35,772 injuries have increased compared other health hazards. Currently, Total number of Person Days in the period 4,082,890 4,091,542 to the previous reporting period, personnel deployed by outsourced TAD as a % of total Person Days in the period 0.72% 0.87% the number of person days lost contractors such as security Annual Report 2011/12 129 John Keells Holdings PLC implemented or adapted by Health & Safety vendors, fire safety and emergency plans, hygiene controls/ programmes and conforming to safety and hygiene practices. In addition to this, the Vendor The graph below depicts the contribution of the Total Person Days Lost Management Team conducted 20,279 due to occupational injuries and diseases to the Total Absentee Days of periodic audits on the jeep and staff in the Group. boat suppliers on emergency measures and safety systems and Total person days lost versus absentee days Employees practices. Families Training programmes on first aid 2011/12 Communities and fire safety were carried out trained on across almost all Group companies 2010/11 serious diseases including office premises where fire drills were also conducted on a periodic basis. 0.00% 0.20% 0.40% 0.60% 0.80% 1.00% camp. As medical attention of this TPDL as a % of total person days in the period nature is a facility not available None of the Group companies or TAD as a % of total person days in the period for people of the area, some had industry groups reported workers even walked over 10km to attend involved in activities that would the camp. expose them to a high risk or incidents of specific diseases. In addition, training programmes Further to this, it is the Group on Cardiac Pulmonary mandate that precautionary Resuscitation (CPR), Typhoid measures be implemented in any prevention, chemicals and their such areas identified as high risk. impact to the environment and on general occupational health and The final goal is for all Group safety were conducted for the companies (other than the IT/office employees of the hotel. industry groups) to obtain the OHSAS certification by the end of Tea Smallholder Factories Ltd., the 2012/13 financial year. To this conducted eye camps and eye extent, great strides have been clinics at the Neluwa, Hingalgoda made by the group companies and Halwitigala tea factories supported by the Group OHS Task and these were attended by Force where pre audits have been Employees using protective gear over 600 small holders and their completed in most of the business families. Two tea smallholders also units under consideration. Drawing Training and awareness on serious diseases underwent cataract operations personnel from group companies During the year in concern, many programmes on education and which were facilitated through the already OHSAS certified, to assist awareness, counselling, prevention and risk control and treatment John Keells Foundation. companies yet to obtain the were carried out by the business units of the John Keells Group. A certification, is yet another avenue A health camp was also held total of approximately 20,279 personnel consisting of staff members, being explored. for the members of the Halgolle their families and the community were trained and made aware on pre and Welihentenne societies in Further, the importance of and post actions that need to be carried out in terms of mitigation and Ginigathhena which belongs to conducting basic OHS awareness treatment with regard to serious diseases and injuries. In particular, the Broadlands Tea Smallholders and prevention programmes during the year in concern, most of the Group companies conducted Society and this was attended for staff, their families and awareness programmes relating to HIV / AIDS for their employees and in by over 200 members and their the surrounding community some cases for the community. families. where possible will also be The Cinnamon Lodge Habarana team conducted a medical camp at the communicated to all companies The Vendor Management team Isuru School Habarana for the community where 1,212 people were and they will be encouraged to of Walkers Tours and Whittals attended to by a team of prominent consultant physicians of different conduct same and continue the Boustead conducted educational disciplines. Support was obtained from the regional army medical positive trend seen in this regard programmes and periodic detachment which provided pharmacists and nurses. Doctors and within all the Group companies. inspections of their suppliers nurses from the Habarana Hospital were also present and assisted throughout the year. This included the consultant physicians. Medication received as donations from health and safety measurements pharmaceutical companies was also provided to those who attended the 130 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Ethical business A strong commitment to upholding the universal human rights of all individuals has been inherent in the John Keells Group Child labour any person below the age of 18 (eighteen) throughout its existence. We have imbued The John Keells years at the workplace. the values of Integrity, Caring and Trust Group continues to The respective goals and targets and setting a zero tolerance policy towards maintain a voluntarily set by the Human Rights Task anti-competitive behavior and corruption, higher standard on Force in consultation with the the minimum age by which we demonstrate our commitment for admission to Group’s business units in the and respect for all our stakeholders. previous reporting year were employment than the consolidated and verified during This commitment has translated into the applicable statutory the year under review through management systems and processes which definitions1 as well as a quarterly sustainability govern our businesses. the ILO conventions. performance managing mechanism rolled out by the Group’s As part of our ongoing rights to all new inductees to the Policy on Child Labour Sustainability division. The related commitment to ethical business Group. During this session, remedial John Keells Group does reporting template also attached practices, the Group’s Learning & actions available to employees and not engage children the provisions of Hazardous Development Division carries a the process of disciplinary action in employment. As a Occupations Regulations of separate module with regard to with regard to any contraventions general practice, the 2010 promulgated under the decent work practices and human are clearly explained. Group does not employ 1 Under Sri Lankan law, “Child” means a person who is under the age of fourteen years while “Young Worker” means a person who has attained the age of fourteen years, but is under the age of eighteen years. Annual Report 2011/12 131 John Keells Holdings PLC Ethical Business The primary providers of a given type of good/service and Forced or The processes confirmed that the risk of forced or compulsory labour overall comprise the majority of compulsory is insignificant in the John Keells a company’s purchases Identified as having a high labour Group and the significant suppliers of its subsidiary companies. So risk of incidents of violations Policy on Forced or far, no case of non-conformity has Employment of Women, Young related to human rights. been reported by companies within Persons and Children Act, No. 47 Compulsory labour No employee of the the Group. of 1956 and made applicable to As per the responses submitted the employment of persons under by the Group companies, no John Keells Group is With regard to training, especially eighteen years of age. case of non-conformity has been made to work against where the training cost is reported in regard to child labour his/her will, or subject significant, companies within the The above process confirmed or the exposure of persons under to corporal punishment Group also ensure that employees that the incidents of child labour the age of eighteen to hazardous or coercion of any type are required to understand and continue to be very remote in occupations either in the John related to work. agree that they will work an the John Keells Group, with best Keells Group or the significant adequate duration which would The respective goals and targets practices relating to observing suppliers of its subsidiary not exceed the value of the set by the Human Rights Task and verifying the minimum age of companies. training. Force in consultation with the employment having been firmly Group’s business units in the entrenched in the recruitment and As regards employment of young Employees who work beyond previous reporting year were selection processes in companies workers as disclosed in the normal hours are compensated consolidated and verified during within the Group. In addition, in 2010/11 Sustainability Report, in by means of overtime or variable the year under review, through the Consumer Foods sector, where keeping with the Group policy on pay as appropriate and are a quarterly sustainability outsourced labour is used in child labour: also supported with meals and performance managing certain instances such as to meet transport facilities in compliance • Jaykay Marketing Services mechanism rolled out by the seasonal requirements or cover with applicable law and industry has confirmed that it has no Group’s Sustainability division. absenteeism of factory workers, best practices. employees below the age of This mechanism also included multiple controls were in place to ensure strict compliance by 18. the checklist developed by the task force to guide the Group’s Nonlabour suppliers. As part of the continuous improvement process • It has been verified that business units in responding to discrimination the Leisure industry group the questionnaire on forced or adopted by Ceylon Cold Stores Policy on Equal (including the resorts managed compulsory labour (adapted from in monitoring the deployment Opportunities by John Keells in the Maldives) ILO’s handbook for Employers & of outsourced labour in its The John Keells Group also does not employ any Business). factories, the company automated is an equal opportunity person including trainees 2, registration of outsourced labour Meanwhile, steps were taken employer. Accordingly, below the age of 18 years. at the security entrance through during the year under review, to the Group is committed the introduction of a computer Meanwhile, Tea Smallholder extend the Group’s monitoring to hiring, developing software which uses the National Factories reported the engagement mechanism regarding forced or and promoting Identity Card number as the of three young workers aged 17 compulsory labour to include individuals who best primary field and does not allow in one of its operational units significant suppliers of the Group’s meet the requirements the registration of outsourced during the year on a casual basis, businesses whose operations are of available positions, labour if they are below eighteen necessitated by the extreme identified as having significant possess the required years of age. shortage of workers. These risk for incidents of forced or competencies, Meanwhile, steps were taken workers were employed subject to compulsory labour. The word experience and during the year under review to the policy guidelines given by the `Significant’ refers to suppliers qualifications to carry extend the Group’s monitoring Employers’ Federation of Ceylon who are: out assigned tasks mechanism regarding minimum on employment of persons in the and have the potential said age category. One of the said The primary providers of a for growth within the age to include significant suppliers given type of good/service and of the Group’s businesses whose young workers reached the age of organisation; and has 18 years in January 2012, while overall comprise the majority of implemented processes operations are identified as having a company’s purchases. significant risk for incidents of the other two young workers were and systems that child labour. `Significant’ was in employment during the fourth Identified as having a high ensure the same. quarter. defined to refer to suppliers who risk of incidents of violations In keeping with its policy on equal are: related to human rights. opportunities for all, the Group remains committed to maintaining 2 This is with reference to the disclosure in the 2010/11 Report of the engagement of trainees below the ages of 18 in some of the resorts managed by John Keells in the Maldives who fell within the scope of interns, with the duration of such internship lasting no more than a maximum of three months. 132 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information workplaces that are free from 1. Educate • All business units carry out continued communication, physical or verbal harassment or The John Keells Code of a risk evaluation matrix for engagement and ethical business discrimination on the basis of race, Conduct (Code) encompasses their business in the form of a practices we strive to encourage religion, gender, age, nationality, rules regarding bribery and risk register and corruption is our partners to adhere to business social origin, disability, political corruption and is made available included as a specific section in principles consistent with our own. affiliation or opinion. The Group to employees at the time of their the risk register. Policy on Equal Opportunity induction. Each employee signs off In terms of procurement, the is adhered to in advertising on his/her Letter of Appointment Group sources a majority of high 3. Evaluate vacancies as well as recruitment which refers to compliance at all valued items, which are required The above stated policies and and promotion processes. times with the rules, regulations, commonly across the Group, their implementation and review, policies and procedures that through its centralised sourcing are taken up formally on a regular Meanwhile, John Keells Holdings shall be in force. The Code of division. The Group Initiatives basis at Sector Committee continues to be a member of the Conduct and the John Keells value division has established the meetings or Group Management Employer Network on Disability statement is available on the ‘JK following process and mechanisms Committee meetings as relevant. of the Employers’ Federation of Portal’ and it is flashed on the to ensure that supplier selection In addition independent internal Ceylon and as such promotes the home page of the employee portal for the high valued items it sources audit reviews are undertaken employment of differently-abled every Monday as a reminder. occur in a transparent and fair to ensure compliance with the persons within the Group. A Compliance with this Code forms manner. processes. The findings of these total of twenty differently-abled part of the John Keells values committees are documented for The Group Initiatives division individuals are employed in the and furthermore, each employee analysis. process for sourcing of high valued Group. is assessed on whether he/she items include the following embraces these values. This is Thus, it is evident that the The Group also has a an integral part of the employees’ companies of the Group are • Each sourcing category is comprehensive process in performance appraisal and analysed for risk resulting from manned by cross functional place regarding the prevention evaluation which is considered the potential areas of corruption teams (user groups), and of sexual harassment. The for their compensation and through the above mentioned headed by a category manager Group’s Policy on Ombudsperson benefits, recognition schemes as mechanisms which are subjected at AVP or higher level. The provides employees the choice well as career development. Non to independent audit reviews. category manager is chosen of referring a matter relating to conformity to the code of conduct The Group is also fully compliant on the basis of not being sexual harassment either to the would lead to disciplinary action when considering the percentage an employee of the Group ombudsperson or to the internal and could even involve dismissal. of business units analysed for company that purchases the committee appointed for the risk related corruption within the most within the selected purpose in the first instance. 2. Enforce reporting boundary. category, to eliminate biases. Anti• The Group expects and In addition to analysis and • Defined roles within the user corruption encourages employees to bring to attention any breach of the mitigation of risks from internal sources, the Group has also groups such as key users (who represent the Group company Code and it is guaranteed that established transparent and fair Anti-corruption Policy no employee would suffer as a with the largest requirement The John Keells Group practices in all our dealings, within the category), other consequence of reporting such and has been able to establish places the highest value a breach. users (who represent other on ethical practices mutually beneficial relations companies that require the and has promulgated • A multi-channel formal process with our suppliers, customers products/services of the a zero tolerance policy of communication has been and business partners. Through category), and independent towards corruption established. This includes and bribery in all its Chairman Direct, business unit transactions. specific grievance handling process, ombudsperson service The Group upholds the distinction and an anti-sexual harassment of being identified by its peers as committee. Sri Lanka’s most respected entity for the fifth consecutive year, in • All companies and functions the annual nationwide survey, have a process to prevent / conducted by ‘Lanka Monthly reduce the risk of corruption Digest’ (LMD). for example, procurement process, authority levels as The Group has also defined a per the Group operating model three-pronged approach which (February 2005), and reporting further mandates the policy requirements etc. through a transparent control and prevention mechanism: Policies available on Group Human Resources portal Annual Report 2011/12 133 John Keells Holdings PLC During such reviews, business Ethical Business units identify, monitor and mitigate significant structural, operational, financial and strategic risks that may prevent it from meeting its objectives, with each division of users from the legal and every business being assessed for financial functions of the its specific risks. Corruption has Group to ensure complete been included as a risk item in transparency of the need the Group company risk registers assessment, evaluation, which are monitored during the negotiation and selection. quarterly reviews to ensure that there is no increase in the risk • Robust Request For Proposals rating. Internal corruption has not (RFP) process with necessary been identified as a significant risk financial, legal terms and by any of the Group companies conditions to cover both during the reporting year. the companies and supplier interests. During the reporting year, none of the John Keells Group companies • Documented and audited were fined or levied significant evaluation process wherein monetary or non-monetary technical evaluations are sanctions (the Group defines carried prior to opening the ‘significant’ as any fines that are financial bids. payable over Rs. 1 million) for non• Structured negotiation process compliance under the laws and headed by the category regulations in any of the countries manager carried out under the that operations take place. ethical guidelines, formulated by the Group Initiatives division when dealing/negotiating with suppliers. • A periodic supplier review and engagement to ascertain areas of strength, areas for improvement and to understand supplier concerns in general. During the year, risk assessments were conducted across all Group companies with quarterly reviews being carried out to capture changes in the risk profile of each company. This is described in detail under the section of “Risk Management” of this report. 134 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Product Responsibility Products and Services Policy The John Keells Group will strive to maintain products and services at the and the regulations contained In the Consumer Foods sector, the highest standards through embracing in the Food (Labelling and Group has introduced several new industry and corporate best practice and Advertising) Regulations 2005 and ranges of products during the year compliance with all relevant local and the Consumer Affairs Authority in review. Keells Food Products, international statutory and regulatory Act No. 9 of 2003, the ICC code the manufacturer of Keells, Krest of Advertising and Marketing and Elephant House range of requirements in the markets we serve. Communications, while our food processed meats introduced the All products and services will be assessed and beverage manufacturing ‘Spicy Bite’, the ‘Cheesy Blast’ for any environmental and social impact companies have obtained ISO 9001 and the ‘Power Snack’ range of through communications, services, and ISO 22000 certification. sausages. ‘Spicy Bite’ is targeted operations and supply chain. towards the adult market and is Product stewardship a spicy form of sausage product The management approach of the ensuring privacy of customer During the year, the Group has containing real and natural chillie Group has been to develop and information obtained through taken steps to achieve our vision flakes. ‘Cheesy Blast’ which market products and services that the sale of the product or service of constantly exceeding customer targets the young consumer is a meet the highest product quality and products stewardship and expectations, product excellence chicken sausage combined with standards which ensure customer compliance. and sustainable innovation cheese. The ‘Power Snack’ is an health and safety, relevant product with respect to our brands and innovative product launched with and service labelling, ethical Towards this, the Group adheres businesses. the objective of providing the marketing communications and to the Food Act No. 26 of 1980 consumer with a complete meal Annual Report 2011/12 135 John Keells Holdings PLC of its ‘KIK Cola’ brand to indicate and a large gymnasium spread over Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Product to consumers that the product half an acre of landscaped garden. has been able to obtain contains caffeine. certification from Sri Cert, an Responsibility In the Leisure industry group, official company representing The Retail sector launched over 60 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo introduced the Organic Foundation. This products of the ‘K Choice’ range a hydroponics garden, which is innovative initiative was driven which includes chicken, spinach, at the Keells Super supermarkets a method of cultivating produce passionately by the staff, and dhal, red country rice, carrot and during the year in review, ranging using water as the elementary at present, many farmers have spices. What is noteworthy is from household detergents to media instead of soil. Vegetables formed partnerships with the that this product is completely washing powder, spices and such as mint leaves, pak choi and hotel to supply vegetables, herbs, free of nitrites, and is thus a soft paper products. This private lettuce are cultivated without the free-range meats and eggs. The healthier option of convenience labelling initiative provides use of chemical fertilizer at the produce will be prepared as per foods. Ceylon Cold Stores also consumers with no-frills products hotel and this initiative was well guest preferences or pre-defined launched two new ice cream at economical prices. received by the guests at the hotel recipes at the Organic Restaurant. products during the year, namely, who participated in the harvesting With this initiative Cinnamon ‘French Vanilla’ and the ‘Winter The Property industry group and preparation of meals using Lodge Habarana has created a Slice’ which is a seasonal product. commenced the development such produce. The hotel also benchmark for the rest of the The company also launched ‘KIK of ‘OnThree20’, a residential introduced several innovative industry. lite’ the low calorie version of its apartment tower located in the products using this produce. cola product and also re-launched heart of the city of Colombo. The The labelling information on the ‘Lemonade’ with a modification complex will consist of 475 units Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo has guest amenities and soap has in the recipe. Further, as a part on three 37-storey towers. The been able to implement a Halal been improved with the launch of our commitment to continuous residential complex has been kitchen when required, through of Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa and improvement with regard to designed with special emphasis on the utilisation of a Halal freezer Chaaya Wild Yala which informs product labelling, Ceylon Cold the common areas which boasts truck, specified utensils, and guests of ingredients used and Stores improved product labelling of swimming pools, a squash court sanitisation of the kitchen with expiry details. The rest of the ritual water including the use of hotels in the Group are to follow Halal Certified ingredients. The suit in the near future. Another Halal kitchen meets the standards trendsetting initiative that is of the Jamayathul Ulama. Further, currently being pursued is the all hotels in the John Keells Group bio-degradable amenity bottles for continue to educate and train staff Chaaya Hotels and Resorts. on health and food safety and all hotels continue to maintain its accreditations from OHSAS & HACCP. ‘K Choice’ range 136 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information individual customers, businesses, consumer, and the Group strictly corporates and the Government adheres to these laws. sectors are depicted in the previous page. Products of Ceylon Cold Stores, Keells Foods and the Thus, the Group has identified the ‘K Choice’ brand adhere to the products and services marketed by above mentioned statutes and the Leisure, Financial Services, the regulations. While 100 per cent Property Group and the Consumer of food products sold specify the Foods & Retail industry groups ingredients used, it is currently as significant areas for product not specified from where such labelling. The products and services ingredients are sourced. However, marketed by these industry groups 20 per cent of the products of the are identified below. above mentioned companies carry information with regard to the Product labelling • Consumer Foods & Retail – impact on the environment while Elephant House Ice Creams, 54 per cent specifically mention Elephant House Carbonated storage and preparation methods The Group continuously reviews its Product labelling Soft Drinks, Keells range of products and services for safe use by for the safe use of the products. The John Keells Group is processed meat, Krest range of consumers, through the assessment Of the 184 items identified as not committed to inform and engage processed meat and Elephant of its systems and procedures during having information with regard our customers as we continue to House range of processed the entire manufacturing and service to the safe use of the product, it adhere to labelling requirements meats delivery process. Towards this, the should be noted that certain ‘K specified. The Group will continue Group companies engaged in the Choice’ items such as stationary to maintain and enhance consumer • Financial Services – Insurance manufacture of consumer foods and paper serviettes are also confidence through consistent high products and related services, have obtained ISO 9001 and ISO included in this list. Currently, standards in the quality and safety stock broking services 22000 as initial steps in achieving approximately 10 per cent of the of products or services purchased process excellence. In the Leisure • Property – Residential products sold by the Group also and through accreditation sector, Walkers Tours have obtained apartments carry information with regard to memberships from various ISO 9001 while most of our hotels the responsible disposal of the standard bodies. • Leisure – Hotels and Inbound have obtained ISO18001 which we product. The Group has considered its Tours believe establishes a process and In terms of labelling and brochures culture of health and safety which primary brands of products and Product & service relating to residential apartments, permeates through to the end services that are offered to labelling requirements insurance, stock broking, leisure product or service. individual customers – that is, We believe that the Sri Lankan services including hotels and on a Business to Customer (B2C) laws governing food item labelling inbound travel, the Group follows basis – as the significant range as per the Food Act Number a prudent approach where the of products and services reported 26 of 1980 and the regulations information provided is as per the under product labelling. Products contained in the Food (Labelling Group policy which is modelled and services offered by the Group and Advertising) Regulations on the Code of Advertising and on a Business to Business (B2B) 2005 and the Consumer Affairs Marketing Communications of or Business to Government basis Authority Act Number 9 of 2003 the International Chamber of have not been considered, as cover the necessary information Commerce. Further, the Group such products would be sold by required by a reasonable adheres to the Intellectual Property the Group mainly through the acceptance of a product or service ISO 9001 proposal made by the Group in response to a tender document Consumer Foods & Retail Group Sourcing of Content or Safe use of Disposal of ISO 22000 of the purchaser. As such, in the sale of products and services to components substances product or the product such entities, product labelling with service requirements would not arise environmental Certifications as all information regarding and social impact such products or services would obtained by be provided as part of the bid Yes 0 80 215 38 Consumer proposal. No 399 319 184 361 Foods sector Total products 399 399 399 399 The products and services offered Percentage of by the industry groups to the products 0% 20% 54% 10% Annual Report 2011/12 137 John Keells Holdings PLC Guidelines with A special Group committee regulations and no significant fines Product regard to marketing monitors and evaluates advertising (over Rs. 1 million) with regard to Responsibility communications & campaigns based on the Group product responsibility have been service brochures policy for socially insensitive/ identified during the reporting year. The Group policy with regard unethical/irresponsible advertising. to advertising and marketing The committee also evaluates Act and all service oriented communications require that all policies and procedures laid products offered by the Group are companies in the Group adhere down by the internal committee checked for infringements prior to to the guidelines laid down by on advertising. As in previous being released into the market. the Group which is modeled years the committee evaluated The table on the previous page on the Code of Advertising and various communications and full illustrates the type of product Marketing Communications by compliance to the code was noted. labelling carried out by the the International Chamber of Consumer Foods and Retail Commerce (ICC). Compliance with rules industry group. While the Financial and regulations on Services, Leisure, Transportation, The ICC Code is intended primarily products and services as an instrument of self-regulation All business units have closely IT and the Property industry for commercial communications monitored whether any fines groups adhere to all statutory and is intended to achieve the were imposed on them, as requirements, they do not, following objectives amongst per compliance with rules and however, provide information others to: regulations on the Group’s products with regard to the sourcing of and services setting a zero figure components used, content of i. Demonstrate responsibility and as their target. environmental or social impact, good practice in advertising; safe-use or product disposal as The overall performance of each such information is not applicable ii. Enhance overall public company in this regard is measured in the context of their offerings. confidence in marketing by mandating the business communications; units to disclose occurrences of The Financial Services, Leisure iii. Respect privacy and consumer fines that are significant. The and Property industry groups have preferences; businesses are also required to approximately 35 brochures which iv. Ensure special responsibility maintain a list of all fines within a conform to the above mentioned with regard to marketing financial year. The Group has not Intellectual Property Act No. communication and children/ identified any significant instance 36 of 2003, relevant industry young people. of non-compliance with laws and to regulatory requirements and internal processes. Fresh fruit and vegetable counter at Keells Super, Union Place Bottling plant at Ceylon Cold Stores 138 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Social Responsibility Policy on Social Responsibility operations have on the community interests of the people among The John Keells Group believes in and the environment. whom we live and work. It wider societal needs than our own and articulates our commitment to meaningfully enriching the lives of The Group’s commitment to social understand and assess the impacts responsibility has translated communities of which we are an integral on the communities affected by into our community investment our operations, our determination part. We abide by the values of Caring, programmes and sponsorships, to respect their interests and our Trust and Integrity by ensuring that our staff engagement with the aspiration to ensure they derive through our actions we demonstrate our wider community through voluntary meaningful benefits from our commitment to and respect for all our service as well as our ongoing operations. stakeholders, including the communities dialogue with our stakeholders to better understand their needs. The To be comprehensive, we assess and the environment in which our Group is mindful of not engaging in the impacts when a business businesses operate. any community engagement activity enters, operates or exits a which to its knowledge has any community. An integral part The Group constantly works to running our operations cleanly adverse impact on the environment. of this process is a mandatory maximise the positive impacts and safely. It means working with questionnaire that has to be of our business on society, communities to address their Needs assessment completed and signed off aspires to contribute to causes concerns and help them benefit of local community by each business unit head. affecting the social development from our operations. Our aim is engagement projects The questionnaire which was of our nation and aims to be good to foster great relationships with The community policy accentuates introduced to all Group companies neighbours in the communities those communities and manage our respect for the rights and last year was further refined we operate in. This is more than responsibly the impact our Annual Report 2011/12 139 John Keells Holdings PLC Social Responsibility to capture the impacts that result from conducting business in the community and incorporated into the composite template covering all aspects of sustainability performance management and monitoring. This is used to measure and identify high risk areas. We will continue to ensure that necessary measures are taken to manage and mitigate any negative impacts. The identification and management of community impacts pose both challenges and opportunities and are key to successful risk assessment, decisionmaking, project development and promotion of social well-being. The above stated policies and their implementation and review will be taken up on a formal basis. It will be made mandatory for Group companies to carry out this assessment, whether through formal or informal means, when entering and exiting from an area. In addition, a review of the impacts of the operations of each business unit will be conducted annually, and where applicable, action plans to manage impacts will be formulated at Sector Committee or Group Management Committee meetings. Research Understand where we have come from, where we are presently and what the future environment would look like Engage Understand the commercial aspects and stakeholder perspectives of our community impacts Evaluate Analyse the research and evaluate the strengths, opportunities, weaknesses and threats Plan Develop a framework for planning and managing these threats and opportunities Action Deploy the framework and assess its outcome Impact Parameters of Community Engagement Activities Earnings: Employment: Environment: Impact on the earning potential – both supporting and Impact of direct and indirect The impact on the environment including competing employment and people made • Positive impacts • Positive impacts employable • Conservation of environment and • Improvement in quality of life due to wage • Positive impacts education injections • Income generation • Potentially negative impacts • Increased entrepreneurial activity • Opportunities for local sourcing • Emissions, discharges and waste • Potentially negative impacts for the Group disposal. • Social inequality • Potentially negative impacts • Vices such as drug and alcohol abuse due to • Labour migration increase in discretionary income Health and safety: Infrastructure: Other impacts: Impact on community health and safety including injury Impact of infrastructure development Impact on local culture, gender and cultural and disease on the social fabric heritage • Positive impacts • Positive impacts • Positive impacts • Awareness creation and introduction of best • The development of a project • The development of segments of society practices and technologies with regard to health can bring new infrastructure such as women, elders and children and safety into the area and services to an area such as • Potentially negative impacts • Potentially negative impacts roads and health services • Impacts to traditional cultures and way • An influx of newcomers seeking opportunities can • Potentially negative impacts of life introduce health risks, such as the exposure of • Demand on infrastructure and the local population to transmittable diseases services exceeding the built • Environmental impacts such as dust and noise capacity due to a sudden may cause health problems increase in population 140 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Corporate Social Responsibility – our approach At John Keells, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) represents how our values, corporate culture, and operations intrinsically involve and reflect social, economic and environment concerns. Our focus continues to be on six key areas – namely, Education, Health, Environment, Community and Livelihood Development, Arts & Culture and Disaster Relief, with each area being aligned to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) of which JKH PLC is a pioneer participant. Our goal in each of these areas is set out below: Education Health Environment Community Arts & Culture Disaster Relief & Livelihood Development JKH is committed JKH is committed JKH is committed JKH is committed JKH is committed JKH is committed to providing to ensuring to minimising to reaching out to sponsoring to carrying out educational productivity via a the impact of the to communities arts and culture collective relief opportunities to healthy society. Group’s operations surrounding its towards efforts in times of disadvantaged on the environment operations through safeguarding and natural and mangroups of the and carries out constructive promoting the made disasters, community as a conscious and dialogue with cultural heritage of through staff we believe that collective effort in stakeholders and Sri Lanka as well volunteerism. education is the this regard. staff volunteerism. as boosting the foundation for an Fostering the spirit livelihoods of those enlightened and of entrepreneurship engaged in arts civilized society. as a key to and culture sustainable development is the primary objective of such projects. under the broad focus areas of the the support of a cross-functional volunteers from across the Group. Foundation through donations and team of 18 senior executives The MC meets monthly, the sponsorships of cash and kind. drawn from various industry groups Foundation’s activities are reported The Foundation does not charge within the company. Each project to the Executive Committee on a for human resources, planning and is championed by a member of quarterly basis and its accounts and administration and overhead costs the MC and implemented by a operations are audited annually. attributable to any of its projects. project sub-committee comprising Social responsibility has the highest commitment of the senior management with the Chairman, John Keells Foundation and the other Executive Directors (“Foundation”) is a company duly of John Keells Holdings PLC incorporated under the law and (JKH) comprising the Executive also registered as a ‘Voluntary Committee of the Foundation. Social Service Organisation’ with While the Foundation has a the Ministry of Social Welfare Management Committee (MC), to drive the Group’s social the Foundation’s initiatives and responsibility initiatives from the activities continued to be handled centre, while individual companies by the Manager of the Foundation of the Group also engage in under the guidance and direction community service activities of JKH’s Head of CSR and with John Keells Foundation Management Committee Annual Report 2011/12 141 John Keells Holdings PLC • Nature Field Centre at Contribution to Social Rumassala, Galle infrastructure Responsibility • Paper Conservation / Recycling development, Project public services and • Keells Super Red Bag Initiative local community Projects undertaken to reduce the use of polythene engagement bags The following section describes by the John Keells • Keells Super Plastic Recycling the manner in which the Group Foundation (JKF) Initiative (launched this year) has contributed towards the The following projects undertaken • Project Leopard – a development of society through by the John Keells Foundation are conservation drive to protect both infrastructure and public carried out under the principles the Leopard population in Yala services as well as through local espoused by the Millennium community engagement initiatives. Development Goals and United • Biodiversity Conference Nations Global Compact. (launched this year) Development and • Village Adoption Project in • Elephant Conservation impact of infrastructure Mangalagama (launched this year) investments • Solar Power initiative in The table below provides a • Mahavilachchiya BPO Project Halmillawe (launched this year) breakdown of our projects, their • Seenigama BPO Project cost, the number of personnel of • Rainwater harvesting initiative • English Language Scholarship in Mangalagama (launched this the Group that participated in such Programme year) projects, and the manner in which • Neighbourhood Schools • University Soft Skills Programme such projects were carried out. Development Project • Sponsorship of scholarships • Employment of differentlyfor the Transport & Logistics abled persons Management Degree • John Keells Vision Project Programme • John Keells HIV and AIDS • Kala Pola – an open-air art Awareness Campaign gallery cum art fair Infrastructure Investment Service Project Cost (Rs) Volunteers Type Cost (Rs) Volunteers Type English Language Scholarship Programme 11,102,760 36 Pro bono The Final Step – University Soft Skills Programme 785,576 6 Pro bono Neighbourhood Schools Development Project 1,906,997 36 Pro bono John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign 416,150 94 Pro bono John Keells Vision Project 6,026,371 105 Pro bono Project Leopard 597,480 5 Pro bono Solar Power initiative in Halmillawe 2,317,272 7 Pro bono Rain Water Harvesting initiative in Mangalagama 2,900,000 Pro bono Plastic Recycling Project 129,130 2 Pro bono Nature Field Centre at Rumassala, Galle 26,000 1 Pro bono Butterfly Garden at Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana 165,000 3 Pro bono Village Adoption Project – Mangalagama 420,384 2 Pro bono Halmillawa Dam Repair 53,350 1 Pro bono Slave Island Railway Station 672,375 4 Pro bono 263,201 4 Pro bono Slave Island Rail Track Reservation (maintenance) 103,000 4 Pro bono Mahavilachchiya BPO Project 116,300 20 In kind 313,450 8 Pro bono Seenigama BPO Project 99,852 10 In kind 9,200 2 Pro bono Sustainable Sourcing Initiatives of CF&R 36,000 15 In kind Kala Pola 1,459,047 39 Pro bono Total 9,378,140 90 20,540,755 314 142 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Local community engagement projects English Language Scholarship Programme Local community engagement projects carried out by the John Keells Group are structured based on an social impact assessment which includes a stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement, selection criteria for identifying participants Nomination & applications of deserving candidates via School and an evaluation process at the end of the year/project. Principals In certain projects this evaluation process has been carried out by independent third parties. Impact Assessment Selection Criteria Monthly monitoring of attendance Disadvantaged state schools in Staff volunteers’ feedback selected Districts Education Final examination result Preference for financially disadvanStudent feedback (compulsory) taged children English language scholarship Annual English Day Marks obtained at placement test set Independent research by Gateway Language Center programme During the year in review, the Foundation continued with its English Language Scholarship Programme via the foundation-level programme for school children within the age limits of 12 to 14 years branded as ‘English for Teens’. The programme was rolled out in two intakes via Gateway Language Centre branches in 19 districts of the country. Meanwhile, the Foundation also introduced a pre-intermediate level scholarship programme open to all the students who obtained an honours pass in the English for Teens programme conducted in 2010/11. Out of the 144 students eligible, 62 students registered themselves for the programme in five centres. Project Overall Focus Area in 2011/12 Project Objective Project Scope in 2011/12 Project Impact JKH Objective Volunteers English Enhancing English (1) English for Teens English for daily use English for Teens Batch 1 Applications 1463 Language language skills A four-month course for and basic interactions, Locations: Registered 1126 Scholarship of deserving, school children within the helping students Ambalangoda, Kegalle, Completed 1102 Programme disadvantaged age limits of 12 to 14 years understand and use Kurunegala, Matara, Eligible to sit for or needy school familiar everyday Mullaitivu, Negombo, Tangalle, final exam (on children and youth expressions, such as Trincomalee (8) basis of minimum across the island introducing oneself attendance) 969 towards improving and others and asking English for Teens Batch 2 Final Examination their opportunities or answering simple Locations: completed; results for higher learning questions. Ampara, Bandarawela, pending and sustainable Batticaloa, Chilaw, Colombo employment. (including Neighbourhood 28 Schools), Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Matale, Panadura, Polonnaruwa, Ratnapura (11) (2) Pre-intermediate Make candidates Pre-intermediate Registered 62 level programme understand grammar level locations: Course A 4-month post-foundation structures for practical Bandarawela, Colombo, Galle, completed 62 course for English for Teens purposes in everyday Kandy, Panadura Final Examination scholarship students of situations and to use scheduled for May 2010/11 who obtained an them efficiently with 2012 Honours Pass confidence. Annual Report 2011/12 143 John Keells Holdings PLC private sector which is The Final Step Social acknowledged as the primary Responsibility employer accounting for over Stakeholder Engagement 70% of the local job market. Request by University Therefore, the sessions Curriculum, resource persons, include in-depth discussions venue & participants planned & ‘English for Teens’ is another on employer expectations, implemented with the Career initiative under the English Guidance Unit (CGU) leadership and team building, Publicity material – posters, Language Scholarship Programme CV writing and interview individual pocket schedules, etc of John Keells Foundation, an facing, developing confidence ‘Approved Charity’ under the Inland and personality, working in Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006. a corporate environment, Launched in 2004 in collaboration corporate hospitality (including Impact Assessment Selection Criteria with Gateway Educational social etiquette) and personal Attendance at workshops Open to Third and Final Year students Services, this long-term project grooming. Participant interaction of all the Faculties has to date empowered the lives Participant feedback (compulsory) Pre-registration of candidates via the Staff volunteers’ feedback CGU of over 4,400 individuals. The programme saw an Media coverage enthusiastic response from Informal assessment with CGU and As part of our engagement process graduating batches of students Vice Chancellor which covers entry, ongoing and from the Arts, Management, Official report of the CGU exit, an independent survey was Applied Sciences and Medical carried out during the year in Sciences Faculties of the review to ascertain the impact of University with each day’s the English for Teens programme. workshop attracting a capacity The survey’s initial findings audience averaging at 430 established that the students and undergraduates per each day’s parents found the programme to workshop. be practical and had a great impact in improving students’ standard of English. “Through this workshop, I The Final Step have gained motivational A series of five-day workshops ideas about the private designed for the benefit of sector. I found out about university undergraduates towards the vast areas in which grooming them for employment I can work in the private was conducted for the second sector, and this has successive year at the University changed my outlook on the private sector.” of Sri Jayawardenepura in collaboration with the Career M M W B Manthilake Guidance Unit (CGU) of the University. Aimed at enhancing the employability of local graduates, Final Step University Soft Skills Project in progress The Final Step seeks to attune their perspectives regarding employment in Sri Lanka’s Project Overall Objective Focus Area in Project Objective Project Scope in 2011/12 Project JKH Volunteers 2011/12 Impact The Final StepEnhancing University of Sri To enhance the 5-day series or workshops involving: Average of 430 University Soft employability of Jayawardenepura, employability of local Panel discussions on employer undergraduates Skills Project undergraduates by Sri Lanka graduates by changing expectations and team each day providing soft skills their perspectives of building & leadership skills; employment in Sri Lanka, Interactive workshops on: 6 (with preference particularly in the private Personality development and given to university sector, and increasing confidence building; adapting to the alumni) their adaptability to the corporate environment; personal requirements of the grooming; and corporate hospitality workplace 144 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information This was the sixth such soft skills Sinhala Vidyalaya, Holy Rosary Neighbourhood schools development project programme presented by the Tamil Vidyalayam, Al Iqbal Foundation since its launch in Muslim Balika Vidyalaya, Sri Stakeholder Engagement 2006, comprising two programmes Sariputta Maha Vidyalaya and T. Request by School Principals accompanied by each at the University of Kelaniya, B Jayah Maha Vidyalaya were Independent needs assessment by project team / technical staff of City the University of Moratuwa, directly impacted. 32 volunteers Hotels OR and the University of Sri of the Group participated in the Proposed by John Keells Foundation and mutually agreed with school Jayawardenepura. During the improvements, refurbishments and authorities and (if necessary) year in review, the Foundation infrastructure developments at students and their parents commenced discussions with the the above schools. As in previous University Grants Commission years, eligible students of the towards increasing the reach and five schools could also apply for Impact Assessment Selection Criteria optimising the benefits of this scholarships under the English Feedback from school authorities Relevance of the initiative in programme in relation to all the language scholarship programme Project team’s / staff volunteers’ keeping with project objectives universities of the country. of the Foundation. A total of 33 feedback Need to prioritize vis-à-vis annual budgetary allocation students were registered for the Maintenance / sustainability of Neighbourhood programme under the second intake initiative schools development and followed classes conducted project weekly in one of the schools of The Foundation continues to which a total of 29 students sat for support the development and the final examination. maintenance of infrastructure and facilities of five disadvantaged In the next financial year, the Government schools in Colombo Foundation plans to extend the 2 (the location of the Head Office scope of this project to upperand several businesses of the secondary students as well. John Keells Group), towards creating an environment more The Foundation has also conducive for learning. The project commenced discussions with the is implemented through the CSR Zonal Educational Office of the teams of Cinnamon Grand Colombo Ministry of Education towards and Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo. exploring the possibility of linking the project plans with relevant This year 1,671 students and state initiatives and optimising the teachers from the Holy Rosary benefits of this project. Staff volunteers at neighbourhood school Project Overall Objective Project Location/s Focus Area in 2011/12 Direct Impact JKH in 2011/12 Volunteers Improving Holy Rosary Providing raw material for the roof renovation (4th floor) 206 students the overall Sinhala Installing 4.6 “ x 5.6” x 18” steel cupboards (02 nos.) 16 teachers educational Vidyalaya Extending classroom outside main hall and painting the outer facilities of 5 and inner walls disadvantaged Installing ceiling fan and two windows 2’ x 4’ for the Government principal’s office schools located Holy Rosary Repairing the main gate 160 students near John Keells Tamil Vidyalaya Fixing of ceiling fans in three classrooms (03 nos.) and the 16 teachers head office in computer room (02 nos) Neighbourhood Colombo 2 Fixing a new water motor Schools Fixing an iron fence on the wall 32 Development Renovating the computer room Project Fixing of grill gate in front of the stairs Al Iqbal Renovation of vacant / old building of the school 430 students Muslim Balika Conducting a shramadhana with the help of JKH Volunteers/ 29 teachers Vidyalaya students/parents of the students to start up an agriculture project in 2012 to develop garden plots Sri Sariputta Fixing aluminium windows for 03rd floor classrooms 242 students Maha Vidyalaya New name board for school 18 teachers T. B. Jayah Renovation / colour washing of the outer parts of the school 527 students Maha Vidyalaya building wall 27 teachers Repairing old furniture of the school Annual Report 2011/12 145 John Keells Holdings PLC The John Keells HIV/AIDS awareness campaign Social Responsibility S akeh Sta e Eng o der Stakeholder e old Engagement gage agemen e t Organizational (Group or 3rd party) request for awareness program Health Collaboration arrangements for awareness (e.g. Sri Lanka Air Force; Foorce; Sri Lanka Army; Lanka Business Coalition on HIV and AIDS) John Keells HIV and Collaboration with National STD/AIDS Control Programme of the University of Moratuwa AIDS awareness Ministry of Health (medical resources) Collaboration with ILO and EFC (training of Master Trainers) Transport & Logistics campaign Awareness brochures Degree Programme John Keells Foundation pioneered Press releases/advertorials Press releas eases/ rel advert es/adv ertori orials als The Transportation Sector of John a HIV and AIDS awareness Keells Holdings PLC continued its programme in 2005 and through sponsorship of the scholarship Impact Assessment Selection Criteria programme for the students Participant interaction Need to prioritize vis-à-vis project “John Keells’ efforts in Participant feedback (minimum of 10% objectives and contractual reading for an Honours degree of conducting awareness coverage compulsory) arrangements Bachelor of Science in Transport programmes to prevent Project team’s / staff volunteers’ feedback No. of individuals identified for the spread of a deadly Feedback/acknowledgement from awareness & Logistics Management (BSc beneficiary organization (T&LM) Hons.) at the University of disease such as AIDS Feedback from third party organizations Moratuwa. This 4-year programme, could only be second to (ILO, LBCH) which commenced in 2006, is a saving the country from terrorists.” strategic CSR project designed to develop the knowledge, skills and Brigadier Kariyakarawana, attitudes necessary to equip the Commander of the 61st undergraduates to face the modern Division of Mannar message from the Chairman/CEO to a Master Trainer on HIV and AIDS day challenges in transportation all staff of the John Keells Group, since December 2009 and a former and logistics. It also helps develop a poster campaign, video campaign member of the Sri Lankan army, a much needed resource base of and staff quiz competition on HIV recognised the general ignorance professionals for the country’s and AIDS, in the week leading up to on HIV and AIDS within the army. growing transportation industry. World Aids Day. He initiated the idea of extending The scholarship programme awareness programmes to the In addition to activities planned and military – including commanding consists of an aggregate of 26 this project, has targeted the implemented by the Foundation, officers, soldiers, doctors and scholarships awarded on a both employees of the John Keells the enterprise-based workplace nurses, and ambitiously set the needand merit-based scheme. Group, the communities around committees (established across all goal of reaching 10,000 people The T&LM degree syllabus also its business locations, other John Keells companies in Sri Lanka within the course of one year. includes a 6-month industrial corporate entities, most at-risk following the Group-wide adoption Just one and a half years into placement Three students were persons (MARPs) and the general of an HIV and AIDS Workplace Policy the program, Ivan and his team selected for internship in the public. In the reporting period, the in 2010/11) continued to organise succeeded in educating 10,521 Transportation sector during the programme continued with its dual their own activities during the year members through 51 awareness year under review. objectives of creating awareness under review, for the benefit of sessions. amongst MARPs as well as Supporting of Siduhath both staff as well as communities workplace education. The Group is Vidyalaya by Whittall surrounding their businesses. The team is committed to committed to combating HIV and Boustead contribute to the prevention of the AIDS to ensure that its status in A highlight during the reporting spread of HIV and AIDS through Whittall Boustead (Travel) Limited Sri Lanka remains ‘low prevalent’. year was the recording by awareness programmes conducted sponsored the school requirements In this regard, the Group supports the HIV and AIDS Workplace among employees of the hotel, of the students of Sidhuhath prevention through education and Committee at Cinnamon Lodge as well as community outreach Vidyalaya in Gallala, Ratnapura access to correct information. Habarana, of its 50th and 51st programmes including the Armed for the 11th successive year. 60 sessions were carried out awareness programmes on 4th Forces. They firmly believe that Each year, since 2001, the staff, during the year, educating over August 2011 at Army Training education and the access to tour leaders and suppliers of the 9,927 persons as detailed in School in Pompemadu, Mannar. correct information are the best company and its principals Kuoni, the table overleaf. Accordingly, The event also marked the forms of defense against the and their staff, have voluntarily the cumulative total of persons double milestone of a total of disease, which can reach epidemic contributed to the purchase of educated under the campaign 10,000 persons educated by the proportions if left unchecked. stationary and other educational since its launch in 2005 is 42,280. committee since the establishment equipment. 38 staff volunteers and tour leaders participated in the of the Workplace Committee at John Keells Vision project. World AIDS Day falling on Cinnamon Lodge in 2009. project 1st December 2011 was In 2011/12, the Project continued commemorated by the Foundation Mr. Ivan Perera, Security Manager to give sight to vision-impaired via a Group-wide plan including a at the Habarana hotels complex, persons, with a reported 777 146 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Project Overall Objective Project Location/s in 2011/12 Focus Area in 2011/12 Direct JKH Impact Volunteers John Keells To prevent the spread of SLAF Ratmalana Sri Lanka Air Force 9,927 HIV & AIDS HIV through education SLAF Ekala Bases & Sri Lanka Awareness and awareness among SLAF Katukurunda Army Rehabilitation & Campaign the staff, surrounding SLAF Colombo Training Centres communities (including SLAF BIA high risk environments) SLAF China Bay and the general public SLAF Palavi 2011/12 SLAF Vavuniya Target Total of SLAF Anuradhapura Creating awareness 10,000 persons SLAF Koggala among John Keells SLAF Hingurakgoda Group staff and other SLAF Diyatalawa corporates SLAF Ampara SLAF Batticaloa SLAF Jaffna Army Training school, Pompemadu Army Camp, Thallady Army Training school, Habarana 94 Army Division, Welioya LTTE Rehabilitation Centres Pompemadu & Nelumkulam LTTE Rehabilitation Centres Senapura & Kandakadu Katukeliyawa (Army Jungle Training School) Pooneryn Army Training School Army Training School in Maduruoya Cinnamon Grand Staff awareness Walkers Tours Chauffeur Training Peliyagoda DC Staff awareness JKH Auditorium (New Inductees) Bentota Beach Hotel Staff awareness Chaaya Wild, Yala Staff awareness Cinnamon Lodge & Cinnamon Village, Habarana Staff awareness Habarana Hospital Nurses TSFL Factories in Karawita & New Panawenna Public Bank Staff awareness ABC Computers Staff awareness ophthalmologists to perform Kilinochchi. 227 patients were surgeries of patients screened for identified for surgery out of which cataract in a timely manner. a record 197 cataract operations were completed on 14th and The Foundation also commenced 15th June 2012. Six volunteers collaboration with the Vision 2020 represented John Keells at this Secretariat of the Ministry of historic eye camp. Health, during the year in review. This has proven to be a promising collaboration, facilitating not only access to the State medical “This eye camp has truly made me understand the resources, but also to areas of value of life and made me the country rendered inaccessible appreciate every little thing previously due to the 30-year that we take for granted. conflict. So far three cataract Seeing people live in such HIV/AIDS awareness training session hardship made me want to clinics have been held in the visit this place every day and Northern Province – in Kilinochchi, help them more and more” cataract operations being carried The Foundation during the Mullaitivu and Jaffna benefitting a out island wide, bringing the year under review commenced Ridha Al-Ayad (MackAir), total of 421 needy individuals. total number of operations since collaboration with HelpAge Sri Volunteer at Mullaitivu Eye Camp 2012 the launch of the initiative in Lanka (a non-governmental charity A highlight of this collaboration 2004 to 4,760. In addition, 2,120 engaged in supporting needy between John Keells Foundation spectacles were provided to adults elders including the provision with the Vision 2020 Secretariat of and children during the year under of eye care services) with the the Ministry of Health was the first review. objective of enhancing access to ever eye camp to be conducted medical resources, particularly at the District General Hospital, Annual Report 2011/12 147 John Keells Holdings PLC Social Responsibility Project Overall Objective Project Location/s in 2011/12 Focus Area in 2011/12 Direct Impact JKH Volunteers Vision To assist deserving Kahataruppa, Neluwa, Kilinochchi (Vision Cataract surgeries in collaboration Completed project individuals regain 2020), Halwitigala, Agalawatta (Lions), with Vision 2020 Secretariat of the surgeries -777 their vision and Padaviya (including SOMS Eye Glass Clinic), Ministry of Health, Government Pending thereby their social Kegalle, Maha Induruwa (Lions), Elpitiya Hospitals, Lions Gift of Sight surgeries 20 and economic (Lions), Dehitattakandiya, Mullaitivu (Vision Hospital and HelpAge Eye Care 105 independence 2020), Jaffna (Vision 2020), Mullaitivu (SOMSCentre Eye Glass Clinic), Bandarawela Donation of spectacles to children and adults at John Keells eye 2,120 camps and SOMS Eye Glass Clinics The eye camps held under the a school in Habarana on 17th project continued to attract February 2012 which was a volunteers from across the Group, resounding success. in spite of being generally held during weekends and holidays A total of 1212 patients were in distant parts of the country. attended to by a team of prominent 2011/12 saw a record number of consultant physicians of different 105 voluneer engagements at eye disciplines with the support of the camps, (some of them involving Habarana hospital and the regional repeat volunteers at multiple army medical detachment which camps), with many sharing their provided pharmacists, doctors and deep sense of fulfilment at being nurses to assist the consultant part of this initiative. physicians. Cinnamon Lodge conducts a Medication provided was donated by pharmaceutical companies. Walkers Eye Camp 2012 Health Camp in Habarana Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Tours, supported the initiative by conducted a medical camp at providing transport for the doctors. Chief priest of the Habarana Temple and Government officials John Keells Vision Project graced the opening ceremony. Medical attention of this nature is Stakeholder Eng Engagement gage g ment DDiscussions iscussions with 3rd party requesting an eye camp (e.g. not readily available for people of ccommunity ommunity based organizations) the area, hence some had walked CCollaboration ollaboration arrangements with Government doctors, Lions over 10 km to attend the camp CClubs lubs and HelpAge Sri Lanka (having a direct presence in the ggeographical eographical area concerned) from remote areas. CCollaboration ollaboration with the Ministry of Health, Provincial H ospitals, Lions Gift of Sight Hospital, HelpAge Eye Care Hospitals, The overall feedback received was CCentre entre (medical resources) one of immense gratitude and was PPublicity ublicity before and during the Eye Camp PPress ress releases/advertorials in line with one of the five pledges of John Keells Hotels: “I WILL CARE”. Impact Assessment Selection Criteria Attendance at the eye camp Under-served communities / those with no access to The Foundation has agreed to No. of patients screened for cataract / other vision vision care services provide spectacles to those who impairment Availability of prerequisites – medical resources, Project team’s / staff volunteers’ feedback have been prescribed eye glasses suitable venue, ground support / focal point for Feedback/acknowledgement from beneficiary organizing and follow up support at this camp. organization Feedback from third party / collaborating organizations No. of cataract surgeries completed (as against the number of patients diagnosed with cataract) 148 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information schoolchildren, the NFC has given impetus to the conservation efforts of John Keells whilst also creating an opportunity for a successful Environment public-private partnership with the CEA. The NFC continued to Wildlife conservation attract a healthy number of visitors During 2011/12, the Foundation per month, mostly schoolchildren, continued its collaborative recording a total coverage of a initiative with Chaaya Wild Yala reported 1,825 during the year in named ‘Project Leopard’ aimed review. at mitigating the human-leopard conflict in the villages adjacent to Sustainable Yala National Park. This initiative biodiversity and is further detailed under the economic development conservation of biodiversity in the Awareness on paper conservation conference section “Environmental Impact” of The John Keells Foundation hosted this report. In addition, the John a host of issues relating to The contractor for collection and a two-day conference on the Keells Foundation contributed biodiversity conservation and its onward transmission for recycling sustainable use of biodiversity financially to the National Elephant sustainable use. The report on the of the Group’s waste paper since for economic development on Census which was carried out findings and recommendations 2006, which has rebranded itself the 12th and 13th of July 2011 in by the Department of Wildlife arising from the conference as Neptune Recyclers (Pvt) Ltd, has collaboration with the International Conservation from 11th to 13th of was published for handover to reported the following estimated Union for the Conservation of August 2011. government authorities. direct and indirect impact of the Nature (IUCN) and the Ceylon project during the reporting year in Nature field centre – Chamber of Commerce. Its Paper conservation the table below. objective was to create a forum Rumassala The John Keells Group’s Paper for highlighting the importance of conservation project, involving the Meanwhile, the Group continued In 2011/12, the Foundation the sustainable use of biodiversity collection of waste paper from with its paper recycling project in continued to consolidate the for economic development and the Group’s business locations for collaboration with the National activities at the Nature Field poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka. shredding and recycling, has gained Paper Company (successor to Centre (NFC) at Rumassala, in The conference brought together momentum during the year under National Paper Corporation). Galle. A collaboration of the various stakeholders including review. The project’s main objectives Foundation with the Central prominent environmentalists, are the saving of trees and reducing During the year in review, the Environment Authority (CEA) biodiversity experts, academics the amount of waste paper Foundation embarked on specific aimed at facilitating experiential and relevant personnel from state otherwise ending up as landfill. initiatives relating to environmental learning about the environment and private sector and highlighted sustainability for the benefit of and biodiversity, primarily among Waste paper collected by Neptune Recyclers (Pvt) Ltd Indirect Impact Savings 1st April 2011 31st March 2012 Direct Impact Electricity Month Collection (Kg) Payment (Rs) Trees (Nos) Water (Ltrs) (Kwh) Oil (Ltrs) Landfill (m3) April 902 4,510 15 28,666 3,608 1,583 3 May 1,976 9,880 34 62,797 7,904 3,468 6 June 22,988 114,940 391 730,559 91,952 40,344 69 July 1,101 5,505 19 34,990 4,404 1,932 3 August 5,058 25,290 86 160,743 20,232 8,877 15 September 1,033 5,165 18 32,829 4,132 1,813 3 October 2,123 10,615 36 67,469 8,492 3,726 6 November 1,765 8,825 30 56,092 7,060 3,098 5 December 2,525 12,625 43 80,245 10,100 4,431 8 January 3,518 17,590 60 111,802 14,072 6,174 11 February 3,035 15,175 52 96,452 12,140 5,326 9 March 1,843 9,215 31 58,571 7,372 3,234 6 Total 47,867 239,335 813 1,521,213 191,468 84,007 143 Annual Report 2011/12 149 John Keells Holdings PLC for the installation of street holders. Most of the families have use and disposal of plastic, the Social lamps. Cinnamon Lodge Habarana, no permanent income throughout Foundation collaborated with provided ground support to the the year and water scarcity is the Keells Super supermarket Responsibility Foundation in planning and severe in this village. Hence it was chain, and Neptune Recyclers implementing this initiative. concluded that this village was (Pvt) Ltd to launch the collection found to have the need, suitability and recycling of plastic bottles. deserving communities namely, Rain water harvesting and feasibility and was provided Neptune will collect the plastic the provision of solar power, During the year in review, the three 20,000 litres rainwater bottles from the bins which would rainwater harvesting and plastic Foundation commissioned field harvesting tanks (community units) then be converted into pellets and recycling facilities. surveys to assess the suitability of – for the village school, temple reused in a variety of ways. This setting up of rain water harvesting and dispensary, and twenty 5,000 will help minimise the dumping Solar power to facilities for the people living in litres rainwater harvesting tanks of plastic waste into landfills and Halmillawe Mangalagama with the help of (domestic units). arrest its negative impact on the Halmillawe in the Anuradhapura community representatives. environment. District was the first beneficiary Plastic recycling of John Keells Foundation’s solar It was noted that the majority of initiative power initiative. The village the village’s population of 750 Recognising the importance of was selected on the basis of the families are farmers and Samurdhi promoting responsible consumer number of permanent houses which did not have access to grid electricity, the fact that the entire Rainwater harvesting for Mangalagama village had no street lamps in spite of being vulnerable to the Sta S akeh o der Stakeholder e old e Eng Engagement gage agemen e t human-elephant conflict and the RRecommendation ecommendation by JKF’s Executive Committee Foundation’s established links DDiscussion iscussion of the initiative with community leaders as part of aann informal needs assessment with the village through the village CCommissioning ommissioning of a technical assessment via the supplier adoption project. DDiscussion iscussion of the outcome of the assessment with the ssupplier upplier and the community focal point /s towards finalizing Following a feasibility ssite ite selection RRequest/approval equest/approval of the facility by selected beneficiaries and technical assessment GGovernment overnment approvals (if necessary) via Divisional Secretary commissioned by the Foundation, Ground G supp round coordination support pport byy Group Group’s p’s businesses in the area 15 domestic solar systems and 11 street lamps were installed in Halmillawe during the year in Impact Assessment Selection Criteria review. Sites for consideration Community interaction and support Community need based on accessibility to identified were proposed by the development Supplier’s feedback resource, income levels, etc. committee of the village under Beneficiary feedback Availability of basic infrastructure to support Feedback from Group business in the area proposed system (solar, rainwater) the patronage of Ven. Meegoda Feedback from related Government agency (if any) No. of family members/beneficiaries Athulasiri Thero, the head priest of Progress evaluation after one year Willingness to support basic operations and the village temple in consultation maintenance with the technical manager of the solar power supplier, whilst the Divisional Secretary coordinated necessary Government approvals Solar powered street lighting Plastic recycling initiative at Union Place Keells Super 150 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Polythene reduction supermarket chain also introduced reflected a decline, there has been During 2011/12 Keells Super another alternative to polythene a good response by the customers supermarkets continued with in the reporting year cardboard of Keells supermarkets to the offer its efforts at reducing the use boxes being offered free of charge of free cardboard boxes, resulting of polythene. Whilst continuing to its customers to carry their in a healthy decline in the overall to provide consumers with the purchases. Hence, as the below use of polythene. alternative of a reusable cloth table indicates, whilst the sales bag known as the ‘Red Bag’, the and reuse of the Red Bag have Red bag and cardboard box usage Total Red Bag Cardboard Box Per Customer Re-usage Increase Fiscal Year Total Red Bag Sale Total Re-Use Re-use Usage Re-use % Per Customer 2010/2011 97,621 200,665 Nil 298,286 0.032 -24% 2011/2012 72,592 130,525 322,882 525,999 0.047 31% Polythene usage Fiscal Year Polythene Usage (kg) Polythene Usage Per Visit (g) Per Customer Reduction 2008/2009 77,966 10.12 2009/2010 90,193 9.71 4.3% 2010/2011 94,830 10.20 -4.85% 2011/2012 112,282 9.98 2.26% this project. The selection was The civil work was carried out • Construction of a new made taking into account the need by a government-approved foundation for, and restoration to develop what was previously sub-contractor appointed by the of, a derelict school building a `border village’ affected by the School Development Society under and rehabilitation of the long-drawn ethnic conflict, whilst the direction and supervision classrooms in the said building also complimenting the Group of the Zonal Education Office, • Repair and reconstruction of 2 Community/livelihood subsidiary, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC Ampara. Contracts in this regard existing teachers’ quarters development (CCS), which has undertaken a were signed with the School strategic business drive to develop Development Society and the • Construction of 1 new Teachers Village adoption the cashew farmers of the village Director, Zonal Education Office, Quarters project – Halmillawe to supply a substantial part of its Ampara. • Construction of 5 toilets During the year under review, the cashew requirement for its ice Foundation sponsored a repair to cream products. The development work undertaken • Provision of equipment for the wall of the dam constructed in AM/Managalarama Maha the pre school children’s as part of the infrastructure Vidyalaya, Mangalagama playground Infrastructure development development work previously comprised of: Following meetings with undertaken in Halmillawe. This was community leaders and village in response to an appeal by the representatives and a preliminary Halmillawe Farmer Organisation. assessment carried out in June 2010 by the Foundation’s Village adoption project team together with CCS project – representatives, it was mutually Mangalagama agreed to prioritise infrastructure During the year under review, development aimed at increasing John Keells Foundation completed the availability of water for the infrastructure development basic needs and irrigation and work commenced in 2010/11 in augmenting the facilities available Mangalagama. at the village school. Some of Mangalagama in the Ampara the infrastructure developments District of the Eastern Province of carried out were the rehabilitation Sri Lanka is the second village to of the Mangalagama Tank and be selected for development under the refurbishment of the AM/ Managalarama Maha Vidyalaya. Assistance provided to AM/Mangalarama Maha Vidyalaya, Mangalagama Annual Report 2011/12 151 John Keells Holdings PLC Women’s empowerment provider to InfoMate Private senior Human Resources personnel Social The plan for Mangalagama in the Limited (a subsidiary of John of the Group was also facilitated reporting year included initiating Keells Holdings PLC) and carries by the Foundation for the 19 youth Responsibility women’s empowerment activities out transaction processing, as an employed. in consultation with women of the extension of InfoMate’s role of village. Through several community captive finance and accounting The year under review saw the Livelihood development engagements, knowledge sharing service provider for the John Keells expansion of the second BPO, During the year under review, CCS on home garden cultivation and a Group. Seenigama BPO Technologies (Pvt) was able to enhance the livelihood village-based saving scheme were Ltd, to 15 seats. Seenigama is a development and capacity building identified as projects catering The immediate objective of the tsunami-affected village in the program initiated among cashew towards women’s empowerment. project was to create employment Southern Province of Sri Lanka farmers in the village in 2010/11, It is further expected that the for talented rural youth, enabling and is a tripartite collaboration by arranging a finance facility provision of rainwater harvesting them to work from the familiar between John Keells Holdings, for the purchase of raw cashew units to 20 households during the environment of their own FARO and the Foundation of from farmers in the area via a year will promote home garden village which we believe to be a Goodness (FOG). Training is commercial bank in Ampara. The cultivation, both for domestic sustainable business model. The provided in InfoMate’s office in main objective of this initiative consumption and for purposes of long-term vision of the initiative Colombo. The rapid progress and is to enable the Cashew Farmers supplementing the family income, is to create BPO capacity for Sri the supply of trained resources Organisation to grow, collect, whilst enhancing the quality of life Lanka’s future outsourcing growth. during the reporting year have process and deliver cashew of the families concerned through been encouraging, and plans are directly to CCS at market prices, Training continues to be provided underway to expand to 20 seats in access to clean drinking water. at InfoMate’s premises and eliminating the middleman, in the Presently, plans are under way to the near future. InfoMate and the mutual interest of both parties. new functions are continually Foundation assisted by providing expand this initiative to include migrated including quality related CCS purchased a total of 2,030 one or two villages in the North equipment and merchandise for kg of cashew amounting to Rs. processes, customer invoicing the youth. and East as well. and customer receipting. During 3.72 million during the year in review. The bank provided loan Taking city jobs to the the year, InfoMate provided four Sustainable sourcing facilities aggregating to Rs. 2.25 village computers to OnTime and was initiatives million to facilitate the purchase OnTime Technologies (Pvt.) Limited able to leverage on its relationship The Consumer Foods and Retail of raw cashew by members of in Mahavilachchiya in the North with a leading telecom provider to industry group continues to the Cashew Farmers Organisation Central Province Sri Lanka’s first extend cost effective broadband boost agricultural activity in which is intended to be increased recorded rural BPO is flourishing, coverage to Mahavilachchiya villages and raise the standard to Rs. 3 million in 2012/13. five years into its operations. thereby reducing the connectivity of living in diverse communities. The company works as a service charges for OnTime. A full day It is one of our largest and most training session conducted by successful sustainable projects Ceylon Cold Stores Sustainable Sourcing Projects of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 2011/12 Primary Suppliers/ Number of farmers Total Annual Supply (KG/LTRS) Total Payment (Rs.) Product Location Project Partners 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2009/10 2010/2011 2011/2012 2009/10 2010/2011 2011/2012 Ginger Aludeniya CCS, Ginger Galabawa Growers and Poojapitiya the Kandurata Uduwa Development 125 253 253 14,514 14,760 46,723 7,257,300 8,856,000 28,033,800 all of Hataraliyadda Bank supported by in Kandy District Central Bank of Sri Lanka Vanilla Meegammana West Kandy Vanilla Wattegama, Kandy Growers 2,500 2,500 2,500 438 925 534 2,762,049 6,937,500 3,672,500 Association Treacle Waralla Nilwala Food 12 12 12 39,000 42,000 37,569 5,070,000 5,460,000 4,884,087 Deniyaya Products Milk Maskeliya Hatton Dikoya Seven Hills Farms 1,100 1,100 Discontinued 948,761 900,094 Discontinued 46,241,976 69,586,858 Discontinued Dimbulla Lakshapana Kithul Neluwa Dakshina Kithul N/A N/A 25 N/A N/A 9,871 N/A N/A 3,701,625 Jaggery Nishpadana Cashew Mangalagama Mangalagama N/A N/A 30 N/A N/A 2,030 N/A N/A 3,726,000 Nuts Cashew Producers 152 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Keells Food Products Sustainable Sourcing Projects of Keells Food Products PLC 2011/12 Product Location Primary Suppliers/ No. of farmers Total Annual Supply Total Payment (Rs.) Project Partners 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Pork Kaluaggala, Kaypro Farms, 25 25 25 577,197kg 537,625Kg 806,385kg 134,792,727 149,479,543 240,415,544 Divulapitiya, Maxies Livestock Bujjampola, Giriulla, SN Brothers Farm, Weliweriya, Katana, Pussalla Farm, Kosgama, Pamunugama Dilini Farms Dambulla, Kandy CIC Farms Sanjeewa Farms St. Anthony’s Farm DSD Perera WG Fernando Chicken Wennappuwa, Maxies & Company 2,200 2,200 2,200 1,475,583kg 1,507,959kg 1,319,433kg 393,816,674 379,751,094 337,880,411 Hanwella, Kosgama Pussalla Farms Meethirigala Kosgama, New Anthony’s Farm Hanwella Nelna Farms Meethirigala Spices Meegammana West, Kandy Vanilla Growers N/A 2,300 2,500 N/A 5,430kg 36,979kg N/A 4,296,102 32,025,127 Wattegama,Kandy Association Vegetable Meegammana West, Kandy Vanilla Growers N/A 2,300 2,500 N/A 71,971kg 174,352kg N/A 5,353,536 11,843,323 Wattegama,Kandy Association with many sub-projects such as Keells Super Province. JMSL continued to work farming families and procured the ginger and vanilla out-grower Supermarkets with these villagers and procured around 590,000 kg of vegetables programmes, treacle and cashew vegetables from July to December and fruits at an aggregate value projects, purchase guarantees of Thambuttegama vegetable 2011. of Rs. 36.9 million during the pork, chicken and assistance in the collection center final quarter of 2010/11. This is expansion of local, mechanised The Vegetable Collection Centre a well irrigated area which has Suriyawewa collection de-boned meat. The retail chain, at Thambuttegama is owned and high potential and JMSL hopes to centre Keells Super, sources a variety operated by Jaykay Marketing expand its operations in the area Suriyawewa Collection Centre of low country and up country Services (Pvt.) Limited (JMSL) in the future. started operations in January 2011 vegetables from farming families the operator of the Keells Super in the Walawe Mahaweli Area in Thambuttegama (North Central supermarket chain. During in the Southern Province. This Nuwara Eliya collection Province), Suriyawewa (Southern the financial year 2010/2011, Collection Centre was set up to centre Province) and Nuwara Eliya JMSL procured 575,000 kgs of procure low country vegetables The Nuwara Eliya Agricultural (Central Province), benefitting vegetables and fruits for a total and fruits. JMSL has started Cooperative Society (AGCO) at hundreds of farmer families. value of Rs. 38.5 million. This working with approximately 125 Meepilimana, Nuwara Eliya operates entire volume was purchased In each case, the value provided direct from farmers in Mahaweli to the farmers was to increase ‘H’ region in Thambuttegama. The their levels of income, provide Centre worked with approximately an assured market for quality 75 farming families whilst at produce, provide technical any given time approximately 50 assistance, provide exposure to farmers supplied produce to the developed markets, improve their Collection Centre. quality of life and the creation of a quality focussed farming In this financial year too, community, which we believe to Thambuttegama Collection be a sustainable business model. Centre, and Connecting Regional Economies (CORE) The performance of the sustainable program of USAID – Sri Lanka, sourcing initiatives of CCS and were involved with farmer Keells Food Products is shown in the associations in Kebithigollawa previous page and above respectively. and Galenbindunuwewa, two Sustainable sourcing in Thambuttegama villages in the North Central Annual Report 2011/12 153 John Keells Holdings PLC Kala Pola Social Responsibility Stakeholder Engagement Newspaper notices (EST) Individual letters to artists the vegetable collection centre on registered with the George Keyt behalf of JMSL. This organisation Foundation (GKF) Pre event media conference has a membership of more than Publicity material – media, 1,000 farmers from in and around display boards in City hotels Nuwara Eliya and they procure /retail outlets/ lifestyle stores all produce from the membership. During 2010/2011, JMSL procured just over 850,000,000 kg of up country vegetables for a total value Impact Assessment Selection Criteria No. of participating artists Artists and sculptors conforming to of Rs. 97.8 million. No. of visitors the stipulated guidelines of GKF Volume of sales Only above persons registering for Leisure Participant feedback (compulsory) the event are entitled to a display The Group’s resorts and hotels Staff volunteers’ feedback stall Media coverage (pre and post event) seek to purchase most of their Review by JKF and GKF fresh supplies such as fish, fruits, vegetables, flowers, etc. from their surrounding communities whilst local entrepreneurship is fostered through the patronage of local delicacies and sweet meats of acceptable quality. also supports the sustenance of Nissan Bluebird Sylphy vehicles Walkers Tours has also become indigenous artistry and crafts. into the tour operations of the one of the first Destination Cinnamon Grand Colombo John Keells Leisure industry group Management Companies in Sri continued its support of SMEs Walkers Tours continued its in early 2011. In the reporting Lanka to conduct awareness through its Nuga Gama Kade ongoing partnership with drivers year, Walkers Tours has continued programmes with its jeep and (boutique) which showcases a in a project that assisted them and expanded the partnerships boat suppliers. It has, thus far, range of local handicrafts produced to purchase modern vehicles on based on self-financed model by conducted these programmes by small-scale rural craftsmen. a self-financed model. Having introducing 16 new Hyundai Santa in Yala, Udawalawe, Mirissa, The suppliers numbering more negotiated preferred rates on their Fe SUV’s (Sport Utility Vehicles) to Trincomalee and Habarana. than 30, have been in the industry behalf with both the vehicle seller their fleet. The scheme was aimed The programme is related to for generations but have minimal and the leasing company, Walkers at recognising and rewarding environmental implications, exposure to an urban market. As Tours also provided a guaranteed seniority and professionalism of conducting tours in a sustainable they cannot supply on a large minimum income each month. The dedicated chauffer guides, thereby manner and first aid. Whittall scale, the items at Nuga Gama initiative has been very successful, ensuring the finest value added Boustead (Travel) also supports are tailor made and exclusive with all the drivers completing the service to clients of Walkers Tours. micro entrepreneurs through to Nuga Gama. By supporting lease and assuming full ownership various initiatives such as these craftsmen, the hotel not of the vehicles, resulting in the Walkers Tours places great emphasis handicrafts and safari operations. only develops livelihoods, but introduction on 106 brand new on ensuring that members of the communities in which tours are Other initiatives conducted are given opportunities Other community development for sustainable employment. The initiatives of the Group include company hires, for example, site the ongoing refurbishment and guides in Bandarawela; it is a “winmaintenance of the Slave Island win” situation with the company Railway Station a historic providing them with a means of colonial building and iconic employment whilst these members landmark in Colombo 2 under of the local community can share the patronage of John Keells their extensive knowledge with PLC in collaboration with the the company’s clients. Catamaran General Manager, Railways since rides conducted in Dambulla and 2002. During 2011/12 several Pelwehera undertaken by local renovations and infrastructure fishermen who in turn have now improvements were carried out at begun to hire more people from the the location. community to support the growing Local entrepreneurship encouraged demand. 154 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information / Supplementary Information Four staff volunteers of the Colombo 07 and was ceremonially to guests. Hotels such as Bentota Foundation supports and oversees Group are engaged in carrying inaugurated by H. E. John Rankin, Beach Hotel further foster local the activities of the workshop out monthly inspections and High Commissioner for the art by licensing artists to exhibit through a designated volunteer the project is expected to have United Kingdom in Sri Lanka. and sell their creations in the hotel attached to John Keells PLC. The benefited over 720,000 commuters Conceptualised by the George Keyt premises. workshop activities are supported during the year. The collaboration Foundation, the Kala Pola 2011 by the Welimada Divisional also permits companies of the enjoyed the unbroken patronage of Pasalen Karaliyata – A Secretariat and the Zonal John Keells Group to advertise the John Keells Group for the 18th CSR initiative by Union Education Office. The year-end their products and services in the consecutive year. 315 artists and Assurance concert of the workshop members station premises. sculptors, displayed their creativity Pasalen Karaliyata is Union was held in May 2012. on canvas and other media to Assurance’s attempt to foster As an equal opportunity employer, an increasingly appreciative and help nurture local talent, and the John Keells Group actively clientele in a fun-filled atmosphere is a unique CSR initiative which supports the gainful employment of music, refreshments and has been conducted over the of differently-abled members of entertainment, accounting for years with the assistance of the the community. As a member total sales of approximately Ministry of Education. The project of the Employers’ Network on provides students with a platform Rs. 5.7 million (excluding what Disaster Relief Disability of the Employers’ was commissioned by potential to showcase their talents and Federation of Ceylon (EFC), buyers). The event drew over all Island inter school aesthetic In 2011/12, the Foundation and John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) 15,000 visitors and was supported contests are conducted under the Ceylon Cold Stores collaborated in has been actively supporting by 39 volunteers from the John program which includes dancing, providing a house to a low-income the initiatives of the Network. Keells Group. Kala Pola 2012 also singing and art competitions and family in Mangalagama who had The John Keells Group had 20 featured a stall operated by artists also provides extra marks for the lost their house and their 4-year old differently-abled employees in from the Eastern Province, food university entrance qualification. child due to a cyclone in the village. its cadre during 2011/12 and art done by the staff of Cinnamon During the reporting year, Union will continue to facilitate the Grand Colombo and a puppet Staff volunteerism and Assurance concluded the final social and economic integration show. corporate support at round of the competition held in of the differently-abled through John Keells employment opportunities and Kala Pola is a valuable forum to 2011. More than 800 students Staff volunteerism has become other means in the ensuing year. launch and sustain the careers took part in the final competition an integral part of the Group’s of talented artists and sculptors, representing more than 3,000 community engagement strategy. foster the development of a client schools from 22 districts. These This not only connects the John base, and thereby promote art as a programmes were conducted in Keells family more closely with lucrative and professional career. both Sinhala and Tamil mediums. one another and the community, Many Kala Pola artists have been but also enables employees to Sunera Foundation’s successful and have gone onto develop skills such as confidence, Arts and Culture workshop for launch careers in the international communication, leadership, Kala Pola differently-abled young arena. teamwork, whilst giving them pride Sri Lanka’s popular open-air art persons During the year, the Foundation in the organisation and a sense of gallery cum art fair, ‘Kala Pola’, In addition, all resort hotels of the also sponsored the Sunera personal fulfilment. came alive on Sunday, 29th Group continue to support local art and culture by engaging local Foundation’s workshop for January 2012 on the sidewalks The Group encourages its artists in entertainment provided differently-abled young persons of Nelum Pokuna Mawatha, employees to volunteer their in Welimada, which was started services in CSR activities. in 2007 with the objective of improving the quality of life of The Foundation encourages differently-abled young persons volunteers from each new batch and integrating them into of inductees to the Group through mainstream society through a presentation on CSR. Employees performing arts. whose involvement is required in CSR activities are released During the reporting year, the with minimum restraint and the workshop had 25 registered senior management exercises a participants with an average of flexible policy toward the time about 18 members participating at devoted by staff to such projects. each session held at the Mencafep The John Keells Group does not Institute in Erabedda Junior School account or charge for time spent by in Keppetipola. Three Sunera employees on CSR voluntarism. trainers oversee the activities Kala Pola 2012 of this workshop. John Keells Annual Report 2011/12 155 John Keells Holdings PLC implemented or overseen by the Social Foundation, including several repeat volunteers in different projects. Responsibility During the reporting period, the Foundation also initiated various In addition to the ongoing projects steps to recognise and reward of the Foundation which are volunteers. The participation of implemented with the support of volunteers in various projects of staff volunteers, the Foundation the Foundation was acknowledged planned and implemented two through notes of appreciation shramadana’s (community service): and news items posted on the • Kanneliya Forest Reserve intranet and published in the – Removing the invasive Group newsletter. The Foundation species known as Nylon also nominated for V-SPARC Bovitia (Clidemia hirta) (Values-Superior Performance which disturbs the soil and And Recognition Creation) awards prevents native species of a Master Trainer and member plants from regenerating. 43 of the HIV & AIDS Workplace volunteers successfully cleared Committee at Cinnamon Lodge an estimated 3 km stretch Habarana in recognition of his including the clearing of the superlative performance and path and drains. This is the contribution. Meanwhile, under second successive year in which the comprehensive Reward and a shramadana at the Kanneliya Recognition Process for CSR Forest Reserve was organised Volunteers of the Group adopted by the John Keells Foundation in 2011, a Chairman’s Award for CSR was introduced during the • Al Iqbal Muslim Balika reporting period and in December Vidyalaya, Colombo 2 2011 was awarded to the Project – Clearing garden space Champion of the John Keells HIV and developing plots for an and AIDS Awareness Campaign. Agriculture project. A total of 29 employees volunteered The John Keells Group will for this project together with continue to explore new 17 students and 5 parents opportunities to bring together representing the stakeholders community investment and engagement initiatives which The Foundation recorded the are aligned with the Foundation’s engagement of 256 employee focus areas, with the aim of volunteers from the John Keells strengthening the sustainability of Group in 389 volunteer activities the communities and environment relating to various projects in which our businesses operate. Staff volunteerism at Kanneliya Forest Reserve 156 Purpose Reflected A set of numbers that show our purposeful approach translated into results Financial information Annual Report 2011/12 157 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report of the Board of Directors The Directors have pleasure in presenting the 33rd annual report of your written to the Central Bank of Sri dividend of Rs.1.00 per share for company together with the audited financial statements of John Keells Lanka requesting an extension of the year 2011/12 (2011 Rs.1.00) Holdings PLC (JKH), and the audited consolidated financial statements of the deadline and a formal response was paid on 24 November 2011. the group for the year ended 31 March 2012. is awaited. A second interim dividend for 2011/12 of Rs.1.00 per share PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES REVENUE was paid on 8 March 2012 (2011 John Keells Holdings PLC, the group’s holding company, manages a Revenue generated by the Rs.1.00). This results in a total portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of diverse business operations, company amounted to Rs.576 dividend pay-out of Rs.3.00 per which together constitute the John Keells group, and provides function million (2011 Rs.554 million), share (2011 Rs.3.00) amounting based services to its subsidiaries and associates. whilst group revenue amounted to Rs.2,314 mn (2011 Rs.1,869 to Rs.76,700 million (2011 mn). The companies within the group and its business activities are described Rs.60,500million). Contribution in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information section of to group revenue, from the Dividend per share has been the Annual Report. different business segments is computed for all periods based on provided in note 24 to the financial the number of shares in issue at statements. the time of dividend payout. REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS A review of the financial and operational performance and future business developments of the group, sectors, and its business units are described RESULTS AND As required by Section 56 (2) of the in the management discussion and analysis section of the annual report. APPROPRIATIONS Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the These reports, together with the audited financial statements, reflect the The profit after tax of the holding Board of Directors has confirmed state of affairs of the company and the group. company was Rs.4,268 million that the company satisfies the (2011 Rs.5,963 million) whilst solvency test in accordance with the group profit attributable to Section 57 of the Companies Act Segment wise contribution to group revenue, results, assets and equity holders of the parent for the No 7 of 2007, and has obtained a liabilities is provided in note 33 to the financial statements. year was Rs.9,775 million (2011 certificate from the auditors, prior Rs.8,246 million). to declaring a final dividend of In July 2011, the company participated in the 10:1 rights issue of Ceylon Rs.1.50 per share for this year. The Cold Stores PLC for a consideration of Rs.515 million, thus increasing its Results of the company and of final dividend will be paid on 15 stake from 69.73% to 70.61%. the group are given in the income June 2012 to those shareholders statement. on the register as on 6 June 2012. In August 2011, Fitch Ratings affirmed John Keells Holdings PLC’s (JKH) National Long-Term rating at ‘AAA (lka)’ with the outlook remaining The final dividend of Rs.1.00 Detailed description of the results ‘Stable’. The affirmation reflects JKH’s resilience of dividend inflows per share for the financial year and appropriations are given to, and resultant low financial leverage (net debt/EBITDA excluding 2010/11 (2010 Rs.1.00) was below. non-recurring items) at the holding company. The rating also reflects JKH’s strong liquidity position, well-spread-out debt maturities, and its paid on 9 June 2011. First interim exceptionally strong access to local banks and capital markets. In September 2011, John Keells Holdings PLC took a 20% stake in Sancity Hotels, a 240 room business hotel project in Colombo for Rs.228 million and also obtained the management rights. As initially planned, the Group converted its compulsorily convertible preference shares held in John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Limited (JK BPO), formerly known as Auxicogent BPO Solutions (Pvt) Limited, to ordinary shares in June 2011, thus changing the status of JK BPO from an associate to a fully owned subsidiary in the group accounts. Arising from this, the assets and liabilities of JK BPO have now been consolidated in the group accounts and the goodwill arising from this transaction has been included under intangible assets (Refer Note B in the consolidated cash flow statement). The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in Nations Trust Bank PLC. The Monetary Board has directed that the Group reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or below, on or before the 23rd of April 2012. JKH has 158 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information For the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 (2011 Rs.5.6 million) at company and Rs.4.7 million (2011 Rs.13 million) In Rs.‘000s at group. These amounts do not include contributions on account of corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Profit earned before interest after providing for all known liabilities, The John Keells Foundation, which is funded by group companies bad and doubtful debts and handles most of the group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The depreciation on property, plant and Foundation manages a range of programmes that underpin its key equipment 9,307,805 6,521,291 principle of acting responsibly in all areas of business to bring about Interest paid (670,918) (796,074) sustainable development. The CSR initiatives, including completed and 8,636,887 5,725,217 on-going projects, are detailed in the Sustainability and Enterprise Risk Profit on sale of investments 1,795,069 Management section in the Annual Report. Change in fair value of investment property 1,413,474 467,764 In quantifying the group’s contribution to charities, no account has been Profit accruing to the company and taken of ’in-house’ costs or management time. subsidiaries 10,050,361 7,988,050 Share of results of associates 2,860,115 2,640,911 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Profit before tax 12,910,476 10,628,961 The book value of property, plant and equipment as at the balance sheet Provision for taxation including deferred tax (1,841,879) (1,565,801) date amounted to Rs.90 million (2011 Rs.74 million) and Rs.34,290 million (2011 Rs.28,628 million) for the company and group respectively. Profit after tax 11,068,597 9,063,160 Profit attributable to minority shareholders (1,293,590) (817,575) Capital expenditure for the company and group amounted to Rs.53.2 Amount available to the group's million (2011 Rs.4.8 million) and Rs.5,486 million (2011 Rs.4,978 shareholders 9,775,007 8,245,585 million), respectively. Other adjustments 284,679 101,258 Balance brought forward from the previous Details of property, plant and equipment and their movements are given year 19,237,133 12,768,823 in note 2 to the financial statements. Amount available for appropriation 29,296,819 21,115,666 MARKET VALUE OF PROPERTy, plant and equipment 1st interim dividend of Rs.1.00 per share All land and buildings owned by group companies were revalued in (2011 Rs.1.00) paid out of dividend financial year 2007/08, with the following exceptions. received. (840,799) (623,037) 2nd interim dividend of Rs.1.00 per Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd was revalued in financial year 2008/09. share (2011 Rs.1.00) paid out of dividend received. (842,887) (625,803) Trinco Walk Inn Ltd, International Tourist and Hoteliers Ltd and Trinco 27,613,133 19,866,826 Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd, were revalued in the financial year 2009/10. Final dividend declared of Rs.1.50 per share (2011 Rs.1.00) to be paid out of Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd and Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd were revalued in the dividend received. * (1,275,968) (629,693) financial year 2010/11. Balance to be carried forward next year 26,337,165 19,237,133 John Keells PLC, Mackinnons and Keells Financial Services Ltd, Keells Realtors Ltd, Whittall Boustead Ltd, JK Properties (Pvt) Ltd, Transware * The final dividend recommended for this financial year has not been Logistics (Pvt) Ltd and Union Assurance PLC were revalued in the financial recognised as at the balance sheet date in compliance with SLAS 12 year 2011/12. (Revised 2005) Events after the Balance Sheet Date. Valuations were carried out by P B Kalugalgedera, Chartered Valuation Surveyor, G J Sumanasena, Incorporated Valuer, M/s A Y Daniel & Son, ACCOUNTING POLICIES DONATIONS Incorporated Valuer, R G Wijesinghe, Consultant Valuer and Assessor and Details of accounting policies have Total donations made by the J M J Fernando, Incorporated Valuer. been discussed in note 1.3 of the company and group during the year financial statements. There have amounted to Rs.11.5 million (2011 Investment property been no changes in the accounting Rs.6 million) and Rs.22.7 million Investment properties of business units, when significantly occupied by policies adopted by the group (2011 Rs.16 million), respectively. group companies, are classified as property, plant and equipment in the during the year under review. Of these, the donations to consolidated financial statements in compliance with SLAS 40 (2005). approved charities were none Annual Report 2011/12 159 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report of the Board of Directors All properties classified as investment property were valued in accordance Options available under the RESERVES with the requirements of SLAS 40 (2005). The group revalued all its employee share option plan of Total reserves as at 31 March investment properties as at 31 March 2012. The carrying value of investment JKH. 2012 for the company and group property of the group is Rs.7,631 million (2011 Rs.5,386 million). S C Ratnayake 2,631,892 amounted to Rs.15,394 million (2011 1,658,609) (2011 Rs.13,439 million) and Details of the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and A D Gunewardene 2,302,938 Rs.46,065 million (2011 Rs.34,975 investment property are provided in notes 2.4 and 4.1 to the financial (2011 1,451, 308) million), respectively. statements. J R F Peiris 1,533,383 (2011 1,238,357) The movement and composition of Details of group properties as at 31 March 2012 are disclosed in the the capital and revenue reserves Group Real Estate Portfolio section of the Annual Report. Asian Hotels and Properties is disclosed in the statement of PLC changes in equity. INVESTMENTS S C Ratnayake 20,000 Investments of the company and the group in subsidiaries, associates, (2011 10,000) DIRECTORS joint ventures and other external equity investments amounted to The Board of Directors of the Rs.35,732 million (2011 Rs.33,321 million) and Rs.63,415 million (2011 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC company as at 31 March 2012 and Rs.58,206 million), respectively. S C Ratnayake 3,344 (2011 760) their brief profiles are given in the A D Gunewardene 30,800 Board of Directors section of the (2011 7,000) Annual Report. Detailed description of the long term investments held as at the balance sheet date, are given in note 6 to the financial statements. J R F Peiris 668 (2010 150) In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association of STATED CAPITAL John Keells Hotels PLC the company, J R F Peiris and S At an extraordinary General Meeting held on 24 June 2011, the S C Ratnayake 550,311 Tiruchelvam retire by rotation and shareholders approved a sub division of the company shares, whereby (2011 550,311) being eligible offer themselves for three (3) existing shares were sub divided to four (4), thereby increasing A D Gunewardene 74,806 re-election. the ordinary shares in issue from 630,137,152 to 840,182,869 ordinary (2011 74,806) shares. The Company has also received Keells Food Products PLC notice of the resolution to propose The total stated capital of the company as at 31 March 2012 was S C Ratnayake 4,250 the re-election of T Das, who is Rs.25,110 million (2011 Rs.24,611 million), as given in note 12 to the (2011 4,250) over 70 years of age, and who financial statements. retires in terms of section 210 of Nations Trust Bank PLC the Companies Act. The resolution Options in respect of 4,381,962 shares (2011 10,218,735 shares) were A D Gunewardene 5,756,249 proposes that the age limit exercised during the year under the employee share option plan, for a (2011 5,756,249) stipulated in Section 210 of the total consideration of Rs.499 million (2011 Rs.1,289 million). Companies Act No 7 of 2007 shall Trans Asia Hotels PLC not apply to T Das who is over 70 SHARE INFORMATION S C Ratnayake 400 (2011 200) years and that he be re-elected a The distribution and composition of shareholders and the information relating director of the company. A D Gunewardene 400 to earnings, dividend, net assets, market value per share and share trading is (2011 200) given in the Share Information section of the Annual Report. J R F Peiris 400 (2011 200) A R Gunasekara was appointed to the board as an independent Given below, as additional disclosure, are the John Keells Holding’s Board director on 1 July 2011. Union Assurance PLC of Directors’ shareholdings in group companies as at 31 March 2012. A D Gunewardene 7,492 (2011 3,746) In accordance with Article 91 of John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) the Articles of Association of the S C Ratnayake 4,579,903 (2011 3,434,928) company, A R Gunasekara retires MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS A D Gunewardene 5,706,654 (2011 4,279,992) by rotation and, being eligible, Details of the twenty largest J R F Peiris 1,215,859 (2011 737,095) offers himself for re-election. shareholders of the company and E F G Amerasinghe 5,514 (2011 4,136) the percentages held by each of T Das Nil (2011 Nil) them are disclosed in the Share The group directory details the S Enderby Nil (2011 Nil) Information section of the Annual names of persons holding office S S Tiruchelvam 1,300 (2011 Nil) Report. as Directors of the company and I Coomaraswamy Nil (2011 Nil) all its subsidiary and associate A R Gunasekara 107,866 (2011 N/A) companies, as at 31 March 2012 160 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information and the names of persons who Nominations Committee b) Indemnities and remuneration were appointed or who ceased to T Das Chairman 1. The board approved the payment of remuneration of the executive hold office as Directors during the S Enderby Directors of the company, namely, S C Ratnayake, Chairman/CEO, A period. S C Ratnayake D Gunewardene, Deputy Chairman/President, and J R F Peiris, Group S S Tiruchelvam Finance Director for the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 comprising BOARD COMMITTEES of: The following members serve The report of the Nominations • An increment from 1 July 2011 based on the individual on the Board, Audit, Human Committee is given under the performance rating obtained by the executive Directors in terms of Resources and Compensation Board committee reports section of the performance management system of the John Keells Group (formerly the Remuneration the Annual Report. Committee) and Nominations • Short term variable incentive based on individual performance, Committees; organisation performance and role responsibility based on the INTERESTS REGISTER results of the financial year 2010/2011 paid in July 2011; and The Company has maintained an In May 2011, the Chairman Interests Register as contemplated • Long Term Incentive in the nature of ESOP in John Keells Holdings recommended and the Board by the Companies Act No 7 of PLC dependant on the aforesaid performance rating, organisational approved the reconstitution 2007. rating and role responsibility, granted in December 2011. of the Human Resources and Compensation and the Audit In compliance with the as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee Committee. requirements of the Companies Act having conducted market surveys, spoken to experts and having taken No. 7 of 2007, this Annual Report into consideration the specific management complexities associated with Audit Committee also contains particulars of entries the John Keells group and in keeping with the group remuneration policy. A R Gunasekara Chairman made in the Interests Registers (appointed w.e.f 1 July 2011) of subsidiaries which are public 2. Further to the appointment of Mr. A R Gunasekara as a non executive E F G Amerasinghe companies or private companies director of John Keells Holdings PLC from 1st July 2011, the Board I Coomaraswamy which have not dispensed with approved the payment to Mr. A R Gunasekara of the standard Non (appointed w.e.f 20 May 2011) the requirement to maintain an Executive fees approved by the Board for Non Executive Directors which S Enderby Interests Register as permitted by fees are commensurate with the market complexities of the Company. P D Rodrigo Chairman Section 30 of the Companies Act (resigned w.e.f 27 June 2011) No 7 of 2007. Particulars of entries in interests register of subsidiaries S S Tiruchelvam (resigned w.e.f 20 May 2011) Particulars of entries in the JKH Asian Hotels & Properties PLC interests register Interests in contracts The report of the Audit Committee Interests in contracts The Directors have all made a general disclosure to the Board of Directors is given under the Corporate The Directors have all made a as required by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no Governance section of the Annual general disclosure to the Board of additional interests have been disclosed by any director. Report. Directors as required by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Act Indemnities and remuneration Human Resources and No 7 of 2007 and no additional 1. The board approved the payment to R J Karunarajah and Mr S Compensation Committee interests have been disclosed by Rajendra, executive Directors of Asian Hotels & Properties PLC, a E F G Amerasinghe Chairman any director. remuneration comprising of: I Coomaraswamy (appointed w.e.f. 20 May 2011) a) Share dealings: • An increment from 1st July 2011 based on the individual P D Rodrigo performance rating obtained by the executive Directors in terms (resigned w.e.f. 27 June 2011) NAME OF NATURE OF of the performance management system of the John Keells Group; S S Tiruchelvam DIRECTOR SHARE DEALING and A R Gunasekara (appointed w.e.f. 1 July 2011) J R F Peiris 433,066 share • Short term variable incentive based on individual performance, options exercised organisation performance and role responsibility based on the under ESOP The report of the Human Resources results of the financial year 2010/2011, paid in July 2011; and Sale of 200,000 and Compensation Committee and • Long Term Incentive in the nature of ESOP in John Keells Holdings shares the remuneration policy is given in PLC dependant on the aforesaid performance rating, organisational Mrs. S Purchase of 1,300 the corporate governance section rating and role responsibility, granted in December 2011. Tiruchelvam shares of the Annual Report. Annual Report 2011/12 161 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report of the Board of Directors as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee John Keells PLC. PLC are paid to John Keells of John Keells Holdings PLC the holding company of Asian Hotels & Indemnities and remuneration Holdings PLC and not to individual Properties PLC in keeping with the group remuneration policy. 1. The board approved payment directors. to the executive director of John 2. Further to the appointment of Mr. C J L Pinto as a Non-executive Keells PLC, L D Ramanayake, a John Keells Hotels PLC director of Asian Hotels & Properties PLC with effect from 1st July 2011 remuneration comprising of: Indemnities and remuneration the Board approved the payment to Mr. C J L Pinto of the standard Non • An increment from 1st The Non Executive Directors of Executive fees approved by the Board for Non Executive Directors which July 2011 based on the John Keells Hotels PLC received an fees are commensurate with the market complexities of the Company. individual performance increment in fees with effect from rating obtained by the 1st August 2011, as recommended 3. The Board approved the payment to the Non Executive Directors of executive Directors in by the Human Resources and Asian Hotels & Properties PLC an increment with effect from 1st August terms of the performance Compensation Committee of John 2011, as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation management system of the Keells Holdings PLC (being its Committee of John Keells Holdings PLC (being its holding company) and John Keells Group holding company) and as permitted as permitted by the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange which increase by the Rules of the Colombo Stock • Short term variable Exchange which is commensurate is commensurate with the market and complexities of the business of the incentive based on with the market and complexities Company. individual performance, of the business of the Company. organisation performance The fees payable to Non Executive nominees of John Keells Holdings PLC and role responsibility are paid to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to individual directors. The fees payable to non-executive based on the results of the nominees of John Keells Holdings financial year 2010/2011 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC PLC are paid to John Keells paid in July 2010; and Indemnities and remuneration Holdings PLC and not to individual 1. The Board approved the payment to J R Gunaratne executive director of • Long Term Incentive in directors. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, a remuneration, comprising of: the nature of ESOP in John Keells Holdings PLC Keells Food Products PLC dependant on the aforesaid Indemnities and remuneration • An increment from 1st July 2011 based on the individual performance rating, The Board approved the payment performance rating obtained by the executive Directors in terms of organisational rating and to the Non Executive Directors the performance management system of the John Keells Group; role responsibility, granted of Keells Food Products PLC an • Short term variable incentive based on individual performance, in December 2011 increment with effect from 1st organisation performance and role responsibility based on the August 2011, as recommended results of the financial year 2010/2011, paid in July 2011; and as recommended by the Human by the Human Resources and • Long Term Incentive in the nature of ESOP in John Keells Holdings Resources and Compensation Compensation Committee of John PLC dependant on the aforesaid performance rating, organisational Committee of John Keells Holdings Keells Holdings PLC (being its rating and role responsibility, granted in December 2011 PLC, the holding company of John holding company) and as permitted Keells PLC, in keeping with the by the Rules of the Colombo as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee group remuneration policy. Stock Exchange which increase of John Keells Holdings PLC the holding company of Ceylon Cold Stores is commensurate with the market PLC in keeping with the group remuneration policy. and complexities of the business 2. The Non Executive Directors 2. The Non-Executive Directors of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC received an of John Keells PLC received an of the Company. increment in fees with effect from 1st August 2011, as recommended increment in fees with effect from by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of John Keells 1st August 2011, as recommended The fees payable to Non Executive Holdings PLC (being its holding company) and as permitted by the Rules by the Human Resources and nominees of John Keells Holdings of the Colombo Stock Exchange which increase is commensurate with the Compensation Committee of John PLC are paid to John Keells market and complexities of the business of the Company. Keells Holdings PLC (being its Holdings PLC and not to individual holding company) and as permitted directors. The fees payable to non-executive nominees of John Keells Holdings PLC by the Rules of the Colombo are paid to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to individual directors. Stock Exchange which increase Tea Smallholder Factories PLC is commensurate with the market Indemnities and remuneration and complexities of the business The Board approved the payment of the Company. to the Non Executive Directors of Tea Smallholder Factories PLC an The fees payable to non-executive increment with effect from 1st nominees of John Keells Holdings August 2011, as recommended 162 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information by the Human Resources and Trans Asia Hotels PLC Walkers Tours Ltd. Compensation Committee of John a) Share dealings Indemnities and remuneration Keells Holdings PLC (being its The board approved payment to V Leelananda, executive director of NAME OF NATURE OF holding company) and as permitted Walkers Tours Ltd, a remuneration comprising of: DIRECTOR SHARE DEALING by the Rules of the Colombo N L Gooneratne Sale of 40,400 • An increment from 1st July 2011 based on the individual performance Stock Exchange which increase shares rating obtained by the executive Directors in terms of the performance is commensurate with the market management system of the John Keells Group. and complexities of the business of the Company. b) Indemnities and • Short term variable incentive based on individual performance, remuneration organisation performance and role responsibility based on the results of 1. Further to the appointment of the financial year 2010/2011 paid in July 2011; and The fees payable to Non Executive Mr. C J L Pinto as a Non Executive nominees of John Keells Holdings • Long Term Incentive in the nature of ESOP in John Keells Holdings PLC director of Trans Asia Hotels PLC PLC are paid to John Keells dependant on the aforesaid performance rating, organisational rating with effect from 1st July 2011 the Holdings PLC and not to individual and role responsibility, granted in December 2011 Board approved the payment to directors. Mr. C J L Pinto of the standard Non as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee Executive fees approved by the of John Keells Holdings plc, the holding company of Walkers Tours Keells Hotel Management Board for Non Executive Directors Limited, in keeping with the group remuneration policy. Services Ltd. which fees are commensurate with Indemnities and remuneration the market complexities of the The board approved the DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Company. payment to J E P Kehelpannala Details of the remuneration and other benefits received by the Directors executive director of Keells Hotel are set out in note 29 of the financial statements. 2. The Board approved the Management Services Ltd, a payment to the Non Executive remuneration, comprising of; EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN (ESOP) Directors of Trans Asia Hotels PLC At the beginning of the year, the employee share option plan consisted of • An increment from 1st July an increment with effect from 1st the third, fourth, fifth and sixth plans approved by the shareholders on 28 2011 based on the individual August 2011, as recommended June 2004, 13 December 2007, 2 December 2009 and 6 December 2010 performance rating obtained by the Human Resources and respectively. by the executive Directors Compensation Committee of John in terms of the performance Keells Holdings PLC (being its Under the third plan, the company was authorized to issue up to 5% of management system of the holding company) and as permitted the issued share capital within an annual limit of up to 2% of nonJohn Keells Group by the Rules of the Colombo transferable call share options and the options granted under this plan Stock Exchange which increase • Short term variable incentive have to be exercised within five years of such grant. Under the fourth is commensurate with the market based on individual plan, the company was authorised to issue non-transferable call share and complexities of the business performance, organisation options, not exceeding in aggregate 0.85% of the shares in issue of the of the Company. performance and role company as at the date of granting the award and have to be exercised responsibility based on the within five years of such grant. Under the fifth plan, the company was results of the financial year The fees payable to non executive authorized to issue non-transferable call share options, not exceeding 2010/2011 paid in July 2011; nominees of John Keells Holdings 1% of the shares in issue of the company as at the date of granting the and PLC are paid to John Keells award and have to be exercised within five years of such grant. Under Holdings PLC and not to individual • Long Term Incentive in the the sixth plan, the company was authorized to issue non-transferable directors. nature of ESOP in John Keells call share options, not exceeding in aggregate 0.75% of shares in issue Holdings PLC dependant on the of the company as at the date of granting the award and have to be Union Assurance PLC. exercised within five years of such grant. On 7 December 2011, the aforesaid performance rating, Directors’ remuneration is shareholders approved a seventh plan, whereby the company could issue organisational rating and established within a framework non transferable call share options not exceeding 0.75% of the share in role responsibility, granted in approved by the Board’s issue of the company as at the date of granting the award and have to be December 2011. Remuneration Committee. The exercised within five years of such grant. as recommended by the Human Directors are of the opinion Resources and Compensation that the framework assures The options outstanding under the 3rd award of plan 3 and under plans 4, Committee of John Keells Holdings appropriateness of remuneration 5, 6 and 7 were valid for exercise as at 31 March 2012. PLC the holding company of Keells and fairness for the Company. The Hotel Management Services remuneration of the Non Executive The highest, lowest and the closing prices of the share recorded during Limited in keeping with the group Directors is determined according the year were Rs 304.90, Rs 158.20 and Rs.206.00 respectively. remuneration policy. to scales of payment decided upon by the Board previously. Annual Report 2011/12 163 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report of the Board of Directors EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN AS AT 31ST MARCH 2012 Date of Shares Expiry Option Shares ** Exercised Lapsed/ Outstanding Current ** Grant Granted Date Grant Price Adjusted Cancelled Price (Rs.) (Rs.) Award 2 10.04.2006 6,645,575 09.04.2011 157.25 10,301,859 8,953,047 1,348,812 120.74 Award 3 28.05.2007 10,551,062 27.05.2012 146.00 13,017,508 5,347,345 1,259,420 6,410,743 109.50 PLAN 3 17,196,637 23,319,367 14,300,392 2,608,232 6,410,743 PLAN 4 25.03.2008 5,405,945 24.03.2013 120.00 6,806,006 1,071,188 255,550 5,479,268 90.00 PLAN 5 17.12.2009 6,126,960 16.12.2014 160.25 7,935,812 988,234 54,160 6,893,418 120.19 PLAN 6 09.12.2010 4,672,823 08.12.2015 292.00 6,214,104 9,800 108,829 6,095,475 219.00 PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 6,306,182 27,600 6,278,582 172.10 Total 39,708,547 50,581,471 16,397,214 3,026,771 31,157,486 ** Adjusted for bonus issues/rights issues and share sub-divisions The company has not granted any funding to employees to exercise options. Report in an integrated format, The number of persons employed combining financial information by the company and group as at Details of the options granted, options exercised, the grant price and with sustainability information in 31 March 2012 was 141 (2011 the options cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at the date of the a bid to provide its stakeholders 127) and 11,956 (2011 11,389), Directors’ report have been tabulated above. with more holistic information. respectively. Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) has CORPORATE GOVERNANCE confirmed that the information on There have been no material sustainability meets the general issues pertaining to employees and Directors’ declarations content and quality requirements industrial relations of the company. The Directors declare that; of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1. SUPPLIER POLICY a) the company complied with all applicable laws and regulations in The Group applies an overall conducting its business. GRI has concluded that the policy of agreeing and clearly b) the directors have declared all material interests in contracts Report fulfills the requirements communicating terms of payment involving the company and refrained from voting on matters in of Application level B+ and has as part of the commercial which they were materially interested received a ‘GRI level check’. agreements negotiated with c) the company has made all endeavours to ensure the equitable suppliers, and endeavors to pay treatment of shareholders EMPLOYMENT for all items properly charged in The group has an equal opportunity accordance with these agreed d) the business is a going concern with supporting assumptions or policy and these principles are terms. As at 31 March 2012 the qualifications as necessary, and enshrined in specific selection, trade and other payables of the e) have conducted a review of internal controls covering financial, training, development and company and group amounted operational and compliance controls and risk management and promotion policies, ensuring to Rs.332 million (2011 Rs.221 have obtained a reasonable assurance of their effectiveness and that all decisions are based million) and Rs.15,398 million successful adherence herewith. on merit. The group practices (2011 Rs.12,379 million), equality of opportunity for all respectively. The Corporate Governance report is given under the Governance section employees irrespective of ethnic of the Annual Report origin, religion, political opinion, ENVIRONMENTAL gender, marital status or physical PROTECTION SUSTAINABILITY disability. Employee ownership in The group complies with the relevant The Group pursues its business goals under a stakeholder model of the company is facilitated through environmental laws, regulations business governance. As per this model, the Group has taken specific the employee share option plan. and endeavors to comply with best steps, particularly, in ensuring the conservation of its natural resources practices applicable in the country and environment as well as addressing material issues highlighted by Details of the group’s human of operation. A summary of selected its stakeholders. These steps have been encapsulated in a group-wide resource initiatives are detailed group activities in the above area sustainability programme which was launched 3 years ago and has in the employees’ section of the is contained in the Sustainability since progressed significantly. This year, the Group published its Annual sustainability report. Report. 164 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information RESEARCH AND INTERNAL Control AUDITORS DEVELOPMENT The Board, through the Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, are willing to continue as The group has an active approach involvement of the Group Business Auditors of the company, and a resolution proposing their reappointment to research and development Process Review Division, takes will be tabled at the annual general meeting. and recognises the contribution steps to gain assurance on the that it can make to the group’s effectiveness of control systems The Auditors Report is found in the Financial Information section of the operations. Significant expenditure in place. The Audit Committee Annual Report. has taken place over the years and receives regular reports on the substantial efforts will continue to adequacy and effectiveness of The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor, its be made to introduce new products internal control in the group, effectiveness, its independence and its relationship with the group, and processes and develop compliance with laws and including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the Auditor. existing products and processes to regulations and established improve operational efficiency. policies and procedures of the The group works with 4 firms of Chartered Accountants across the group, group. The head of the Group namely, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Deloitte STATUTORY PAYMENTS Business Process Review Division Haskins & Sells. Details of audit fees are set out in note 29 of the The Directors confirm that to the has direct access to the chairman financial statements. The Auditors do not have any relationship (other best of their knowledge, all taxes, of the Audit Committee. Reports than that of an Auditor) with the company or any of its subsidiaries. duties and levies payable by the of the outsourced internal company and its subsidiaries, all auditors are also reviewed by the Committee on matters pertaining Further details on the work of the Auditor and the Audit Committee are contributions, levies and taxes to the company. set out in the Audit Committee Report. payable on behalf of, and in respect of the employees of the company and its subsidiaries, and The risk management report ANNUAL REPORT all other known statutory dues is given under the Governance The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements as were due and payable by the section of the comprehensive on 25 May 2012. The appropriate number of copies of this report will company and its subsidiaries as at Annual Report be submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the Sri Lanka the balance sheet date have been Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board on 1 June 2012. paid or, where relevant provided EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER for, except as specified in note THE BALANCE SHEET DATE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 35 to the financial statements, There have been no events The annual general meeting will be held at the Institute of Chartered covering contingent liabilities. subsequent to the balance sheet Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 7, on date, which would have any Friday, 29 June 2012 at 11.00 a.m. The notice of meeting appears in the ENTERPRISE RISK material effect on the company Supplementary Information section of the integrated Annual Report. MANAGEMENT or on the group other than those The Board confirms that there is disclosed in note 38 to the This annual report is signed for and on behalf of the Board of Directors. an ongoing process of identifying, financial statements. evaluating and managing any By Order of the Board significant risks faced by the GOING CONCERN group, where annual risk reviews The Directors are satisfied that are carried out by the Enterprise the company, its subsidiaries Risk Management Division and and associates, have adequate the risks are further reviewed resources to continue in Director Director each quarter by each business operational existence for the unit. The headline risks of each foreseeable future, to justify listed company is presented to its adopting the going concern respective Board Audit Committee basis in preparing these financial for review by the Business Unit statements. Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. and in the case of John Keells Secretaries Holdings, by the Enterprise Risk 25 May 2012 Management Division to the John Keells Board Audit Committee. Annual Report 2011/12 165 John Keells Holdings PLC THE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY The responsibility of the Directors in relation to the financial statements Further, as required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, is set out in the following statement. The responsibility of the auditors, the Board of Directors have confirmed that the company, based on the in relation to the financial statements prepared in accordance with the information available, satisfies the solvency test immediately after the provision of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, is set out in the Report of distribution, in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 7 of the Auditors. 2007, and have obtained a certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend of Rs.1.50 per share for this year, to be paid on 15 June The Financial Statements comprise of: 2012. • a balance sheet, which presents a true and fair view of the state The Directors are of the view that they have discharged their of affairs of the company and its subsidiaries as at the end of the responsibilities as set out in this statement. financial year: and Compliance Report • an income statement of the company and its subsidiaries, which The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge, all taxes, duties present a true and fair view of the profit and loss of the company and levies payable by the company and its subsidiaries, all contributions, and its subsidiaries for the financial year. levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees The Directors are required to confirm that the financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries, and all other known statutory dues have been prepared: as were due and payable by the company and its subsidiaries as at the balance sheet date have been paid, or where relevant provided for, except • using appropriate accounting polices which have been selected as specified in Note 35 to the financial statements covering contingent and applied in a consistent manner, and material departures, if liabilities. any, have been disclosed and explained; and • presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards; and that By order of the Board • reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are properly reflected; and • provides the information required by and otherwise comply with Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Secretaries Exchange. 25 May 2012 The Directors are also required to ensure that the company has adequate resources to continue in operation to justify applying the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. Further, the Directors have a responsibility to ensure that the company maintains sufficient accounting records to disclose, with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and of the group. The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the company and of the group and in this regard to give proper consideration to the establishment of appropriate internal control systems with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections that may be considered being appropriate to enable them to give their audit opinion. 166 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information REPORT OF THE AUDITORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. Report on the Financial Statements We therefore believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our We have audited the accompanying financial statements of John Keells opinion. Holdings PLC (“Company”), the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries which comprise the balance sheets as at 31 Opinion March 2012, and the income statements, statements of changes in equity In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, the Company and cash flow statements for the year then ended, and a summary of maintained proper accounting records for the year ended 31 March 2012 significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s state of affairs as at 31 March 2012 and its profit and cash flows for the Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair Standards. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing view of the state of affairs as at 31 March 2012 and the profit and cash and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and flows for the year then ended, in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material Standards, of the Company and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby, so far misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying as concerns the shareholders of the Company. appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements In our opinion, these financial statements also comply with the Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion requirements of Sections 151(2) and 153(2) to 153(7) of the Companies Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements Act No. 07 of 2007. based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. 25 May 2012 An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the Colombo. amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting policies used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Annual Report 2011/12 167 John Keells Holdings PLC BALANCE SHEET Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2 34,290,012 28,627,982 89,559 73,543 Leasehold property 3 10,281,853 9,515,621 Investment property 4 7,631,494 5,386,166 Intangible assets 5 2,639,671 2,631,950 48,141 43,724 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 6 5,115 5,115 24,664,271 23,482,112 Investments in associates 6 15,692,608 14,670,235 9,485,530 9,257,569 Other investments 6 12,378,883 11,792,453 1,582,506 581,806 Deferred tax assets 7 129,478 202,850 54,198 Other non-current assets 8 3,499,915 3,231,401 228,845 258,539 86,549,029 76,063,773 36,098,852 33,751,491 Current assets Inventories 9 4,372,348 3,143,630 760 Trade and other receivables 10 13,971,848 12,072,147 865,031 589,015 Amounts due from related parties 34 10,715 18,520 532,981 612,073 Short term investments 11 24,767,025 16,881,036 10,102,198 10,071,249 Cash in hand and at bank 4,267,175 2,112,626 454,495 19,382 47,389,111 34,227,959 11,954,705 11,292,479 Total assets 133,938,140 110,291,732 48,053,557 45,043,970 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 12 25,110,528 24,611,507 25,110,528 24,611,507 Capital reserves 13 12,903,984 9,560,417 Revenue reserves 14 33,161,096 25,414,789 15,393,677 13,439,260 71,175,608 59,586,713 40,504,205 38,050,767 Minority interest 8,864,609 7,608,220 Total equity 80,040,217 67,194,933 40,504,205 38,050,767 Non-current liabilities Insurance provisions 15 14,744,712 12,662,500 Non-interest bearing borrowings 16 18,000 18,000 Interest bearing borrowings 17 12,284,414 8,352,587 5,124,000 5,520,000 Deferred tax liabilities 7 707,970 647,960 Employee benefit liabilities 18 1,372,161 1,215,597 126,864 104,752 Other deferred liabilities 19 3,631 4,143 Other non-current liabilities 20 773,884 746,938 29,904,772 23,647,725 5,250,864 5,624,752 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 15,398,047 12,379,589 331,525 220,667 Amounts due to related parties 34 1,650 2,237 6,926 9,274 Income tax liabilities 22 828,303 796,714 Short term borrowings 23 1,009,057 232,000 Current portion of interest bearing borrowings 17 2,408,740 2,134,418 1,281,000 1,104,000 Bank overdrafts 4,347,354 3,904,116 679,037 34,510 23,993,151 19,449,074 2,298,488 1,368,451 Total equity and liabilities 133,938,140 110,291,732 48,053,557 45,043,970 I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. M J S Rajakariar Group Financial Controller The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. S C Ratnayake J R F Peiris Chairman Group Finance Director The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 174 to 227 form an integral part of these financial statements. 25 May 2012 168 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information INCOME STATEMENT Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Revenue 24 76,699,683 60,500,068 576,239 554,627 Cost of sales (58,536,524) (46,856,982) (290,941) (232,598) Gross profit 18,163,159 13,643,086 285,298 322,029 Dividend income 25 104,360 62,599 4,529,888 3,500,955 Other operating income 26 4,156,410 6,114,821 783,760 3,188,221 Distribution expenses (2,631,622) (2,410,865) Administrative expenses (7,876,566) (7,180,337) (694,619) (603,524) Other operating expenses 27 (2,607,936) (1,912,944) (336,772) (42,870) Finance expenses 28 (670,918) (796,074) (205,743) (379,499) Change in fair value of investment property 4 1,413,474 467,764 Share of results of associates 6.7 2,860,115 2,640,911 Profit before tax 29 12,910,476 10,628,961 4,361,812 5,985,312 Tax expense 30 (1,841,879) (1,565,801) (93,876) (22,409) Profit for the year 11,068,597 9,063,160 4,267,936 5,962,903 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 9,775,007 8,245,585 Minority interest 1,293,590 817,575 11,068,597 9,063,160 Rs. Rs. Earnings per share Basic 31 11.62 9.90 Diluted 31 11.49 9.77 Dividend per share 32 3.00 3.00 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 174 to 227 form an integral part of these financial statements. Annual Report 2011/12 169 John Keells Holdings PLC CASH FLOW STATEMENT Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before working capital changes A 10,863,959 5,601,971 419,508 (255,719) (Increase) / Decrease in inventories 1,945,996 (869,848) 760 18 (Increase) / Decrease in receivables and prepayments (1,885,017) (1,915,530) (213,464) 155,635 (Increase) / Decrease in other non-current assets (2,489,228) (952,598) 29,694 (198,460) Increase / (Decrease) in creditors and accruals 2,786,209 1,255,259 103,012 (116,589) Increase in insurance provision 2,082,212 2,426,383 Cash generated from operations 13,304,131 5,545,637 339,510 (415,115) Interest received 2,770,000 2,747,650 591,151 757,847 Finance expenses paid (670,918) (796,074) (205,743) (379,499) Dividend received 2,572,353 2,244,783 4,529,887 3,500,955 Tax paid (1,413,937) (1,170,569) (18,634) (54,216) Gratuity paid (85,444) (70,150) (7,411) (3,598) Net cash flow from operating activities 16,476,185 8,501,277 5,228,760 3,406,374 CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (5,486,248) (4,977,752) (53,236) (4,764) Addition to intangible assets (35,431) (114,754) (19,344) (17,444) Addition to lease rights (317,654) Addition to investment property (620,364) (1,732) Acquisition of subsidiary B 126,719 Acquisition of associates (227,961) Increase in interest in subsidiaries (844,217) (1,182,158) (1,360,795) Increase in interest in associates (76,755) (441,192) (227,961) (146,750) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 145,462 441,747 7,722 1,459 Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 2,754,030 2,748,505 Proceeds from sale of quoted investments held for sale 247,798 396,639 Acquisition of quoted investments held for sale (780,097) (650,719) Proceeds from / (Purchase of) short term investments (net) (1,709,334) 2,664,055 (295,546) (663,010) (Purchase) / Disposal of other investments (net) (586,430) (3,377,237) (1,000,700) (502,299) Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (9,002,641) (4,468,786) (2,771,223) 54,902 CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from issue of shares 499,021 1,289,107 499,021 1,289,107 Proceeds from minority on issue of rights in subsidiaries 63,405 3,176 Direct cost on issue of shares (12,742) (24,557) Dividend paid to equity holders of parent (2,313,519) (2,488,162) (2,313,519) (2,488,162) Dividend paid to minority shareholders (264,356) (281,323) Proceeds from long term borrowings 4,156,113 227,330 Repayment of long term borrowings (2,408,745) (5,598,409) (1,117,050) (3,118,042) Proceeds from short term borrowings (net) 777,057 82,000 Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities 496,234 (6,790,838) (2,931,548) (4,317,097) NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 7,969,778 (2,758,347) (474,011) (855,821) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING 11,840,951 14,775,191 9,393,111 10,248,932 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END 19,810,729 12,016,844 8,919,100 9,393,111 ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Favourable balances Short term investments 11 19,890,908 13,808,334 9,143,642 9,408,239 Cash in hand and at bank 4,267,175 2,112,626 454,495 19,382 Unfavourable balances Bank overdrafts (4,347,354) (3,904,116) (679,037) (34,510) Total cash and cash equivalents as previously reported 19,810,729 12,016,844 8,919,100 9,393,111 Effect of exchange rate changes (175,893) Cash and cash equivalents restated 19,810,729 11,840,951 8,919,100 9,393,111 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 174 to 227 form an integral part of these financial statements. 170 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s A Profit before working capital changes Profit before tax 12,910,476 10,628,961 4,361,812 5,985,312 Adjustments for: Interest income (2,770,000) (2,747,650) (591,151) (757,847) Dividend income (104,360) (62,599) (4,529,887) (3,500,955) Finance expenses 670,918 796,074 205,743 379,499 Change in fair value of investment property (1,413,474) (467,764) Share of results of associates (2,860,115) (2,640,911) Profit on sale of non current investments (1,795,069) (2,172,441) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,863,077 1,700,095 32,913 42,391 Derecognition and impairment losses 22,304 49,689 (Profit) / Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (2,371) 57,929 (3,415) (1,014) Profit on sale of investment property (26,200) Amortisation of leasehold property 524,671 375,171 Amortisation of intangible assets 246,830 234,023 14,927 11,170 Amortisation of other deferred liabilities (512) (512) Gratuity provision and related costs 236,860 244,668 29,523 15,720 (Gain) / Loss on disposal of quoted investments held for sale 15,713 (297,268) (Increase) / Decrease in market value of quoted investments held for sale 422,505 (186,042) Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net) 1,101,748 (286,925) 899,043 (231,354) Unrealised (profit) / loss (311) 101 10,863,959 5,601,971 419,508 (255,719) B Obtaining control of subsidiary During the period the Group obtained control of John Keells BPO solution India (Pvt) limited (formerly known as Auxicogent BPO Solutions (Pvt) Limited). The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were as follows: ASSETS Cash in hand and at bank 114,471 Short term investments 49,204 Trade and other receivables 431,915 Property, plant and equipment 181,207 LIABILITIES Bank overdrafts (36,956) Employee benefit liabilities (4,726) Trade and other payables (292,133) Income tax liabilities (4,791) Total identifiable net assets 438,191 Preference shares converted to ordinary shares (854,442) Total identifiable net assets excluding preference shares (416,251) 51% Share of net assets acquired (212,288) Goodwill 212,288 Total purchase price paid Paid in cash Cash and cash equivalents of subsidiary acquired 126,719 Net cash inflow 126,719 The assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date are stated at their provisional fair values and may be amended in accordance with SLAS 25 (Revised 2004) Business Combinations. Annual Report 2011/12 171 172 Attributable to equity holders of parent GROUP Stated Revaluation Exchange Other Other Accumulated Total Minority Total In Rs.’000s capital reserve translation capital revenue profit interest equity reserve reserves reserves As at 1 April 2010 23,322,400 5,727,326 1,417,921 428,365 5,547,963 13,388,296 49,832,271 6,429,512 56,261,783 Share options exercised 1,289,107 1,289,107 1,289,107 John Keells Holdings PLC Direct cost on issue of shares (20,861) (20,861) (3,696) (24,557) Currency translation differences (171,339) (171,339) (33,412) (204,751) Net gain / (loss) recognised directly in equity Surplus on revaluation 2,445,660 2,445,660 421,337 2,866,997 Acquisitions, disposals and changes in holding 306,934 306,934 STATEMENT OF Associate company share of net assets (225,521) (225,521) (225,521) Write off / transfers (106,101) 61,209 (44,892) (800) (45,692) Deferred tax impact due to reduction in tax rate 44,106 44,106 13,397 57,503 Profit for the year 8,245,585 8,245,585 817,575 9,063,160 Final dividend paid 2009/10 (619,867) (619,867) (619,867) Interim dividend paid 2010/11 (1,248,840) (1,248,840) (1,248,840) Subsidiary dividend to minority shareholders 61,304 61,304 (342,627) (281,323) CHANGES IN EQUITY As at 31 March 2011 24,611,507 8,110,991 1,021,061 428,365 5,547,963 19,866,826 59,586,713 7,608,220 67,194,933 Share options exercised 499,021 499,021 499,021 Direct cost on issue of shares (10,986) (10,986) (1,756) (12,742) Currency translation differences 844,451 844,451 216,107 1,060,558 Net gain / (loss) recognised directly in equity Surplus on revaluation 1,413,025 1,413,025 109,723 1,522,748 Acquisitions, disposals and changes in holding 80,928 80,928 Associate company share of net assets 1,121,964 89,728 1,211,692 1,211,692 Write off / transfers (35,873) 29,496 (6,377) (1,266) (7,643) Profit for the year 9,775,007 9,775,007 1,293,590 11,068,597 Final dividend paid 2010/11 (629,833) (629,833) (629,833) Interim dividend paid 2011/12 (1,683,686) (1,683,686) (1,683,686) Subsidiary dividend to minority shareholders 176,581 176,581 (440,937) (264,356) As at 31 March 2012 25,110,528 9,488,143 2,987,476 428,365 5,547,963 27,613,133 71,175,608 8,864,609 80,040,217 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 174 to 227 form an integral part of these financial statements. Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information COMPANY Stated General Accumulated Total capital reserve profit equity In Rs.’000s As at 1 April 2010 23,322,400 4,194,322 5,150,742 32,667,464 Share options exercised 1,289,107 1,289,107 Profit for the year 5,962,903 5,962,903 Final dividend paid 2009/10 (619,867) (619,867) Interim dividend paid 2010/11 (1,248,840) (1,248,840) As at 31 March 2011 24,611,507 4,194,322 9,244,938 38,050,767 Share options exercised 499,021 499,021 Profit for the year 4,267,936 4,267,936 Final dividend paid 2010/11 (629,833) (629,833) Interim dividend paid 2011/12 (1,683,686) (1,683,686) As at 31 March 2012 25,110,528 4,194,322 11,199,355 40,504,205 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 174 to 227 form an integral part of these financial statements. Equity Group Equity Company (Rs Mn) (Rs Mn) 100,000 50,000 80,000 40,000 60,000 30,000 40,000 20,000 20,000 10,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Stated capital Capital reserves Stated capital Revenue reserves Revenue reserves Minority interest Annual Report 2011/12 173 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements 1. 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION 1.2. BASIS OF PREPARATION All intra-group balances, Reporting Entity Bases of Measurement income and expenses, John Keells Holdings PLC. is a public limited liability company The consolidated financial unrealized gains and losses incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed on the Colombo statements have been and dividends resulting from Stock Exchange. The registered office and principal place of prepared on an accrual intra-group transactions are business of the company is located at 130, Glennie Street, basis and under the eliminated in full. Colombo 2. historical cost convention unless stated otherwise. Subsidiaries are fully Ordinary shares of the company are listed on the Colombo Stock consolidated from the Exchange. Global depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells These financial statements date of acquisition or Holdings PLC are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. are prepared in Sri Lankan incorporation, being the Rupees, the Group’s date on which the group John Keells Holdings PLC became the holding company of the functional currency unless obtains control, and group during the financial year ended 31 March 1986. stated otherwise. continue to be consolidated until the date that such Presentation and control ceases. Consolidated Financial Statements The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012, Functional Currency comprise “the company” referring to John Keells Holdings PLC. as The consolidated financial The financial statements the holding company and “the group” referring to the companies statements are presented of the subsidiaries are whose accounts have been consolidated therein. in Sri Lankan Rupees, the prepared for the same Group’s functional and reporting period as the presentation currency, parent company, which Approval of Financial Statements which is the primary is 12 months ending 31 The Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 were economic environment in March, using consistent authorised for issue by the Directors on 25 May 2012. which the Holding Company accounting policies. operates. Each entity in the Principal Activities and Nature of Operations Group uses the currency Subsidiaries Holding company of the primary economic Subsidiaries are those John Keells Holdings PLC, the group’s holding company, manages environment in which they enterprises controlled by a portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of diverse business operate as their functional the parent. Control exists operations, which together constitute the John Keells group, and currency. when the parent holds more provides function based services to its subsidiaries and associates. than 50% of the voting All values are rounded rights or otherwise has a Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures to the nearest rupees controlling interest. The companies within the group and its business activities thousand (Rs.’000) except are described in the Group Directory under the Supplementary when otherwise indicated. Subsidiaries consolidated Information section of the Annual Report. have been listed in the The significant accounting group directory. There were no significant changes in the nature of the principal policies are discussed in activities of the Company and the Group during the financial year Note 1.3 below. The following companies, under review. Basis of consolidation with equity control less The consolidated financial than 50%, have been Responsibility for Financial Statements statements comprise consolidated as subsidiaries The responsibility of the Directors in relation to the financial the financial statements based on the power to statements is set out in ‘The statement of director’s responsibility’. of the company and govern the financial and its subsidiaries as at operating policies of those Statement of Compliance entities. 31st March 2012. The The balance sheet, statement of income, statement of changes in financial statements of the equity and the cash flow statement, together with the accounting subsidiaries are prepared in policies and notes (the financial statements) have been prepared in compliance with the group’s compliance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) issued accounting policies unless by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the otherwise stated. requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. 174 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information % Holding 1.3. ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.3.1 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd 50.00 The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd 50.00 previous financial year. Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd 49.00 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC 37.62 Comparative information The following subsidiaries have been incorporated outside Previous year’s figures and phrases have been re-arranged, Sri Lanka: wherever necessary, to conform to the current year in order to provide a better presentation. 1.3.2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES India AND ASSUMPTIONS John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd The preparation of the financial statements of the group require John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd the management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd which may affect the amounts of income, expenditure, assets , John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd of the reporting period. In the process of applying the group’s Mauritius accounting policies, the key assumptions made relating to the John Keells BPO Alpha (Pvt) Ltd future and the sources of estimation at the reporting date together John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd with the related judgments that have a significant risk of causing John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd Revaluation of property, plant and equipment and investment Keells Food Products Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd properties Republic of Maldives The group measures land and buildings classified under property, Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd plant and equipment at revalued amounts with changes in fair John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd value being recognised in the statement of equity. In addition, it Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd carries its investment properties at fair value, with changes in Tranquility (Pte) Ltd fair value being recognised in the income statement. The group Travel Club (Pte) Ltd engaged independent valuation specialists to determine fair value Singapore of investment properties and certain identified land and buildings John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd as at 31 March 2012. United Kingdom John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd USA The valuers have used valuation techniques such as market John Keells BPO Solutions US inc. values and discounted cash flow methods where there was lack Canada of comparable market data available based on the nature of the John Keells BPO Solutions Canada inc. property. The determined fair values of investment properties, using investment method, are most sensitive to the estimated yield The total profits and losses profit or loss and net assets as well as the long term occupancy rate. The methods used to for the year of the company not held by the group, are determine the fair value of the investment properties, are further and of its subsidiaries shown as a component of explained in Note 4. included in consolidation profit for the year in the and all assets and liabilities income statement and as a of the company and of its component of equity in the Impairment of non-financial assets subsidiaries included in consolidated balance sheet, An impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash consolidation are shown in separately from parent’s generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the the consolidated income shareholders’ equity. higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use (VIU). statement and balance The fair value less costs to sell calculation is based on available sheet respectively. data from an active market, in an arm’s length transaction, of The consolidated cash flow similar assets or observable market prices less incremental statement includes the cash costs for disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation Minority interest which flows of the company and is based on a discounted cash flow model. The cash flows are represents the portion of its subsidiaries. derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include Annual Report 2011/12 175 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements restructuring activities management judgment Ltd. is based on the at inception of the contract, that the group is not yet is required to determine actuarial valuation carried incorporating regulator committed to or significant the amount of deferred out by Messrs. Actuarial & recommended minimum future investments that tax assets that can be Management Consultants requirements. will enhance the asset’s recognised, based upon the (Pvt) Ltd., actuaries. The performance of the cash likely timing and the level actuarial valuations involve The main assumptions generating unit being of future taxable profits making assumptions about used relate to mortality, tested. The recoverable together with future tax discount rates and future morbidity, investment amount is most sensitive planning strategies. salary increases. Due to the returns and discount rates. to the discount rate used complexity of the valuation, for the discounted cash The group has tax losses the underlying assumptions Industry and company flow model as well as carry forward amounting and its long term nature, the experience on mortality and the expected future cash to Rs.6,546 million (2011 defined benefit obligation is morbidity is considered, inflows and the growth Rs.5,287 million). These highly sensitive to changes adjusted when appropriate rate used for extrapolation losses relate to subsidiaries in these assumptions. The to reflect the product purposes. The key that have a history of losses employee benefit liability characteristics, target assumptions used to that do not expire and may of all other companies in markets and own claims determine the recoverable not be used to offset other the group is based on the severity and frequency amount for the different tax liabilities and where the gratuity formula in Appendix experiences. cash generating units, are subsidiary has no taxable E of SLAS 16 Employee further explained in Note 5. temporary differences Benefits. All assumptions Discount rates are based nor any tax planning are reviewed at each on current and historical Taxes opportunities available that reporting date. Details of rates, adjusted for regulator Uncertainties exist with could partly support the the key assumptions used in recommended basis. respect to the interpretation recognition of these losses the estimates are contained of complex tax regulations as deferred tax assets. in Note 18 in the financial statements. The carrying value at the and the amount and timing balance sheet date of life of future taxable income. Further details on taxes are insurance contract liabilities Given the wide range of disclosed in Note 30. Deposits on Returnable is Rs.14.74 billion (2011 business relationships Containers Ceylon Cold Rs.12.66 billion). and the long-term nature Deferred tax for tax Stores PLC and complexity of existing holiday companies The company has contractual agreements, introduced a new Non-life insurance Deferred tax during the (which comprises differences arising tax holiday period for methodology to assess the between the actual results deposit liability arising out general insurance and group companies under healthcare) contract and the assumptions BOI tax holidays, has been of deposits for Bottles and made, or future changes Crates. Deposit liability is liabilities recognised for temporary For non-life insurance to such assumptions, differences, where reversals calculated at each quarterly could necessitate future balance sheet date by a contracts, estimates of such differences extend have to be made for the adjustments to tax income beyond the tax exemption predetermined formula and expense already and difference between expected ultimate cost period, taking into account of claims reported at recorded. Accordingly, the requirements of SLAS the calculated liability and based on such reasonable book balance is taken to the the balance sheet date 14 and the council ruling and consequently for the estimates the group on deferred tax issued by Income Statement. establishes the provisions to expected ultimate cost of the Institute of Chartered claims incurred but not yet be made during the financial Accountants of Sri Lanka Valuation of insurance year. reported at the balance (ICASL). contract liabilities and sheet date (IBNR). It can investment contract take a significant period of Deferred tax assets are Employee Benefit liabilities Union time before the reported recognised for all unused Liability Assurance PLC values near the ultimate tax losses to the extent that The employee benefit Life insurance contracts claims cost, and so for it is probable that taxable liability of listed companies The liability for life some type of policies, IBNR profit will be available with more than 100 insurance contracts is based claims form the majority of against which the losses employees and Jaykay on current assumptions or the balance sheet liability. can be utilised. Significant Marketing Services (Pvt) on assumptions established 176 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The ultimate cost of to claiming, economic acquisition date. of any goodwill allocated outstanding claims is conditions, levels of to the unit and then to the estimated by using a range claims inflation, judicial Goodwill is initially other assets pro-rata to the of standard actuarial claims decisions and legislation, measured at cost being the carrying amount of each projection techniques, as well as internal factors excess of the consideration asset in the unit. such as the Chain Ladder such as portfolio mix, transferred over the and Bornheutter-Ferguson policy features and claims group’s net identifiable Goodwill and fair value methods. handling procedures). This assets acquired and adjustments arising on the judgment is used in order liabilities assumed. If this acquisition of a foreign The main assumption to arrive at the estimated consideration is lower than operation are treated as underlying these techniques ultimate cost of claims that the fair value of the net assets and liabilities of is that a company’s past presents the likely outcome assets of the subsidiary the foreign operation and claims development from the range of possible acquired, the difference is translated at the closing experience is representative outcomes, taking account recognised in the income rate. of the projected future of all the uncertainties statement as negative claims development and involved. goodwill. Where goodwill forms part hence the ultimate claims of a cash-generating unit costs. As such, these The carrying value at the After initial recognition, and part of the operation methods extrapolate balance sheet date of goodwill is measured at within that unit is disposed the development of paid non-life insurance contract cost less any accumulated of, the goodwill associated and reported losses, liabilities is Rs.3 billion impairment losses. with the operation disposed average costs per claim (2011 Rs.2.82 billion). Goodwill is reviewed for of is included in the carrying and numbers of claims impairment, annually or amount of the operation based on the observed Details of key assumptions are more frequently if events or when determining the development of earlier given in Note 15 in the financial changes in circumstances gain or loss on disposal of years and expected loss statements. indicate that the carrying the operation. Goodwill ratios. Historical claims value maybe impaired. disposed of in this development is analysed 1.4 SUMMARY OF circumstance is measured by accident years, for each SIGNIFICANT For the purpose of based on the relative values significant business line and ACCOUNTING POLICIES impairment testing, of the operation disposed of claim type. Large claims 1.4.1. Business combination & goodwill acquired in a and the portion of the cashare usually separately goodwill business combination is, generating unit retained. addressed, either by being Acquisitions of subsidiaries from the acquisition date, reserved based on the are accounted for using allocated to each of the 1.4.2 Interest in Joint venture loss adjuster estimates the purchase method of group’s cash generating A joint venture is a jointly or separately projected in accounting. The purchase units that are expected controlled entity, whereby order to reflect their future method of accounting to benefit from the the group and other development. In most cases, involves allocating the cost combination, irrespective parties have a contractual no explicit assumptions of the business combination of whether other assets or arrangement that are made regarding future to the fair value of the liabilities of the acquiree establishes joint control rates of claims inflation assets acquired and are assigned to those units. over the economic activities or loss ratios, instead, the liabilities and contingent of the entity. assumptions used are those liabilities assumed at the Impairment is determined implicit in the historical date of acquisition. by assessing the The group recognises its claims development data recoverable amount of the interest in the joint venture on which the projections When the group acquires cash-generating unit to using the proportionate are based. Additional a business, it assesses which the goodwill relates. consolidation method until qualitative judgment is the financial assets and Where the recoverable the date on which the group used to assess the extent liabilities assumed for amount of the cash ceases to have joint control. to which past trends may appropriate classification generating unit is less The group’s share of each not apply in future, (for and designation in than the carrying amount, of the assets, liabilities, example to reflect one-off accordance with the an impairment loss is income and expenses of the occurrences, changes in contractual terms, economic recognised. The impairment joint venture are combined external or market factors circumstances and pertinent loss is allocated first to with similar items, line by such as public attitudes conditions as at the reduce the carrying amount line, in the consolidated Annual Report 2011/12 177 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements financial statements. The All associates are equity of the associate, the any significant transactions financial statements of the incorporated in Sri Lanka, group recognises its share or events upto 31 March. joint venture are aligned except for Quatrro FPO and discloses this, when to the group accounting Solutions (Pvt) Limited applicable in the statement 1.4.4 Foreign currency policies. which is incorporated in of changes in equity. translation India. Unrealised gains and losses Foreign currency The gains or losses arising transactions and from transactions between Associate companies of the group which have been balances group and the joint venture accounted for under the equity method of accounting are: The consolidated financial are recognised based Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd statements are presented on the substance of the Nations Trust Bank PLC in Sri Lanka rupees, which transactions. The group’s South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd is the company’s functional share of unrealised gain Quatrro FPO Solutions (Pvt) Limited and presentation currency. on asset purchases is not Central Hospital (Pvt) Ltd recognised until such assets Sancity Hotels (Pvt) Ltd are resold to a third party. The functional currency is The investments in resulting from transactions the currency of the primary associates are carried in the between the group and the economic environment in Information Systems balance sheet at cost plus associate are eliminated to which the entities of the Associates (a joint venture) post acquisition changes the extent of the interest in group operate. has been incorporated in in the group’s share of net the associate. United Arab Emirates. assets of the associates. All foreign exchange Goodwill relating to an The group ceases to transactions are converted Financial statements of joint associate is included in recognise further losses to functional currency, ventures are proportionately the carrying amount of the when the group’s share at the rates of exchange consolidated using their investment and is neither of losses in an associate prevailing at the time the respective 12 month amortised nor individually equals or exceeds the transactions are effected. financial reporting period. tested for impairment. interest in the undertaking, After application of the unless it has incurred Monetary assets and In the case of joint ventures equity method, the group obligations or made liabilities denominated where the reporting determines whether it is payments on behalf of the in foreign currency are dates are different to necessary to recognise entity. retranslated to functional group reporting dates, any additional impairment currency equivalents at the adjustments are made for loss with respect to the The accounting policies exchange rate prevailing any significant transactions group’s net investment of associate companies at the balance sheet date. or events upto 31 March. in the associate. The conform to those used Non-monetary assets and group determines at each liabilities are translated for similar transactions 1.4.3. Investment in an reporting date whether using exchange rates that of the group. Accounting associate there is any objective existed when the values policies that are specific to Associates are those evidence that the were determined. The the business of associate investments over which investment in the associate resulting gains and losses companies are discussed in the group has significant is impaired. If this is the are accounted for in the Note 1.5. influence and holds 20% case, the group calculates income statement. to 50% of the equity the amount of impairment and which are neither as the difference between Equity method of accounting has been Foreign exchange subsidiaries nor joint the recoverable amount applied for associate forward contracts ventures of the group. of the associate and financial statements using Foreign exchange forward its carrying value and their respective 12 month contracts are fair valued The group ceases to use recognises the amount in financial period. at each reporting date. the equity method of the income statement. Gains and losses arising accounting on the date from changes in fair value from which it no longer has The income statement In the case of associates, where the reporting are included in the income significant influence in the reflects the share of the statement in the period in associate. results of operations of the dates are different to group reporting dates, which they arise. associate. Changes, if any, recognised directly in the adjustments are made for 178 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Foreign operations Deferred tax temporary differences The carrying amount of The balance sheet and Deferred tax is provided will not reverse in the deferred tax assets is income statement of using the liability method foreseeable future. reviewed at each balance overseas subsidiaries on temporary differences sheet date and reduced and joint ventures which at the balance sheet date Deferred tax assets to the extent that it is are deemed to be foreign between the tax bases of are recognised for all no longer probable that operations are translated to assets and liabilities and deductible temporary sufficient taxable profit Sri Lanka rupees at the rate their carrying amounts differences, and unused will be available to allow of exchange prevailing as at for financial reporting tax credits and tax all or part of the deferred the balance sheet date and purposes. losses carried forward, tax asset to be utilised. at the average annual rate to the extent that it is Unrecognised deferred tax of exchange for the period Deferred tax liabilities are probable that taxable assets are reassessed at respectively. recognized for all taxable profit will be available each balance sheet date temporary differences, against which the and are recognised to the The exchange differences except: deductible temporary extent that it has become arising on the translation differences and the probable that future are taken directly to a • where the deferred tax unused tax credits taxable profit will allow the separate component of liability arises from and tax losses carried deferred tax asset to be equity. On disposal of a the initial recognition forward can be utilized recovered. foreign entity, the deferred of goodwill or of an except: cumulative amount asset or liability in a Deferred tax assets and recognised in equity relating transaction that is not • where the deferred tax liabilities are measured at to that particular foreign a business combination asset relating to the tax rates that are expected operation is recognised in and, at the time of the deductible temporary to apply to the year when the income statement. transaction, affects difference arises from the asset is realised or neither the accounting the initial recognition of liability is settled, based on 1.4.5 Tax profit nor taxable profit an asset or liability in a the tax rates and tax laws Current tax or loss; and transaction that is not that have been enacted or Current tax assets and a business combination substantively enacted as at liabilities for the current and • in respect of taxable and, at the time of the the balance sheet date. prior periods are measured temporary differences transaction, affects at the amount expected to associated with neither the accounting Income tax relating to items be recovered from or paid to investments in profit nor taxable profit recognized directly in equity the taxation authorities. The subsidiaries, associates or loss; and· is recognized in equity tax rates and tax laws used and interests in joint and not in the income to compute the amount ventures, where the • in respect of deductible statement. are those that are enacted timing of the reversal temporary differences or substantively enacted of the temporary associated with Deferred tax assets and by the balance sheet date differences can be investments in deferred tax liabilities in the countries where controlled and it is subsidiaries, associates are offset, if a legally the group operates and probable that the and interests in joint enforceable right exists generates taxable income. ventures, deferred tax to set off current tax assets are recognised assets against current tax The exchange rates applicable during the period. only to the extent that liabilities and when the Balance Sheet Income Statement it is probable that the deferred taxes relate to the Average rate temporary differences same taxable entity and the 2011/12 2010/11 2011/12 2010/11 will reverse in the same taxation authority. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. foreseeable future and taxable profit will Singapore dollar 101.92 87.54 89.78 84.21 be available against Pound sterling 204.64 177.83 179.58 174.39 which the temporary US dollar 128.10 110.40 112.56 112.13 differences can be Canadian dollar 128.61 113.67 113.42 110.30 utilised. Indian rupee 2.49 2.48 2.36 2.47 UAE dirham 34.88 30.06 30.64 30.53 Annual Report 2011/12 179 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Sales tax Derecognition 1.4.7 Leases Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount Item of property, plant and Finance Lease of sales tax except: equipment are derecognised Property, plant and upon replacement, disposal equipment on finance • where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of a assets or or when no future economic leases, which effectively services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in benefits are expected from transfer to the group which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost its use. Any gain or loss substantially all the risk of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as arising on derecognition and benefits incidental to applicable; and of the asset is included ownership of the leased in the income statement items, are capitalised and • receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of in the year the asset is disclosed as finance leases sales tax included. derecognised. at their cash price and depreciated over the period The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the Depreciation the group is expected to taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in Depreciation is calculated benefit from the use of the the balance sheet. by using a straight-line leased assets. method on the cost or 1.4.6 Property, plant and equipment valuation of all property, The corresponding Basis of recognition plant and equipment, other principal amount payable Property, plant and equipment are recognized if it is probable that than freehold land, in order to the lessor is shown as future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the to write off such amounts a liability. Lease payments company and the cost of the item can be reliably measured. over the estimated useful are apportioned between economic life of such the finance charges and Basis of measurement assets. reduction of the lease Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss. The estimated useful life of assets. Land and buildings are measured at fair value less depreciation on Assets Years buildings and impairment charged subsequent to the date of the Buildings (other than hotels) 50 revaluation. Hotel buildings upto 60 Plant and machinery 10 20 The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed Equipment 3 15 for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate Furniture and fittings 2 15 that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Motor vehicles 4 18 Laboratory equipment 10 Where land and buildings are subsequently revalued, the entire Returnable Containers 10 class of such assets is revalued at fair value on the date of revaluation. The group has adopted a policy of revaluing assets The assets’ residual liability so as to achieve a every 5 years, except for properties held for rental and occupied values and useful lives are constant rate of interest on mainly by group companies, which are revalued every 3 years. reviewed, and adjusted the outstanding balance of if appropriate, at each the liability. The interest When an asset is revalued, any increase in the carrying amount payable over the period financial year end. is credited directly to a revaluation reserve included in the equity of the lease is transferred section of the balance sheet, except to the extent that it reverses to an interest in suspense Where major machinery a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in account. The interest overhauls are carried out, the income statement, in which case the increase is recognised element of the rental the cost is recognised in in the income statement. Any revaluation deficit that offsets a obligations pertaining the carrying amount of previous surplus in the same asset is directly offset against the to each financial year is the plant and equipment if surplus in the revaluation reserve and any excess recognised as charged to the income the recognition criteria is an expense. Upon disposal, any revaluation reserve relating to the statement over the period satisfied. particular asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings. of lease. Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset. 180 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information The cost of improvements to Gains or losses arising 1.4.10 Intangible assets buildings on leasehold land from changes in fair value Basis of recognition is capitalised, disclosed as are included in the income An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future leasehold improvements, statement in the year in economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the and depreciated over the which they arise. company and the cost of the item can be reliably measured. unexpired period of the lease or the estimated useful life of Investment properties Basis of measurement the improvements, whichever are derecognised when Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial is shorter. disposed, or permanently recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a withdrawn from use business combination is the fair value as at the date of acquisition. Operating leases because no future economic Leases, where the benefits are expected. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at lessor effectively retains Any gains or losses on cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated substantially all of the risks retirement or disposal are impairment losses. and benefits of ownership recognised in the income over the term of the lease, statement in the year of Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development are classified as operating retirement or disposal. costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure is charged against income leases. statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. Transfers are made Lease payments are to or from investment Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment recognised as an expense in property only when there The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite the income statement on a is a change in use. For a or indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised straight-line basis over the transfer from investment over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment term of the lease. property to owner occupied whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be property or inventory impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method 1.4.8 Leasehold property (WIP), the deemed cost for for an intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at Prepaid lease rentals paid subsequent accounting is least at each financial year-end and such changes are treated as to acquire land use rights the fair value at the date accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible are amortised over the of change in use. If owner assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement. lease term in accordance occupied property becomes with the pattern of benefits an investment property Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised provided. or inventory (WIP), the but tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when an group accounts for such indication of impairment exists either individually or at the cashproperty in accordance Details of the Leasehold generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an with the policy stated Property are given in Note 3 indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite under property, plant and to the Financial Statements. life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in equipment up to the date of the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a change in use. 1.4.9 Investment properties prospective basis. Investment properties are Where group companies measured initially at cost. Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) occupy a significant The carrying value of an The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long term portion of the investment investment property includes life insurance contracts as at the acquisition date is recognised property of a subsidiary, the cost of replacing part as an intangible asset based on a valuation carried out by an such investment properties of an existing investment independent actuary. Subsequent to initial recognition, the are treated as property, property, at the time that cost intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation plant and equipment in is incurred if the recognition and accumulated impairment losses. the consolidated financial criteria are met, and excludes statements, and accounted the costs of day-to-day The PVIB is amortised over the average useful life of the related using group accounting servicing of the investment contracts in the portfolio. The amortisation charge and any policy for property, plant property. Subsequent to impairment losses would be recognised in the consolidated income and equipment. initial recognition, the statement as an expense. investment properties are stated at fair values, which Purchased software reflect market conditions at Purchased software is recognised as intangible assets and is the balance sheet date. amortised on a straight line basis over its useful life. Annual Report 2011/12 181 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Software license Gains or losses arising testing for an asset is Software licenses cost is recognised as an intangible asset and from derecognition of required, the group makes amortised over the period of expected future usage of related ERP an intangible asset are an estimate of the asset’s systems. measured as the difference recoverable amount. An between the net disposal asset’s recoverable amount Research & Development Costs proceeds and the carrying is the higher of an asset’s Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible asset amount of the asset and are or cash generating unit’s arising from development expenditure on an individual project recognised in the income fair value less costs to sell is recognized as an intangible asset when the group can statement when the asset and its value in use and is demonstrate: is derecognised. determined for an individual asset, unless the asset • the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so does not generate cash 1.4.11 Equity investments that it will be available for use or sale, inflows that are largely All quoted and unquoted • its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, securities, which are held independent of those from as non-current investments, other assets or groups of • how the asset will generate future economic benefits, are valued at cost. All assets. Where the carrying • the availability of resources to complete the asset, quoted equities held as amount of an asset exceeds short-term investments are its recoverable amount, • the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during stated at market values the asset is considered development. with the resultant gain impaired and is written or loss recognized in the down to its recoverable Following initial recognition of the development expenditure of an amount. In assessing value income statement. The asset, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried in use, the estimated future cost of investment is the at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated cash flows are discounted cost of acquisition inclusive impairment losses. to their present value using of brokerage and costs of transaction. The carrying a pre-tax discount rate that Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete amounts of long-term reflects current market and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of investments are reduced to assessments of the time expected future benefit from the use or expected future sales from recognise a decline which value of money and the the related project. During the period of development, the asset is is considered other than risks specific to the asset. tested for impairment annually. temporary, in the value of investments, determined Impairment losses are A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets on an individual investment recognised in the income is as follows. basis. statement, except that, impairment losses in Intangible Useful Acquired / Impairment testing In the company’s financial respect of property, life Internally statements, investments in plant and equipment are generated subsidiaries, joint ventures recognised against the and associate companies revaluation reserve to the Present Value of 12 Acquired When indicators of have been accounted for at extent that it reverses Inforce Business impairment arise. The cost, net of any impairment a previous revaluation (PVIB) amortization method losses which are charged surplus. Purchased Software 05 is reviewed at each financial year end. to the income statement. Software License 05 Incomes from these An assessment is made Developed Software 05 Internally Annually for assets investments are recognised at each reporting date as generated not yet in use and only to the extent of to whether there is any more frequently dividends received. indication that previously when indicators of recognized impairment impairment arise. 1.4.12 Impairment of assets losses may no longer exist Assets in use, The group assesses at each or may have decreased. when indicators of reporting date whether If such indication exists, impairment arise. The there is an indication that the recoverable amount amortisation method an asset may be impaired. is estimated. A previously is reviewed at each If any such indication exists, recognised impairment financial year end. or when annual impairment loss is reversed only if 182 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information there has been a change The costs incurred in reduces the carrying amount accordingly and recognises a loss in in the estimates used bringing inventories to the statement of income. A reinsurance asset is impaired if there to determine the asset’s its present location and is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after recoverable amount since condition, are accounted for the initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the company the last impairment loss as given below. may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the was recognised, in which contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the case, the carrying amount 1.4.15 Trade and other amount that the company will receive from the reinsurer. of the asset is increased receivables to its recoverable amount. Trade and other receivables Premiums Receivable That increased amount are stated at the amounts Collectability of premiums and other debts are reviewed on an cannot exceed the carrying they are estimated to ongoing basis. Policies issued on debt basis and that are known amount that would have realise, net of provisions to be uncollectible are cancelled and respective gross written been determined, net for bad and doubtful premium is reversed. A provision for doubtful debts is raised when of depreciation, had no receivables. some doubt as to collection exists. impairment loss been recognised for the asset in A provision for doubtful 1.4.16 Short-term investments prior years. Such reversal debts is made when the Treasury bills and other interest-bearing securities held for resale is recognised in the income debt exceeds 180 days, and in the near future to benefit from short-term market movements statement unless the collection of the full amount are accounted for at cost plus the relevant proportion of the asset is carried at revalued is no longer probable. Bad discounts or premiums. amount, in which case debts are written off when the reversal is treated as identified. 1.4.17 Cash and cash equivalents a revaluation increase. Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise After such a reversal, the Reinsurance Receivable cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity depreciation charge is Reinsurance assets include of 3 months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. adjusted in future periods the balances due from both to allocate the asset’s insurance and reinsurance 1.4.18 Defined benefit plan gratuity revised carrying amount, companies for paid and The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of less any residual value, on unpaid losses and loss the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date using the a systematic basis over adjustment expenses. projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses arising its remaining useful life. Amounts recoverable are recognised immediately in the income statement. Impairment loss on goodwill from reinsurers are is not reversed. estimated in a manner 1.4.19 Defined contribution plan Employees’ Provident Fund and consistent with the claim 1.4.14 Inventories Employees’ Trust Fund liability associated with Inventories are valued Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund contributions the reinsured policy. at the lower of cost and and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in line with respective Reinsurance is recorded net realisable value. Net statutes and regulations. The companies contribute the defined gross in the consolidated realisable value is the percentages of gross emoluments of employees to an approved balance sheet unless a right estimated selling price Employees’ Provident Fund and to the Employees’ Trust Fund to offset exists. less estimated costs respectively, which are externally funded. of completion and the If a reinsurance asset is estimated costs necessary 1.4.20 Insurance provision life impaired, the company to make the sale. The Directors agree to the long term and unit link insurance business provisions on the recommendation of the actuary following annual valuation of the life insurance business. Raw materials and On a weighted average basis Produce inventories The actuarial valuation takes into account all liabilities including Finished goods and At the cost of direct materials, direct contingent liabilities and is based on assumptions recommended Work-in-progress labour and an appropriate proportion of by the independent external actuary. fixed production overheads based on normal operating capacity Other inventories At actual cost Annual Report 2011/12 183 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements 1.4.21 Insurance general benefits will be required to eliminating sales within the Life Insurance Business Insurance provision settle the obligation and group. Gross Written Premium comprises of reserve a reliable estimate can Premiums from traditional for the net unearned be made of the amount The following specific life insurance contracts, premium, reserve or the of the obligation. Where criteria are used for including participating deferred acquisition cost the group expects some recognition of revenue: contracts and non (net), reserve for gross or all of a provision to be participating contracts, are outstanding claims and the reimbursed, for example Sale of goods recognised as revenue when incurred but not reported under an insurance contract, Revenue from the sale of cash is received from the (IBNR) provision. the reimbursement is goods is recognised when policy holder. recognised as a separate the significant risk and asset but only when the rewards of ownership of Unearned premium, Turnover based taxes reimbursement is virtually the goods have passed deferred acquisition cost Turnover based taxes certain. The expense to the buyer with the and the reserve for gross include value added relating to any provision is group retaining neither outstanding claims are tax, economic service presented in the income a continuing managerial stated according to the charge, turnover tax and statement net of any involvement to the degree industry practices where as tourism development levy. reimbursement. If the effect usually associated with the IBNR reserve is decided Companies in the group pay of the time value of money ownership, nor an effective by an independent external such taxes in accordance is material, provisions are control over the goods sold. actuary to estimate the with the respective outstanding liabilities as of discounted using a current statutes. reporting date. pre-tax rate that reflects, Rendering of services where appropriate, the Revenue from rendering of Dividend risks specific to the liability. services is recognised by 1.4.22 Government grants Dividend income is Where discounting is used, reference to the stage of Government grants are recognised on a cash basis. the increase in the provision completion. recognised only when due to the passage of time is Interest income they are received and all recognised as a finance cost. General Insurance Interest income is attaching conditions are Business Gross Written recognised as interest complied with. When the All contingent liabilities are Premium accrues. grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as disclosed as a note to the Gross written premium is Rental income income over the period financial statements unless generally recognised as Rental income is recognised necessary to match to the the outflow of resources is written upon inception of on an accrual basis over the costs, that it is intended remote. the policy. Upon inception term of the lease. to compensate. Where the of the contract, premiums grant relates to an asset, Contingent assets are are recorded as written Gains and losses the fair value is credited to disclosed, where inflow and are earned primarily on Net gains and losses of a a deferred income account of economic benefit is a pro-rata basis over the revenue nature arising from and is released to the probable. term of the related policy the disposal of property, income statement over the coverage. However, for plant and equipment and expected useful life of the those contracts for which 1.4.24 Revenue recognition other non-current assets, relevant asset by equal the period of risk differs Revenue is recognised including investments, are annual installments. significantly from the to the extent that it is accounted for in the income contract period, premiums probable that the economic statement, after deducting are earned over the period 1.4.23 Provisions, contingent benefits will flow to the from the proceeds on of risk in proportion to assets and contingent group, and the revenue and disposal, the carrying the amount of insurance liabilities associated costs incurred amount of such assets protection provided. Provisions are recognised or to be incurred can be and the related selling when the group has a reliably measured. Revenue expenses. present obligation (legal or is measured at the fair constructive) as a result of value of the consideration Gains and losses arising a past event, it is probable received or receivable, from activities incidental that an outflow of resources net of trade discounts and to the main revenue embodying economic value added taxes, after generating activities and 184 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information those arising from a group 1.5 SIGNIFICANT Income on discounting of 1.5.2 South Asia Gateway of similar transactions, ACCOUNTING POLICIES bills of exchange Terminals (Pvt) Ltd which are not material are THAT ARE SPECIFIC Income from discounting Revenue recognition aggregated, reported and TO THE BUSINESS OF of bills of exchange is Stevedoring revenue is presented on a net basis. ASSOCIATE COMPANIES recognised on a cash basis. recognised on the berthing time of the vessel. Storage 1.5.1 Nations Trust Bank PLC Any losses arising from Income from Government revenue is recognised on guaranteed rentals are Revenue recognition and Securities purchased the issue of delivery advice. accounted for in the year Interest income from under resale agreements of incurring the same. A customer advances and other securities 1.6 EMPLOYEE SHARE provision is recognised if the In terms of the provisions Discounts/premium on OPTION PLAN projection indicates a loss. of the Sri Lanka Accounting treasury bills, treasury bonds On 28 June 2004, Standard No. 23 on are amortised over the shareholders approved Other income Revenue Recognition and period to reflect a constant a third plan, whereby Other income is recognised Disclosures in the financial periodic rate of return. The the company could issue on an accrual basis. statements of banks and coupon interest on treasury annually nontransferable the guidelines issued by bonds is recognised on an call share options, not 1.4.25 Expenditure recognition the Central Bank of Sri accrual basis. The interest exceeding in aggregate 2% Expenses are recognised Lanka, interest receivable income on securities of the total issued capital of in the income statement is recognised on an accrual purchased under resale the company as at the date on the basis of a direct basis. Interest ceases agreement and other of granting every award association between the to be taken into revenue securities are recognised in under this plan, to a total cost incurred and the when loans and advances the income statement on a of 5% of the total issued earning of specific items are classified as nonstraight-line basis. share capital as at the date of income. All expenditure performing, as specific of the last award. Approvals incurred in the running provisions for possible Fees and commission of the CSE and SEC have of the business and in loan losses are made on income been obtained for this plan. maintaining the property, the basis of a continuous Fees and commission As at 31 March 2012, the plant and equipment in review of all advances income comprise mainly total number of options a state of efficiency has to customers, including of fees receivable from granted under this plan, been charged to the income consumer advances and customers for guarantees, after allowing for bonus statement. credit cards. Thereafter, factoring, credit cards and issues, rights issues and the interest income on these other services provided share split, was 33,066,190 loans and advances are by the bank together with of which 23,376,824 had For the purpose of recognised on cash basis. foreign and domestic tariff. been exercised, 3,278,623 presentation of the income Interest falling due on Such income is recognised had lapsed and 6,410,743 statement, the “function of non-performing advances as revenue as the services remain unexercised. expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it is credited to interest are provided. presents fairly the elements suspense account which is On 13 December 2007, of the company and group’s netted in the balance sheet. Profit or loss on sale of shareholders approved performance. securities a fourth plan, whereby Interest accrued until such Profit or loss arising from the company could issue advances being classified the sale of marketable non-transferable call share Borrowing costs as non-performing are also securities is accounted for options, not exceeding Borrowing costs are eliminated from interest on the date of transaction in aggregate 0.85% of recognised as an expense income and transferred to the shares in issue of the in the period in which they interest in suspense. Lease income company as at the date are incurred, unless they The bank follows the of granting the award. are incurred in respect of finance method of Approvals of the CSE and qualifying assets in which accounting for lease SEC have been obtained for case it is capitalised. income. this plan. Annual Report 2011/12 185 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements As at 31 March 2012, after On 7 December 2011, policies and financial comprehensive income). allowing for the share shareholders approved reporting in readiness for This standard also requires split, the total number a seventh plan, whereby the transition. As the Group the Group to disclose of options granted under the company could issue has a 31 March year end, information that enables this plan, was 6,806,006 non-transferable call share priority has been given to users of its financial of which 1,071,188 had options, not exceeding in considering the preparation statements to evaluate the been exercised, 255,550 aggregate 0.75% of shares of an opening balance sheet entity’s objectives, policies had lapsed and 5,479,268 in issue of the company as in accordance with the and processes for managing remain unexercised. at the date of granting the new SLASs as at 01 April capital. award. Approvals of the 2011. This will form the On 2 December 2009, CSE and SEC have been basis of accounting for the c) LKAS 16 Property Plant shareholders approved obtained for this plan. As new SLASs in the future, and Equipment requires a a fifth plan, whereby the at 31 March 2012, the and is required when the company to initially measure company could issue total number of options Group prepares its first new an item of property plant non-transferable call share granted under this plan SLAS compliant financial and equipment at cost, using options, not exceeding in was 6,306,182 of which statements for the year the cash price equivalent aggregate 1% of shares in 27,600 had been exercised ending 31 March 2013. Set at the recognition date. If issue of the company as and 6,278,582 remain out below are the key areas payment is deferred beyond at the date of granting the unexercised. where accounting policies normal credit terms, the award. Approvals of the will change and may have difference between the cash CSE and SEC have been Of the 31,157,486 an impact on the financial price equivalent and the obtained for this plan. As options unexercised and statements of the Group. total payment is recognized at 31 March 2012, after outstanding as at 31 March as interest over the period, allowing for the share split, 2012 (2011 22,300,605), a) SLFRS 1 First Time unless such interest is the total number of options 6,410,743 are exercisable Adoption of Sri Lanka capitalized in accordance granted under this plan was before 27 May 2012, Accounting Standards with LKAS 23 Borrowing 7,935,812 of which 988,234 5,479,268 are exercisable requires the Group to Costs. had been exercised, 54,160 before 24 March 2013, prepare and present had lapsed and 6,893,418 6,893,418 are exercisable opening new SLFRS All site restoration remain unexercised. before 16 December 2014, financial statements at the costs including other 6,095,475 are exercisable date of transition to new environmental restoration On 6 December 2010, before 8 December SLAS. The Group shall and similar costs must be shareholders approved 2015 and 6,278,582 are use the same accounting estimated and capitalised a sixth plan, whereby exercisable before 6 policies in its opening at initial recognition, in the company could issue December 2016. new SLAS financial order that such costs can be non-transferable call share statements and throughout depreciated over the useful options, not exceeding in 1.7 SRI LANKA all comparable periods life of the asset. aggregate 0.75% of shares ACCOUNTING presented in its first new in issue of the company as STANDARDS (SLAS) SLAS financial statements. This standard requires at the date of granting the ISSUED BUT NOT YET depreciation of assets over award. Approvals of the EFFECTIVE b) LKAS 1 Presentation their useful lives, where the CSE and SEC have been The Group will be adopting of Financial Statements residual value of assets is obtained for this plan. As the new Sri Lanka requires an entity to deducted to arrive at the at 31 March 2012, after Accounting Standards present, in a statement depreciable value. It also allowing for the share split, (new SLAS) comprising of changes in equity, all requires that significant the total number of options LKAS and SLFRS applicable owner changes in equity. components of an asset be granted under this plan for financial periods All non owner changes in evaluated separately for was 6,214,104 of which commencing from 01 equity are required to be depreciation. 9,800 had been exercised, January 2012 as issued by presented in one statement 108,829 had lapsed the Institute of Chartered of comprehensive income and 6,095,475 remain Accountants of Sri Lanka. or in two statements (a unexercised. The Group has commenced separate income statement reviewing its accounting and a statement of 186 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information d) LKAS 32 Financial Financial liabilities will which are capable of being i) SLFRS 4 -Insurance Instruments: Presentation, be either classified as fair conducted and managed Contacts has scoped in LKAS 39 Financial value through profit or loss to provide a return, as only products which fall Instruments: Recognition or at amortized cost. At opposed to a mere asset within the definition of and Measurement and present, the company/group acquisition. Under the insurance contracts or SLFRS 7 Disclosures does not identify, categorise new acquisition method of financial instruments will result in changes to and measure financial accounting, in addition to issued with discretionary the current method of assets and liabilities as per recognising and measuring participation features as recognising financial assets, the requirements of the in its financial statements defined in SLFRS 4. Any financial liabilities and standard and also does not the identifiable assets contract which is recorded equity instruments. These recognise certain derivative acquired and liabilities at present as an insurance standards will require instruments on the balance assumed the standard contract but does not meet measurement of financial sheet. also requires recognition the definitions of SLFRS 4 assets and financial and measurement of any is required to be measured liabilities at fair value at e) SLFRS 2 Share Based non-controlling interest and accounted as financial initial measurement. The Payments, will require the in the acquiree and reinstruments which will subsequent measurement of company to reflect in its measuring to fair value any impact the recognition of financial assets classified as profit or loss and financial previously held interests Gross Written Premium and fair value through profit and position the effects of which could have an impact deferred acquisition costs. loss and available for sale share based payment on the recognition of will be at fair value, with transactions, including goodwill. Subsequent to the j) IFRIC 15 Agreements for the gains and losses routed expenses associated with acquisition of control any Construction of Real Estate through the statements share options granted to acquisitions or disposals This interpretation clarifies of comprehensive income employees. An entity is of non-controlling interest whether LKAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and other comprehensive required to recognize share without loss of control will or LKAS 11 ‘Construction income respectively. based payment transactions be accounted for as equity contracts’ should be applied when goods are received or transactions and cannot be to particular transactions. Financial assets classified services obtained based on recognized as profit/loss on It also explains the point at as held to maturity and the fair value of goods or disposal of investments in which revenue and related loans and receivables will services or the fair value of the statement of financial expenses from a sale of be measured subsequently equity instruments granted. performance. real estate unit should be at amortized cost. These Hence the company will recognized, if an agreement assets will need to be be required to determine g) LKAS 12 Income Tax between a developer and assessed for any objective the fair value of options requires deferred tax to a buyer is reached before evidence of impairment issued to employees be provided in respect the construction of the real as a result of one or more as remuneration and of temporary differences estate unit is completed. events that occurred after recognize an expense in which will arise as a result Considering the latest the initial recognition of the statement of financial of adjustments made to developments in revenue the asset (a ‘loss event’) performance. This standard comply with the new SLAS. recognition the five step coupled with a reliable is not limited to options model, which will bring estimate of the loss event and extends to all forms of h) LKAS 18 Revenue requires more clarity on revenue (or events) impact on the equity based remuneration the company to measure recognition, the Institute estimated future cash flows and payments. revenue at fair value of the of Chartered Accountants of the financial asset or consideration received or of Sri Lanka has decided to group of financial assets . f) SLFRS 3 Business receivable. It also specifies grant an option for entities As such the current method combinations will require recognition criteria for to defer application of IFRIC of assessing for impairment the company to apply this revenue, and the company/ 15 until the new five step will have to be changed to standard to transactions group needs to apply such model comes into effect. meet the requirements of and other events that meet recognition criteria to the these new standards. the new definition of a separately identifiable business i.e. an integrated components of a single set of assets (inputs) and transaction in order to activities( processes) reflect the substance of the transaction. Annual Report 2011/12 187 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has issued an amendment to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 10, whereby the provision contained in paragraphs 30 and 31 of SLAS 10 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, would not be applicable for financial statements prepared in respect of financial periods commencing before 1 January 2012 and hence the impact of this transition is not required to be disclosed in these financial statements. However, the Group has made a preliminary impact quantification of the transition to new SLAS which is described in Management Discussion and Analysis of the Annual Report. Such analysis together with its estimated impact is made on a best effort basis and is subject to audit. 1.8 SEGMENT INFORMATION Reporting segments The group’s internal organisation and management is structured based on individual products and services which are similar in nature and process and where the risk and return are similar. The primary segments represent this business structure. The secondary segments are determined based on the group’s geographical spread of operations. The geographical analysis of turnover and profits are based on location of customers and assets respectively. The activities of each of the reported business segments of the group are detailed in the group directory. Segment information Segment information has been prepared in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the consolidated financial statements of the group. 188 Land and Buildings on Plant and Equipment, Motor vehicles Returnable Others Capital Total Total buildings leasehold machinery furniture Freehold Leasehold containers work in 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s land and fittings progress 2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2.1 Group Cost or valuation At the beginning of the year 15,851,272 6,059,435 4,937,436 6,412,755 545,844 30,814 581,038 3,016,423 600,596 38,035,613 38,916,552 Additions 196,739 145,442 418,001 962,897 107,110 152,952 375,025 3,532,588 5,890,754 4,977,752 Acquisition of subsidiary 44,168 179,523 223,691 Disposals (1,899) (14,414) (121,341) (254,633) (31,281) (9,973) (58,479) (202,655) (12,022) (706,697) (1,038,241) Revaluations 1,518,714 1,518,714 2,785,859 Impairment / derecognition (25,486) (4,082) (564) (30,132) (21,682) Transfers to investment property / others (132,112) 1,601,387 210,003 172,383 69,045 (17,248) 55,300 (2,180,546) (221,788) (7,445,607) Exchange translation difference 312,666 36,437 88,255 5,320 4,531 280 447,489 (139,020) At the end of the year 17,432,714 8,123,198 5,480,536 7,557,098 696,038 3,593 675,511 3,248,060 1,940,896 45,157,644 38,035,613 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (321,192) (744,511) (2,344,089) (3,589,629) (334,533) (21,581) (183,377) (1,868,719) (9,407,631) (8,927,888) Charge for the year (131,234) (257,023) (324,742) (713,282) (48,192) (2,408) (67,659) (318,537) (1,863,077) (1,700,095) Acquisition of subsidiary (6,393) (36,091) (42,484) Disposals 25 264 95,970 219,046 24,087 8,643 27,169 188,402 563,606 538,566 Revaluations 24,854 24,854 67,395 Impairment / derecognition 412 510 288 1,210 1,155 Transfers to investment property / others 10,298 (3,579) 3,109 (12,648) 12,648 470 10,298 592,595 Exchange translation difference (91,949) (16,991) (40,460) (2,595) (2,413) (154,408) 20,641 At the end of the year (417,249) (1,099,200) (2,593,431) (4,156,797) (373,881) (2,698) (223,867) (2,000,509) (10,867,632) (9,407,631) Carrying value As at 31 March 2012 17,015,465 7,023,998 2,887,105 3,400,301 322,157 895 451,644 1,247,551 1,940,896 34,290,012 As at 31 March 2011 15,530,080 5,314,924 2,593,347 2,823,126 211,311 9,233 397,661 1,147,704 600,596 28,627,982 Annual Report 2011/12 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 189 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Plant and Equipment, Motor Total Total machinery furniture vehicles 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s and fittings 2.2 Company Cost At the beginning of the year 31,356 544,904 57,161 633,421 683,210 Additions 34,236 19,000 53,236 4,764 Disposals (28,036) (10,883) (81) (39,000) (54,553) At the end of the year 3,320 568,257 76,080 647,657 633,421 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (25,690) (509,567) (24,621) (559,878) (571,595) Charge for the year (974) (23,644) (8,295) (32,913) (42,391) Disposals 24,086 10,571 36 34,693 54,108 At the end of the year (2,578) (522,640) (32,880) (558,098) (559,878) Carrying value As at 31 March 2012 742 45,617 43,200 89,559 As at 31 March 2011 5,666 35,337 32,540 73,543 Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 2.3 Land and buildings At cost 5,214,225 3,279,507 At valuation 18,825,238 17,565,497 24,039,463 20,845,004 2.4 Carrying value At cost 13,584,048 11,002,149 89,559 73,543 At valuation 20,705,069 17,616,600 On finance lease 895 9,233 34,290,012 28,627,982 89,559 73,543 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment (Percentage Composition) (Percentage Composition) 2 4 6 11 4 11 10 10 9 2012 2011 8 50 19 54 20 Land and buildings Buildings on Plant and Land and buildings Buildings on Plant and leasehold land machinery leasehold land machinery Equipment, furniture Motor vehicles Returnable Equipment, furniture Motor vehicles Returnable and fittings containers and fittings containers Others Capital work in progress Others Capital work in progress 190 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Property Method of Effective date Property valuation of valuation valuer Details of group’s land, buildings and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below; Land and buildings of Open market value 31 March 2008 P B Kalugalagedara, Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Keells Food Products PLC. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Land of Land and building 31 March 2008 R G Wijesinghe, Resort Hotels Ltd. method Consultant Valuer and Assessor Land and buildings of Land and building 31 March 2008 R G Wijesinghe, Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. method Consultant Valuer and Assessor Buildings on leasehold land of Land and building 31 March 2008 R G Wijesinghe, Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach Hotel method Consultant Valuer and Assessor Habarana Lodge Ltd. Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Land and buildings of Land and building 31 March 2008 G J Sumanasena, Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. method Incorporated Valuer Plant and machinery Contractors test Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. method Buildings on leasehold land of Land and building 31 March 2008 A Y Daniel & Son, Trans Asia Hotels PLC. method Incorporated Valuer Land and buildings of Contractors (cost) 31 March 2008 A Y Daniel & Son, Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Summation basis Incorporated Valuer Land and buildings of Land and building 31 March 2009 R G Wijesinghe, Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. method Consultant Valuer and Assessor Land of Open market value 31 December 2009 P B Kalugalagedara, Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and buildings of Land and building 31 December 2009 R G Wijesinghe, Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Consultant Valuer and Assessor Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Buildings on leasehold land of Land and building 10 June 2010 J M J Fernando, Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. method Incorporated Valuer Buildings on leasehold land of Land and building 31 March 2011 A Y Daniel & Son, Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. method Incorporated Valuer Land and buildings of Investment method 31 December 2011 P B Kalugalagedara, Union Assurance PLC. Chartered Valuation Surveyor Land and buildings of Open market value 31 March 2012 P B Kalugalagedara, John Keells PLC. method Chartered Valuation Surveyor Mackinnons and Keells Financial Services Ltd. Keells Realtors Ltd. Ferguson Road, Colombo 15.* Whittall Boustead Ltd. JK Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Land and buildings of Open market value 31 March 2012 G J Sumanasena, Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd method Incorporated Valuer Land and buildings of Open market value 31 March 2012 P B Kalugalagedara, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Trincomalee* method Chartered Valuation Surveyor *The freehold properties were revalued as at 31 March 2012 by qualified valuers and the surplus arising from the revaluation was transferred to the revaluation reserve and due to the change in the nature of use, the total value was reclassified as investment property. Annual Report 2011/12 191 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation, would be as follows; Cost 10,590,061 12,184,417 Accumulated depreciation (1,627,958) (2,272,805) Carrying value 8,962,103 9,911,612 2.5 Group land and buildings with a carrying value of Rs.4,403 mn (2011 Rs.639 mn) have been pledged as security for term loans obtained, details of which are disclosed in Note 17.3. 2.6 Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of Rs.3,669 mn (2011 Rs.3,550 mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in use by the group. The cost of fully depreciated assets of the company amounts to Rs.493 mn (2011 Rs.482 mn). Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s 3 LEASEHOLD PROPERTY At the beginning of the year 9,515,621 4,576,687 Additions 5,535,669 Amortisation for the year (524,671) (373,922) Exchange gain / (loss) 1,290,903 (222,813) At the end of the year 10,281,853 9,515,621 Prepaid lease rentals paid to acquire land use rights have been classified as leasehold property and are amortised over the lease term in accordance with the pattern of benefits provided. Property Land extent Lease period Amount (in acres) 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s 3.1 Details of leasehold property John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela 6.00 50 years from 19-09-2001 42,379 43,468 Rajawella Hotels Ltd. 10.00 95 years and 10 months from 02-02-2000 34,593 35,006 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Karawita Tea Factory 4.98 50 years from 15-08-1997 10,507 10,800 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives 18.62 18 years from 26-08-2010 7,936,651 7,257,887 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Colombo 7.65 99 years from 07-08-1981 843,472 855,876 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives 13.75 19 years from 03-08-2006 1,340,648 1,235,990 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 10.00 30 years from 27-11-1997 73,603 76,594 10,281,853 9,515,621 192 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 4 INVESTMENT PROPERTY At the beginning of the year 5,386,166 2,334,475 899,000 Additions / transfers 831,854 2,583,927 Change in fair value during the year 1,413,474 467,764 Disposals (899,000) At the end of the year 7,631,494 5,386,166 Freehold property 6,161,954 4,016,475 Leasehold property 1,469,540 1,369,691 7,631,494 5,386,166 4.1 Valuation details of investment property Fair value of the Investment Property as at 31-03-2012 was ascertained by annual independent valuations carried out by Messrs P B Kalugalagedara and Associates, Chartered Valuation Surveyors, a firm which has recent experience in valuing properties of akin location and category. Investment Property was appraised in accordance with SLAS 40 and 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published by the International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC), by the independent valuer. The Market value has been used as the fair value. In determining the fair value, the current condition of the properties, future usability and associated redevelopment requirements have been considered. Also valuer has made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are approximated within appropriate range of values. The significant assumptions used by the valuer are as follows; Market Value Per Perch As at 31st March 2012 2011 Property Method of valuation Rs.’000s Rs.’000s Freehold property Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Investment method N/A N/A Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 3 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Open market value 5,000 3,500 Slave Island Complex, Colombo 2 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Open market value 450 Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee* Keells Realtors Ltd.* Open market value 1,200 Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. Leasehold property Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Open market value 400 400 Stores Complex, Peliyagoda Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Open market value 4,620 4,250 Commercial Centre, Colombo 2 * The freehold properties were revalued as at 31 March 2012 by qualified valuers. The surplus arising from the revaluation was transferred to the revaluation reserve and due to the change in the nature of use, the total value was reclassified as investment property. Rental income earned from investment property by the group amounts to Rs.281 mn (2011 Rs.233 mn) and direct operating expenses incurred by the group amounted to Rs.74 mn (2011 Rs.65 mn). Annual Report 2011/12 193 194 Group Company Software 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s Developed Purchased licenses WIP PVIB Goodwill Other Software licenses 5 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Cost / carrying value At the beginning of the year 85,736 73,909 129,373 17,226 2,249,000 505,611 49,500 3,110,355 2,800,822 68,991 51,547 John Keells Holdings PLC Additions / transfers 17,481 28,425 (10,475) 6,599 42,030 121,204 19,344 17,444 New acquisitions 212,288 212,288 194,341 Adjustment due to sale of non-current investments (5,327) Impairment (716) (716) Exchange translation difference 1,564 214 1,778 (685) At the end of the year 104,781 73,193 157,798 6,965 2,249,000 724,498 49,500 3,365,735 3,110,355 88,335 68,991 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At the beginning of the year (21,841) (53,617) (28,115) (374,832) (478,405) (244,677) (25,267) (14,097) Amortisation (18,553) (11,798) (29,062) (187,417) (246,830) (234,023) (14,927) (11,170) Exchange translation difference (829) (829) 295 At the end of the year (41,223) (65,415) (57,177) (562,249) (726,064) (478,405) (40,194) (25,267) Notes to the financial statements Carrying value As at 31 March 2012 63,558 7,778 100,621 6,965 1,686,751 724,498 49,500 2,639,671 48,141 As at 31 March 2011 63,895 20,292 101,258 17,226 1,874,168 505,611 49,500 2,631,950 43,724 Intangible assets Intangible assets (Percentage) (Percentage) 2 20 4 0 14 1 22 27 19 2012 2011 64 71 Software Software Software Software Software Software Developed Purchased licenses Developed Purchased licenses Software WIP PVIB Goodwill Other Software WIP PVIB Goodwill Other Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 5.1 Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) On acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC (UA), the group has recognised in the consolidated financial statements an intangible asset representing the present value of future profits on UA’s portfolio of long term life insurance contracts, known as the present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, PVIB recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over the life of the business acquired and reviewed annually for any impairment in value. In Rs.‘000s Net carrying value of goodwill As at 31st March 2012 5.2 Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to 7 cash generating units (CGU’s) for impairment testing as follows; Airlines 5,054 Chaaya Hotels and Resorts 131,485 Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts 34,763 Consumer Foods and Retail 74,549 Financial Services 254,433 Information Technology 212,288 Logistics, Ports and Shipping 11,926 724,498 The recoverable amount of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation. Key assumptions used in the VIU calculations Gross margins The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted gross margins is the gross margins achieved in the year preceeding the budgeted year adjusted for projected market conditions. Discount rates The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the addition of an appropriate risk premium. Inflation The basis used to determine the value assigned to the budgeted cost inflation, is the inflation rate, based on projected economic conditions. Volume growth Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and realistic basis by taking into account the growth rates of one to four years immediately subsequent to the budgeted year based on Industry growth rates. Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate. Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6 INVESTMENTS 6.1 Carrying value Investments in subsidiaries Investments consolidated Quoted 6.2 18,164,123 17,649,155 Unquoted 6.3 6,495,033 5,827,842 Investments not consolidated Unquoted 6.4 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 24,664,271 23,482,112 Investments in joint ventures 6.5 Investments in associates 6.6 15,692,608 14,670,235 9,485,530 9,257,569 Other investments Other equity investments Quoted 6.8 1,503,029 13 1,502,999 Unquoted 6.9 107,167 609,466 79,507 581,806 1,610,196 609,479 1,582,506 581,806 Other non equity investments 6.11 10,768,687 11,182,974 12,378,883 11,792,453 1,582,506 581,806 28,076,606 26,467,803 35,732,307 33,321,487 Annual Report 2011/12 195 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group Company Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.2 Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 347,824,190 5,216,368 5,216,368 347,824,190 5,216,367 5,216,367 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 77,321,208 1,373,074 788,478 67,109,128 1,290,408 775,440 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Preference shares 119 2 1 118 1 1 John Keells Hotels PLC. 1,169,598,478 7,102,140 7,102,140 1,169,598,478 7,102,140 7,102,140 John Keells PLC. 52,834,784 394,830 394,830 52,834,784 394,830 394,830 Keells Food Products PLC. 7,180,063 248,439 248,439 5,581,307 202,397 202,397 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 11,286,000 63,466 63,466 11,286,000 63,466 63,466 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 184,107,284 2,254,710 2,254,710 97,284,256 1,594,665 1,594,665 Union Assurance PLC. 71,740,487 2,334,522 2,334,522 63,695,530 2,299,849 2,299,849 18,987,551 18,402,954 18,164,123 17,649,155 The market value of quoted investments amounts to Rs.72,397 mn (2011 96,878 mn ) and Rs.64,782 mn (2011 85,714 mn) for the group and company respectively, the details of which are as follows; Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Market Value Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 27,130,287 32,678,083 27,130,287 32,678,083 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 6,958,909 13,046,666 6,039,822 11,304,578 John Keells Hotels PLC. 14,736,941 20,117,094 14,736,941 20,117,094 John Keells PLC. 3,497,663 4,892,501 3,497,663 4,892,501 Keells Food Products PLC. 718,006 1,077,009 558,131 837,196 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 553,014 959,310 553,014 959,310 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 12,316,777 18,024,103 6,508,317 9,524,129 Union Assurance PLC. 6,485,340 6,083,593 5,758,076 5,401,381 72,396,937 96,878,359 64,782,251 85,714,272 196 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March Number of Number of In Rs.’000s shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 6.3 Group unquoted investments John Keells BPO Alpha (Pvt) Ltd.* 7,350 792 792 John Keells BPO Alpha (Pvt) Ltd.*Preference A 57,200,000 615,358 615,358 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd.* 12,144,500 29,774 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd.*Preference A 21,986,806 876,160 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd.* 19,000,000 1,989,953 1,878,693 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd.* 1,500,000,000 1,615,203 1,615,203 John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Ltd.* 5,000 542 542 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd.* 32,843,578 John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd.* 5,000 538 538 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd.* 14,700 1,584 1,584 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd.* Preference A 57,200,000 615,358 615,358 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. 133,815,000 1,338,150 988,000 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. 51 1 51 1 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 12,119,739 1,052,011 1,052,011 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 1,000,000 10,000 10,000 1,000,000 10,000 10,000 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 15,000 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 7,299 433,708 433,708 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 12,981,548 695,083 695,083 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 4,321,381 311,851 311,851 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 81,263,544 812,635 812,635 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 2,000,000 20,000 20,000 2,000,000 20,000 20,000 International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. 22,998,223 1,194,741 1,194,741 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 1,450,000 1,450,000 J K Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 24,000,000 192,169 192,169 24,000,000 192,169 192,169 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 202,239,025 1,022,892 522,892 John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd. 186,120 94,921 John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd. Redeemable non voting preference shares 650,000 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 9,650,000 96,500 96,500 9,650,000 96,500 96,500 John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 98 9 9 98 9 9 John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 9,000,000 6,132 6,132 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 2,283,225 255,882 222,313 2,283,225 255,882 222,312 John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 34,100 3,832 3,832 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 199,160,000 1,991,600 1,880,340 199,160,000 1,991,600 1,880,340 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 20,000,000 200,000 200,000 20,000,000 200,000 200,000 John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. 8,231,371 161,902 128,037 627,999 John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. Redeemable non voting preference shares 4,600,000 113,359 113,359 2,600,000 41,097 41,097 John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 13,000,000 105,069 105,069 13,000,000 105,069 105,069 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 49,044,238 4,739,853 4,739,853 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 5,000 5,000 500,000 5,000 5,000 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. 52,236,000 522,360 52,236,000 522,360 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 92,520,000 925,200 925,200 92,520,000 925,200 925,200 John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 160,000 4,209 4,209 160,000 4,209 4,209 John Keells Software Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 800,000 John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 750,000 500 500 180,000 120 120 John Keells Teas Ltd. 12,000 120 120 12,000 120 120 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 12,000,000 120,000 120,000 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 6,165,484 409,128 409,128 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 16,000 1,419 1,419 16,000 1,419 1,419 Keells Food Products Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 9,850 * The company name was changed during the financial year. Annual Report 2011/12 197 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group Company As at 31st March Number of Number of In Rs.’000s shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 6.3 Group unquoted investments Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 1,000,000 19,055 19,055 1,000,000 19,055 19,055 Keells Realtors Ltd. 7,500,000 75,000 75,000 3,000,000 30,000 30,000 Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. 50,000 502 502 50,000 502 502 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. 34,805,470 1,325,218 1,325,218 34,805,470 1,325,218 1,325,218 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 7,563 7,563 500,000 7,563 7,563 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. 4,900 2,035 2,035 4,700 2,021 2,021 Mackinnon & Keells Financial Services Ltd. 1,080,000 12,806 12,806 972,000 11,912 11,912 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd. 500,000 14,200 14,200 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd. 9,000 6,600 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 13,901 13,901 500,000 13,901 13,901 Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd. 300 327,240 327,240 300 327,240 327,240 Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100 100 10,000 100 100 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 2,695,067 29,300 20,000 Resort Hotels Ltd. 79,107 6,351 750 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 34,153 34,153 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 637,500 1,106,270 1,106,270 Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 11,000,000 111,100 111,100 11,000,000 111,100 111,100 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 29,059 302,640 302,640 Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 8,120,005 357,000 357,000 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. 3,000,000 95,940 95,940 Walkers Tours Ltd. 4,925,577 128,141 128,141 4,925,577 128,141 128,141 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 750,000 40,985 40,985 675,000 40,935 40,935 Whittall Boustead Ltd. 9,918,880 133,383 133,383 7,258,264 106,590 106,590 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 1,576,750 23,497 21,885 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 28,268,000 300,678 300,678 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.Non voting preference shares 10,000,000 100,000 100,000 27,057,635 24,472,723 6,495,033 5,827,842 Directors’ valuation of unquoted investments amount to Rs.27,058 mn (2011 Rs.24,473 mn) and Rs.6,495 mn (2011 Rs.5,828 mn) for the group and company respectively. Group Company Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.4 Investments in subsidiaries not consolidated Keells Systems Integrators Ltd. 500,000 5,115 5,115 500,000 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 5,115 The Directors’ valuation of investments in subsidiaries not consolidated amount to Rs.5 mn (2011 Rs.5 mn) for the group and company. Keells System Integrators Ltd is a non-operating subsidiary, currently under liquidation, with a net asset value that equals the book value of investment. 198 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.5 Investments in joint ventures Information Systems Associates. 73 46,482 46,482 Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd. 1,578,800 15,788 62,270 46,482 The Directors’ valuation of the investment in the joint venture amounts to Rs.62 mn (2011 Rs.46 mn). The group has a 50% and 49% of interests in Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd and Information Systems Associates (ISA), jointly controlled entities which are involved in leisure in Sri Lanka and software development services in United Arab Emirates respectively. The summarised financial information of joint ventures are given in Note 6.7. Group Company Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.6 Investments in associates Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 68,951,695 1,561,355 1,561,355 46,121,532 1,011,052 1,011,052 Unquoted Central Hospitals (Pvt) Ltd. 58,823,529 1,000,000 1,000,000 52,941,176 900,000 900,000 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000 150 150 30,000 150 150 Sancity Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. 2,279,607 227,961 2,279,607 227,961 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. 159,826,750 7,375,263 7,375,263 159,826,750 7,346,367 7,346,367 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 12,689 (formerly known as Auxicogent BPO Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.) Preference A 766,420 Quatrro FPO Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 77,326,071 615,358 615,358 Cumulative profit accruing to the group net of dividends 3,226,859 2,896,099 Cumulative adjustment on account of associate company share of net assets 1,685,662 442,901 15,692,608 14,670,235 9,485,530 9,257,569 Group’s shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in Nations Trust Bank PLC. The Monetary Board has directed that the Group reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or below, on or before the 23rd of April 2012. JKH has written to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka requesting an extension of the deadline and a formal response is awaited. Market Value Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 3,923,351 5,261,014 2,624,315 3,519,073 3,923,351 5,261,014 2,624,315 3,519,073 The Directors’ valuation of unquoted associate investments amount to Rs.13,084 mn (2011 Rs.12,391 mn) and Rs.8,474 mn (2011 Rs.8,247 mn) for the group and company respectively. Refer group directory in the supplementary section of the annual report for effective holding percentages of group investments. Annual Report 2011/12 199 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Associates Joint Ventures As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.7 Summarised financial information of associates / joint ventures Group share of; Revenue 9,762,481 9,323,780 126,987 89,573 Operating expenses (5,556,171) (6,570,073) (93,981) (85,156) Finance expenses (1,346,195) (112,796) Profit for the year 2,860,115 2,640,911 33,006 4,417 Group share of; Total assets 40,955,891 35,454,638 124,373 60,697 Total liabilities (30,388,463) (25,909,272) (36,046) (23,272) Net assets 10,567,428 9,545,366 88,327 37,425 Goodwill 5,125,324 5,125,324 Unrealised profits (144) (455) 15,692,608 14,670,235 53,157 37,425 Contingent liabilities 24,827,581 19,379,479 Capital and other commitments 80,325 104,586 The group and the company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments in respect of its associates and joint venture. Group Company Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.8 Other quoted equity investments Access Engineering PLC. 40,000,000 1,000,700 40,000,000 1,000,700 Ceylon Hotels Corporation PLC. 500 13 13 Expo Lanka Holdings PLC. 83,300,000 502,299 83,300,000 502,299 REA Holdings PLC. 500 17 1,503,029 13 1,502,999 The market value of other quoted equity investments amount to Rs.1,584 mn (2011 Rs.13 mn) and Rs.1,584 mn for the group and company respectively. 200 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company Number of Number of As at 31st March shares 2012 2011 shares 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.9 Other unquoted equity investments ACW Insurance Co. Ltd. 450,000 1,269 1,269 Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd. 777,055 79,507 79,507 777,055 79,507 79,507 Expo Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 502,299 502,299 Fitch Rating Lanka Ltd. 62,500 625 625 Eagle Growth and Income Fund. 310,000 Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. 2,500,000 25,000 25,000 SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. 64,642 715 715 Sri Lanka Hotel Tourism Training Institute. 15,004 50 50 The York Company Ltd. 100 1 1 107,167 609,466 79,507 581,806 The director’s valuation of other unquoted equity investments amount to Rs.107 mn (2011 Rs.609 mn) and Rs.79 mn (2011 Rs.582 mn) for the group and company respectively. Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.10 Movement in equity investments At the beginning of the year 15,284,829 14,421,481 33,321,487 30,962,507 Additions 1,000,717 943,491 2,410,820 2,935,044 New acquisitions 227,961 Disposals and transfers (779,109) (576,064) Adjustment on account of associate company share of net assets 1,242,761 (225,531) Share of results of associates net of dividends 330,760 145,388 At the end of the year 17,307,919 15,284,829 35,732,307 33,321,487 Total value of investments including subsidiaries 63,415,375 58,206,988 35,732,307 33,321,487 Group investments (46,107,456) (42,922,159) Total value of investments 17,307,919 15,284,829 35,732,307 33,321,487 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 6.11 Other non equity investments Bank deposits 354,000 300,000 Commercial Paper 247,368 Debentures 1,906,522 1,229,300 Government securities 8,260,797 9,653,674 10,768,687 11,182,974 Annual Report 2011/12 201 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group Company ASSETS LIABILITIES ASSETS As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 7 DEFERRED TAX At the beginning of the year 202,850 182,252 647,960 781,742 54,198 Charge and release (73,846) 50,812 60,220 8,527 (54,198) 54,198 Charge and release on rate differential (33,343) (145,246) Transfers / exchange translation difference 474 3,129 (210) 2,937 At the end of the year 129,478 202,850 707,970 647,960 54,198 The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following; Revaluation of land and buildings to fair value (8,651) (11,706) 192,019 240,131 Revaluation of investment properties to fair value (934) 16,324 35,507 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (195,636) (166,866) 617,878 458,769 (24,746) Employee benefit liability 55,757 85,490 (139,769) (141,154) 29,330 Losses available for offset against future taxable income 273,452 290,513 (20,153) (31,382) 49,614 Qualifying investment in property, plant and equipment (54,007) Others 5,490 5,419 95,678 86,089 129,478 202,850 707,970 647,960 54,198 7.1 The group has tax losses amounting to Rs.6,546 mn (2011 Rs.5,287 mn) that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the tax losses arose. 7.2 Deferred tax assets amounting to Rs.85 mn (2011 Rs.53 mn) for the group and Rs.14 (2011 Rs Nil) for the company have not been recognised for the year since the companies do not expect these assets to reverse in the forseeable future. 7.3 Deferred tax for tax holiday companies For group companies under BOI tax holidays, deferred tax during the tax holiday period has been recognised for temporary differences, when reversals of such differences extend beyond the tax exemption period, taking into account the requirements of SLAS 14 and the ICASL council ruling on deferred tax. Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 8 OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS Loans to executives 8.1 835,960 704,423 55,204 50,898 Loans to life policy holders 255,257 239,420 Loans to subsidiaries 34.3 173,641 207,641 Work-in-progress of apartments 2,402,739 2,265,985 Others 5,959 21,573 3,499,915 3,231,401 228,845 258,539 8.1 Loans to executives At the beginning of the year 879,493 732,441 71,220 60,098 Loans granted / transfers 552,169 481,986 32,918 36,260 Recoveries (372,709) (334,934) (28,109) (25,138) At the end of the year 1,058,953 879,493 76,029 71,220 Receivable within one year 222,993 175,070 20,825 20,322 Receivable between one and five years 835,960 704,423 55,204 50,898 1,058,953 879,493 76,029 71,220 202 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 9 INVENTORIES Raw materials 350,977 260,263 Work-in-progress 64,392 Finished goods 3,152,816 2,120,337 Produce stocks 252,867 254,814 Other stocks 551,296 508,216 760 4,372,348 3,143,630 760 Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 10 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables 10,358,821 8,327,209 830,065 554,552 Reinsurance receivables 10.1 475,722 656,901 Premium receivable 10.2 875,986 992,092 Tax refunds 2,038,326 1,920,875 14,141 14,141 Loans to executives 8.1 222,993 175,070 20,825 20,322 13,971,848 12,072,147 865,031 589,015 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 10.1 Reinsurance receivables Reinsurance receivables on outstanding claims 369,942 522,172 Reinsurance receivables on settled claims net of dues 111,813 136,430 Less: Provision for bad debts (6,033) (1,701) 475,722 656,901 10.2 Premium receivable Premium receivable 884,017 1,000,123 Less: Provision for bad debts (8,031) (8,031) 875,986 992,092 Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 11 SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS Quoted equities at market value 11.1 1,293,372 1,199,292 Investments unit linked 13,608 11,027 Bank deposits (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 1,347,070 684,510 958,556 663,010 Government securities (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 2,222,067 1,177,873 4,876,117 3,072,702 958,556 663,010 Bank deposits (less than 3 months) 12,685,531 5,463,864 7,076,846 4,657,255 Government securities (less than 3 months) 7,205,377 8,344,470 2,066,796 4,750,984 Reported for cash flow 19,890,908 13,808,334 9,143,642 9,408,239 24,767,025 16,881,036 10,102,198 10,071,249 Annual Report 2011/12 203 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group Cost Market value As at 31st March Number of shares 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 11.1 Quoted equities at market value Aitken Spence PLC.* 323,300 42,220 36,436 Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 9,063 8,925 AVIVA NDB Insurance PLC. 77,800 22,168 19,710 16,455 20,638 Brown and Company PLC.* 56,300 13,284 3,889 8,732 4,549 Central Finance Company PLC. 83,500 15,952 41,480 14,304 139,980 Ceylon Grain Elevators PLC.* 48,800 4,758 2,967 Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC. 56,300 21,910 29,000 Chemical Industries Colombo PLC. 2,211 2,403 Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC. 298,300 40,184 24,921 54,261 32,896 Colombo Dockyard PLC. 313,005 69,912 38,193 71,991 45,637 Colombo Land & Development Company PLC.* 303,800 15,937 11,107 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. (Non voting) 856,346 52,958 17,015 68,508 36,625 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.* 713,316 78,304 19,910 69,247 20,384 DFCC Bank PLC.* 211,700 23,249 11,312 23,837 9,758 Dialog Axiata PLC. 2,500,000 17,801 58,215 17,750 72,941 Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC. 22,062 33,340 66,436 21,669 63,991 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC.* 667,600 106,495 43,592 96,802 54,108 Environmental Resources Investments PLC.* 276,800 14,007 5,787 4,650 5,249 Expolanka Holdings PLC. 7,117,700 95,829 44,130 Galadari Hotels Lanka PLC. 1,454 1,264 Hatton National Bank PLC.* 292,900 53,888 42,181 Hatton National Bank PLC.(Non voting) 609,050 51,943 44,971 57,555 79,464 Hemas Holdings PLC. 405,750 6,708 11,954 10,671 23,803 HNB Assurance PLC. 336,266 23,645 21,018 15,401 23,539 Janashakthi Insurance PLC. 1,262 1,297 John Keells Holdings PLC.* 671,333 134,138 38,439 138,295 36,985 John Keells Hotels PLC. 6,341 5,463 Lanka Capital Holdings PLC.* 1,086,300 3,016 2,173 Lanka Floortiles PLC. 483,700 64,543 31,489 Lanka ORIX Finance Company PLC. 378,000 25,702 20,412 Lanka Tiles PLC. 63,217 61,578 Laugfs Gas PLC.* 267,100 9,844 6,891 LB Finance PLC.* 55,300 8,196 1,977 7,460 2,451 Merchant Bank of Sri Lanka PLC. 1,391 1,391 National Development Bank PLC. 6,311 6,025 Nations Trust Bank PLC.* 183,600 12,217 3,775 10,447 3,472 Nawaloka Hospitals PLC. 1,226 1,222 Overseas Realty Ceylon PLC. 2,882 2,682 Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC. 1,666 1,621 Piramal Glass PLC.* 2,626,700 22,589 16,585 16,023 20,803 Richard Pieris and Company PLC.* 1,541,900 15,139 4,819 11,564 5,673 Royal Ceremics Lanka PLC.* 403,070 36,392 46,806 46,353 122,601 Sampath Bank PLC.* 385,958 64,221 28,083 69,395 66,772 Seylan Bank PLC. 2,514 1,985 Softlogic Holdings PLC.* 3,627,149 97,289 40,624 Sri Lanka Telecom PLC. 288,200 13,844 24,933 13,344 29,651 The Lanka Hospital Corporation PLC.* 177,400 7,608 5,783 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. 785,175 13,528 9,878 27,025 38,577 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. (Non voting) 2,757,500 84,147 55,515 74,453 95,326 Union Bank of Colombo PLC.* 276,900 5,083 4,846 United Motors Lanka PLC. 302,500 52,251 53,978 32,670 47,563 Vallibel One PLC.* 866,900 18,381 16,471 1,492,620 812,729 1,293,372 1,199,292 * Investments made by Union Assurance PLC under the unit linked equity tracker fund, which invests in the 22 Companies that comprise the Milanka Price Index. 204 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information As at 31st March 2012 2011 In ‘000s Number of Value of Number of Value of shares shares shares shares Rs. Rs. 12 STATED CAPITAL Fully paid ordinary shares At the beginning of the year 629,693 24,611,507 619,474 23,322,400 Share options exercised 4,382 499,021 10,219 1,289,107 Increase in number of shares due to share sub division 210,046 At the end of the year 844,121 25,110,528 629,693 24,611,507 The number of shares in issue as at 31-03-2012, include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,185,047 (2011952,114), whereby the number of GDRs were increased by 317,371 due to the share sub division in June 2011 and 84,438 GDRs (in terms of ordinary shares) were converted during the year into ordinary shares. Further information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the share information section of the annual report. 31,157,486 shares (2011 22,300,605) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2012. Group As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 13 CAPITAL RESERVES Revaluation reserve 13.1 9,488,143 8,110,991 Exchange translation reserve 13.2 2,987,476 1,021,061 Other capital reserves 428,365 428,365 12,903,984 9,560,417 13.1 Revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB). 13.2 Exchange translation reserve comprises the net exchange movement arising on the translation of net equity investments of overseas subsidiaries, joint venture and associates into Sri Lankan rupees. Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 14 REVENUE RESERVES General reserves 5,547,963 5,547,963 4,194,322 4,194,322 Accumulated profit 27,613,133 19,866,826 11,199,355 9,244,938 33,161,096 25,414,789 15,393,677 13,439,260 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 15 INSURANCE PROVISION Provision life 14,516,456 12,475,589 Unclaimed benefits 228,256 186,911 14,744,712 12,662,500 Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance fund, result primarily from traditional participating and non participating life insurance products. Short duration contract liabilities are primarily group term, accident and health insurance products. The actuarial reserves have been established based on the following; Interest rates which vary by product and as required by regulations issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL). Mortality rates based on published mortality tables adjusted for actual experience as required by regulations issued by the IBSL. Surrender rates based on the actual experience. Annual Report 2011/12 205 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements The amount of policy holder dividend to be paid is determined annually by the company. The dividend includes life policy holders’ share of net income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract or by insurance regulations. The valuation of conventional life insurance fund as at 31 December 2011 was conducted by Mr. M. Poopalanathan of Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recommended a sum of Rs. 419 million to be transferred from conventional life insurance fund to the shareholders fund for the year 2011. Subsequent to the transfer the conventional life fund stands as Rs. 13,141 million, including the liability in respect of bonuses and dividends declared up to and including for the year 2011. Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business valuation was made by Mr. M. Poopalanathan of Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recomended a sum of Rs. 10 million to be transferred from the non unit fund of the linked long term fund to shareholders fund for the year 2011. Subsequent to the transfer the fund stands at Rs. 70 million as at 31 December 2011. As at 31 December 2011 2010 In Rs.’000s Movement in life insurance fund Life fund conventional 13,559,952 11,900,014 Transfer to shareholders (429,000) (325,000) Non unit fund of linked long term business 80,407 4,094 13,211,359 11,579,108 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 16 NON-INTEREST BEARING BORROWINGS At the beginning of the year 18,000 18,000 Repayments At the end of the year 18,000 18,000 Repayable within one year Repayable between one and five years 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 Non-interest bearing borrowings represent loans received by Transware logistics (Pvt) Limited (TWL), a subsidiary of the group, from MISC Enterprises Holdings SDN BHD and Keppel Logistics (Pvt) Ltd, joint venture partners of TWL. Debt / Equity (Rs Mn) % 120,000 50 100,000 40 80,000 30 60,000 20 40,000 10 20,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Debt Equity Debt / Equity 206 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 17 INTEREST BEARING BORROWINGS 17.1 Movement At the beginning of the year 10,487,005 14,708,426 6,624,000 9,975,493 Additions / transfers 5,272,726 1,731,979 Repayments (2,408,745) (5,598,409) (1,117,050) (3,118,042) Adjustments / exchange difference 1,342,168 (354,991) 898,050 (233,451) At the end of the year 14,693,154 10,487,005 6,405,000 6,624,000 Repayable within one year 2,408,740 2,134,418 1,281,000 1,104,000 Repayable after one year Repayable between one and five years 12,284,414 7,248,442 5,124,000 5,520,000 Repayable after five years 1,104,145 12,284,414 8,352,587 5,124,000 5,520,000 14,693,154 10,487,005 6,405,000 6,624,000 Group interest bearing borrowings include finance lease obligations amounting to Rs.163 mn (2011 Rs.6 mn), details of which are disclosed in note 17.2. Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 17.2 Finance leases At the beginning of the year 5,792 20,537 Additions 162,613 Repayments (5,792) (7,583) Adjustments / transfers (7,162) At the end of the year 162,613 5,792 Finance lease obligations repayable within one year Gross liability 43,651 6,697 Finance charges (21,232) (1,391) Net lease obligation 22,419 5,306 Finance lease obligations repayable between one and five years Gross liability 185,521 495 Finance charges (45,327) (9) Net lease obligation 140,194 486 Annual Report 2011/12 207 208 Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment institution facility and security terms 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s Rs. Rs. 17.3 Security and repayment terms John Keells Holdings PLC. International Term Loan 6 months LIBOR+2.75%, Bi-annual repayments 6,405,000 6,624,000 Finance Corporation 165 mn shares of Asian Hotels & Properties PLC, commencing John Keells Holdings PLC 862 mn shares of John Keells Hotels PLC, December 2009 14 mn shares of Trans Asia Hotels PLC and 26 mn shares of Union Assurance PLC 6,405,000 6,624,000 Group companies Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. NDB E Friendly loan 6.5%, Kaduwela land, building and machinery 60 monthly installments 3,169 6,626 of soft drink plant commencing March 2008 NDB Project loan 10.5%, Kaduwela land, building and machinery 60 monthly installments 14,933 59,733 of soft drink plant commencing August 2007 DFCC Project loan 10.5%, Kaduwela land, building and machinery Repayment over 5 years 36,458 of soft drink plant commencing November 2007 DFCC Term loan AWDR + 4%, Kaduwela land, Repayment over 4 1/2 years 10,000 40,000 building and machinery of soft drink plant commencing July 2008 Notes to the financial statements DFCC Project loan AWPR 0.5%, Kaduwela land, 48 monthly installments 191,667 230,000 building and machinery of soft drink plant commencing August 2011 DFCC Project loan AWDR + 2.5%, Kaduwela land, 60 monthly installments 139,682 building and machinery of soft drink plant commencing January 2012 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. SCB Term Loan 1 month SLIBOR+1% 12 equal quarterly installments 50,000 83,333 Letter of comfort from commencing November 2010 John Keells Holdings PLC. John Keells Maldivian Sampath Bank Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 1.3% 30 quarterly installments 589,260 794,880 Resorts (Pte) Ltd. for first two years and commencing March 2008 LIBOR + 1.5% thereafter, revised quarterly, Head lease rights of Dhonveli resorts HSBC Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 3.0% 48 equal monthly installments Letter of comfort from John Keells Hotels PLC. commencing November 2011 459,025 Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment institution facility and security terms 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s Rs. Rs. 17.3 Security and repayment terms John Keells Maldivian People’s Bank Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 4.25% 36 monthly installments 312,102 Resorts (Pte) Ltd. Corporate guarantee of commencing September 2009 John Keells Hotels PLC. Fantasea World Investments HNB Term Loan 3 months LIBOR + 3.25% Repayment over 5 years 1,377,194 1,473,943 (Pte) Ltd. Leasehold rights of Hakuraa Huraa commencing August 2011 Island resort John Keells Warehousing Deutsche Bank Asset backed notes 21.98%, corporate Repayment over 10 years 23,544 41,025 (Pvt) Ltd. guarantee of John Keells PLC. commencing May 2003 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. People’s bank Term loan 9%, mortgage of 83 monthly payments 5,868 8,140 Peliyagoda warehouse and lease commencing November 2007 rights of land Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. BOC Maldives Term loan LIBOR + 2%, sub lease rights and 28 quarterly installments 738,862 770,828 corporate guarantee of John Keells commencing November 2009 Hotels PLC. British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. HNB Term loan AWPLR Quarterly Installments 26,000 Floating mortgage bond commencing June 2012 8%, Floating mortgage bond commencing May 2013 928,000 Habarana Lodge Ltd. HNB Term loan AWPLR Repayment over 5 years 400,000 commencing April 2012 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. People’s bank Term loan AWPLR +3% 84 monthly installments 425,000 commencing December 2012 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts DFCC Term loan AWPLR +1% 72 monthly installments 1,000,000 (Pvt) Ltd. Primary mortgage over lease rights of land, commencing November 2013 movable property plant and equipment Annual Report 2011/12 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 209 210 Lending Nature of Interest rate Repayment institution facility and security terms 2012 2011 In Rs.‘000s Rs. Rs. 17.3 Security and repayment terms Beruwala Holiday Resorts John Keells Holdings PLC (Pvt) Ltd HNB Term loan 1 month SLIBOR, Mortgage over property 72 monthly installments 1,743,192 commencing June 2013 Whittal Boustead Ltd. Debenture 7.5%, unsecured 145 145 14,530,541 10,481,213 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. NTB Finance lease 672 Habarana Lodge Ltd. NTB Finance lease 555 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance Lease 414 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. NTB Finance lease 3,407 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance lease 414 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. NTB Finance lease 330 JK BPO Solution India (Pvt) Ltd. DLF Assets (Pvt) Ltd. Finance lease 162,613 162,613 5,792 14,693,154 10,487,005 Notes to the financial statements Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 18 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITIES At the beginning of the year 1,215,597 1,041,395 104,752 92,630 Current service cost 113,052 148,093 8,334 7,074 New acquisitions 4,726 Transfers 1,244 1,245 Interest cost on benefit obligation 121,560 104,140 10,475 9,262 Payments (85,444) (70,150) (8,655) (4,843) (Gain) / Loss arising from changes in assumptions or due to (over) / under provision in the previous year 2,248 (7,565) 10,714 (616) Exchange translation difference 422 (316) At the end of the year 1,372,161 1,215,597 126,864 104,752 The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line items; Cost of sales 90,230 104,956 8,309 6,797 Distribution expenses 9,134 13,339 Administrative expenses 137,496 126,373 21,214 8,923 236,860 244,668 29,523 15,720 The employee benefit liability of listed companies (with more than 100 employees) and of Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd is based on the actuarial valuations carried out by Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., actuaries. The employee benefit liability of all other companies in the group are based on the gratuity formula in Appendix E of SLAS 16 Employee Benefits. The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of employee benefits were: Discount rate 10% Future salary increases 6% 10% Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 19 OTHER DEFERRED LIABILITIES At the beginning of the year 4,143 4,655 Amortisation (512) (512) At the end of the year 3,631 4,143 Amounts expected to be amortised within one year 512 512 Amounts expected to be amortised after one year 3,119 3,631 3,631 4,143 Basis of amortisation Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Sri Lanka Tea Board subsidy 10% p.a. 1,708 1,895 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Ceylon Chamber of Commerce grant 10% p.a. 1,923 2,248 3,631 4,143 Annual Report 2011/12 211 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 20 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Advances received 560,943 490,294 Returnable containers and crates deposits 212,941 256,644 773,884 746,938 Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade payables 6,634,263 4,436,189 Reinsurance payables 540,253 458,520 Insurance provision general 21.1 3,002,078 2,822,274 Advances and deposits 1,192,227 370,242 Sundry creditors including accrued expenses 3,307,509 3,849,894 331,525 220,667 Other payables 721,717 442,470 15,398,047 12,379,589 331,525 220,667 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 21.1 Insurance provision general Reserve for net unearned premiums 2,008,481 1,781,488 Reserve for net deferred acquisition cost (51,004) (48,862) Reserve for gross outstanding claims 1,044,601 1,089,648 3,002,078 2,822,274 Group Company As at 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 22 INCOME TAX LIABILITIES At the beginning of the year 796,714 454,292 Charge for the year 30.1 1,250,605 1,207,940 39,678 76,457 New acquisitions 4,791 Payments and set off against refunds (1,223,817) (865,293) (39,678) (76,457) Exchange translation difference 10 (225) At the end of the year 828,303 796,714 Group As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 23 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS Loans 1,009,057 232,000 1,009,057 232,000 212 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 24 REVENUE 24.1 Revenue Gross revenue 76,951,541 60,862,206 576,239 554,627 Turnover tax (251,858) (362,138) Net revenue 76,699,683 60,500,068 576,239 554,627 For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 Sale of Rendering of Total Sale of Rendering of Total In Rs.’000s goods services revenue goods services revenue 24.2 Business segment analysis Transportation 15,116,213 2,261,834 17,378,047 11,391,682 2,034,078 13,425,760 Leisure 17,421,927 17,421,927 13,809,589 13,809,589 Property 3,790,043 3,790,043 2,493,634 2,493,634 Consumer Foods & Retail 10,162,055 11,859,485 22,021,540 8,106,401 10,251,975 18,358,376 Financial Services 7,932,331 7,932,331 6,483,587 6,483,587 Information Technology 3,932,967 1,993,434 5,926,401 2,276,576 829,959 3,106,535 Others 2,229,394 2,229,394 2,822,587 2,822,587 Group revenue 29,211,235 47,488,448 76,699,683 21,774,659 38,725,409 60,500,068 Group For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 24.3 Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) Sri Lanka 66,397,088 52,615,665 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 6,632,072 5,042,812 Europe 3,082,639 2,358,770 Others 587,884 482,821 Total group external revenue 76,699,683 60,500,068 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 25 DIVIDEND INCOME Income from investments in related parties 4,454,001 3,458,217 Income from other investments 104,360 62,599 75,887 42,738 104,360 62,599 4,529,888 3,500,955 Revenue By Business Segment (Rs Mn) Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 2012 2011 Annual Report 2011/12 213 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 26 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Interest income 2,770,000 2,747,650 591,151 757,847 Gain on disposal of quoted investments held for sale 297,268 Increase in market value of quoted investments held for sale 186,042 Exchange gain 203,144 299,893 102,348 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 2,371 3,415 1,014 Profit on sale of non current investments 1,795,069 2,172,441 Profit on sale of investment property 26,200 Promotional income from consumer foods and retail group 211,010 178,419 Write back of dealer deposits 201,724 Income from commercial projects 181,796 124,486 181,796 124,486 Sundry income 586,365 485,994 7,398 3,885 4,156,410 6,114,821 783,760 3,188,221 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 27 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Nations Building Tax 605,000 544,000 13,037 17,136 Unrealised losses from investments 583,006 Heat,Light and Power 559,000 496,000 Maintenance 494,000 458,277 Exchange Loss 306,691 Other overheads 366,930 414,667 17,044 25,734 2,607,936 1,912,944 336,772 42,870 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 28 FINANCE EXPENSES Interest expense on borrowings Long term 466,273 595,174 203,549 376,623 Short term 204,645 200,900 2,194 2,876 670,918 796,074 205,743 379,499 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 29 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; Remuneration to Executive Directors 274,689 177,255 127,155 74,611 Remuneration to Non Executive Directors 34,390 27,877 14,460 11,910 Auditors’ remuneration Audit 33,843 30,711 5,507 5,113 Non-audit 9,074 9,802 3,914 903 Costs of defined employee benefits Defined benefit plan cost 236,860 244,668 29,523 15,720 Defined contribution plan cost EPF and ETF 575,062 514,221 47,528 42,243 Staff expenses 7,143,713 6,018,930 345,314 312,125 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,863,077 1,700,095 32,913 42,391 Amortisation of intangible assets 246,830 234,023 14,927 11,170 Amortisation of leasehold property 524,671 375,171 Derecognition and impairment losses 22,304 49,689 Operating lease payments 865,048 905,413 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 57,929 Donations 22,767 15,734 11,550 6,127 214 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 30 TAX EXPENSE Current income tax Current tax charge 1,340,402 1,355,993 1,260 10,159 Under provision of current tax of previous years 76,788 100,312 38,418 66,448 Economic service charge 30.2 16,155 22,681 10% Withholding tax on intercompany dividends 240,469 97,382 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 30.3 168,065 (10,567) 54,198 (54,198) 1,841,879 1,565,801 93,876 22,409 30.1 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit Profit before tax 12,910,476 10,628,961 4,361,812 5,985,312 Dividend income from group companies 5,449,601 3,874,419 Share of results of associates (2,860,115) (2,640,911) Other consolidation adjustments 1,316,365 880,471 16,816,327 12,742,940 4,361,812 5,985,312 Exempt profits (2,537,829) (1,855,005) (189,640) (193,990) Profits not charged to income tax (32,660) (2,558,077) (2,172,440) Resident dividend (5,247,329) (3,694,297) (4,529,887) (3,500,955) Accounting profit / (loss) chargeable to income taxes 8,998,509 4,635,561 (357,715) 117,927 Tax effect on chargeable profits 1,860,468 1,394,449 (100,160) 41,274 Tax effect on non deductible expenses 68,830 214,547 107,690 19,880 Tax effect on deductions claimed (776,577) (418,005) (12,488) (12,904) Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year 84,771 53,014 13,879 Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years 58,011 (211,976) 46,537 (92,439) Tax effect on rate differentials (8,387) (5,418) Under provision for previous years 76,788 100,312 38,418 66,448 Other income based taxes Economic service charge 16,155 22,681 Social responsibility levy (619) 16,265 150 10% WHT on intercompany dividends 240,469 97,382 Current and deferred tax share of associates 221,970 302,550 1,841,879 1,565,801 93,876 22,409 Income tax charged at Standard rate 28% / 35% 720,315 909,310 1,260 10,009 Concessionary rate of 12% / 15% 451,366 196,463 Off-Shore dividend 10% 2,136 Off-Shore profits at varying rates 1,855 Under provision for previous years 76,788 100,312 38,418 66,448 Charge for the year 1,250,605 1,207,940 39,678 76,457 Deferred tax reversal 113,299 (81,017) 54,198 (54,198) Other income based taxes Economic service charge 16,155 22,681 Social responsibility levy (619) 16,265 150 10% WHT on intercompany dividends 240,469 97,382 Current and deferred tax share of associates 221,970 302,550 Total income tax expense 1,841,879 1,565,801 93,876 22,409 Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the group. At present, the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for group taxation. Annual Report 2011/12 215 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Group For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 30.2 Economic service charge (ESC) ESC written-off 16,155 22,681 16,155 22,681 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 30.3 Deferred tax expense Income statement Deferred tax expense arising from; Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 142,580 (96,303) 24,746 Revaluation of investment property to fair value 728 Employee benefit liabilities (18,562) (26,136) (29,330) Benefit arising from tax losses 33,667 5,462 54,198 (49,614) Qualifying investment in property, plant and equipment (54,007) Others 9,621 35,232 113,299 (81,017) 54,198 (54,198) Share of associate company deferred tax 54,766 70,450 Deferred tax charge 168,065 (10,567) 54,198 (54,198) Statement of changes in equity Deferred tax expense arising from; Revaluation of land and building to fair value 20,818 (73,386) Total deferred tax charge 188,883 (83,953) 54,198 (54,198) Deferred tax has been computed at 28% for all standard rate companies (including listed companies), and at 12% for leisure group companies and at rates as disclosed in note 30.6 and 30.7. Temporary differences associated with undistributed reserves in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, amounts to Rs.1,137 mn (2011 Rs.1,145 mn). The deferred tax effect on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences. The group however has recognised the deferred tax impact pertaining to the current year on dividends proposed by subsidiaries and the undistributed reserves of associate companies amounting to Rs.110 mn. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 30.4 Tax losses carried forward Tax losses brought forward 5,286,904 5,286,093 1,229,909 1,258,794 Adjustments on finalization of liability 410,090 (45,729) 560 452 Tax losses arising during the year 1,267,954 423,923 Utilisation of tax losses (418,567) (377,383) (26,230) (29,337) 6,546,381 5,286,904 1,204,239 1,229,909 216 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Liability to Year of Cost of Relief additional investment approved claimed on tax on investment investments disposal of Investment 30.5 Details of investment relief John Keells Holdings PLC. 1999/2000 579,036 314,471 The company is eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under Section 31 (2) (s) of the Inland Revenue Act No 28 of 1979 and the transitional provisions at Section 218 of the Inland Revenue Act No 10 of 2006. The company has carried forward the unclaimed investment relief for set off in future years. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 2011/2012 257,174 64,293 The company is eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under Section 34 (2) (s) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 duly amended by the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No.8 of 2012. The company has carried forward the unclaimed investment relief for set off in future years 30.6 Applicable rates of income tax The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 28% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial exemptions and concessions. Company / Sector Basis Exemptions / Period Concessions Exemptions / concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Off-Shore activities for payment Exempt Open-ended in foreign currency John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. John Keels Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. Walkers Tours Ltd. John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. On-shore activities for payment Exempt Open-ended in foreign currency John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Holdings PLC. Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. Export consignment sales of Exempt Open-ended Petroleum Products Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. Provision of any service by any 10% One year upto 31 March 2012 undertaking with annual turnover not exceeding Rs 300 Mn Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Operation and maintenance of 10% Open-ended facilities for storage Leisure sector Promotion of tourism 12% Open-ended Consumer Foods and Retail sector Qualified export profits 12% Upto 31 March 2014 Annual Report 2011/12 217 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Company / Sector Basis Exemptions / Period Concessions Exemptions / concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Construction and operation of Exempt 15 years from April 1996 with a office and apartment complex 3 year extension on merger Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Construction of a tourist hotel Exempt 8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations Sancity Hotels and Properties Ltd. Construction of a tourist hotel Exempt 7 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Integrated supply chain Exempt 5 years from April 2009 management John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Infrastructure Development Exempt 8 years from April 2011 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. For upgrading and refurbishment Exempt 10 years from 1st year of profit of a hotel in the Eastern Province or 2 years from operations South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Port Services at Exempt 20 years from September 1999 Queen Elizabeth Quay Other miscellaneous concessions Exemption on interest income earned from foreign currency denominated accounts. Capital gains from sale of shares is excluded from chargeability to income tax. Income / profits from offshore dividends and interest is exempt from income tax. Country of incorporation Company Rate 30.7 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries India John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. Mauritius John Keells BPO Alpha (Pvt) Ltd. 3% (Effective) John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt.) Ltd. Keells Food Products Mauritius (Pvt.) Ltd. Republic of Maldives Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 15% Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. Singapore John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 17% (Maximum) United Arab Emirates Information System Associates Nil United Kingdom John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 30% USA John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd. 35% (Maximum) 218 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Group For the year ended 31st March Note 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 31 EARNINGS PER SHARE 31.1 Basic earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 9,775,007 8,245,585 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 31.3 841,086 832,673 Basic earnings per share 11.62 9.90 31.2 Diluted earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 9,775,007 8,245,585 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 31.3 850,978 843,973 Diluted earnings per share 11.49 9.77 31.3 Amount used as denominator Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year 629,692 619,474 Sub division of ordinary shares 210,046 210,046 Effect of share options exercised 1,348 3,153 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution 841,086 832,673 Number of shares outstanding under the share option scheme 28,815 26,318 Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value (18,923) (15,018) Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 850,978 843,973 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 32 DIVIDEND PER SHARE Equity dividend on ordinary shares Declared and paid during the year Final dividend* 1.00 629,833 1.00 619,867 Interim dividend 2.00 1,683,686 2.00 1,248,840 Total dividend 3.00 2,313,519 3.00 1,868,707 Dividend per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the number of shares in issue at the time of dividend payout. * Previous years’ final dividend paid in the current year. Basic Earnings Per Share Diluted Earnings Per Share (Rs) (Rs) 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share Annual Report 2011/12 219 220 33 SEGMENT INFORMATION 33.1 Primary segments (business segments) Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Property, plant and equipment 296,710 657,179 21,462,470 17,965,961 739,071 805,109 4,260,982 3,863,146 1,311,684 1,125,955 466,119 67,999 843,959 784,804 29,380,995 25,270,153 Leasehold property 10,228,967 9,461,352 52,886 54,269 10,281,853 9,515,621 John Keells Holdings PLC Investment properties 400,000 1,469,540 1,369,692 4,928,626 4,800,805 3,765,854 2,582,195 2,102,175 102,000 12,666,195 8,854,692 Intangible assets 7,775 19,574 49,728 53,558 1,736,252 1,923,668 73,276 85,814 48,142 43,725 1,915,173 2,126,339 Other investments 715 715 25,063 25,063 11,305 1,270 10,769,313 11,183,599 1,572,487 581,806 12,378,883 11,792,453 Other non-current assets 65,928 45,854 80,226 73,036 2,402,808 2,361,668 131,190 94,867 654,642 625,880 48,521 38,445 116,600 68,652 3,499,915 3,308,402 Intercompany lending 4,555,293 3,938,489 93.000 173,641 304,641 4,821,934 4,243,130 Segment non-current assets 771,128 723,322 37,821,559 32,833,593 8,081,810 7,968,852 8,300,754 6,593,766 14,471,891 14,859,102 587,916 192,258 4,909,890 1,939,897 74,944,948 65,110,790 Investments in associates 11,492,316 10,425,996 227,961 2,600,158 2,279,261 454,935 1,024,147 917,238 940,831 15,692,608 14,670,235 Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures 5,115 5,115 Deferred tax assets 129,478 202,850 Goodwill 724,498 505,611 Eliminations / adjustments (4,947,618) (4,430,828) Total non-current assets 86,549,029 76,063,773 Inventories 1,152,445 388,939 286,939 247,979 68,333 4,979 2,107,180 1,901,384 13,198 6,751 492,529 341,964 273,542 271,362 4,394,167 3,163,358 Trade and other receivables 2,461,252 2,224,945 8,629,526 9,063,687 343,691 104,701 2,001,824 1,576,358 2,601,690 2,784,621 1,899,915 1,203,142 1,733,932 1,507,503 19,671,830 18,464,957 Short term investments 3,417,822 1,458,080 2,541,121 586,065 1,808,297 497,067 38,777 8,823 6,653,770 3,977,641 92,578 170,210 10,214,660 10,183,150 24,767,025 16,881,036 Cash in hand and at bank 477,695 313,697 1,926,951 1,173,495 44,086 127,653 227,349 75,403 724,963 289,434 189,630 67,415 644,230 75,149 4,234,904 2,122,246 Segment current assets 7,509,214 4,385,661 13,384,537 11,071,226 2,264,407 734,400 4,375,130 3,561,968 9,993,621 7,058,447 2,674,652 1,782,731 12,866,364 12,037,164 53,067,925 40,631,597 Notes to the financial statements Tax refunds 2,038,326 1,920,875 Eliminations / adjustments (7,717,140) (8,324,513) Total current assets 47,389,111 34,227,959 Total assets 133,938,140 110,291,732 Insurance provision 14,744,712 12,662,500 14,744,712 12,662,500 Non interest bearing borrowings 36,000 36,000 4,952,723 3,938,489 (397,430) 4,591,293 3,974,489 Interest bearing borrowings 16,667 50,487 5,809,813 2,532,773 1,099,241 189,786 283,442 316,769 140,193 5,129,699 5,549,412 12,479,055 8,639,227 Employee benefit liability 89,020 77,823 382,274 331,200 38,125 34,488 409,084 367,550 171,556 149,618 80,681 72,573 201,421 182,345 1,372,161 1,215,597 Other deferred liabilities 1,923 2,248 1,708 1,895 3,631 4,143 Other non current liabilities 60,244 51,687 500,699 438,606 212,941 256,645 773,884 746,938 Segment non-current liabilities 141,687 164,310 11,206,977 6,856,397 1,240,635 662,880 905,467 940,964 14,916,268 12,812,118 220,874 72,573 5,332,828 5,733,652 33,964,736 27,242,894 Deferred tax liabilities 707,970 647,960 Eliminations / adjustments (4,767,933) (4,243,129) Total non-current liabilities 29,904,772 23,647,725 Trade and other payables 3,339,883 1,837,564 3,391,486 3,029,657 725,141 494,747 2,979,438 2,645,913 4,652,301 4,598,084 1,399,053 1,115,141 841,292 661,563 17,328,594 14,382,669 Short term borrowings 1,041,076 107,227 5,736,742 5,786,213 46,000 172,953 201,000 478,066 80,695 41,227 247,533 35,074 7,353,046 6,620,760 Current portion of interest bearing borrowings 33,333 36,254 922,720 821,364 10,400 115,009 153,048 22,420 1,304,858 1,123,752 2,408,740 2,134,418 Bank overdrafts 497,435 112,995 1,344,054 2,022,718 36,093 45,599 807,992 1,313,714 328,111 103,492 397,717 123,714 935,952 181,884 4,347,354 3,904,116 Segment current liabilities 4,911,727 2,094,040 11,395,002 11,659,952 817,634 713,299 4,103,439 4,590,741 4,980,412 4,701,576 1,899,885 1,280,082 3,329,635 2,002,273 31,437,734 27,041,963 Income tax liabilities 828,303 796,714 Eliminations / adjustments (8,272,887) (8,389,603) Total current liabilities 23,993,151 19,449,074 Total liabilities 53,897,923 43,096,799 Total segment assets 8,280,342 5,108,983 51,206,096 43,904,819 10,346,217 8,703,252 12,675,884 10,155,734 24,465,512 21,917,549 3,262,568 1,974,989 17,776,254 13,977,061 128,012,873 105,742,387 Total segment liabilities 5,053,414 2,258,350 22,601,979 18,516,349 2,058,269 1,376,179 5,008,906 5,531,705 19,896,680 17,513,694 2,120,759 1,352,655 8,662,463 7,735,925 65,402,470 54,284,857 33.2 Primary segments (business segments) Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Total revenue 17,768,095 13,774,880 19,294,567 15,295,182 4,033,472 2,707,628 22,473,305 18,868,837 8,021,837 6,588,958 6,243,841 3,335,904 2,795,274 3,341,533 80,630,391 63,912,922 Intra segment revenue (1,551) (1,818,577) (1,448,820) (373,978) (437,877) (6,625) (5,698) (17,848) (12,944) (30,388) (52,041) (2,248,967) (1,957,380) Segment revenue 17,766,544 13,774,880 17,475,990 13,846,362 4,033,472 2,707,628 22,099,327 18,430,960 8,015,212 6,583,260 6,225,993 3,322,960 2,764,886 3,289,492 78,381,424 61,955,542 Inter segment revenue (388,497) (349,120) (54,063) (36,774) (243,429) (213,993) (77,787) (72,583) (82,881) (99,673) (299,592) (216,424) (535,492) (466,907) (1,681,741) (1,455,474) Revenue 17,378,047 13,425,760 17,421,927 13,809,588 3,790,043 2,493,635 22,021,540 18,358,377 7,932,331 6,483,587 5,926,401 3,106,536 2,229,394 2,822,585 76,699,683 60,500,068 Segment results 1,118,836 735,572 4,237,613 2,366,472 2,061,055 1,530,708 1,705,386 573,011 746,005 691,082 208,817 (189,338) (370,992) 225,683 9,706,720 5,933,190 Eliminations 92,660 65,065 110,014 203,049 (1,254,351) (895,080) 15,040 110,151 25,880 15,475 (970) 334,194 612,812 2,550,316 (398,915) 2,383,170 Finance expenses (14,286) (11,187) (271,420) (307,062) (38,306) (19,357) (90,657) (104,451) (4,059) 20,177 (47,441) (7,805) (204,749) (366,389) (670,918) (796,074) Change in fair value of investment property 99,848 229,676 206,971 215,088 1,106,655 23,000 1,413,474 467,764 Share of results of associates 2,269,370 2,140,047 660,755 606,542 (26,185) (22,584) (43,825) (83,094) 2,860,115 2,640,911 Profit / (loss) before tax 3,466,580 2,929,497 4,176,055 2,492,135 975,369 831,359 2,736,424 578,711 1,428,581 1,333,276 134,221 114,467 (6,754) 2,349,516 12,910,476 10,628,961 Tax expense (195,147) (148,431) (463,714) (172,884) (45,548) (51,151) (361,188) (348,634) (320,964) (473,499) (69,897) (136,616) (385,421) (234,586) (1,841,879) (1,565,801) Profit/ (loss) for the year 3,271,433 2,781,066 3,712,341 2,319,251 929,821 780,208 2,375,236 230,077 1,107,617 859,777 64,324 (22,149) (392,175) 2,114,930 11,068,597 9,063,160 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,229,029 2,726,251 3,118,642 1,952,079 771,216 614,680 1,933,084 183,097 1,072,491 775,408 64,324 (22,149) (413,779) 2,016,219 9,775,007 8,245,585 Minority interest 42,404 54,815 593,699 367,172 158,605 165,528 442,152 46,980 35,126 84,369 21,604 98,711 1,293,590 817,575 3,271,433 2,781,066 3,712,341 2,319,251 929,821 780,208 2,375,236 230,077 1,107,617 859,777 64,324 (22,149) (392,175) 2,114,930 11,068,597 9,063,160 Purchase and construction of Property, plant and equipment 91,207 69,773 4,157,938 3,054,832 7,209 6,191 1,021,773 1,265,967 174,516 171,784 331,632 24,122 106,479 385,083 5,890,754 4,977,752 Addition to Intangible assets 7,218 53,590 8,820 43,720 19,393 17,444 35,431 114,754 Depreciation of Property, plant and equipment 94,213 123,839 838,355 838,452 10,075 10,411 546,585 439,717 136,021 115,512 115,175 39,589 122,653 132,575 1,863,077 1,700,095 Amortisation of Intangible assets 11,798 14,149 11,096 32 187,416 187,416 21,592 21,256 14,928 11,170 246,830 234,023 Amortisation of Leasehold property 523,290 373,790 1,381 1,381 524,671 375,171 Gratuity provision and related costs 13,906 17,610 69,846 72,201 4,089 3,597 60,708 57,539 35,631 54,065 12,243 10,397 40,437 29,259 236,860 244,668 Derecognition and impairment losses 25,575 13,105 33,800 2,784 4,063 29,638 49,689 Amortisation of other Deferred liabilities 325 325 187 187 512 512 In addition to segment results, information such as finance expenses, tax expenses has been allocated to segments for better presentation. Annual Report 2011/12 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 221 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Sri Lanka Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) Others Group Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 33.3 Secondary segments (geographical segments, based on the location of assets) Segment assets 104,095,486 84,318,439 23,124,315 20,548,758 793,072 875,190 128,012,873 105,742,387 Segment liabilities 49,887,769 39,094,439 14,864,983 14,533,330 649,718 657,088 65,402,470 54,284,857 Investment in associates 15,237,673 13,646,088 454,935 1,024,147 15,692,608 14,670,235 Segment revenue 70,011,436 55,076,252 8,243,026 6,649,939 126,962 229,351 78,381,424 61,955,542 Segment results 7,966,280 4,730,717 1,771,142 1,195,937 (30,702) 6,536 9,706,720 5,933,190 Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment 5,501,020 4,507,453 372,964 467,360 16,770 2,939 5,890,754 4,977,752 Addition to intangible assets 35,431 102,955 11,799 35,431 114,754 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,590,930 1,385,954 268,670 312,749 3,477 1,392 1,863,077 1,700,095 Amortisation of intangible assets 246,830 222,168 11,855 246,830 234,023 Amortisation of leasehold property 17,192 17,192 507,479 357,979 524,671 375,171 Gratuity provision and related costs 211,389 243,045 23,045 1,209 2,426 414 236,860 244,668 Derecognition and impairment losses 29,638 46,905 2,784 29,638 49,689 Amortisation of other deferred liabilities 512 512 512 512 34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of business with the following related entities. The list of Directors at each of the subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies have been disclosed in the group directory. Group Company For the year ended 31st March Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.1 Amounts due from related parties Subsidiaries 34.3 532,451 611,884 Joint ventures 7,669 7,564 Associates 3,046 10,956 530 189 Key management personnel Post employment benefit plan 10,715 18,520 532,981 612,073 34.2 Amounts due to related parties Subsidiaries 34.3 6,926 9,274 Joint ventures Associates 1,650 2,237 Key management personnel Post employment benefit plan 1,650 2,237 6,926 9,274 222 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Company Amounts due from Amounts due to As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.3 Subsidiaries Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 528 2,235 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 219 81 British Overseas ( Pvt) Ltd. 1,255 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 8,282 4,353 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 553 539 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 4,062 21,919 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 32 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 34 30 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 470 497 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 408 452 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 319 3,400 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 1,867 5,399 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 16,262 20,038 John Keells Air Services (Pvt) Ltd. 396 396 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 2,743 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 515 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 333 352 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 1,275 303 John Keells Hotels PLC. 205 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 673 3,578 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 735 976 John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. 7,167 4,692 John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 1,522 1,537 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 814 146 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 1,999 1,729 John Keells PLC. 5,933 5,570 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 59 641 John Keells Properties Ja Ela (Pvt) Ltd. 729 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 440 3,094 John Keells Teas Ltd. 37 498 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 261 263 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 360 419 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 352 307 Keells Food Products PLC. 2,214 2,238 Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 7,286 1,406 Keells Realtors Ltd. 8 221 Lanka Marine Services Ltd. 7,195 2,857 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 1,442 1,763 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 398 48 Mackinnon & Keells Financial Services Ltd. 1,921 4,104 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd. 92 46 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of Ceylon Ltd. 31 7 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 986 207 Nation Trust Bank PLC. 221 Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd. 221 15 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 690 362 South Asia Gateway Terminal (Pvt) Ltd. 309 189 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 190 74 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 168 52 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 2,472 1,917 Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 167 35 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 25 72 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 2,186 1,972 Annual Report 2011/12 223 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Company Amounts due from Amounts due to As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.3 Subsidiaries Union Assurance PLC. 8,610 915 Walkers Tours Ltd. 1,328 2,119 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 2,131 1,225 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 74 13 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 367 1,705 Loans Current British Overseas ( Pvt) Ltd. 31,000 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 147,000 164,164 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 3,003 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 Keells Food Products PLC. 81,902 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 82,500 82,500 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 162,459 168,149 532,981 612,073 6,926 9,274 Loans Non-current Mackinnon & Keells Financial Services (Pvt) Ltd. 155,641 189,641 Transware Logistics ( Pvt ) Ltd. 18,000 18,000 173,641 207,641 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.4 Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Purchases) / Sales of goods (4,079) (4,372) (Receiving) / Rendering of services 34.5 (451,716) 412,761 Loans given 34.5 642,940 391,995 Interest received / (Interest paid) 59,883 42,970 (Rent received) / Rent paid (49,016) (23,907) (Guarantees received) / Guarantees paid 690 Joint Ventures (Receiving) / Rendering of services 20,836 14,010 Associates (Purchases) / Sales of goods 616 3,788 (Receiving) / Rendering of services 104,945 33,346 (2,604) (2,972) Interest received / (Interest paid) 34.6 140,200 356,387 101,936 369,371 Loans taken Leases taken (3,114) (2,921) Key management personnel (Receiving) / Rendering of services Close family members of KMP (Receiving) / Rendering of services Post employment benefit plan Contributions to the provident fund 197,340 182,258 35,877 224 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.5 Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Receiving) / Rendering of services Asian Hotels & Properties PLC. 19,241 17,875 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 40,278 31,291 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 111,357 112,449 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 14,620 12,693 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 28,081 41,983 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 15,263 11,803 John Keells PLC. 15,232 14,460 Keells Food Products PLC. 16,878 14,548 Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd. 58,019 49,305 Union Assurance PLC. 19,137 2,382 Walker Tours Ltd. 18,371 15,813 Other subsidiaries 95,239 88,159 451,716 412,761 Loans given British Overseas ( Pvt) Ltd. 31,000 JK Properties Ja Ela (Pvt) Ltd. 537,631 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 3,003 Keells Food Products PLC. 36,902 Mackinnon & Keells Financial Services Ltd. 72,641 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 69,309 279,449 642,940 391,995 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 34.6 Transactions with related parties Associates Interest received / (Interest paid) Nations Trust Bank PLC. 140,200 356,387 101,936 369,371 The company and group held interest bearing deposits of Rs.2,430 mn and Rs.5,547 mn respectively, at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2012. 34.7 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Transactions with related parties are carried out in the ordinary course of the business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash. Interest bearing borrowings are at pre-determined interest rates and terms. 34.8 Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s Short-term employee benefits 309,079 205,132 141,615 86,521 Post employment benefits Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share based payments 309,079 205,132 141,615 86,521 Annual Report 2011/12 225 John Keells Holdings PLC Notes to the financial statements Directors’ interest in the employee share option plan of the company As at 31 March 2012, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan as follows; 1,082,666 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs.109.50 each, exercisable before 27-5-2012 1,769,399 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs.90.00 each, exercisable before 24-3-2013 1,422,213 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs.120.19 each, exercisable before 16-12-2014 1,090,351 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs.219.00 each, exercisable before 8-12-2015 1,103,584 Ordinary Shares at a price of Rs.172.10 each, exercisable before 6-12-2016 No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan. 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 35.1 JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC (JKH) The contingent liability of JKH as at 31 March 2012, relates to the following; • GST & VAT Assessments for the year of assessment 2002/03 The company has filed appeals against these assessments and these are currently pending with the Board of Review of the Department of Inland Revenue and Court of Appeal respectively. • Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2006/07 The company has filed an appeal against this assessment and is currently pending with the Tax Appeal Commission of Department of Inland Revenue. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2012 is estimated at Rs.123 mn. 35.2 LANKA MARINE SERVICES (PVT) LIMITED (LMS) The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2012, relates to the following; • Post privatisation turnover tax levied by the Western Provincial Council The company has disputed this on the basis that its business activity is that of an export. An appeal has been made by the company to the Western Provincial Council. • Income tax assessment relating to year of assessment 2001/02 Assessment was received by the company based on normal tax rates. The company has appealed against this assessment on the grounds that the sale of bunker to foreign ships is an export, which is liable to concessionary rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by the Department of Inland Revenue. The appeal made by the company is currently with the Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka. • Income tax assessments relating to years of assessments 2005/06, 2006/07 and 2007/08 Assessments were received in August 2008 and October 2009 consequent to the Supreme Court judgement, whereby the original BOI concessions granted were annulled. Although the assessments were based on normal tax rates the company computed and paid income taxes at concessionary rates of taxes, based on opinions from independent legal counsel and tax consultants, that the supply of bunkers to foreign vessels is an export and therefore eligible to concessionary rates of taxes as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. Appeals have been lodged against the balance taxes assessed and penalties charged by the Inland Revenue. The appeals made by the company for 2005/06 and 2006/07 were referred to the Board of Review and have now been transferred to the Tax Appeals Commission. • Income tax assessments relating to years of assessments 2002/03, 2003/04 and 2004/05 Assessments were received in January 2009, once again based on normal tax rates. It is the view of the company, based on opinions from independent legal counsel and tax consultants, that the subject years were statutorily time barred as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. The appeals made by the company were referred to the Board of Review and will now be transferred to the Tax Appeals Commission. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the contingent liability as at 31 March 2012 is estimated at Rs.727mn. 226 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis Financial Information Supplementary Information 36 CAPITAL AND OTHER COMMITMENTS Capital commitments approved and contracted as at the balance sheet date, but not provided for in the financial statements amounted to Rs.1,147 mn (2011 Rs.4,391 mn) and Rs.192 mn (2011 Rs.451 mn) for the group and company respectively. Other commitments for the group relating to guarantees and forward exchange contracts amounted to Rs.532 mn (2011 Rs.1,231 mn). Group For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 In Rs.’000s 37 LEASE COMMITMENTS Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases; Within one year 364,865 313,263 Between one and five years 1,483,940 1,254,877 After five years 3,457,704 1,954,333 5,306,509 3,522,473 Company Lessor Leased properties 37.1 Details of leases Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Colombo Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Habarana Lodge Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. R.J. S. Exports (Pvt) Ltd. / Mr. Ramesh Abeywardena Land occupied. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives and a sub lease with Land occupied. Ellaidhoo Investments (Pte) Ltd. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Yala Village ( Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. 36.2 Extent of lease hold land is given in the group real estate portfolio in the supplementary section of the annual report. 37 ASSETS PLEDGED Assets pledged for facilities obtained is given in note 17.3 to the financial statements. 38 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The Board of Directors of the company has declared a final dividend of Rs.1.50 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2012. As required by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act no 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with section 57 of the companies Act No.07 of 2007,and has obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend which is to be paid on the 15 June 2012. In accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 12 (Revised 2005), Events after the balance sheet date, the final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31 March 2012. Annual Report 2011/12 227 228 Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods & Financial Information Others Total Eliminations/ Retail Services Technology Group Total Adjustments Group Total John Keells Holdings PLC For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 % 2011 % In Rs. Millions Direct economic value generated Revenue 17,768 13,775 19,295 15,294 4,033 2,707 22,455 18,868 8,022 6,589 6,244 3,336 2,814 3,341 80,631 63,910 (3,931) (3,410) 76,700 89.98 60,500 86.70 Interest income 102 72 444 488 53 29 16 10 1,898 1,712 7 6 606 775 3,126 3,092 (355) (344) 2,771 3.25 2,748 3.94 Dividend income 1 5 741 263 93 81 25 17 4,694 3,571 5,554 3,937 (5,450) (3,874) 104 0.12 63 0.09 Share of results of associates 2,269 2,140 661 607 (26) (23) (44) (83) 2,860 2,641 2,860 3.36 2,641 3.78 Profit on sale of assets & other income 282 220 276 136 86 56 593 380 236 633 112 50 (74) 2,423 1,511 3,898 (125) (531) 1,386 1.63 3,367 4.82 Valuation gain on IP 100 230 1,507 1,126 1,107 23 2,714 1,379 (1,301) (911) 1,413 1.66 468 0.67 20,422 16,212 20,856 16,411 5,772 3,999 24,171 19,258 10,842 9,558 6,337 3,369 7,996 10,050 96,396 78,857 (11,162) (9,070) 85,234 100.00 69,787 100.00 Economic value distributed Operating costs 16,191 12,509 10,412 8,526 3,028 1,750 17,371 15,490 7,198 6,828 4,760 3,008 2,220 2,310 61,180 50,421 (2,065) (2,915) 59,115 69.35 47,506 68.07 Employee wages & benefits 559 509 2,378 2,266 154 140 2,088 1,891 997 921 1,191 513 724 633 8,091 6,873 8,091 9.49 6,873 9.85 Payments to providers of funds 758 157 3,021 1,734 671 315 628 238 614 578 68 10 2,851 2,708 8,611 5,740 (4,333) (2,258) 4,278 5.02 3,482 4.99 Payments to government 225 194 1,037 837 57 67 1,241 1,149 801 558 125 127 109 262 3,595 3,194 3,595 4.22 3,194 4.58 Community investments 3 2 15 9 2 1 7 7 1 2 3 1 28 24 59 46 59 0.07 46 0.07 17,736 13,371 16,863 13,372 3,912 2,273 21,335 18,775 9,611 8,887 6,147 3,659 5,932 5,937 81,536 66,274 (6,398) (5,173) 75,138 88.15 61,101 87.56 Economic value retained Depreciation 94 124 838 838 10 10 547 440 136 116 115 39 123 133 1,863 1,700 1,863 2.19 1,700 2.30 Amortisation 12 14 523 374 11 187 187 22 21 16 13 771 609 771 1 609 1 Profit after dividends 2,580 2,703 2,631 1,827 1,850 1,716 2,278 43 908 368 53 (350) 1,925 3,967 12,225 10,274 (4,764) (3,897) 7,461 8.75 6,377 9.14 Economic Value Statement Retained for reinvestment / growth 2,686 2,841 3,992 3,039 1,860 1,726 2,836 483 1,231 671 190 (290) 2,064 4,113 14,859 12,583 (4,764) (3,897) 10,095 11.94 8,686 12.44 Purpose Clarified Appendices and supplementary information supplementary information Annual Report 2011/12 229 John Keells Holdings PLC HISTORY OF THE JOHN KEELLS GROUP 1870 (owner of Bentota Beach Hotel and 2004 2005 long term funding arrangement The foundation was laid for the Coral Gardens Hotel) and a stake John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) amounting to USD 75 million to corporate journey of John Keells in Union Assurance (UA). was created as a holding company support the Group’s expansion Holdings, when two English for all Group resorts. JKH acquired plans. 74 per cent stake Keells brothers, George and Edwin John 1994 a controlling stake in Mercantile Business Systems Ltd was set up E. John & Co., a firm of JKH became the first Sri Lankan Leasing Limited (MLL). The John divested. produce and exchange brokers. company to obtain a listing abroad, Keells Social Responsibility and issued Global Depository Foundation, the Group’s CSR 2008 2009 1948 Receipts (GDRs) that were arm, was established as a JKH acquired a further 8.44 per The firm merged with two London quoted on the Luxembourg Stock charitable company and registered cent in SAGT and also increased based tea brokers, William Jas Exchange. as a voluntary social service stakes in UA, CCS, John Keells PLC and Hy Thompson & Co., and organisation. and Keells Food Products PLC. The GeoWhite & Co., thereby evolving 1996 privatisation of LMS was declared into a private liability company in Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 2005 2006 null and void as per judgement the name of E. John, Thompson, 80-roomed island resort in the The Group entered into a MOU delivered by the Supreme Court. White & Company Ltd. Maldives, was acquired making to develop a third resort in the The stake in AMW was divested. it JKH’s first major overseas Maldives on Alidhoo Island. JKH Acquired a 44 per cent stake in 1960 investment. acquired 80 per cent of Yala Quatrro Finance & Accounting Ever more enthusiastic to expand Village Hotel. With the sale of Solutions. its activities, the firm amalgamated Keells Plantations, the Group 1999 with Keell and Waldock Ltd., exited from the ownership of 2009 2010 Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was another long established produce, plantations. JKH entered into the The market capitalization exceeded established in a joint venture with share and freight broking company, BPO space through a joint venture USD 1 billion. JKH was ranked first the IFC and Central Finance Co. thus changing its name to John with Raman Roy Associates. by the Business Today magazine’s Ltd. Fortune magazine named JKH Keell Thompson White Ltd. The Group also launched its new ’Top 10’ award. TransAsia Hotel “One of the ten best Asian stocks hotel brands ’Cinnamon Hotels was re-branded and re-launched to buy”. South Asia Gateway & Resorts’ and ’Chaaya Hotels as Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo. 1973 Terminals (SAGT), the largest & Resorts’. NTB merged with The group released its first stand The company acquired a private sector investment in Sri Mercantile Leasing Limited. alone Sustainability Report for controlling stake in Walkers Tours Lanka at that time commenced and Travels (Ceylon) Ltd., one of operations to own, operate and 2008/09 in adherence to the the country’s leading inbound tour develop the Queen Elizabeth Quay 2006 2007 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) operators. at the port of Colombo. The Group acquired a lease framework. on Dhonveli Beach and Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort 2010 2011 1974 2000 in the Maldives. Furthermore, JKH was ranked first in the LMD The firm became a rupee quoted JKH was rated among the best 300 JKH acquired 20 per cent of magazine’s “Most Respected public company and took the name small companies in the world by Associated Motorways PLC Entities in Sri Lanka” for the 5th of John Keells Ltd. Forbes Global magazine. JKH also (AMW). JKH increased its stake consecutive time. The head lease became the first company in in SAGT by 7.5 per cent to 33.75 of Alidhoo island was divested 1986 Sri Lanka to obtain the SL AAA per cent. The Group exited its while the Group acquired the A newly incorporated John Keells rating from Fitch Rating Ltd. JKH restaurant businesses with the head lease of Dhonveli Island for Holdings Ltd. (JKH) acquired a was admitted as a full member of sale of majority stakes in Keells a period of 18 years. Ceylon Cold controlling stake in John Keells the World Economic Forum. Restaurants (Pvt) Limited and Stores added “KIK” as its cola Limited and obtained a quotation Crescat Restaurants (Pvt) Limited. brand in its portfolio of soft drinks. on the Colombo Stock Exchange DECADE AT A GLANCE John Keells Holdings Ltd was JKH’s property arm launched the (CSE) amidst a heavily over2003 2004 renamed as John Keells Holdings ‘Onthree20’ apartment complex in subscribed public share issue. In the largest ever transaction on PLC. Colombo. the CSE at that time, JKH acquired 1991 Asian Hotels & Properties, an acquisition that brought with it 2007 2008 2011 2012 JKH was involved in the biggest The Group’s first ’Cinnamon’ resort 40 per cent of the five star room Please refer the ‘Operating ever deal at the time, when in the Maldives, ’Cinnamon Island capacity in Colombo. The Group highlights and significant events’ Whittalls group of companies was Alidhoo’, commenced operations. sold its 50 per cent stake in RPK section acquired thus gaining controlling The lease held by the Group in the stakes in Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) Management Services (Pvt) Ltd Velidhu Island of the Maldives, (the country’s leading producer (its Plantations management expired. The International Finance of carbonated soft drinks and ice company). Corporation (IFC), a member of cream), Ceylon Holiday Resorts the World Bank group, signed a 230 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information DECADE AT A GLANCE 31st March 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Rs.Millions OPERATING RESULTS Group revenue 76,700 60,500 47,980 41,023 41,805 32,855 29,463 23,232 22,285 16,784 EBIT 13,581 11,425 7,908 7,986 8,197 6,115 4,850 3,569 3,458 1,311 Finance expense (671) (796) (1,370) (1,695) (1,618) (1,314) (525) (404) (458) (329) Share of results of associates 2,860 2,641 2,556 2,340 2,243 1,701 958 833 703 451 Profit before tax 12,910 10,629 6,538 6,291 6,579 4,801 4,325 3,165 2,393 937 Tax expense (1,842) (1,566) (986) (1,326) (1,054) (852) (819) (645) (286) (316) Profit after tax 11,068 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,520 2,107 621 Extra-ordinary item 185 Profit for the year 11,068 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,705 2,107 621 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 9,775 8,245 5,201 4,733 5,119 3,540 3,064 2,291 1,905 452 Minority interest 1,293 818 351 232 406 409 442 414 202 169 11,068 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 3,506 2,705 2,107 621 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Stated capital 25,111 24,612 23,322 22,525 22,464 22,246 9,205 9,095 9,005 2,794 Capital reserves 12,904 9,560 7,574 7,437 6,019 3,137 2,815 2,115 1,892 1,938 Revenue reserves 33,161 25,415 18,936 15,545 14,914 13,087 10,011 6,686 5,545 4,281 71,176 59,587 49,832 45,507 43,397 38,470 22,031 17,896 16,442 9,013 Minority interest 8,865 7,608 6,430 4,960 4,770 3,696 3,630 3,712 4,936 2,057 Total equity 80,041 67,195 56,262 50,467 48,167 42,166 25,661 21,608 21,378 11,070 Total debt 20,068 14,641 17,453 21,596 12,667 15,363 5,327 9,105 4,056 4,121 100,109 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 30,988 30,713 25,434 15,191 ASSETS EMPLOYED Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) 34,290 28,628 29,989 29,965 28,381 19,688 18,423 19,299 18,103 9,444 Non-current assets other than PP&E 52,259 47,436 34,104 33,456 19,128 17,730 8,850 6,033 3,649 3,719 Current assets 47,389 34,228 34,566 28,718 23,440 27,759 11,478 13,589 9,798 6,134 Liabilities net of debt (33,830) (28,456) (24,944) (20,076) (10,115) (7,648) (7,763) (8,208) (6,116) (4,106) 100,109 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 30,988 30,713 25,434 15,191 CASH FLOW Net cash flows from operating activities 16,476 8,501 9,485 4,146 6,914 2,523 2,664 4,620 3,138 1,891 Net cash flows from / (used in) investing activities (9,003) (4,469) (5,823) (3,972) (4,359) (10,088) (2,848) (4,482) (6,746) (2,002) Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities 496 (6,791) (636) 2,332 (6,262) 18,422 (1,027) 271 5,414 (31) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7,969 (2,759) 3,026 2,506 (3,707) 10,857 (1,211) 409 1,806 (142) KEY INDICATORS Basic earnings per share (Rs.) 11.6 9.9 6.3 5.7 6.1 4.5 4.0 3.0 2.6 0.6 Interest cover (no. of times) 20.0 14.0 5.8 4.7 5.1 4.7 9.2 8.8 7.6 4.0 Net assets per share (Rs.) 84.32 70.59 59.03 53.91 51.41 45.57 27.02 18.42 57.41 52.30 Enterprise value 165,195 175,672 109,548 42,815 76,713 95,962 64,389 47,222 33,578 15,841 EV / EBITDA 10.0 13.1 10.9 4.3 7.8 13.0 10.7 10.0 9.1 5.5 Debt / equity ratio (%) 25.1 21.8 31.0 42.8 26.3 36.4 20.8 29.0 18.3 34.7 Dividend payout (Rs. millions) 2,314 1,869 1,844 1,883 3,176 1,412 1,197 1,075 726 342 Current ratio (no. of times) 2.0 1.8 1.8 2.1 1.8 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.6 1.2 Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.) 206.0 285.6 184.0 62.8 119.8 155.0 157.8 137.5 111.0 70.8 Market price per share diluted (Rs.) 206.0 214.2 138.0 47.1 89.1 115.3 85.1 61.8 45.4 29.0 Annual Report 2011/12 231 John Keells Holdings PLC INDICATIVE US DOLLAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet For information purposes only Group Company As at 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In USD ’000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 267,682 259,310 699 666 Leasehold property 80,264 86,192 Investment property 59,575 48,788 Intangible assets 20,606 23,840 376 396 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 40 46 192,539 212,700 Investments in associates 122,503 132,883 74,048 83,855 Other investments 96,635 106,816 12,354 5,270 Deferred tax assets 1,011 1,837 491 Other non-current assets 27,322 29,270 1,786 2,342 675,638 688,982 281,802 305,720 Current assets Inventories 34,132 28,475 7 Trade and other receivables 109,070 109,349 6,752 5,335 Amounts due from related parties 84 168 4,161 5,544 Short term investments 193,341 152,908 78,862 91,225 Cash in hand and at bank 33,311 19,136 3,548 176 369,938 310,036 93,323 102,287 Total assets 1,045,576 999,018 375,125 408,007 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 196,023 222,930 196,023 222,930 Capital reserves 100,734 86,598 Revenue reserves 258,869 230,206 120,169 121,732 555,626 539,734 316,192 344,662 Minority interest 69,201 68,915 Total equity 624,827 608,649 316,192 344,662 Non-current liabilities Insurance provisions 115,103 114,697 Non-interest bearing borrowings 141 163 Interest bearing borrowings 95,897 75,657 40,000 50,000 Deferred tax liabilities 5,527 5,869 Employee benefit liabilities 10,712 11,011 990 949 Other deferred liabilities 28 38 Other non-current liabilities 6,041 6,766 233,449 214,201 40,990 50,949 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 120,203 112,134 2,588 1,999 Amounts due to related parties 13 20 54 84 Income tax liabilities 6,466 7,217 Short term borrowings 7,877 2,101 Current portion of interest bearing borrowings 18,804 19,333 10,000 10,000 Dividend payable Bank overdrafts 33,937 35,363 5,301 313 187,300 176,168 17,943 12,396 Total equity and liabilities 1,045,576 999,018 375,125 408,007 Exchange rate 128.10 110.40 128.10 110.40 232 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Income statement For information purposes only Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2012 2011 2012 2011 In USD’000s Revenue 598,749 548,008 4,498 5,024 Cost of sales (456,960) (424,429) (2,271) (2,107) Gross profit 141,789 123,579 2,227 2,917 Dividend income 815 567 35,362 31,711 Other operating income 32,447 55,388 6,118 28,879 Distribution expenses (20,543) (21,838) Administrative expenses (61,488) (65,039) (5,422) (5,467) Other operating expenses (20,359) (17,328) (2,629) (388) Finance expenses (5,237) (7,211) (1,606) (3,437) Change in fair value of investment property 11,034 4,237 Share of results of associates 22,327 23,921 Profit before tax 100,785 96,276 34,050 54,215 Tax expense (14,378) (14,183) (733) (203) Profit for the year 86,407 82,093 33,317 54,012 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 76,309 74,687 Minority interest 10,098 7,406 86,407 82,093 Exchange rate 128.10 110.40 128.10 110.40 This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLAS. Exchange rates prevailing at each year end have been used to convert the income statement and balance sheet. Annual Report 2011/12 233 John Keells Holdings PLC SRI LANKAN ECONOMY Summary indicator Units 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GDP growth Per cent 4.0 5.9 5.4 6.2 7.7 6.8 6.0 3.5 8.0 8.3 GDP (current prices) Rs. billion 1,582 1,822 2,091 2,453 2,939 3,578 4,411 4,835 5,604 6,543 GDP (current prices) USD billion 16.53 18.88 20.66 24.41 28.27 32.34 40.72 42.07 49.57 59.18 GDP per capita (USD) growth Per cent 3.4 9.0 8.6 20.5 14.5 13.8 24.6 2.1 14.7 15.5 GDP per capita (market prices) Rs ‘000 83.2 94.7 107.4 124.7 147.8 178.8 218.2 236.4 271.3 313.5 GDP per capita (market prices) USD 870 948 1,030 1,241 1,421 1,617 2,014 2,057 2,400 2,836 Inflation (CCPI100=2006) YoY Per cent 6.2 6.7 Current account balance USD billion -0.2 -0.07 -0.6 -0.7 -1.5 -1.4 -1.4 -0.2 -1.1 -4.6 Current account % of GDP Per cent -1.4 -0.4 -3.1 -2.7 -5.3 -4.2 -9.5 -0.5 -2.2 -7.8 Population Million 19.0 19.3 19.5 19.7 19.9 20.0 20.2 20.5 20.7 20.9 Exchange rate (annual average) Rs/USD 95.7 96.5 101.2 100.5 104.0 110.6 108.3 114.9 113.1 110.57 Exchange rate change (annual average) Per cent 7.0 0.9 4.8 -0.7 3.4 6.4 -2.1 6.1 -1.6 -2.2 12m T-Bill yield (yr-end) Per cent 9.9 8.0 7.7 10.4 13.0 20.0 19.12 9.33 7.55 9.31 Prime lending rate (yr-end) Per cent 12.2 9.3 10.2 12.2 15.2 18.0 18.5 10.91 9.27 10.49 M2b money supply growth Per cent 13.4 15.3 19.6 19.1 17.8 16.6 8.5 18.6 15.8 19.1 Exports USD billion 4.7 5.1 5.8 6.3 6.7 7.7 8.1 7.1 8.6 10.6 Imports USD billion 6.1 6.7 8.0 8.9 10.3 11.3 14.1 10.2 13.5 20.3 Balance of payments Per cent of GDP 2.0 2.7 -1.0 2.1 0.7 1.6 -3.5 6.5 1.9 -1.9 Budget deficit Per cent of GDP -8.5 -7.3 -7.5 -7.0 -7.0 -6.9 -7.0 -9.9 -8.0 -6.9 Unemployment rate Per cent 8.8 8.4 8.3 7.2 6.5 6.0 5.4 5.8 4.9 4.2 All share index (yr-end) Points 815 1,062 1,507 1,922 2,722 2,541 1,503 3,386 6,636 6,074 Tourist arrivals No.’000 393 501 566 549 560 494 438.5 447.9 654.5 856.0 GDP growth for 2011 came in at a improved. This could help lead to a in the fisheries sector as production December was 5.7%, 4.7% and 4.9% strong 8.3%. However in the first greater reliance on export led growth in increased by 15.5%. Growth in respectively. few months of 2012, some major the longer term. Some downside risks the industrial sector was driven by policy changes to reduce growth and related to the uncertainty associated significant increases in mining and The repurchase rate (repo) was cut by aggregate demand were taken by the with oil prices exist. The global quarrying which increased by 18.5% 25 basis points to 7% in January 2011 Central Bank. This was done due to investment climate will also need to in 2011. Construction also was a key and maintained until the end of the a need to reduce imbalances in the be favourable to bring in much needed contributor growing at 14.2% while year. However, the relaxed monetary country’s balance of payments (BOP). A long term foreign capital to the country. the textile exports grew at 13.5%. The policy environment resulted in cheap low interest rate environment helped service sector, which accounts for the credit boosting import expenditures accelerate imports in 2011 and this The balance of payments will benefit largest share of the GDP, maintained its and threatening the overall balance of coupled with a sharp rise in oil imports from an expected reduction in imports growth, growing at 8.6%, up from last payments. In February 2012, the rate led to the trade deficit widening of durable consumer goods, with a year’s growth of 8%. Within the service was increased by a further 50 basis sharply. While capital inflows were rise in import taxes and duties helping sector, wholesale and retail trade grew points to 7.5%. Rates were raised healthy, they were not sufficient to to contain demand for these goods. at 10.3%, transport and communication again by 25 basis points on 5th April bridge the current account deficit. As a Remittances continued to improve in grew at 11.3% and banking, insurance to 7.75%. result, the year ended with an overall 2011 helping mitigate BOP pressures, and real estate grew at 7.9%. The balance of payments deficit of US$ and is expected that there will be a biggest contributor to growth in the Export earnings increased by 22.5% led 1,061 mn compared to a surplus of US$ continuation of remittances growth service sector was the subcategory of by agriculture and industrial products 921 mn earlier. in 2012. hotels and restaurants which grew at a (primarily textiles). Total imports significant 26.4%. increased by 51% with sharp increases In the first few months of 2012, Tourism income rose from Rs. 65bn seen in all categories. This resulted in the Central Bank sharply reduced in 2010 to Rs. 92bn in 2011, a 41% With the increase in economic activity, the trade gap increasing by 101.2%. intervention to set the currency increase. This inflow on account of aggregate consumption increased in direction and let the Rupee float freely. tourism will increasingly be important real terms by 22.4% in 2011 from 14% There was an improvement in the This caused the Rupee to fall sharply toward determining the overall BOP in 2010. But growth in investment overall fiscal situation in the country in early 2012, but the change in policy performance. in real terms reduced to 26.7% as with the budget deficit reducing arrested the loss in foreign reserves compared to 30.8% in 2010. While to 6.9% of GDP from 8% in 2010. that had been seen as a result of the The year that was aggregate investment increased as a Expenditure and net lending declined previous intervention. Monetary policy The GDP growth for the full year of percentage of GDP to 29.9% in 2011 from 22.9% of GDP in 2010 to 21.4% was tightened while the Government 2011 came in at 8.3%. The three from 27.6% in 2010, domestic savings of GDP in 2011, lower than the original raised energy prices significantly. As major sub sectors of GDP; agriculture, have reduced as a percentage of GDP target envisaged by the Central Bank a result of these actions, the Central industry and services recorded growth to 15.4% in 2011 from 19.3% in the for the year. Revenues reduced from Bank revised down its growth forecast rates of 1.5%, 10.3% and 8.6% previous year. 14.9% of GDP in 2010 to 14.5% in for 2012 from a previous 8% to 7.2%. respectively. 2011. Inflation remained well contained for Inflation averaged 7.4% in the first most of the year, responding to strong The agriculture sector’s growth three quarters of 2011, but then domestic supply and a drop in global stabilised after the spurt experienced dropped in the last quarter. Increased commodity price levels. in 2010. Production from newly domestic supply and lower global cultivated areas continued. Tea exports commodity prices helped reduce price While growth in 2012 will be slower, contracted slightly (by 0.9%) while levels in the local market. Inflation for the longer term outlook for exports has significant improvement was seen the months of October, November and 234 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2012 2011 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Slave Island Complex, Colombo 2. 26,910 4.61 3.72 3,716,094 2,611,792 John Keells PLC. 130, Glennie Street , Colombo 2. 122,338 1.78 0.58 1,582,311 1,011,500 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5. 0.08 1,250 1,250 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 26,550 0.49 444,000 283,425 Keells Realtors Ltd. 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. 27,750 1.22 252,086 232,600 Mackinnon & Keells Financial Services Ltd. Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01. 31,656 0.45 404,984 333,000 Union Assurance PLC. No 20, St. Michaels’ Road, Colombo 03. 57,916 0.58 782,779 654,560 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 14,014 0.50 347,000 247,000 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. 62,818 3.06 1,653,175 1,285,750 JK Office Automation No.90, Union Place, Colombo 2. 9,100 6,709 379,052 12.77 4.30 9,190,388 6,660,877 PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Kaduwela. 350,346 26.81 677,007 537,194 Trincomalee. 23,840 1.09 77,004 29,671 John Keells PLC. 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 2.64 84,380 74,000 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela. 141,276 6.00 140,222 143,675 Keells Food Products PLC. 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 50,199 3.00 3.26 123,451 124,357 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Broadlands. 58,063 4.14 40,778 39,937 Halwitigala. 56,686 9.60 28,434 29,182 Hindul Oya. 10,500 0.88 1,697 Hingalgoda. 56,796 18.27 34,789 35,692 Karawita. 75,745 4.98 83,433 86,892 Kurupanawa. 62,401 12.26 41,317 37,972 Neluwa. 46,708 4.72 31,313 32,132 New Panawenna. 41,772 10.59 30,088 29,373 Pasgoda. 40,354 5.41 21,930 20,653 Peliyagoda. 31,629 0.99 102,000 102,000 Raxawa. 24,623 1.22 11,870 11,025 Annual Report 2011/12 235 John Keells Holdings PLC GROUP REAL ESTATE PORTFOLIO Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2012 2011 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold Rs.‘000s Rs.‘000s PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Tudella, Ja-Ela. 63,670 18.67 400,000 363,209 Union Assurance PLC. No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala. 27,904 0.20 142,000 130,442 JK Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela. 6.60 527,615 Whittall Boustead Ltd. 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya. 4,346 0.46 69,615 69,711 John Keells BPO Solutions India Private Limited Floor 8, Tower B &C, Building No.6, DLF SEZ Cyber City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana122002 48,659 77,910 1,215,517 126.56 15.23 2,745,156 1,898,814 HOTEL PROPERTIES Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2. 648,813 7.82 8,105,310 8,170,167 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2. 145,196 1,632,000 1,332,280 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Hotel Bayroo, Beruwela. 6.55 230,879 230,879 Beruwala. 4.72 231,801 231,801 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach Hotel & Club Inter-sport, Bentota. 267,649 2.10 11.02 517,818 507,304 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives. 150,412 13.42 810,843 708,624 Habarana Lodge Ltd. The Lodge, Habarana. 173,764 25.47 659,180 673,382 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Chaaya Village, Habarana. 121,767 9.34 192,716 190,461 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Coral Gardens Hotel, Hikkaduwa. 233,965 4.68 1,275,990 319,340 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. The Chaaya Citadel, Kandy. 157,131 5.79 311,348 314,989 Resort Hotels Ltd. Nilaveli. 4,485 44.37 107,900 107,900 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. Mahaberiatenna, Kandy. 3,700 10.00 35,192 35,585 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2. 426,933 7.65 4,230,229 4,058,392 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives. 246,358 18.62 8,256,604 7,550,432 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives. 170,877 13.75 1,826,633 1,708,618 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee. 123,974 13.24 512,223 510,640 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Club Oceanic, Trincomalee. 89,960 14.64 250,586 250,586 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila. 25.15 32,555 32,568 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. The Village, Yala. 67,330 11.00 530,643 241,594 Sentinel Realty Wakare 8.43 15,788 3,032,314 132.81 124.95 29,766,238 27,175,542 Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold properities 251,028 11,558 Consolidated value of Land and Buildings 4,626,883 272.14 144.48 41,952,810 35,746,791 236 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information GROUP DIRECTORY The holding company of the Group, John Keells Holdings PLC, A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd has business interests spread across six industry groups: namely, R M David, C Kuo Cheng, H O Madsen (99.44%) Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods & Retail, Financial H G Wieske, Dr S Senerath Importer & supplier of heavy marine D C Alagarathnam, Capt N Keppetipola fuel oils & lubricants Services, Information Technology and Other, including Plantation Services. K N J Balendra, P Sondergaard 4, Leyden Bastian Road The companies within the Group consist of eighty eight subsidiaries (appointed w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Colombo 1. and associates, with John Keells Holdings PLC located at 130, Glennie P M English (appointed w.e.f. 09.06.2011) 2475410-421 Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka. The Group has significant operations C Menkhorst (resigned w.e.f. 08.07.2011) Directors: and businesses across Sri Lanka, India, and the Maldives. Details of H M Jepsen (resigned w.e.f. 03.05.2011) S C Ratnayake Chairman these companies are presented below under each industry group and Stated capital: Rs.3,788,485,900 A D Gunewardene, R M David memberships maintained, certifications and awards of these companies R S Fernando, J R F Peiris (resigned Logistics w.e.f. 01.08.2011) are described later in the Report. DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd (50%)** Stated capital: Rs.350,000,000 Express courier services The Group’s customer base can be primarily classified into three sections No. 148, Vauxhall Street Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co of as illustrated below. Colombo 2. Ceylon Ltd (100%)* 2304304 / 4798600 Foreign recruitment agents & Individuals Businesses and Government Directors: consultants Corporates S C Ratnayake Chairman No. 11, York Street R M David, M A Monteiro Colombo 1. Consumer Foods & Retail IT IT G E A P Berczely 2475200 Property Transportation Stated capital: Rs.20,000,020 Directors: Leisure Leisure S C Ratnayake Chairman Financial Services Financial Services John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd R M David, J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. Transportation Plantation Services (100%) 01.08.2011) IT Integrated supply chain & third party Stated capital: Rs.90,000 logistics solutions No. 11, York Street Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd In serving these customer segments, the use of outsourced products Colombo 1. (50%)* and services at JKH are limited to activities where it is an industry 2475200 Integrated container depot operations practice to do so or it has been proven to be an efficient and effective Directors: & logistics services provider business model versus performing these functions in-house. For S C Ratnayake Chairman No.150,150/1, Pamunugama Road, example, in the Transportation industry group, certain transportation A.D. Gunawardene, R M David Tudella, Ja-Ela. J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) 2475508/2475538 and loading functions as well as the barge crew and warehousing staff Stated capital: Rs.200,000,000 Directors: are outsourced to gain maximum efficiency in the respective operations. S C Ratnayake Chairman Similarly, the production and or the packaging of certain products in the John Keells Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd A D Gunawardene (appointed w.e.f. Consumer Foods and Retail industry group too are outsourced. (100%) 01.08.11), R M David, E H Gui Shipping agency representation & A A Miskon (Alt.N A Latif), J R F Peiris freight forwarding & logistics services (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) TRANSPORTATION J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2011) No 172, Third Floor, 2nd Main Stated capital: Rs.220,000,000 Ports and Shipping Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 Kasturi Nagar, East of NGEF Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Bangalore 560043, India. Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Cargo Shipping agency representation & Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd (30%)** +91(080)42040004, 42040005 Division (100%) logistics services Shipping agency representation & Directors: International freight forwarder & No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1. freight forwarding services S C Ratnayake Chairman logistics services 2475200 No. 36, D. R Wijewardene Mawatha R M David, R S Fernando No.148, Vauxhall Street Directors: Colombo 10. C Hewamallika, J R F Peiris (resigned Colombo 2. S C Ratnayake Chairman 0112423700 w.e.f. 15.08.2011) 2475299 R M David, J R Gunaratne (appointed Directors: Stated capital: Rs.299,668,767 Directors: w.e.f. 08.08.2011) W T Ellawala, Dinesh Lal S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2011) R M David, Hariharan Iyer John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) A D Gunewardene, R M David Stated capital: Rs.500,000 Robert Janvan Trooijen Ltd (100%) S Rajendra Rizwan Sultan Ali International freight forwarding and Stated capital: Rs.99,304,300 Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co Stated capital: Rs.10,000,000 clearing & forwarding (Shipping) Ltd (100%) No. 11, York Street Air Lines Shipping agency representation & South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Colombo 1. John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) logistics services Ltd (42.19%)** 2475200 Ltd (100%) 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Ports & shipping services Directors: (Formerly known as Matheson Keells Air 2307526 Port of Colombo, P.O. Box 141 S C Ratnayake Chairman Services (Pvt) Ltd) General sales agents Directors: Colombo 1. R M David, J R Gunaratne (appointed for airlines in India. S C Ratnayake Chairman 2457500 w.e.f. 08.08.2011) No 172, Third Floor R M David, J R Gunaratne (appointed Directors: J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2011) 2nd Main Kasturi Nagar, East of NGEF w.e.f. 08.08.2011) S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.130,000,000 Bangalore 560043, India. Annual Report 2011/12 237 John Keells Holdings PLC GROUP DIRECTORY +91(080)42040004, 42040005 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) City Hotels Directors: Directors: Ltd (80.32%) Asian Hotels and Properties PLC S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman Hotel holding company in the Maldives Cinnamon Grand (78.56%) A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala R M David, R S Fernando 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building Owner & operator of the five star city J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) C Hewamallika, J R F Peiris (resigned Sosun Magu, Male hotel ‘Cinnamon Grand’ Stated capital: Rs.812,635,460 w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Republic of Maldives. 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Stated capital: Rs.17,995,097 00960 3329083/00960 3304601/ 2437437 /2497442 Habarana Lodge Ltd (78.99%) 00960 3313738 Directors: Owner & operator of ‘The Cinnamon Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd (100%) Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Lodge’ in Habarana General sales agents for airlines in S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene Managing Director P.O Box 2, Habarana Sri Lanka A D Gunewardene J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah 066 2270011-2/066 2270072 No. 11 A, York Street, Colombo 1. B J S A M Senanayake, S A S Perera S Rajendra, S K G Senanayake Directors: 2475375/2475335 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) S A Jayasekara, C J L Pinto (appointed S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: Stated capital: Rs.3,978,671,681 w.e.f. 01.07.2011) A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala S C Ratnayake Chairman A R Gunasekera (resigned w.e.f. J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) R M David, C N Lawrence John Keells Hotels PLC (80.32%)* 29.06.2011) Stated capital: Rs.341,555,262 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Holding company of group resort hotel Stated capital: Rs.3,345,118,012 Stated capital: Rs.12,500,000 companies in Sri Lanka & Maldives Habarana Walk Inn Ltd (79.34%) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Trans Asia Hotels PLC (82.74%) Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Village Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (100%) 2306600 Owner & operator of the five star city Habarana’ IATA accredited travel agent and travel Directors: hotel ‘Cinnamon Lakeside’. P.O Box 1, Habarana related services S C Ratnayake Chairman No. 115, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner 066 2270046-7/066 2270077 Ceylon Cold Stores Building A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris Mawatha, Colombo 2. Directors: No. 1, Justice Akbar Mawatha J E P Kehelpannala, M A Omar 2491000 S C Ratnayake Chairman Colombo 2. R T Wijesinha, D A Cabraal Directors: A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala 2318600 B J S A M Senanyake (appointed w.e.f. S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Directors: 01.07.2011), N B Weerasekera A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris Stated capital: Rs.126,350,000 S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.9,500,246,939 D S J Pelpola, N L Gooneratne A D Gunawardene (appointed w.e.f. R L Nanayakkara, C J L Pinto (appointed International Tourists and Hoteliers 01.08.2011) John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) w.e.f. 01.07.2011) Ltd (79.45%)* R M David, J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. Ltd (80.32%)* A R Gunasekera (resigned w.e.f. Owner of real estate 01.08.2011) Hotel holding company in the Mauritius 29.06.2011) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 IFS Court, Twenty Eight, Cybercity Stated capital: Rs.1,112,879,750 2306600, 2421101-8 Ebene, Mauritius. Directors: Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) (230) 467 3000 Resort Hotels Sri Lanka S C Ratnayake Chairman, Ltd (49%)* Directors: Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala General sales agents for airlines in the K D Joory, A D Gunewardene (79.45%) D C Alagaratnam, J R F Peiris (resigned Maldives D C Alagaratnam (appointed w.e.f. Owner of Real Estate w.e.f.01.08.2011), W M S Fernando 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Building 23.09.2011) F Soreefan No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. (resigned w.e.f. 31.08.2011) Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male 20-05 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) 2306600, 2421101-8 Stated capital: Rs.1,039,675,925 Republic of Maldives. Stated capital: Rs.3,832,000 Directors: +9603334708 09 S C Ratnayake Chairman Kandy Walk Inn Ltd (79.03%) Directors: Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Owner & operator of ‘The Chaaya S C Ratnayake Chairman (20% )** J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Citadel’ in Kandy A D Gunewardene (appointed w.e.f. Developer of City Business Hotels Stated Capital: Rs.1,338,150,000 No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte 01.08.2011), R M David, S Hameed No.59, Ananda Coomaraswami Mawatha, Kandy. A Shihab, J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. Mawatha, Colombo 03. Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd-Bentota 081 2234365-6/081 2237273-4 01.08.2011) 2306000 Beach Hotel (79.24%) Directors: Stated capital: Rs.677,892 Directors: Owner & operator of ‘Bentota Beach S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene Hotel’ in Bentota A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala LEISURE S Rajendra, M S Weerasekera Galle Road, Bentota. R T Molligoda, J R F Peiris (resigned Hotel Management W K Wannigama, D A Kannangara 034 2275176/034 2275266 w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Keells Hotel Management Services Stated capital: Rs.3,832,333 Directors: Stated capital: Rs.115,182,009 Ltd (100%) S C Ratnayake Chairman Manager & marketer of resort hotels Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd (50%)** A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Rajawella Hotels Ltd (80.32%)* No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Investment company for Hotel J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Owner of real estate 2306600, 2421101-8 Development land Stated capital: Rs.744,517,303 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 2306780, 2421101-8 S C Ratnayake Chairman 2306000 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Directors: A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Directors : Limited (79.24%) S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Tranz’ in A D Gunewardene, J R Gunaratne Stated capital: Rs.19,520,000 B A B Goonettileke, K Balasundaram Hikkaduwa (appointed w.e.f. 08.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.31,576,000 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 08.08.2011) 2306600, 2421101-8 Stated capital: Rs.29,300,000 238 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Resort Hotels Ltd (79.24%) 00960 6720014/00960 6720064/ Walkers Tours Ltd (98.51%) 2306000/2397263 Owner of real estate 00960 6720065 Inbound tour operators Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. S C Ratnayake Chairman 2306780, 2421101-8 S C Ratnayake Chairman 2306000 A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Directors: A D Gunewardene Directors: J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) S C Ratnayake Chairman B J S A M Senanayake, S A S Perera S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.240,000,030 A D Gunewardene J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.341,573,190 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Keells Realtors Ltd (95.57%) Stated capital: Rs.6,350,670 Stated capital: Rs.51,374,200 Owner of Real Estate John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pte) Ltd Ltd (80.32%) Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd 2306000/2397263 (80.32%) Hotel holding company in the Maldives (100%) Directors: Owner & Operator of ‘Chaaya Blu’ in 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building Inbound tour operators S C Ratnayake Chairman Trincomalee Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. No.130, Glennie Street Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Alles Garden, Uppuvelli 00960 3329083/00960 3304601 / 2306000 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Sampathiv Post. 00960 3313738 Directors: Stated capital: Rs.75,000,000 2421101-8 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Real S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Estate Division-(100%) A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala B J S A M Senanayake, S A S Perera Stated capital: Rs.7,500,000 Renting of office space J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.3,978,671,681 No.148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Stated Capital: Rs.357,000,000 PROPERTY 2397263 /2327805 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) Property Development Directors: Trinco Walk Inn Ltd (80.32%) Owner and operator of ‘Chaaya Island Asian Hotels and Properties PLC S C Ratnayake Chairman Owner of Real Estate Dhonveli’ in Maldives Crescat Boulevard, The Monarch, A D Gunewardene, R M David Alles Garden, Uppuveli, Sampathiv Post 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building The Emperor (78.56%) S Rajendra, J R F Peiris (resigned Trincomalee. Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. Developer and manager of integrated w.e.f.01.08.2011) 026 112421101-8, 2306600 00960 6640055 / 00960 6640012 properties Stated capital: Rs.99,304,300 Directors: Directors: No.77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. S C Ratnayake Chairman S C Ratnayake Chairman 5540404 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd (51%)** A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala A D Gunewardene Directors: Developer of ‘The Enclave’ Project J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) B J S A M Senanayake, S A S Perera S C Ratnayake Chairman No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Stated capital: Rs.119,850,070 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene Managing Director 2306000 Stated capital: Rs.552,519,608 J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah Directors: Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd (80.32%)* S Rajendra, S K G Senanayake A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra Owner of real estate Travel Club (Pte) Ltd (80.32%) S A Jayasekara, C J L Pinto D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Operator of ‘Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo’ in Stated capital: Rs.3,345,118,012 S P G N Rajapakse 2306780, 2421101-8 Maldives Stated capital: Rs.1,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building John Keells Residential Properties A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. (Pvt) Limited (100%) CONSUMER FOODS AND (appointed w.e.f. 01.08.2011) 00960 6660839/00960 6660663/ Developer of ‘OnThree20’ Project RETAIL J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) 00960 6660664 No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Consumer Foods Stated capital: Rs.16,611,750 Directors: 2300065 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (81.36%) S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: Manufacturer & distributor of Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd (75.33%) A D Gunewardene S C Ratnayake Chairman beverages, frozen confectionery, Owner and operator of ‘Yala Village’ B J S A M Senanayake, S A S Perera A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra and the holding company of JayKay in Yala J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. P.O Box 1, Kirinda, Tissamaharama. Stated capital: Rs.143,172,000 Stated capital: Rs.925,200,000 No. 1, Justice Akbar Mawatha 047 2239449-52 Colombo 2. Directors: Destination Management John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) 2328221/7, 2318777 M A Perera Chairman Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd (98.74%) Ltd (100%)* Directors: S C Ratnayake Deputy Chairman Tour operators Developer & Manager of Mall operations S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J A Davis 204, Accord Complex No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris J E P Kehelpannala, J R F Peiris Opp. Goregaon Station 2306000 J R Gunaratne, U P Liyanage (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Goregaon (East), Mumbai 400 063 Directors: P S Jayawardena, A R Rasiah Stated capital: Rs.419,427,600 India. S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.918,200,000 091-22 42105210 A D Gunawardene, S Rajendra Resort Hotels Maldives Directors: J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Keells Food Products PLC (83.18%) Fantasea World Investments (Pte) A D Gunewardene Chairman Stated capital: Rs.522,360,000 Manufacturer and distributor of Ltd (80.32%) V Leelananda branded meat and convenience food Owner & operator of ‘Chaaya Lagoon Stated capital: Rs.25,967,000 Real estate products. Hakuraa Huraa’ in Maldives J K Properties (Pvt) Ltd (100%) P.O Box 10, No.16, Minuwangoda Road, 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building Renting of office space Ekala, Ja-Ela. Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Annual Report 2011/12 239 John Keells Holdings PLC GROUP DIRECTORY 236317/2236364 2446694-5/2338066/4710721-4 United Kingdom. companies Directors: 0112306250 441753725283 IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: Directors: Mauritius. A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris A D Gunewardene Chairman A D Gunewardene Chairman (230) 467 3000 J R Gunaratne, R Pieris S C Ratnayake, K N J Balendra G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando Directors: S H Amarasekera, A D E I Perera J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.9,507 S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene M P Jayawardena Stated capital: Rs.7,500,000 R S Fernando, K N J Balendra Stated capital: Rs.274,815,000 John Keells Computer Services K D Joory, A F Soreefan, J R F Peiris Nations Trust Bank PLC (29.9%)** (Pvt) Ltd (100%) (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd Commercial banking and leasing Software services Stated capital: Rs.1,988,300,000 (83.18%)* operations No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Marketing of branded meat and No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2. 2300770-77 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) convenience food products 4313131 Directors: Ltd (100%)* Luthra and Luthra Chartered Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Investment holding company Accountants J R F Peiris Chairman S C Ratnayake, G S Dewaraja IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene A 16/9 , Vasant Vihar A K Gunaratne, C H S K Piyaratna R S Fernando, J R F Peiris (resigned Mauritius. New Delhi -110057, India. A R Rasiah, D Weerakoon w.e.f. 01.08.2011) (230) 467 3000 0091 1142591823, 0091 1126148048 M E Wickremesinghe, K N J Balendra Stated capital: Rs.96,500,000 Directors: 26151853, 26147365 S G Rajakaruna, Murtaza Jafferjee S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene Fax: +91-11-2614 5222 Kemal de Soysa, D P De Silva (appointed John Keells Software Technologies R S Fernando, K N J Balendra Directors: w.e.f. 01.01.2012) N S Panditharatne (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* K D Joory, A F Soreefan, J R F Peiris S C Ratnayake Chairman (appointed w.e.f. 01.01.2012) Marketer of software packages (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) J R Gunaratne, R S Fernando A D Gunewardene (resigned No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2. Stated capital: Rs.1,616,700,008 J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) w.e.f.31.12.2011), E H Wijenaike 2300770-77 Stated capital: Rs.220,294,544 (INR (resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2011) Directors: John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka 90,000,000) Stated capital: Rs.5,101,369,000 A D Gunewardene Chairman (Private) Limited (100%)* G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando BPO operations in Sri Lanka Retail Union Assurance PLC (95.65 %) J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Life and general insurance underwriters Stated capital: Rs.8,000,000 (94) 112479709 Ltd (81.36%) No.20, St. Michaels’ Road, Colombo 3. Directors: Owns and Operates the ‘Keells Super’ 2428428 Office Automation S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene chain of supermarkets,’KEKO’ chain of Directors: John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) R S Fernando, R M David clothing stores and ‘KZone’ Malls A D Gunewardene Chairman Ltd (100%) J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) No.125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. D C Alagaratnam (appointed w.e.f. Distributor/reseller and services, Stated capital: Rs.328,435,800 2316800 16.08.2011) provider in office automation (OA) retail Directors: S Rajendra (appointed w.e.f. 16.08.2011) automation (RA) and mobile devices John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. S C Ratnayake Chairman A S De Zoysa, G F C De Saram Corporate Office: 90 Union Place (100%)* A D Gunewardene (appointed H A J De Silva Wijeyeratne (appointed Colombo 2. Provides sales & marketing support for w.e.f.01.08.2011) w.e.f. 07.09.2011) Technical Services:148 Vauxhall Street AuxiCogent in North America M R N Jayasundera-Moraes J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 16.08.2011) Colombo 2. 9225, Ulmerton Road, Suite H, Largo K N J Balendra, J R F Peiris (resigned K N J Balendra (resigned w.e.f. 2313000, 2431576, 2445760 Florida 33771, USA. w.e.f. 01.08.2011) 16.08.2011), A K Gunaratne (resigned Directors: +1 727 518 0000 Stated capital: Rs.998,000,000 w.e.f. 07.09.2011) A D Gunewardene Chairman Director: Stated capital: Rs.388,433,000 G S Dewaraja, R S Fernando Mithila Prasanna Gunaratna Nexus Networks (Pvt) Ltd (99.99%)* J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Stated capital: Rs.538,250 Operator of the ‘Nexus’ loyalty card INFORMATION Stated capital: Rs.5,000,000 programme TECHNOLOGY AuxiCogent International Canada No. 125, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. IT Services IT Enabled Services Inc. (100%)* 2343792/2343794-98 Information Systems Associates John Keells BPO Alpha Private BPO Operation in Canada Directors: (48.99%)** Limited (100%)* 1900, 736-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary S C Ratnayake Chairman Software development services Investment holding company Alberta T2P 3T7, Canada. M R N Jayasundera Moraes P.O Box. 132, Sharjah, UAE. IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene Directors: K N J Balendra, J R F Peiris (resigned 97165088810 Mauritius. A D Gunewardene (appointed w.e.f. w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Directors: (230) 467 3000 01.08.2011), Deepak Kumar Malik, K N Stated capital: Rs.100,000 A Ali, P Suckling, A Hamdany Directors: J Balendra, R S Fernando J R F Peiris, G S Dewaraja S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) FINANCIAL SERVICES R S Fernando R S Fernando, K N J Balendra Stated capital: Rs.543,140 GROUP Stated capital: Rs.97,594,274 K D Joory, A F Soreefan, J R F Peiris John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) John Keells BPO Investments (90.04%) John Keells Computer Services Stated Capital: Rs.617,293,783 Private Limited (100%)* Share broking services (UK) Ltd (100%)* Investment holding company No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Software development services (UK) John Keells BPO Holdings Private IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene 268, Bath Road, Slough, SLI 4DX Limited (100%)* Mauritius. Holding company of AuxiCogent group (230) 467 3000 240 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Directors: No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Directors: Bharat Building, Singapore-048617. S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene 2306518 S C Ratnayake Chairman 65 67329636 R S Fernando, K N J Balendra, R Roy Directors: D C Alagaratnam (appointed w.e.f. Directors: R Dutta, K D Joory, A F Soreefan S C Ratnayake Chairman 01.08.2011) S C Ratnayake Chairman J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene (appointed w.e.f. J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) A D Gunewardene (appointed w.e.f. Stated capital: Rs.618,085,966 02.01.2012), R S Fernando (appointed Stated capital: Rs.150,000 01.08.2011) 01.08.2011) R M David, R Ponnampalam InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd (100%) J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011 John Keells Holdings PLC D C Alagaratnam (appointed w.e.f. IT enabled services L D Ramanayake (resigned w.e.f. Group holding company & function 01.08.2011) No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. 30.12.2011) based services J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2012) (94) 112149700 Stated capital: Rs.120,000 No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Stated capital: Rs.9,638,000 Directors: 2306000 /2421101-9 S C Ratnayake, M J S Rajakariar John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd Directors: Keells Consultants Ltd (100%) R S Fernando, J R F Peiris (resigned (86.90%) S C Ratnayake Chairman Company secretarial services to the w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Warehousing of Tea and Rubber A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris group Stated capital: Rs.20,000,000 No.93,1st Avenue, Muturajawela E F G Amerasinghe, Steven Enderby No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. Hendala, Wattala, Muturajawala. T Das, S S Thiruchelvam 2421101-9 John Keells BPO Solutions India 4819560 Dr I Coomaraswamy Directors: Private Limited (100%) Directors: A R Gunasekera (appointed w.e.f. S C Ratnayake Chairman BPO operations in India (Formerly S C Ratnayake Chairman 01.07.2011) A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam known as Quatrro Business Support A D Gunewardene (appointed w.e.f. P D Rodrigo (resigned w.e.f. J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Services (Pvt) Ltd) 02.01.2012), R S Fernando (appointed 27.06.2011) Stated capital: Rs.160,000 Basement-24, C Block w.e.f. 01.08.2011), J R F Peiris (resigned Stated capital: Rs.25,110,529,007 Community Centre, Janakpuri w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Mackinnon and Keells Financial New Delhi. L D Ramanayake (resigned w.e.f. John Keells Holdings Mauritius Services Ltd (100%)* +91 124 4561000 30.12.2011) (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* Rental of office space Directors: Stated capital: Rs.120,000,000 Holding company of AuxiCogent group No.4, Layden Bastian Road J R F Peiris, R S Fernando companies Colombo 1. K N J Balendra Tea Smallholder Factories PLC IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene 2475102-3 Stated capital: Rs.899,836,136 (37.62%) Mauritius. Directors: Owner and operator of bought leaf 2304673000 S C Ratnayake Chairman Quatrro FPO Solutions Private factories Directors: A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Limited (44%)** No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene J R F Peiris (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) IT based services, electronic remote 2335870/2149994 K D Joory, A F Soreefan, J R F Peiris Stated capital: Rs.10,800,000 processing services, e services Directors: (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) Basement-24, C Block, Community S C Ratnayake Chairman (Alt. Mr J R Stated capital: Rs.255,881,533 Mortlake Ltd (100%)* Centre, Janakpuri, New Delhi. Gunaratne) Investment company +91 124 4561000 A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Directors: E H Wijenaike, R Seevaratnam (100%)* 2475308 V Srinivasan, V Balakrishnan R E Rambukwella, A S Jayatilleke Regional holding company providing Directors: R S Fernando, K N J Balendra J S Ratwatte, R S Fernando (appointed administrative & function based S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.434,080,445 w.e.f. 02.01.2012), L D Ramanayake services A D Gunewardene, R M David (resigned w.e.f. 30.12.2011) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. (appointed w.e.f. 01.08.2011) OTHERS Stated capital: Rs.150,000,000 2306000 /2421101-9 D C Alagaratnam, J R F Peiris (resigned Plantation Services Directors: w.e.f. 01.08.2011) John Keells PLC (86.90 %) Centre & Others S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.3,000 Produce Broking and Real Estate Central Hospitals Ltd (27.21%)** A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris Ownership Providers of healthcare services (resigned w.e.f. 01.08.2011) No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 114, Norris Canal Road, Colombo 10. Stated capital: Rs.1,991,600,000.00 2306000 4666000, 4665500, 4665544 Directors: Directors: J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* S C Ratnayake Chairman A K Pathirage, S Selliah Printing and packaging services A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris D S Rajapakse, D Wimalasundera provider for the export market R S Fernando (appointed w.e.f. K M P Karunaratne No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. 02.01.2012) Mrs S D Nimalasuriya 2475308 T de Zoysa, K D W Ratnayaka S A B Rajapaksa, A D Gunewardene Directors: Y A Hansen, S T Ratwatte K N J Balendra, H D I Hettiarachchi S C Ratnayake Chairman ** The company has not been considered for L D Ramanayake (resigned w.e.f. G L H Premaratne R M David, R S Fernando Sustainability Reporting as the Group does not 30.12.2011) Stated capital: Rs.2,992,147,950 Stated capital: Rs.14,500,000 exercise management control over the entity Stated capital: Rs.152,000,000 * The company is a non-operational company Facets (Pvt) Ltd (100%)* John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd / investment company / land only / holding John Keells (Teas) Ltd (100%)* Owner of real estate (80%)* company / investment holding company / Manager of eight bought leaf tea No.130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2. International trading services managing company and rental of office spaces. factories 2306000 No.3, Raffles Place, #07-01 Annual Report 2011/12 241 John Keells Holdings PLC MEMBERSHIPS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS Memberships maintained by the Industry Groups Senior management personnel of the Group, hold positions of membership on the following professional and governance bodies and participates in various sub committees and projects initiated by such bodies. The Group views these memberships as a vital part of business, given the ability of such bodies to recommend policy changes, address industry concerns and carry out necessary lobbying for the betterment of the industry as a whole. The Group’s senior management is involved in the following bodies as active members, and in addition, members of the Group Executive Committee hold positions such as Chairman of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, President Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, President of Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport, Chairman Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka and Chairperson of the steering committee for HR and Education of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Industry Group Memberships Bombay Chamber of Commerce Freight Forwarders Association of India (FFFAI) Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association (SLAFFA) International Air Transportation Association (IATA) Agents Association World Cargo Alliance (WCA) Membership Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC) International Air Transport Association (IATA) Agents Association Logistics and Transportation Faculty Industry Committee of the University of Moratuwa Sri Lanka Ship Suppliers Association Association of Lanka Bunker Suppliers International Bunker Industry Association (IBIA) American Chamber of Commerce (affiliate membership) Sri Lanka Association of Airline Representative Transportation European Chamber of Commerce American Chamber of Commerce Civil Aviation Authority Accredited Agent of International Air Transport Association Travel Agents Association of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Tourism Board Italian Business Council Sri Lanka France Business Council Certificate of Corporate Partnership with The Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport (CILT) Bombay Chamber of Commerce Freight Forwarders Association of India (FFFAI) International Air Transportation Association (IATA) Agents Association World Cargo Alliance (WCA) Membership Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association (SLAFFA) 242 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Industry Group Memberships Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) Leading Edge Alliance Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC) Oracle Partner Network Information Technology Silver partnership of Microsoft Strategic partnership of IATA IBM partner World Ministerial Advisory Committee on IT/BPO exports convened by the EDB Nordic Business Council American Chamber of Commerce Consumer Goods Forum Employers' Federation of Ceylon (EFC) National Chamber of Commerce Export Development Board Consumer Food and Retail National Chamber of Exporters Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council Lanka Confectionery Manufacturers Association SKAL International Colombo American Chamber of Commerce European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Dutch Burger Union Tourist Hotels Association Business with Britain Indian Association of Tour Operators Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka Nature Trails Cultural Triangle Hoteliers Association Natural Disaster Management of Palugaswewa Division SWITCH-ASIA Compost Production Membership -Ministry of Agriculture Leisure Sri Lanka Conventions Bureau Tourist Hotel Association of Sri Lanka La Chaine des Rotisseurs Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Pacific Asia Travel Association Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka British Business Council Sri Lanka Japan Business Council Sri Lanka New Zealand Business Council Sri Lanka Malaysia Business Council Sri Lanka German Business Council Sri Lanka China Business Council Sri Lanka Benelux Business Council Sri Lanka Canada Business Council Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council Annual Report 2011/12 243 John Keells Holdings PLC MEMBERSHIPS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS Industry Group Memberships Sri Lanka Malaysian Business Council Sri Lanka Netherland Business Council Sri Lanka Japan Business Council Sri Lanka Poland Business Council Sri Lanka France Business Council Sri Lanka Singapore Business Council Sri Lanka Italy Business Council Sri Lanka Australia Business Council Sri Lanka Germany Business Council Sri Lanka Russia Business Council Sri Lanka Pakistan Business Council Sri Lanka Vietnam Business Council Sri Lanka China Business Council Employers' Federation of Ceylon Wild Life Focus Group of the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau Responsible Tourism Friends of Sri Lanka Association, UK Director Convention Bureau Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management European Business Council Leisure Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau Kandy Hoteliers Association Maldives Association of Tourism Industry Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka Nature Odyssey Tourism Development Committee of Hambantota District under Hambantota District Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority Bentota/Beruwela Hotelier’s Association Tourist Hotels Association of Sri Lanka Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association Bird Friendly Concept Network Wild Life and Nature Protection Society Travel Trade Sports Club Signature Travel Network International Association of Travel & Tourism Professionals Pacific Asia Travel Association Sri Lanka Institute of Directors Sri Lanka Association Of Professional Conference Exhibition & Event Organizers Travel Agents Association of India Japan Association of Travel Agents Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka Property Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Employers' Federation of Ceylon 244 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Industry Group Memberships Colombo Stock Brokers Association Colombo Stock Exchange Financial Services Insurance Association of Sri Lanka American Chamber of Commerce in Sri Lanka Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Employers' Federation of Ceylon National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Institute of Directors SLASSCOM CIO Forum Lanka Business Coalition on HIV & AIDS Sri Lanka Tea Board Ceylon Chamber of Commerce National Chamber of Commerce Other Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association Planters' Association of Ceylon Colombo Tea Traders' Association International Tea Committee Harvard Management Communications Ltd Harvard Business Review European Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association Tea Research Board of Sri Lanka Colombo Tea Traders Association Colombo Rubber Traders Association Rubber Dealers’ License Director of Rubber Development Department Annual Report 2011/12 245 John Keells Holdings PLC MEMBERSHIPS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS Certifications and awards of Group Companies 2011/12 The John Keells Group maintains a high quality in its product and service offerings through embracing industry and corporate best practice international standards. The many awards and certifications won by the Group which are specified below are testament to the high standards the Group sets itself in meeting stakeholder expectations. Certifications received in 2011/12 ISO 22000:2005 ISO 9001:2008 ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 Kitchen and Stewarding Processes Environment Occupational Health and Safety City Hotels Transportation City Hotels City Hotels • Cinnamon Grand Colombo • Mackinnons Travel • Cinnamon Grand, Colombo • Cinnamon Grand Colombo • Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo • Mack Air • Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Sri Lankan Resorts Sri Lankan Resorts Destination Management • Bentota Beach Hotel Sri Lankan Resorts • Bentota Beach Hotel • Walkers Tours • Chaaya Blu Trincomalee • Bentota Beach Hotel • Chaaya Blu Trincomalee • Whittal-Boustead • Chaaya Citadel Kandy • Chaaya Blu Trincomalee • Chaaya Citadel Kandy • Chaaya Village Habarana • Chaaya Citadel Kandy • Chaaya Village Habarana F&B Manufacturing • Chaaya Village Habarana • Cinnamon Lodge Habarana • Ceylon Cold Stores Maldivian Resorts • Keells Food Products • Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo Maldivian Resorts Maldivian Resorts • Chaaya Lagoon HakuraaHuraa • Chaaya Lagoon HakuraaHuraa • Chaaya Lagoon HakuraaHuraa Information Technology • Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo • Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo • John Keells Computer Services Destination Management • Chaaya Island Dhonveli • Chaaya Island Dhonveli • John Keells Office Automation • Walkers Tours • Whittal-Boustead Transportation F&B Manufacturing Others • John Keells Logistics • Ceylon Cold Stores • Strategic Group IT • Keells Food Products Others • Tea Smallholder Factories PLC Neluwa Tea Factory • John Keells Warehousing ISO 27001: 2005 Green Globe STING Accountability Rating Others Information Technology City Hotels Platinum Switch Asia • Infomate • Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo • John Keells Holdings • Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo • John Keells BPO • Chaaya Village Habarana Sri Lankan Resorts Gold • Bentota Beach Hotel • Asian Hotels and Properties Green Planet • Chaaya Blu Trincomalee • John Keells Hotels • Chaaya Village Habarana • Chaaya Village Habarana • Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo Silver Bird Friendly Certificate • Cinnamon Lodge Habarana • Ceylon Cold Stores • Chaaya Village Habarana Star Crescent • Chaaya Blu Trincomalee • Cinnamon Lodge Habarana SLSI Certificate of Conformity • Tea Smallholder Factories PLC Neluwa Tea Factory • Tea Smallholder Factories PLC Hingalgoda Tea Factory 246 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Awards received in 2011/12 Industry Company/ Awards Received Group Business Unit Leisure City Hotels Cinnamon • The Best Five Star (City) Hotel Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2011 Lakeside • First hotel in Sri Lanka to be recertified for Green Globe standards Colombo • ICASL Awards for Excellence in Annual Reports 2011 Hotel Sector Bronze Award • 1st place at Colombo chicken curry food competition organized by Sri Lanka tourism at spice food festival 2011 • EGB mocktail champion of the year award World Spice Food Festival 2011 • Awarded “A” grade at the CMC hotel hygiene classification audit • Awarded 2nd place for best theme stall at the World Spice Food Festival Third place in bocus d’ or cooking competition. Cinnamon • Best Host Hotel Culture (Cinnamon Grand’s Nuga Gama) at the Sri Lanka Tourism Awards Grand Colombo • All Island Marie Brizard Bartender Cocktail Competition • All Island Championship Award (Gold Medal) in Flaring Category • All Island Championship Award (Gold Medal) in Classic Cocktail Category Friendliest Bartender Award Best Presented Cocktail Award Bronze Medal (Classical Category) Silver Medal Best Creative Cocktail Award • Gold Excellence Award at the Annual Culinary Awards 2011 (a unique award for outstanding excellence) • Total of 35 other Medals at the Annual Culinary Awards (5 Gold Medals/17 Silver Medals/13 bronze Medals) • The Best Themed Restaurant at the World Spice Food Festival Award (Sri Lanka Tourism) • Silver Medal in the Colombo Cooking Challenge at World Spice Festival • Best Five Star Kitchen in the City Award Colombo Municipal Council (Cinnamon Grand Colombo has been made a role model kitchen for all hotels in Sri Lanka due to the hygiene standards maintained) 2011 • Crowns for Food Hygiene Certificate by Edex • Best City Hotel Award, awarded by Sri Lanka’s leading Leisure publication Living Magazine • Cinnamon Grand‘s Lagoon awarded “One of Asia’s Best Restaurants” in The Miele Guide Resort Hotels John Keells • Gold award for corporate accountability at the STING Corporate Accountability Index 2012 for the ‘Hotels and Hotels PLC Travel’ sector for the third consecutive year. Chaaya Island • First Choice Travel Company Gold Award for Chaaya Island Dhonveli for Customer Satisfaction for 2010 Dhonveli • Tripadvisor Certificate for Excellence, 2011 • First Choice Gold Medal 2011 • Gold Award for “Best First Choice 4 Tier Category” by TUI Travel PLC. • Won one Silver medal, two bronze medals and three Merit awards at “Hotel Asia Exhibition & International Culinary Challenge, 2011” Chaaya Reef • TUI-UK First Choice Travel Company Gold Award for Chaaya Island Ellaidhoo for Customer Satisfaction for 2010 Ellaidhoo “Best First Choice 3 Tier Category“ Chaaya Lagoon • Trip advisor certificate of excellence for 2011 HakuraaHuraa • “Bravo” rating on trip advisor for receiving ”EXCELLENT”: Rating from 195 reviews. • Gold Award for “Best Thomson 4 Tier Category” by TUI Travel PLC Bentota Beach • National award in the service category 2011; Hotel • Merit Certificate in Recognition in cleaner production National Cleaner Production 2011 for the service category • Won a 2011 Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence • Chef’s Guild Culinary Art Competition 2011 4 Gold medals 8 Silver medals 9 Bronze medals • Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence Annual Report 2011/12 247 John Keells Holdings PLC MEMBERSHIPS, CERTIFICATIONS AND AWARDS Industry Company/ Awards Received Group Business Unit Chaaya Blu • Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence Trincomalee Cinnamon • Presidential Awards for Travel and Tourism Lodge • Gold (04 awards), Silver (06 awards) and Bronze (10 awards) Cocktail and Mocktail Competition and Chefs’ Habarana Guild of Sri Lanka 2011 • All Island 2nd place in the “Signature Cocktail for Sri Lanka Tourism” competition • 1st place in the regional Cocktail competition of the Cultural Triangle “The Signature Cocktail for Sri Lanka Tourism” organized by the Sri Lanka Tourism Authority • 1st place in the Food Handlers test among all Resort hotels • 1st place and 02nd place in the Classical and Flaring Cocktail competition at 20th National Bartenders competition Cultural Triangle region • Wizard of Leisure 2011 01st place in the Bell Desk quiz competition • Wizard of Leisure 2011 03rd place in the innovative Coffee Cocktail competition • Wizard of Leisure 2011 03rd place in the Flair Cocktail competition • Trip Advisor Certificate of Excellence Destination Walkers Tours Presidential Awards 2011 Management (Pvt) Ltd • Best Charter Airline (Condor Airlines) • Best Tourism Website • Best Inbound Tour Operator Transportation Mackinnons • Cathay Pacific Top Travel Agent Award for the period 2010/2011 Travels • Jet Airways Top Agent Award for the period 2010/2011 • Malaysia Airlines Top Agent for the period 2010/2011 Mack Air (Pvt) • Eagle Award for 2010 Outstanding Yield Growth Ltd Consumer Foods & Retail Ceylon Cold • ICASL Awards 2011 Food and Beverages Sector Gold Award Stores (CCS) • SLIM Peoples’ Award for the FMCG Beverage Brand of the Year EH Cream Soda 2012, received in Feb • EFFIE Awards 2011 Ice Cream Category 2BAR launch campaign won the silver award for the packaged foods category • SLIM-Nielsen Peoples Awards 2011 Most Popular FMCG Beverage Brand of the Year for Elephant House Cream Soda • EFFIE Awards 2011 Advertising Effectiveness Awards Bronze award for KIK COLA Keells Food • ICASL Awards 2011 Food and Beverages Sector Silver Award Products PLC (KFP) Information Technology John Keells • Diamond Award For reaching 50% market share for PPC in Sri lanka in May 2011 Office • Pinnacle Award Best TMCP for Outstanding Performance (Group B) Note Book Computers Automation Property • ICASL Annual Report Awards 2011 Diversified Holdings (Group above 5 subsidiaries) Sector Bronze Award 248 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information Industry Company/ Awards Received Group Business Unit Financial Services Union • ICASL Awards 2011 1st place overall corporate governance disclosure Assurance PLC 1st place Insurance sector (UA) 2nd place overall excellence in annual financial reporting 3rd place overall corporate social responsibility • SAFA Annual Reports Awards 2011 1st place for corporate governance disclosure 1st place insurance category • National Business Excellence Awards 2011 1st place insurance sector Runners up for performance management practices Others John Keells • Adjudged the ‘Most Respected Entity’ amongst its peers for the sixth year, in a nation wide survey conducted by Holdings PLC the Lanka Monthly Digest (LMD) • SGIT was appointed as SAP service partner • ICASL Annual Report Awards 2011 Diversified Holdings (Group above 5 subsidiaries) Sector Bronze Award • ICASL Awards 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Awards Silver award • ACCA Awards 2011 Winner in Sustainability Reporting • STING Corporate Accountability Rating Platinum Award for 2012 Tea • ICASL Awards 2011 Certificate of Manufacturing Companies Sector Smallholder Factories PLC John Keells • ICASL Awards 2011 Placed second ( Silver Award) for SectorDiversified Holdings (upto 5 subsidiaries) PLC Annual Report 2011/12 249 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully Pages 7 10 organisation. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Pages 44 45 2. Organizational Profile Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully Page 3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Page 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Fully Page 4 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. Fully Page 3 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Fully Page 3 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Page 3 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Fully Page 237 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully Page 6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Fully Pages 5 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully Page 246-249 3. Report Parameters Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Fully Page 40 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Page 40 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) Fully Page 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Page 40 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully Page 40, Pages 45-47, Pages 48-49 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Fully Page 40 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 250 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Fully Page 40 report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Fully Page 40 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Fully Page 2 including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Fully Page 40 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Fully Page 40 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the Fully Page 250-260 report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Fully Page 40, Page 54 assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Fully Page 18, Page 28-29 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Fully Page 28 an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Fully Page 124, Page number and gender of members of the highest governance body 19, Page 20, Pages that are independent and/or non-executive members. 12-14 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully Pages 32-33 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Fully Pages 22-24, Pages governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 30-31 departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Fully Pages 19-20 conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Fully Page 19, Page 20, expertise of the members of the highest governance body and Page 22, Pages its committees, including any consideration of gender and other 12-13 indicators of diversity. Annual Report 2011/12 251 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Fully Page 34-35, Page conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 123-124 social performance and the status of their implementation. Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Disclosure Direct answer omission 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Fully Page 43, Page 29, organization's identification and management of economic, Pages 33-34 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Fully Page 21, Pages own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 23-24 environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Fully Page 43 principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Fully Pages 44, Page 40 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ Fully Page 242-245 or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully Page 47 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Fully Pages 45-46 to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Fully Pages 47-48 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Fully Page 48 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 252 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR EACH CATEGORY. YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO DISCLOSE THIS INFORMATION ON THE ASPECT LEVEL FOR EACH PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT YOU HAVE REPORTED FULLY ON. G3.1 DMAs Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Performance Standard DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully Pages 108-110 Market presence Fully Page 108, Page 110 Indirect economic impacts Fully Pages 139-142 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Not Energy Fully Pages 111-112 3 Water Fully Page 111, Page 115 4 Biodiversity Fully Page 111, Pages 118-119 6 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Page 111, Page 114, Pages 116 -118 3 Products and services Not Compliance Fully Page 118 Transport Not Overall DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment Fully Page 123 Labour / management relations Fully Page 126 2 Occupational health and safety Fully Page 128-130 Training and education Fully Page 127 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Page 123-125, 127, 132-133 2 Equal remuneration for women and men Not DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Not Non-discrimination Fully Page 127, Pages 132 133 2 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Page 126 2 Child labor Fully Pages 131-132 2 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully Page 132 2 Security practices Not Indigenous rights Not Assessment Not Remediation Not DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully Pages 139-143 Corruption Fully Pages 133-134 Public policy Not Anti-competitive behavior Not Compliance Fully Page 134 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Not Product and service labelling Fully Page 135, Pages 137-138 Marketing communications Fully Page 135, Page 138 Customer privacy Not Compliance Fully Page 135, Page 138 Annual Report 2011/12 253 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) Economic Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully Pages 108-109 including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Not Not Reported opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Fully Page 110 plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Not Not Reported government. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Not Not Reported by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Fully Page 110 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Not Not Reported of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully Page 142, Page 150, Pages 151-154 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Not Not Reported economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Not Reported EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not Not Reported input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully Page 112 3 source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully Page 112 3 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully Page 113 3 improvements. 254 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Not Not Reported renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Not Not Reported and reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Page 116 3 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not Not Reported withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not Not Reported and reused. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully Pages 120-122 6 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not Not Reported products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Not Reported EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Not Not Reported managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not Not Reported conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully Pages 114-115 3 emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Not Not Reported by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Not Not Reported and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not Not Reported weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Not Not Reported type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully Pages 116-117 3 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully Pages 117-118 3 method. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Page 118 3 Annual Report 2011/12 255 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Not Not Reported treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not Not Reported value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Not Not Reported of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not Not Reported materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully Page 118 3 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Not Not Reported products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Not Not Reported investments by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully Pages 124-125 contract, and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Fully Pages 125-126 2 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Not Not Reported are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Not Not Reported leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully Page 126 2 bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Not Not Reported operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 256 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Not Not Reported formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Fully Pages 128-130 2 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Fully Page 130 2 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not Not Reported agreements with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Fully Page 127 2 by gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Not Not Reported that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully Page 127 2 performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully Page 124 2 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Not Not Reported to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not Not Reported investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Not Not Reported and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Not Not Reported procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Annual Report 2011/12 257 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Not Not Reported actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified Not Not Reported in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully Pages 131-132 2 having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified Fully Page 132 2 as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not Not Reported organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Not Not Reported rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that Not Not Reported have been subject to human rights reviews and/ or impact assessments. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Social: Society Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully Pages 139-156 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Not Not Reported negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Not Not Reported in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 258 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully Pages 133-134 analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Not Not Reported anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Not Not Reported corruption. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Not Not Reported policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Not Not Reported to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Not Not Reported behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully Page 134 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer IFC Sustainability Framework Indicator Performance Standard Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Not Not Reported impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not Not Reported with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required Fully Pages 136-138 by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not Not Reported with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Not Not Reported including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Annual Report 2011/12 259 John Keells Holdings PLC GRI INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators REPORT FULLY ON AT LEAST 20 CORE OR ADDITIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AT LEAST 1 FROM EACH CATEGORY (ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT, LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK, HUMAN RIGHTS, SOCIETY, PRODUCT RESPONSIBLITY) Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully Page 138 and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not Not Reported with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Not Not Reported regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonFully Page 138 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. UNGC Advanced principles Advanced Principles Page number in Communication on Progress / Annual Report Criterion 1 Pages 7-10, Pages 44-45, Page 48, Pages 50-51, Page 52 Criterion 2 Pages 12-38 Criterion 3 Pages 45-49 Criterion 4 Pages 139-156 Criterion 5 Pagse 131-134 Criterion 6 Pages 131-134, Pages 12-38 Criterion 7 Pages 131-134, Pages 12-38 Criterion 8 Criterion 9 Pages 131-134, Pages 12-38, Pages 123-127 Criterion 10 Pages 123-127, Pages 12-38 Criterion 11 Pages 131-134 Criterion 12 Page 126, Pages 131132 Criterion 13 Pages 111-122 Criterion 14 Pages 42-44, Pages 111-122, Pages 56-58 Criterion 15 Pages 9, Pages 42-43 Criterion 16 Pages 115-116, Pages 114-115, Page 113, Page 118 Criterion 17 Pages 133-134 Criterion 18 Pages 12-38, Pages 133-134 Criterion 19 Pages 12-38 Criterion 20 Pages 133-134 Criterion 21 Criterion 22 Pages 108 109, Page 3 Criterion 23 Page 41, Page 53 Criterion 24 Pages 54-55, Page 53 260 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMS Accrual basis resources is not expected or, Interest cover b) its directors who are holding Recording revenues & expenses 3. it is unable to be measured with Consolidated profit before interest office as directors of the entity, in the period in which they are sufficient reliability. and tax over finance expenses. their spouses and children under earned or incurred regardless 18 years of age; and, of whether cash is received or Current ratio Long term debt to total debt disbursed in that period. c) Chief Executive Officer, his/her Current assets divided by current Long term loans as a percentage of spouse and children under 18 years liabilities. total debt. of age; and, Asset turnover Revenue including associate Debt/equity ratio Market capitalisation d) any single shareholder who company revenue divided by Debt as a percentage of Number of shares in issue at the holds 10 per cent or more of the average total assets. shareholders’ funds and minority end of period multiplied by the shares. interest. market price at end of period. Beta Quick ratio Co-variance between daily market Diluted earnings per share Market value added Cash plus short term investments return and daily JKH share return (EPS) Market capitalisation minus plus receivables, divided by current divided by variance of daily JKH Profit attributable to equity shareholder’s funds. liabilities. share return over a period of 5 holders of the parent divided by years. the weighted average number of Net assets Return on assets ordinary shares in issue during the Total assets minus current Profit after tax divided by the Capital employed period adjusted for options granted liabilities minus long term average total assets. Shareholders’ funds plus minority but not exercised. liabilities minus minority interest. interest and debt. Return on capital employed Dividend payable Net assets per share Consolidated profit before interest Capital structure leverage (CSL) Final dividend per share multiplied Net assets as at a particular and tax as a percentage of average Average total assets divided by by the latest available total financial year end divided by the capital employed. average shareholders equity. number of shares in issue as at the number of shares in issue as at the date of the report. current financial year end Return on equity Cash earnings per share Profit attributable to shareholders Profit after tax adjusted for Dividend payout ratio Net debt (cash) as a percentage of average non cash items minus share Dividend as a percentage of Total debt minus (cash plus short shareholders’ funds. of associate company profits company profits adjusted for non term deposits). plus dividends from associate cash gains items. Sales to assets ratio/total asset companies divided by the weighted Net profit margin turnover average number of ordinary shares Dividend yield Profit after tax divided by turnover Turnover including share of in issue during the period. Dividends adjusted for changes inclusive of share of associate associate company turnover in number of shares in issue as a company turnover. divided by average total assets. Cash interest and tax cover percentage of the share price at Cash flow from operations before the end of the period. Net working capital Share turn ratio working capital changes divided by Current assets minus current Total volume of shares traded cash interest and tax payments. Earnings per share liabilities. during the year divided by average Profit attributable to equity number of shares in issue. Cash ratio holders of the parent divided by Price earnings ratio Cash plus short term investments the weighted average number of Market price per share (diluted) Shareholders funds divided by current liabilities. ordinary shares in issue during the over diluted earnings per share. Total of stated capital, capital period. reserves and revenue reserves. Cash to price earnings Price to book ratio Diluted market price per share EBIT Market price per share (diluted) Total debt divided by diluted cash earnings Earnings before interest and tax over net asset value per share. Long term loans plus short term per share. (includes other operating income). loans and overdrafts. Profit ratio Common earnings leverage EBIT margin Profit after tax attributable to Total equity (CEL) EBIT divided by turnover inclusive equity holders of the parents Shareholders funds plus minority Profit attributable to equity holders of share of associate company divided by total revenue including interest. of the parent divided by profit after turnover. share of associates tax. Total shareholder return EBITDA Public holding (Free float) (P1 P0 +D) / P0 x 100 Contingent liabilities Earnings before interest, tax, Public holding means shares of a P1 = Market price at the end of the A condition or situation existing at depreciation and amortisation. listed entity held by any person financial year the balance sheet date due to past other than those directly or P0 = Diluted market price at the events, where the financial effect Effective rate of taxation indirectly held by; end of the previous financial year is not recognised because: Tax expense divided by profit D = Adjusted dividend for the year 1. the obligation is crystalised by before tax. a) its parent, subsidiary or the occurrence or non occurrence associate companies or any of one or more future events or, EV (enterprise value) subsidiaries or associates of its 2. a probable outflow of economic Market capitalisation plus net debt. parent company; and, Annual Report 2011/12 261 John Keells Holdings PLC NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Thirty Third Annual General Meeting of John Keells Holdings PLC will be held on 29th June 2012 at 11.00 a.m at The Auditorium, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha (Longdon Place), Colombo 7. The business to be brought before the meeting will be: • to read the notice convening the meeting. • to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31st March 2012 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. • to re-elect as Director, Mr. J R F Peiris, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. • to re-elect as Director, Mrs. S Thiruchelvam, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. • to re-elect as Director, Mr. A R Gunasekara, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. • to re-elect as Director, Mr. T Das who is over the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, for which notice of the following ordinary resolution has been given by a member: “THAT the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. T Das, who is 73 years and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company.” • to authorise the Directors to determine and make donations. • to re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. • to consider any other business of which due notice has been given. By order of the Board JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC Keells Consultants (Private) Limited Secretaries 1 June 2012 Notes: i. A member unable to attend is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/her place. ii. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. iii. A member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Proxy Form enclosed. iv. In order to be valid, the completed Proxy Form must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 hours before the meeting. 262 Group Highlights / Governance / Sustainability Integration & Risk Management / Management Discussion and Analysis / Financial Information Supplementary Information FORM OF PROXY I/We ........................................................................................................................................................................ of ...................................................................................................................................................................................... being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint .................................................................................................................................................................................. of ........................................................................................................................................................ or failing him/her MR. SUSANTHA CHAMINDA RATNAYAKE or failing him MR. AJIT DAMON GUNEWARDENE or failing him MR. JAMES RONNIE FELITUS PEIRIS or failing him MR. EMMANUEL FRANKLYN GAMINI AMERASINGHE or failing him MR. TARUN DAS or failing him MR. STEVEN ENDERBY or failing him MRS. SITHIE SUBAHNIYA TIRUCHELVAM or failing her DR. INDRAJIT COOMARASWAMY or failing him MR. ANTHONY RANJIT GUNASEKARA as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Thirty Third Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 29th June 2012 at 11.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in the appropriate cage: FOR AGAINST To re-elect as Director, Mr. J R F Peiris, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mrs. S Thiruchelvam, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. A R Gunasekara, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. T Das who is over the age of 70 years and who retires in terms of section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. To authorise the Directors to determine and make donations. To re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. Signed on this ................................................... day of ................................................... Two Thousand and Twelve. .............................................. Signature/s of Shareholder/s NOTE: INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY FORM ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE. Annual Report 2011/12 263 John Keells Holdings PLC INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY 1. Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. 2. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 130, Glennie Street, Colombo 2, not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 3. If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company. 4. If the appointer is a Company or Corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the Company or Corporation in accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution. 5. If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting. Please fill in the following details: Name :......................................................................................................................................................... Address :......................................................................................................................................................... .......................................................................................................................................................... .......................................................................................................................................................... Jointly with :......................................................................................................................................................... Share Folio No. :......................................................................................................................................................... 264 CORPORATE INFORMATION Name of Company Bankers Group Sustainability and Enterprise John Keells Holdings PLC Bank of Ceylon Risk Management Citibank N.A John Keells Holdings PLC Legal Form Commercial Bank 130 Glennie Street Public Limited Liability Company Deutsche Bank A.G Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979 DFCC Bank Telephone: +(94) 11 230 6182 Ordinary Shares listed on the DFCC Vardhana Bank Facsimile: +(94) 11 230 6249 Colombo Stock Exchange Hatton National Bank Email: sustainability@keells.com GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Stock Exchange ICICI Bank Contact for Media Muslim Commercial Bank Corporate Communications Division Company Registration No. Nations Trust Bank John Keells Holdings PLC PQ 14 National Savings Bank 130 Glennie Street Pan Asia Banking Corporation Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Directors People’s Bank Telephone: +94 (0) 11 230 6191 S C Ratnayake – Chairman Sampath Bank Facsimile: +94 (0) 11 471 7706 A D Gunewardene – Deputy Chairman Seylan Bank J R F Peiris Standard Chartered Bank Auditors E F G Amerasinghe Ernst & Young I Coomaraswamy Depository for GDRs Chartered Accountants T Das Citibank N.A P.O. Box 101 S Enderby New York Colombo, Sri Lanka A R Gunasekara S S Tiruchelvam Registered office of the Company 130 Glennie Street Senior Independent Director Colombo 2, Sri Lanka E F G Amerasinghe Internet: www.keells.com Email: jkh@keells.com Audit Committee A R Gunasekara – Chairman Secretaries and Registrars E F G Amerasinghe Keells Consultants (Pvt) Limited I Coomaraswamy 130 Glennie Street S Enderby Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone: +94 (0) 11 230 6245 Human Resources and Compensation Facsimile: +94 (0) 11 243 9037 Committee E F G Amerasinghe – Chairman Investor Relations I Coomaraswamy John Keells Holdings PLC A R Gunasekara 130 Glennie Street S S Tiruchelvam Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone: +94 (0) 11 230 6167 Nominations Committee +94 (0) 11 230 6000 T Das – Chairman Facsimile: +94 (0) 11 230 6160 S Enderby Email: investor.relations@keells.com S C Ratnayake S S Tiruchelvam Photography by Dhanush de Costa Digital Plates by Imageline (Pvt) Ltd Printed by Gunaratne Offset Ltd www.keells.com
