CSR REPORT 2012 Editorial The report and website both concern the group’s activities in the area Scope of the Report: of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The objective is to improve Unless otherwise stated, the report covers 13 companies communications with our stakeholders by reporting on the group’s referred as “the Group” or “Mizuho” below. There have been no thinking, policies, and initiatives based on plans in the area of CSR, significant changes in the companies covered compared with and to provide further impetus for our CSR activities in the future. last fiscal year. The report presents articles highlighting initiatives Mizuho paid special attention to in its relationships with customers and society, and its activities concerning the environment, during Description fiscal 2011. These articles are organized along five different ●”The Group,” or “Mizuho” themes. The report also touches on important matters regarding Mizuho Financial Group and its 12 key group companies in “Initiatives for Integrated Group Management”, which are of Japan: Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Mizuho considerable interest to external stakeholders. Securities, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Investors The website presents the content covered in the report’s highlight articles, but in greater detail. It also provides systematic Securities, Trust & Custody Services Bank, Mizuho Asset and comprehensive discussions of concepts and policies Management, DIAM, Mizuho Research Institute, Mizuho underlying Mizuho’s CSR activities and various initiatives Information & Research Institute, Mizuho Financial Stratundertaken in accordance with GRI guidelines and other such egy, and Mizuho Private Wealth Management. reference frameworks. ●Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG) The content of the report is the result of deliberations by the Refers to Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. on a non-consolidated CSR Committee and final decisions by the President. basis. Reported in this report Period Covered: This report covers the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012. However, it also includes information on significant events High since April 2012. Stakeholder concerns Publication Information: Date of issue: September 2012 Reported on our website Next scheduled publication date: September 2013 (Previous publication date: September 2011, frequency: annual) High Low Degree of Importance for Mizuho Company Overview (As of March 31, 2012) Trade name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Business Mizuho Financial Group is a bank holding Activities company which operates and manages its Domestic stock banks, long–term credit banks, specialized exchange securities code: 8411 securities companies and other companies Date of establishment: January 8, 2003 which the Company may own by law as its Location of head office: Marunouchi 2-chome Building, subsidiaries, and engages in business appertaining 2-5-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, to the management and operation of such 100-8333, Japan companies. TEL: 81-3-5224-1111 (reception) Outstanding 24,999,607,727 shares Shares Capital: ¥2,254,972 million (Common: 24,048,165,727, Preferred: 951,442,000) Representative: Yasuhiro Sato, President & CEO Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (First section), Osaka Number of employees 56,109 Securities Exchange (First section), New York (Consolidated) Stock Exchange* *American Depositary Receipts (ADR) listed on the New York Stock Exchange 1 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Contents Editorial/Company Overview 1 Contents 2 A Message from the Group CEO 3 Initiatives for Integrated Group Management 5 CSR Highlights 7 “Confronting the Challenges” C on fron ti n g th e C h a l l e n ge s: 1 Supporting the Recovery 9 from the Disaster C on fron ti n g th e C h a l l e n ge s: 2 Environmental 11 Preservation C on fron ti n g th e C h a l l e n ge s: 3 Addressing Various 15 Social Issues C on fron ti n g th e C h a l l e n ge s: 4 For Convenience 19 and Safety C on fron ti n g th e C h a l l e n ge s: 5 Fostering Children’s 21 Capacity to Live Stakeholder Dialogue 23 Business Overview 25 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 2 A Message from the Group CEO The group will make the most of its financing capabilities as one to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society. One year has passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake To Fulfill the Essential Role of a occurred. I would like to begin by expressing my deepest Financial Institution thanks once again to our customers and other members of the domestic and international communities for their support and warm words of encouragement following the disaster. Turning next to recent economic conditions, a gradual We continue to devote our entire group strengths to the recovery has taken hold in the U.S. economy. Prospects for its recovery of victims, industries and economies that have continuation, however, are clouded by down-side risk factors, suffered damage as a result of the disaster, as well as like uncertainties regarding future oil prices, and fiscal support the revival of disaster-stricken areas and industries. austerity measures. In Europe, fiscal problems in some I would also like to report on the progress of our Business countries have resulted in an economic downturn, and it is Improvement Plans which were submitted in June 2011, extremely difficult to discern the possible impacts of bearing in mind the computer system failures our group European debt problems on the global economy. Asia, experienced in March 2011. We have implemented the plans meanwhile, has maintained a relatively high growth rate, but right on schedule and developed countermeasures for our has experienced overall slowing due to the impacts of the system functions, including the reorganization of large European economic downturn and other factors. In Japan, volume data processing capabilities. We have also improved the gradual economic recovery continues owing to the our response mechanisms to deal with the occurrence of demand for reconstruction from the impact of the Great East crises and verified their effectiveness through training, while Japan Earthquake. Reviewing the initiatives that we took i m p ro v i n g o u r b u s i n e s s a d m i n i s t r a t i o n , i n c l u d i n g during the second year of Mizuho’s Transformation Program implementation of Actions to Restore Customer Confidence, which was originally announced in May 2010, as the which were announced in May 2011 and conducted an Medium-term Management Policy of our group, we believe overall risk evaluation of the system. We will continue to be we have made steady progress mainly in enhancing our keenly aware of our public mission as financial institutions “profitability” and “financial base” amid such a severe that bear responsibilities for the settlement system and take business environment. As regards our Program for all necessary measures to ensure their stable operations. Strengthening Front-Line Business Capabilities, we have 3 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 implemented various measures, including streamlining and and striving through our business activities, to continuously rationalizing our corporate management functions and and constructively contribute to the formation of a sustainable reforming the structure of our IT costs. Furthermore, in view of society. recent changes in the operating environment, we will continue One form of social contribution we have paid considerable to endeavor to increase management efficiency. attention to is support for financial education. This is an area In the area of CSR, society’s expectations from companies in which a financial institution is especially well-suited to for responsible business activities and contribution to undertake initiatives applying the resources of its business realizing sustainable society heighten further, in the context of activities, and we will continue with our efforts to support the issuance of the ISO26000 international guidelines on the financial education and contribute to the sound development social responsibility of organizations and the progress of of future leaders. corporate initiatives that address social issues through The enhancement of corporate governance is another area we business activities. As for financial institutions, in particular, it view as a particularly important area of endeavor. Sound is expected that they will not only fulfill their public missions corporate governance is essential for contributing to society by but also contribute to the resolution of social issues through fulfilling our role as a financial institution, and as a foundation upon financing functions. To promote financing initiatives aimed at which to pursue our business activities, so we must do everything realizing a sustainable society in Japan, Mizuho and other we can to enhance our corporate governance system. In the last concerned financial institutions engaged in numerous rounds fiscal year, to provide an effective and multifaceted range of of discussions that resulted in the creation of the “Principles financial services directly and speedily to our customers, we set for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society” in the course of our management policy to establish a new October 2011. Mizuho became an official signatory to these corporate structure and strengthen corporate governance toward principles in November. the “advanced and integrated group management.” More The fundamental purpose of a financial institution, I believe, specifically, we decided to turn our trust banking and two is to help create a better future for its customers and securities subsidiaries into our wholly-owned subsidiaries in contribute to social and economic development. Mizuho, as a order to maximize our differentiating feature and our advantage as financial institution representing Japan in global financial the only financial group in Japan with banks, trust banks and markets, will spare no effort in fulfilling that purpose and living securities companies under one umbrella. We also signed a up to society’s expectations. memorandum of understanding on the merger between Mizuho Securities and Mizuho Investors Securities as well as that on the merger between Mizuho Corporate Bank and Mizuho Bank. Advancing CSR Initiatives in Over the coming year, we will establish these new corporate Accordance with ISO26000 structures, strive to facilitate the smooth legal merger and realize the synergies generated from the merger as soon as possible. With the issuance of the ISO26000 standard, Mizuho has reorganized its CSR initiatives into eight areas – “Thoroughly Pursuing CSR Activities Together implementing the customer first policy,” “meeting social as a Group responsibilities through business activities,” “environmental initiatives,” “support for financial education,” “social contribution activities,” “creating fulfilling workplaces,” “enhancing corporate Mizuho is determined to make a fresh start by returning to the governance,” and “promoting communications.” We have basics of our “customer first policy” as the core principle of designated three of these areas – “environmental initiatives,” our management. In order to become the most-trusted “support for financial education,” and “enhancing corporate financial institution, serving society at large, the group will governance” – as a particularly high level of attention. work on various issues as one under our new sub-slogan− To contribute to the resolution of social issues through its “One MIZUHO: Building the future with you.” business activities, Mizuho, drawing on its know-how, In addition, placing CSR initiatives as the pillar of our network, and other resources, is working to support the corporate conduct, we believe it is essential that we make the development of new industry sectors that will contribute to most of Mizuho’s uniqueness and strengths in pursuing CSR the sustainable growth of the Japanese economy such as the activities. Through dialog, we have determined what our recovery and revitalization of disaster-stricken areas, stakeholders expect of Mizuho, and we will meet their environmental problems, issues arising from the country’s low expectations by applying ISO26000 and other international birthrate and aging population. Outside of Japan, Mizuho guidelines and drawing on resources throughout the Group to is focusing on environmentally and socially conscious advance initiatives in various areas. We look forward to your infrastructure projects such as smart cities, mainly in the ongoing support as we move ahead with these endeavors. high-growth areas of Asia. Pursuing initiatives aimed at July 2012 addressing issues like these is the very essence of the Yasuhiro Sato fundamental role Mizuho should fulfill. We are committed to President & CEO (Group CEO) applying our expertise and know-how, Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 4 Initiatives for Integrated Group Management The Group has been endeavoring together to its full extent to engage in the Business Improvement Plans which were submitted in June 2011,reflecting on the computer system failures that occurred in March 2011. Specifically, as well as developing countermeasures regarding system functions, including the reorganization of large volume data processing capabilities, which triggered such failures, we have been taking measures such as upgrading the response mechanism upon the occurrence of a crisis followed by examinations of effectiveness through training, improving the management administration regime including “Actions to Restore Customer Confidence” announced in May 2011, and developing systems risk management capabilities through a “comprehensive inspection of systems risk at all group banks,” as originally planned. The Group will continue to bear in mind a lasting understanding of the public mission of financial institutions that bear responsibilities for the settlement system and take all necessary measures to ensure stable operations. Group aims to establish a new corporate structure and Toward Realizing the Advanced and corporate governance structure, with which it will be able Integrated Group Management Structure to utilize the banking, trust and securities functions most With respect to the Transformation Program which was effectively as the only financial group in Japan with all launched as the Medium-term Management Policy of the three functions under one umbrella, and thereby to Group in May 2010, the Group has steadily been taking improve further customer convenience. initiatives to strengthen three areas: “Improving Profitability,” MHSC, MHIS, and MHTB were turned into wholly–owned “Enhancing Financial Base” and “Strengthening Front-line subsidiaries of MHFG in September 2011, and thereby Business Capabilities.” Mizuho has further enhanced the “group collective The Group has decided to establish the “advanced capabilities” by integrating group–wide business operations, group management structure.” Under this initiative, the optimizing management resources, such as workforce and Transition to Integrated Group Management (Illustration) Solidify “Group Collective Capabilities” through Collaboration Towards Advanced & Integrated Group Management Mizuho’s Transformation Program Apr. 2012 Initiatives for “One Bank” (Front-line Business Capabilities) Consolidation/Reorganization MHFG MHFG Corporate Planning and Management Units Corporate Planning and Management Units Human Resources Units Human Resources Units Transform into “Substantive One Bank” MHBK MHCB MHTB MHBK MHCB MHTB Under Corporate Corporate Corporate Legally “One Bank” on July 1, 2013 Consideration Planning Planning Planning and and and Management Management Management Units Units Units Human Human Human Resources Resources Resources Relationship Management Units Units Units Units Relationship Relationship Management Management Relationship Units Units Management Products Units Products Units Products Products Units Units Markets Markets Markets Units Units Units Markets Units MHIS MHSC Merger Turned into Merger on January 4, 2013 (New) Mizuho Securities Securities wholly-owned Business Business subsidiaries Securities Units Units 5 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 branch network, and accelerating the implementation of the from the merger as soon as possible prior to the scheduled Transformation Program. effective date of the merger. In addition to the merger of the As part of our efforts to establish the new corporate two banks, the Group will consider the possibility of a structure, MHSC and MHIS will merge on January 4, 2013 consolidation that includes MHTB. to form a full-line securities company that will be the Group’s central provider of securities functions. To Become “the Most Trusted Additionally, MHFG, MHBK, and MHCB jointly Financial Institution” announced that the merger between MHBK and MHCB, which constitutes the core of the establishment of the Mizuho created concepts represented by the sub advanced group management structure, is to be conducted slogan “One MIZUHO: Building the future with you” in on July 1, 2013 on the assumption that, among other things, September 2011. This slogan was created based on filings will have been made to, and permission obtained suggestions solicited from employees. It is intended to from, the relevant authorities in Japan and any foreign reflect employee ideals. Going back to the principle of countries. Through the merger of the two banks, the Group putting the customer first, it expresses our unified Group aims to become able to provide directly and promptly commitment to take on the challenges of changing in diverse and functional financial services to customers, ways that will allow us to play a useful role in society and utilizing the current “strengths” and “advantages” of both become its most trusted financial institution. banks, and by further enhancing group collaboration among We remain committed to the ideals represented by our the banking, trust and securities functions. Implementing sub slogan as we work together as a group to implement the “substantive one bank” structure from April 2012, the the reforms necessary for us to achieve our goal of Group will take measures to realize the synergies generated becoming “the most trusted financial institution.” Concepts Represented by the Sub Slogan “One MIZUHO: Building the future with you” Concepts represented by the term “One” Group Unity New Organizational Structure Sharing awareness among management and Utilizing an advanced, group-wide management employees of the group of the importance of structure to fully leverage our strengths as a working with customers to help them build a full-line financial services group which includes brighter future. banking, trust, securities, and asset management arms to offer our customers a diverse range of high quality services. To Be No.1 Only One Aiming to become “the most trusted financial Aiming to become our customers’ sole financial institution” by our customers. institution of choice. Concepts represented by the phrase “Building the future with you” Building the future : Future-oriented approach, helping create a better tomorrow with you : Working together with the customer (principle of putting the customer first) Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 6 CSR Highlights Confronting the Challenges… of meeting customers’ expectations and society’s needs. Confronting the challenges of meeting expectations and needs from various quarters, Mizuho aims to serve society at large and to become the most-trusted financial institution. 7 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Confronting the Challenges: 1 9 Supporting the Recovery from the Disaster Confronting the Challenges: 2 11 Environmental Preservation Confronting the Challenges: 3 15 Addressing Various Social Issues Confronting the Challenges: 4 19 For Convenience and Safety Confronting the Challenges: 5 21 Fostering Children’s Capacity to Live Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 8 Confronting the Challenges: 1 Supporting the Recovery from the Disaster Over a year has past since the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred. Bearing in mind our social responsibility and public mission as a financial institution, Mizuho continues to devote our entire group strengths to the recovery of victims, industries and economies that have suffered damage as a result of the disaster, as well as support the revival of disaster-stricken areas and industries. Rising Symbol of Fukushima’s Recovery: Financial Support for the Recovery of Spa Resort Hawaiians Mizuho Tohoku Industry Development Fund Operating Scheme Local financial Tohoku Region Public institutions, (disaster-stricken 3 prefectures) institutions, etc. 1. Leading non-public etc. Various types companies, etc. Various types of support 2. Companies constituting of support industrial clusters Major Local corporations, 3. New companies business etc. (JVs*, etc.) etc organizations Collaboration Various types Investment (Common Collaboration of support stock, preferred stock, etc.) Mizuho Tohoku Industry Mizuho Development Fund Capital (MHCB, MHBK) *JV : Joint Venture Spa Resort Hawaiians (operated by Joban Kosan Co., Ltd.) billion yen in loans and investments. One billion yen of that suffered major damage from the Great East Japan total constituted the initial financing project by the Mizuho Earthquake. As a result, this hot-spring theme park, which Tohoku Industry Development Fund, established by is located in Fukushima Prefecture and is well-known in Mizuho to support the recovery of the Tohoku Region. Japan as the set for the movie, Hula Girl, was in urgent Using that money to rebuild its operations, Spa Resort need of financing to repair its facilities. As the resort’s main Hawaiians achieved a partial re-opening in October 2011 bank, Mizuho led discussions with other financial and its grand reopening in February 2012. institutions, with whom it ultimately agreed to provide 10 Working to Invigorate the Tourism Industry with Fiscal 2012 As the “First Year of the Recovery” Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, Spa Resort Hawaiians found it impossible to operate for a significant amount of time. Funding became a major hurdle when it came to recovery. Mizuho, however, stepped in and, as our main bank, led wide-ranging efforts to arrange the loans and investments that were keys to our getting back on our feet as quickly as we did. Now, we are committed to making fiscal 2012 the “first year of the recovery” of our efforts to work hand-in-hand with the region to recover from the disaster and reinvigorate the tourism industry. Representative Director and President, Joban Kosan Co., Ltd. Mr. Kazuhiko Saito 9 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Research to Support Proposal for Project to Create a Food Industry Cluster Port Area Special Agricultural Revitalization Nanakitagawa River Reconstruction Zone Food Industry Cluster Zone, Food in Eastern Sendai Project for Agricultural Revitalization Processing Center based on a Large-scale Farmland Approach The agricultural area in the eastern part of Sendai al a (Combining private-sector suffered severe damage from last year’s earthquake nd dynamism and the expertise of full-time farmers) or Fo and tsunami. To promote the advancement of the Stu od Minami Gamo Se d Fro Water Agricultural Management as yo agriculture and food industries in this area in a more n ti Purification ide nD er Support Center Center efficient, profitable direction, there is an ongoing Sendai Ex ive Zo (ICT*2 Core, R&D, Education, City ch rse ne Exchange) an ○ Function for the development agricultural and food frontier project to “strongly and training of young farmers Ag ge Fa ○ Function for the development ric /R rm revitalize agriculture” aiming to secure large of next-generation managers ult ur ev lan ○ Agricultural ICT platform ita dU agricultural fields. Mizuho Research Institute, Ltd. functions liza se ○ Test field for tio (MHRI), together with the Tohoku Fukko Desk (the high-functioning rice and nZ high-value-added varieties Are on Tohoku Reconstruction Desk)*1, MHCB and MHBK’s af e Natorigawa River Teizan Canal Industry Research Division, and others, have been Food Industry Cluster Zone, Vegetation Plant commissioned to perform research for this project. Application of wind power, solar power, and other forms Applying our extensive network and wealth of of renewable energy experience in supporting the development and Sendai Tobu Road advancement of industry, we prepared a report of Shiogama-Watari Line Prefectural Road our findings and a project proposal for making the *1 Tohoku Fukko Desk (the Tohoku Reconstruction Desk）: Established as a eastern part of Sendai into a thriving location for the vehicle through which Mizuho will contribute to industrial recovery in food industry. disaster-stricken areas of Japan’s Tohoku Region. *2 ICT : Information and Communication Technology Supporting Disaster-Stricken Areas through Various Social Contribution Activities Mizuho Picture Book Project logo designed ● Volunteer Activities in Disaster-Stricken Areas by Mariko Kobayashi of the Tokyo University of the Arts Mizuho has encouraged employees to volunteer as participants in relief activities, granted employees days off for volunteer work, and supported employee voluntarism in ● Mizuho Picture Book Project other ways, as well. In Under the Mizuho Picture Book Project, fiscal 2 011, 222 employees donate books to children who were employees volunteered victims of the earthquake or tsunami. A personal to participate in activities message from the donating employee is included to provide assistance in with each book. As of March 31, 2012, disaster-stricken areas. approximately 12,000 books had been sent to children at around 90 locations. ● Initiatives in Support Coast-cleaning activity in Letters of thanks received disaster-stricken areas from students at schools of Children that received picture books In April 2011, MHSC presented school supplies donated by employees to children in Onagawa Town, Miyagi Prefecture. With that connection serving as the impetus, MHSC proceeded to collect Exhibit and sales of products from donated items to be sold disaster-stricken areas at a charity bazaar to benefit children. Donations were collected from branches ● The “Support Eastern Japan” Market throughout Japan and presented to primary schools in In August 2011, Mizuho held the “Support Eastern Japan” market, which Items donated Higashi Matsushima City, Miyagi Prefecture in August 2011. by employees featured exhibits and sales of products from disaster-stricken areas, hula All bazaar proceeds were donated to the four Matsushima performances, and other attractions, for employees and their families and City primary schools that suffered the greatest damage from friends. Approximately 80 employees volunteered to handle operations for last year’s tsunami. this two-day event, which attracted around 2,600 visitors. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 10 Confronting the Challenges: 2 Environmental Preservation Mizuho works to reduce the environmental burden of its own business activities, and individual Group companies also pursue their own business activities that benefit environmental causes. These activities include active financing of operations that will help to lower environmental burden, consulting, surveys and research applying a wealth of expertise in areas like global warming and emissions rights, and the development and sale of environmentally conscious financial products. First Financial Institution to Participate in a Smart Grid Demonstration Project MHCB is participating in the Japan-U.S. Collaborative Demonstration Smart Grid Demonstration Project in Hawaii Project for World-leading Remote Island Smart Grid being spearheaded (Conceptual Diagram) by NEDO*. Under this project, a model for a low-carbon society will be built on the Hawaiian island of Maui, using renewable energy and electric vehicles. The project is intended to demonstrate the effectiveness of the technologies used and the business model over a period of three and a half years. While projects of this type have traditionally emphasized technical aspects, and Transmission Substation Information Power been driven by manufacturers, this grid one has for the first time relied on a domestic financial institution, MHCB, Distribution grid to assess economic aspects and Substation develop and test a business model with an eye toward commercialization. *NEDO : New Energy and Industrial Technology Distribution Information Power Development Organization grid Parking lot Source: Prepared by MHCB using press conference materials distributed by NEDO. 11 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Supporting a New Emissions Trading Mechanism -Using Japan’s Low-Carbon Technology to Contribute to Reductions of Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Other Countries The Bilateral Offset Credit Mechanism BOCM (BOCM), a new international framework advocated by the Japanese government Leading low-carbon technologies, Japan products, systems, services, infrastructure Partner Country as a way to reduce greenhouse gas and implementation of mitigation actions (GHG) emissions, has become the focus Methodologies will be BOCM project of attention. Under this framework, the developed cooperatively emissions reductions achieved by by both Japan and Used to achieve countries that adopt low-carbon Partner Country. Japan’s emission GHG emission technologies and products originating in reduction target Offsets / credits reductions / industrialized countries like Japan removals would be used, via bilateral agreements Source: New Mechanisms Information Platform website and other means, to help the industrialized countries of origin achieve their emissions reduction goals. Under a commission by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and others, Mizuho, which has expertise and know-how regarding emissions trading, studied the feasibility of constructing an electric power plant employing Japanese ultra-super critical pressure coal-fired thermal power plant technology for the “High-Efficiency Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant Project” in India. Through activities like these, Mizuho is promoting adoption of BOCM. In developing countries and emerging World Net Electricity Generation by Fuel Type, 2008-2035 economies, where demand for (Trillion kilowatt hours) electricity is skyrocketing, and 40 stabilizing electric power supplies is an urgent matter, thermal power generation that uses coal because of 30 its relatively lower price is expected to Coal grow. Coal-fired power plants, however, emit large volumes of GHG. From the perspective of reducing environmental 20 Natural gas burden, therefore, there is a need to promote the adoption of high-efficiency thermal power generation technology. Hydropower 10 Nuclear Renewables Liquids 0 2008 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 Source: International Energy Outlook 2011, Reference Case (U.S. Energy Information Administration） Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 12 C o nfro nti ng the C ha l l en ges: 2 Environmental Preservation Providing Environmentally Conscious Financing Products to Support Customers’ Environmentally Conscious Management Flow of Mizuho Eco Grade evaluations MHBK offers “Mizuho Eco–Assist” financing products to Deloitte Tohmatsu meet the needs of customers pursuing environmentally Evaluation and Customer MHBK MHIR Certification conscious management or capital investments. Going a Organization Co., Ltd. step further, we began offering the “Mizuho Eco–Assist plus” environmentally conscious financing product in March Cer tification of a Development and imExpert advice on the Mizuho Eco Grade provement of environacceptability and imMizuho Eco 2011. This product is for customers who want an objective Grade ba se d on e nviron mental capabilities evalprovement evaluation mental capabilities uation methods capabilities evaluation certification assessment of their environmental initiatives. It incorporates examination results Implementation of evalumethods Credit screening in ations of the environthe use of MHIR’s “Mizuho Eco Grade” proprietary Simplified accordance with mental capabilities of inenvironmental Mizuho Eco Grade redividual companies environmental rating system to assess the status of the capabilities sults examination report Preparation of simplified customer’s environmentally conscious management environmental capabilities examination report practices, and use rating results to set financing terms. Mizuho Eco Grade targets customers who have already won ISO14001 or other such certifications and provide overall assessments of the customer’s environmental capabilities in terms of both risks (abilities to handle environmental risks) and opportunities (environmental business initiatives). Assessment results are presented in the form of a simplified environmental capabilities examination report, which the customer can use to continuously improve its environmental capabilities. Gyutora. Inc Case MHBK provided “Mizuho Eco–Assist plus” loan to Gyutora. Inc, a supermarket operator that is based in Mie Prefecture and is actively taking steps to be environmentally friendly. The purpose of this loan was to finance the construction of a new distribution center featuring a green roof and energy-saving air conditioning and heating systems. Repast Corporation Case In August 2011, MHBK made its very first “Mizuho Eco–Assist plus” loan. That loan was made to Repast Corporation, a company that provides food services and is actively working to reduce food waste and increase the use of locally produced food items. Employee Voices Helping to Protect the Environment through Financing I develop products with the hope of contributing to efforts to protect the environment for society as a whole through financing. “Mizuho Eco–Assist” financing incorporates the hope of increasing the number of companies newly adopting environmentally conscious management. “Mizuho Eco–Assist plus” financing responds to the needs of companies that are already engaging in environmentally conscious management and want an objective assessment of the environmental initiatives they have already undertaken. Going forward, I would like to contribute to efforts to promote customer’ s progress in environmentally conscious management. Senior Manager, Planning team, Corporate Banking Coordination Division, Mizuho Bank (currently Joint General Manager, Kyobashi Branch Division Ⅱ, Mizuho Bank) Takanori Yoshioka 13 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Multifaceted Support for Accounting and Reporting GHG Emissions under New Standards In recent years, there has been an increasing demand for (Scope 3) standard” was released in October 2011. companies to disclose their greenhouse gas (GHG) Responding to this trend, MHIR has begun to provide emissions not only emitted directly from their relevant consulting services, which include supporting organization but also from their value chain. GHG service for GHG accounting based on Scope3 standard Protocol*’s new standard “the Corporate Value Chain and planning the reduction strategy. *GHG Protocol: The GHG Protocol is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to quantify and report greenhouse gas emissions. A partnership between the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the GHG Protocol is working with businesses, governments, and NGOs around the world. Toward the calculation and disclosure of overall supply chain emissions GHG Protocol Emissions Calculation Scopes (Conceptual Diagram) Procurement Transportation Production Transportation Disposal Scope 3 Scope 1・2 Scope 3 Upstream activities Reporting companies Downstream activities Downstream Purchased goods and services Scope 1 transportation (Direct) and distribution Capital goods Processing of Burning of fossil fuels sold products etc. Energy-related activities Use of sold products Upstream transportation and distribution Disposal of sold products Waste generated in operations Downstream Scope 2 leased assets Business travel (Indirect) Use of purchased Employees Franchises electricity commuting Use of purchased Upstream steam Investments leased assets etc. Source: Prepared by MHIR based on the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 14 Confronting the Challenges: 3 Addressing Various Social Issues For a company to be in synch with society, it must conduct its business activities while considering the interests of varied stakeholders, use its business activities to help solve social issues, and promote the development of a sustainable society. Mizuho aims to work through its business activities to help address the issues related to Japan’s falling birthrate and aging society, support those leading the “New Public” and solve other important issues confronting society. Advancing the “Heartful Project” to Make the Bank Accessible to Everyone MHBK has been pursuing the “Heartful Project” since Overview of the Heartful Project November 2005 to implement “bank universal design” on three fronts – facility-related initiatives, service-related initiatives, Basic Initiatives Verify Effectiveness and psychological initiatives – to become a bank that is ●Facility-Related Monitoring Feedback easy for anyone to use regardless of age, gender or ○ Buildings & facilities ○Devices verified ○ Expert advice ○Furnishings, furniture Customer satisfaction disability. & fixtures results ○ Periodic survey of ●Service-Related customer satisfaction The Kawanishi Branch we opened in Hyogo Prefecture in ○ Customer service ○ Ascertain customers’ Needs Customer forms & August 2011 has been praised for its “ATMs equipped for ○ documents ○Internet contents visually impaired users” and its “parking spaces for ●Psychological wheelchair users”, and was named the first recipient of the ○ Accommodation training Assessments and ○ Human rights awareness “Hyogo Prefecture Citizens Universal Facility”* certification training criticisms from the public and customers in March 2012. Broad disclosure to the public and customers *Hyogo Prefecture Citizens Universal Facility: Under Hyogo Prefecture’s accessible urban development ordinance, the Governor of Hyogo Prefecture, with citizen input, certiﬁes Disclosure of Initiatives facilities as properly equipped and operated in accordance with the advice of accessibility experts. CSR report, websites, model branch, mass media Parking spaces for wheelchair users have been positioned next to the bank's accessible entrance. (MHBK Kawanishi Branch) The barrier-free status of each branch is indicated at the branch entrance in order to make it readily apparent to customers. All ATMs are equipped with handsets to facilitate usage by visually impaired customers. In addition, the ATM located closest to the entrance has been installed with additional space for the beneﬁt of customers using wheelchairs. 15 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Mizuho Heartful Business: Providing Financing Support to Customers Implementing Barrier-Free and Universal Design Principles Since fiscal 2010, MHBK has been pursuing its “Mizuho Heartful Companies Heartful Business,” which supports initiatives undertaken (1) Companies that offer products or services that improve the by corporate and individual customers to promote lives of the elderly or disabled barrier-free concepts and Universal Design Principles in (2) Companies that actively employ the elderly or disabled and society at large. MHBK provides “Mizuho Heartful Loans” improve workplace environments toward that end to corporate customers and provides financing support to (3) Companies that recognize diverse work styles and create workplaces that are open to all. “Heartful Companies.” Matugen Co., Ltd. Case Matugen Co., Ltd., which operates supermarkets in Wakayama Prefecture and the southern part of Osaka Prefecture, implements barrier-free concepts in all of its stores, runs a free bus service, and operates a web-based store all to make shopping easier for the elderly and people with disabilities. Matugen also actively hires the elderly and disabled and has made the back areas of its supermarkets barrier-free to ensure safe and secure working environments. Appreciating Matugen’s extensive consideration of the needs of the elderly and disabled, MHBK provided a “Mizuho Heartful Loan” to the company. Store exterior Matugen accepts orders over the Internet and by phone, and makes same-day deliveries to customers living in a designated area. To make it easier for customers to come to its stores, Matugen operates a free bus service. Always Thinking about What We Can Do for the Elderly and Disabled At Matugen, we are constantly thinking about what we can do to meet the needs of elderly and disabled customers and employees. Supporting MHBK’s efforts to spread barrier-free and universal design principles throughout society, we chose to finance our operations with a “Mizuho Heartful Loan.” Going forward, we hope to contribute to efforts to create environments that make daily life and work easier for the elderly and disabled in society in general. Representative Director and President Matugen Co., Ltd. Mr. Kazuyoshi Kuwahara Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 16 C o nfro nti ng the C ha l l en ges: 3 Addressing Various Social Issues Partnering with Ashoka to Globally Support the Activities of Social Entrepreneurs “Social business” aims to change society by solving social Announcement of Ashoka fellows issues through sustainable business activities. With attention being focused on social business, Mizuho, in January 2011, concluded the “STRATEGIC SUPPORT AGREEMENT” with Ashoka, the world’s largest organization supporting social entrepreneurs. Mizuho is supporting the activities of “Ashoka Japan”, Ashoka’s first presence in Asia. Japanese Fellows Elected by Ashoka Japan Ms. Masue Katayama Mr. Junto Ohki Senior Management Director of Social Co-founder and President of ShuR Ashoka designates as “Ashoka Fellows” social entrepreneurs who are working Welfare Corporation SHINKOUFUKUSHIKAI, Group, which established the world’s to solve social problems through approaches that bring about fundamental change. Ashoka supports Ashoka Fellows through its Fellow Program. In which has come up with various first online sign language dictionary March 2012, Ashoka Japan elected two Japanese as Ashoka Fellows. This is innovations like opening elderly care and is working to increase participation the first time that Ashoka has elected Ashoka Fellows in East Asia. facilities in vacant company dormitories. in society by, and improve the lives She also works to reduce employment of, the hearing impaired. discrimination. Providing Products Responding to the Desire to Put Assets to Work for Society In order to create conditions for supporting public Specific Donation Trust Framework interest corporations, authorized NPOs, and other Entrust Periodic leaders of the “New Public”, the fiscal 2011 tax system funds MHTB contributions revision included establishment of the “Specific Donation Trust” system to encourage individuals to use trusts to Send contri Tax-free Issue make charitable contributions. MHTB, therefore, began in Customer investment bution contribution Beneficiary March 2012 to handle new products that invest and receipt income receipt manage funds entrusted by customers, and make annual Activity report contributions of principal and investment income to public interest corporations and other beneficiaries. Specific Tax return donation Beneficiaries can be selected from among a list of eligible recipients (public (incl. contribution trust report interest corporations and other organizations that have entered into deduction, etc.) comprehensive contribution agreements with MHTB), and usage of contributed funds can be verified from activity reports submitted by Tax office district director beneficiaries. Contributed trust investment income is not taxed and customers can receive a tax benefit for contributed trust principal on their annual tax returns. 17 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Promoting Diversity through Nationwide Training to Further the Careers of Female Employees To deal with a declining working population and globalization, tapping the abilities of a wide array of human resources and promoting diversity is indispensable for economic and social invigoration, and now a key management issue for companies. MHIR has been conducting various kinds of research on the promotion of diversity and career development by women. In 2010 and 2011, MHIR was commissioned by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to offer “Positive Action Training” in various locations throughout Japan. The purpose of this training was to promote the adoption of positive action (voluntary, proactive initiatives undertaken by individual companies to allow women to exercise the full range of their capabilities) throughout society. Training Program Training topic Training content I. Promoting career ●What is “diversity”? advancement of women to ●Status of working women enhance diversity ●What is “positive action”? II. Condition of women’s career ●Description of current conditions at the company, including advancement at the company actions, issues, and problem causes ●In groups, sharing of information on current conditions at the company III. Promoting positive action ●Impacts of positive action ●How to promote positive action (Steps, equality law, etc.) IV. Case studies (DVD) ●Presentation of video interviews at companies leading the way on positive action, and interpretation by the course instructor V. Developing a positive action ●Development of positive action plans framework for the company ●Announcement of positive action plans within the group General discussion ●Importance of promoting positive action ●Summation of specific initiatives ●Discussion of concerns and obstacles regarding future activities Private discussions (voluntary) — Participating in Planning a Framework for Expanding “Environmental Finance” Across the globe, expectations are growing for environmental finance, an approach for solving environmental problems by using financial flows to make society sustainable. To expand and improve the quality of environmental finance in Japan, Mizuho and other concerned financial institutions, after numerous rounds of discussions, set forth the “Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society”, which address a wide range of issues including environmental problems in October 2011, as a member of the drafting committee and working group, Mizuho actively participated in discussions for the formulation of the principles and sector guidelines, and became an official signatory in November 2011. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 18 Confronting the Challenges: 4 For Convenience and Safety Since putting our customers first is the basis of the group’s activities, Mizuho aims to provide customers with top–level comprehensive financial services that satisfy their needs at all times. To satisfy customers and earn their trust, we constantly and actively work to increase convenience and safety in ways that respond to customer feedback. Striving to Increase CS (Customer Satisfaction) Awareness throughout the Group and Improve CS through Division-Level Innovations To ensure that Mizuho appropriately responds to customer feedback, we constantly work to increase CS awareness among all Group employees through measures like improving our CS training and by applying CS improvement tools. In addition, individual divisions work to improve CS by, for example, implementing their own CS awareness improvement measures. MHBK Oshiage Branch Case MHBK Oshiage Branch is striving to put into practice its own CS theme of “responding to customers with sincerity, politeness, and speed. To continuously improve CS practices, the branch distributes information on CS improvement successes, even to other branches, and uses one CS morning assembly a week to share information on, and improve awareness of, CS. CS morning assembly Employee Voice Emphasizing Front-line Operations, We Strive to Provide Our Customers with Speedy Services and the Best Match for Their Needs. At the Oshiage Branch, we emphasize front-line operations to practice what we can do from the customer’s perspective. In one case, for example, we were able to rapidly respond to a customer’s request for financing to build a plant in an area away from Tokyo by going to the proposed construction site and examining it with our own eyes to better understand the project plan. We also researched whether public subsidies could be used, recommended their application, and took other steps to present the customer with an optimal financing package. Manager, Business Development Group Ⅱ, Oshiage Branch, Mizuho Bank Terunobu Nishikawa 19 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Implementing Financial Crime Prevention Measures in Our Efforts to Provide Safe, Secure Services Mizuho is working to prevent financial crimes and offer customers safe financial services they can use with a sense of security. As measures against fraudulent withdrawals, Mizuho has implemented the use of IC and biometric identification technologies in cash cards, and one–time passwords and other security measures for internet banking transactions. As measures to prevent money laundering, we also have implemented strict personal identification measures in accordance with the law and have been employing an advanced Anti–Money Laundering Monitoring For remittance solicitation, as well, we are focusing on preventing customers Guide book against financial from being victimized by verbally reminding them at the teller counters and System in an effort to uncover crime describing the ATMs to be wary, and through PR campaigns using signage, posters, flyers, videos, and other media to encourage customers to be on the lookout for suspicious accounts as early as explanation of how a crime remittance solicitation. is committed possible. Recognizing Smartphones as Another Point of Contact with Customers, and Introducing New Services One after Another Display of ATM and branch locations, and distances to each In 2010, MHBK, recognizing smartphones as a new point of contact with customers, became the first bank (one not operating solely on the Internet) to offer smartphone banking services. Since then, MHBK has added new services that make banking more convenient. Examples include a smartphone application for locating ATMs and branches and the “Mizuho Bank App” for one-touch access to various services. As of March 31, 2012, these smartphone banking The “ATM and Branch Locator App” is capable of displaying direction, distance and information for nearby MHBK’s ATMs and branches on top of an image services had been used by over captured by the customer pointing his/her smartphone in any direction from their current location. This is the first banking industry application with this 300,000 people and the “ATM and capability and was recognized by the Mobile Computing Promotion The “Mizuho Bank App” Consortium (MCPC) at its 2012 awards ceremony held in April. screenshot Branch Locator App” had been downloaded more 50,000 times. Employee Voice Developing Useful New Services for Customers Responding to customer feedback saying that websites are not friendly for smartphone users, we and people from relevant divisions have gone through much trial and error to develop various services. Going forward, we will do our best to deliver new smart phone applications that make banking services even easier for our customers to use. Manager, Remote Channel Marketing Team, Personal Marketing Division, Mizuho Bank Satoshi Nishimoto Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 20 C onfronting the Challenges: 5 Fostering Children’s Capacity to Live Mizuho supports financial education at the elementary and secondary education level and the higher education level based on the belief that it is better for children, who will be responsible for society’s future, to have a deep understanding of finance in order to live independently in an increasingly complex and globalized society. Mizuho has also made a tradition of its “Delivering Yellow Badges” activity as an expression of our hope that children travel to and from school safely. Joint Research to Broaden the Adoption of Financial Education and Foster Children’s Capacity to Live Mizuho supports financial education, “Let's Think about Life and Money” a teaching tool developed in 2011 harnessing the Group’s wide range of practical knowledge and know-how about finance nurtured through the provision of comprehensive financial services. In the area of elementary and middle school education, in fiscal 2006, we collaborated with Tokyo Gakugei University, one of Japan’s leading DVD-based teaching material teacher training centers to establish a joint research project on financial education for elementary and middle Text Class guide for teachers schools. Combining expertise from both sides, we are working to develop practical teaching tools and broaden the adoption of financial education. An open lecture for teachers, developed through a joint research project with Tokyo Gakugei University DVD title screen 21 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 “Children’s Summer School” for Teaching Elementary School Students about Money and Banking Mizuho, at its branches throughout Japan, provides opportunities for elementary and middle school students to experience actual work. In addition, employees visit schools and teach finance in class as guest instructors. In fiscal 2011, a new initiative used summer vacation to conduct the “Children’s Summer School” to teach elementary school students about money and banking through quizzes, games, and workplace experience events. “Children’s Summer School” activities were held at 44 locations across the country and attracted participation by 545 children from local communities and business partners. Over 58 Million Yellow Badges Delivered to First-Graders With the intent of ensuring daily safe commutes for school, Mizuho has presented Yellow Badges linked to traffic accident insurance to the first graders nationwide since 1965. By the 48th campaign in 2012, accumulative total of 58.86 million badges had been delivered. (Cooperating companies: Sompo Japan Insurance Inc., Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company and The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited) After the presentation ceremony in Tokyo, traffic safety classes were held where children representative of new-students learned how to use a crosswalk with the Metropolitan Police Department Mounted Police and campaign mascot Pipo-kun. Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 22 Stakeholder Dialogue Holding a Dialogue on Environmental Business On June 15, 2012, Mizuho held a stakeholder dialogue on the topic of “environmental business.” Participants in this dialogue included experts and employees engaged in environmental business activities. Participants assessed Mizuho's environmental business efforts to date and talked about their expectations for the future. Key points are covered below. To see the entirety of the stakeholder dialogue, please refer to our website. http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/csr/stakeholder/dialog/index.html As a Financial Institution Dealing with Sugao At Mizuho, we evaluate environmentally conscious Large Numbers of Companies, management practices by using the Mizuho Eco-Grade Emphasizing an Environment-based rating system developed by Mizuho Information & Research Approach Institute, which has a wealth of expertise in environmental matters. The rating system assigns ratings based on Sugao Financial institutions are expected to make use of the assessments of environmentally conscious management at fact that they do business with large numbers of companies, customer companies. We also offer “Mizuho Eco-Assist and adopt environment-based business approaches that plus,” a service in which we set financing terms based on a help customers expand or improve their environmentally customer’s assigned rating. In addition, one of our aims in conscious business practices. Mizuho Bank offers “Mizuho steadily pursuing a consulting-style of marketing using our Eco-Assist” environmentally conscious financial products to “Environmental Handbook,” which includes both general meet the needs of middle-market and small and medium-size environmental information and information on Mizuho’s enterprises pursuing environmentally conscious management. environment-related products and services, is to help middle-market and small and medium-size enterprises Goto I think it’s extremely important to take advantage of the understand the importance of managing businesses in an fact that financial institutions do business with many companies. environmentally conscious manner. Environmentally conscious management practices at middle-market and small and medium-size enterprises can Sueyoshi I think that financial institutions should encourage be advanced by financial institutions not only through their customers to be “green”, and customers should capital-investment financing that helps to protect the encourage their banks do likewise. I think it is the companies environment but also through initiatives that support that can build such a relationship with partners that should environmentally conscious management in general. It is survive. In that sense, I would like to see Mizuho apply its important, however, to establish standards for environmentally analytical methods from an environmental view point to as conscious financing, and much depends on the abilities of many of its customers as possible. financial institutions to assess environmentally conscious management practices. 23 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Sugao Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, there has been advanced technology lies at the heart of a project, international growing interest in energy saving even among middle-market viewpoints can contribute new, different input. and small and medium-size enterprises, and I would like to proactively respond to their energy-saving financing needs. Yamada As you rightly point out, addressing energy, water, Mizuho aims to help widen the adoption of environmentally waste, transportation, and other social issues on an individual conscious management practices and promotes environmental basis will cause urban infrastructure management to converge business matching that helps customers find partners that meet toward the smart city paradigm. And it is necessary to have a their environmental-improvement needs. coordinator to address these issues on an overall, rather than an individual basis. I think there are many roles we can play in that Sueyoshi I think that’s something a financial institution is regard. To respond appropriately to local needs, consortiums uniquely well positioned to do. What is also extremely need to be organized from a global perspective and must important, though, is how Mizuho positions environmentally include members other than Japanese companies. And, in fact, conscious financing within its overall loan portfolio. If the we are working with companies from outside Japan. I think it will entire portfolio changes one loan at a time, Mizuho and not be easy to build highly practical business models that society as a whole, will see a major change for the better. secure a certain amount of benefit for each project stakeholder, but Mizuho is up for the challenge of using Japanese Rising to the Challenge of Building a environmental technology to build a “smart” world. New Business Model that Brings Dialogue Participants Smart Cities Closer to Reality Yamada Moving on to the topic of smart-city demonstration Participating Experts projects, Mizuho is participating in the planning of smart-city projects in Hawaii, India, and China. The project in Hawaii is located on the island of Maui and is being advanced in cooperation with a major electrical equipment manufacturer. In this demonstration project, Mizuho, as a non-technical participant, is working in a consortium with various other Mr. Takejiro Sueyoshi Mr. Toshihiko Goto companies to build a sustainable business model. Special Advisor to UNEP Chief Executive, Sustainability Finance Initiative in the Asia Forum Japan Pacific region Goto The key point is that the consortium includes a non-technical member. Japanese companies have loads of patents for individual technologies, but have seen their Participating from Mizuho market shares gradually dwindle over the past 20 years. That’s because individual companies market individual elemental technologies, rather than integrated projects, and have on numerous occasions lost to foreign companies in bidding for major projects. I would like to see Mizuho contribute its perspective as a financial institution to various Atsushi Sugao Daisuke Yamada types of environmental consortiums and create business General Manager of Corporate Executive Officer, General Manager models that excel in practicality and implementability. Banking Coordination Division, of Industry Research Division, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank Sueyoshi I mentioned the concepts of “individual” and “overall” in discussing environmental financing, but I think they are relevant for this kind of project, as well. Even as individual manufacturers think of ways to sell individual products and services, it is also necessary to think of ways to optimize entire systems to make cities smart. In that sense, I am hopeful that Katsunori Tomita Tomoaki Sako Mizuho’s participation will result in the emergence of an “overall General Manager of Corporate Head of CSR Promotion Office, optimization” perspective. In advancing smart-city projects, it is Communications Division, Corporate Communications Division, Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Financial Group important to have a global perspective. So, even if Japanese Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 24 Business Overview Business Outline Mizuho Corporate Bank (MHCB) Mizuho Bank (MHBK) Mizuho Trust & Banking MHCB focuses its business on corporate finance, primarily serving large corporations (such as those (MHTB) MHBK serves primarily individuals, Banking Business listed on the first section of domestic stock SMEs and middle-market A trust bank that possesses strengths exchanges), financial institutions and their group in both the individual and corporate companies, public sector entities, and overseas corporations, and local governments corporations including subsidiaries of Japanese in Japan. markets. companies. Plan to conduct a merger on July 1, 2013 (Trade name after the legal merger: Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) Mizuho Securities Mizuho Investors Securities (MHSC) (MHIS) Securities Business A securities company with a global A securities company that is building a wholesale business platform and a powerful cooperative network with nationwide customer base. MHBK. Plan to conduct a merger on January 4, 2013 (Trade name after the merger: Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.) Mizuho Trust & Banking Trust & Custody Defined Contribution (MHTB) Services Bank Plan Services Trust and Asset A trust bank that makes the most of its (TCSB) (DCPS) Management Business trust functions in offering solutions to A highly specialized trust bank An entity that specializes in managing Mizuho’s customers. focusing on the custody business. defined contribution pension plans. Mizuho Asset Management (MHAM) DIAM An asset management An asset management company in company with a long history which The Dai-ichi Life Insurance and (established in 1964). Mizuho both have equity holdings. Mizuho Research Institute Mizuho Information & Mizuho Private Wealth (MHRI) Research Institute (MHIR) Management Other Businesses (MHPW) A think tank. A company in charge of IT strategy. A wealth management services company. Mizuho Credit Guarantee Mizuho Factors Mizuho Capital Mizuho Trust Realty Guarantees housing and other loans. Engages in guaranteeing overseas and A principal venture capital company. A real estate agency. domestic trade receivables, and collection agency business within Japan. Mizuho-DL Financial Mizuho Financial Strategy Technology Orient Corporation UC Card (MHFS) A research and development company A company that provides purchase A credit card company specializing in An advisory company for financial of financial technology. financing, credit card, and bank operational management of the UC institutions. guarantee services. brand and acquiring business. 25 Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Office Network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major overseas cities, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting the smooth progress of economic activities. International Network* (As of June 30, 2012) Network in Japan (As of March 31, 2012) MHCB：69 MHCB Head Office and Branches: 18 MHSC Head Office and Departments: 3 MHSC：10 MHBK Head Office and Branches: 396 Business Promotion Offices: 98 MHTB：2 Sub-branches: 37 MHIS Head Office and Branches: 56 DIAM：4 MHTB Head Office and Branches: 36 Planet Booths*: 152 Sub-branches: 14 * Total overseas branches, overseas sub-branches, overseas representative offices, and overseas subsidiaries (including the * Planet Booths are the consulting booths of MHIS located in MHBK’s Branches head office and branches, sub-branches, and representative offices of MHCB’s overseas subsidiaries) Consolidated Net Assets (Unit: ¥100m) and Net Business Profits* (Unit: ¥100 m) Consolidated Net Income (Unit: ¥100 m) Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio (Unit: %) Consolidated Net Assets Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio 8,000 5,000 100,000 15.30 15.50 16 4,845 7,423 7,281 6,859 13.46 4,000 4,132 6,000 75,000 12 66,239 68,692 3,000 58,370 4,000 2,394 50,000 8 2,000 2,000 25,000 4 1,000 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Net Business Profits are the aggregated total for MHBK, MHCB and MHTB Mizuho Financial Group CSR Report 2012 26 Comments and inquiries regarding this report should be directed to: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Communications Division 81-3-5224-1111 (reception) http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/ Marunouchi 2-chome Building, 2-5-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8333, Japan Total CO2 Please access the barcode Total CO2 emissions 本レポート作成時の emissions: for a detailed breakdown of 5ｔ from the production CO 総排出量は of2this report: total CO2 emissions (Japanese text only) All CO2 emission related to the printing of this report have been offset through Nihon WPA and CARBON OFFSET JAPAN
