KSPO Sustainability Report 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 2011 To be happy whenever, wherever for everyone KSPO Sustainability Report 2011 Olympic Center, 424 Olympic-ro, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea This Report was printed in soy ink on FSC certified paper, produced in eco-friendly method. Report Summary About This Report Table of Contents Introduction This report contains our efforts to create a harmonized world full of healthiness and 02 CEO Message happiness through sports. It is our fourth sustainability report, and also the fourth 04 KSPO Overview COP(Communication on Progress) published since we joined the UN Global Compact. 10 2011 Highlights We are annually publishing the sustainability report on our activities and performances as a “Sports Supporter”. About KSPO 14 Vision & Strategy Reporting Principles 16 Sustainable Management System This report was prepared based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines. 18 KSRI: KSPO’s Major Sustainable Management Index We placed top priority on objectivity and credibility. 20 Governance 22 Communication with Stakeholders Reporting Period This report contains the sustainability management activities and KSPO's performance Five Core Issues of Sustainable Management at KSPO between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011. However, data 2009 and 2010 are 26 Improvement of National Sports Welfare also provided to show trends. 36 Ethical Management 40 Customer Satisfaction Management Scope and Boundary 46 Mutual Growth and Fair Transaction Data of all of our worksites are included in principle. However, 18 speezons (cycle 50 Social Contributions and motorboat racing branches in rental buildings) are excluded from the calculating environmental data. KSPO's Various Sustainable Management Performance Reporting 58 Business Performance and Risk Management Assurance 61 Responsible Leisure To enhance the objectivity and credibility of the report, we received an independent 67 Enhancing Employee Value assurance from a third party. 74 Environmental Management Additional Information Appendix For further information not included in the report, please refer to our homepage (www. 82 Sustainable Data Overview kspo.or.kr). 84 Independent Assurance Report You may contact the Social Contribution Team under the Performance Management 86 GRI G3.1 Guideline Index Department * Telephone : 02-410-1203 * Fax : 02-410-1199 * E-mail : sustainability@kspo.or.kr * Address : Social Contribution Team, Olympic Center, 424 Olympic-ro, Bangi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul * Website: www.kspo.or.kr (Sustainability Report Downloadable) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 01 CEO Message Dear readers, I am delighted to share with you KSPO's achievements of sustainable management and promise of the future through our fourth sustainability report, which we have published annually since 2008. Since the founding of KSPO in 1989, KSPO has dedicated itself to enhancing public welfare through sports. It plays a major role in supporting the advancement of Korean sports by administering a cumulative fund of 3.7887 trillion KRW until the end of 2011 from our National Promotion Fund. Our new mission slogan adopted in 2011, “Enjoy Sports, We Support,” captures our new decision to not only provide financial and economic support for the enhancement of the public welfare through sports, but also to fulfill our social responsibilities required from us as a public entity. Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2007, we have been endorsing and upholding the 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We will increase our efforts to lead the movement for socially responsible management in the Korean public sector, earning greater trust and confidence from Korean citizens as a leading sports organization. In writing and publishing the 2011 Report, we have chosen five core issues to guide stakeholders’ understanding of our commitment to sustainability. These issues are: (1) enhancing the public welfare through sports; (2) ethical management; (3) customer-satisfaction management; (4) mutual growth and fair transaction; and (5) social contributions. For each of these issues, KSPO proposes to do the following: First, as a major organization supporting the public welfare, KSPO will do its best to extend the benefits and joys of sports to everyone in Korea. Second, as a leader in ethical management worldwide with a record of transparent, reliable management, KSPO will continue to faithfully perform the social and ethical missions asked of it as a public entity. Third, KSPO will mark itself as an increasingly integral part of the daily lives of South Korea citizens by keeping its word to the public and pursuing customer-centered management in all its activities. Fourth, KSPO will recognize its suppliers as equal partners for sustainable future, and carry out its strategy for mutual growth with them in a dutiful, systematic manner. Fifth, as a public entity aspiring to achieve the values of social solidarity and greater happiness for all, KSPO will share increasing parts of its resources and wealth with various sectors and members of our society through its athletic, cultural, and charity events, as well as the active work of the Share Love Club. Focusing on the above five core areas of sustainable management, KSPO will wholeheartedly provide full support for Korean public to live a healthy and happy life. Please watch carefully our efforts and encourage us. Thank you. Jung-Taek, Chung Chairman Korea Sports Promotion Foundation (KSPO) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 02 + 03 KSPO Overview Korea Sports Promotion Foundation Businesses Promoting the Sports Industry Sports Industry Loan KSPO provides loans for the installation, repair, and renovation of various athletic facilities for KSPO continues to develop and enlarge the public infrastructure for a more active life and greater welfare for the the public and professional athletes alike, including the public gyms and indoor pools, in an effort to ensure greater public, providing support for various projects of promoting sports throughout the Korean society with resources access of the Korean public to sports and athletic activities. from the NSPF* raised by cycle racing, motorboat racing, Sports Toto, and other such campaigns. * NSPF: National Sports Promotion Fund Sports Industry and Technology Development Projects KSPO provides financial assistance for R&D of new products and technology in sports science, in an effort to create a high added value through developing infrastructure for the advancement of Korean sports industry and boosting competitiveness of the sports industry that will correspond to Fund-Providing Activities the status of powerful country in sports. In 2011 NSPF provided 656.8 billion KRW, which is the largest amount of financial support ever provided in a single Sporting Goods Certification Project The KSPO Sporting Goods Testing Laboratories, located in Namyangju and year, and meeting Korean public's high expectation on sports welfare, the Fund plans to provide 725.9 billion KRW, Guri, are testing and certifying a wide range of sporting goods and facilities. In addition to providing assistance for an amount increased by 69.1 billion KRW compared to the previous year. KSPO will continue to monitor and carry the R&D activities at public sport organizations and sporting goods manufacturers, KSPO is also providing test out its programs of providing financial support so that all members of the Korean citizenry can enjoy a healthier and services that conduct tests for arenas, fields as well as factories for customer satisfaction. happier life. Fostering sports for all _ supporting various organizations, including the Korea Council of Sports for All. Fundraising Activities Fostering sports for people with disabilities _ supporting the Korean Sports Association for the Disabled. Fostering elite sports _ supporting the Korean Olympic Committee and sport matches hosted in Korea. Cycle Racing Cycle racing involves issuing betting tickets and providing prize money for those who have correctly Promoting international exchange _ supporting the organization of international activities and matches on sports guessed the winner of each race. Since its inception in 1994 as a representative weekend recreational program, and projects promoting the international spread and advancement of taekwondo. cycle racing has become a core fundraising business of KSPO. KSPO promotes the advancement of the sport Promoting the sports industry _ providing assistance for academic research and forming the infrastructure for the with its central Speedom in Gwangmyeong providing a family-oriented town of recreational activities, as well as a development of advanced sports science and technology. network of 18 Speezones throughout South Korea accommodating cycle races and other leisure programs. Forming the infrastructure and facilities for sports for all _ supporting the expansion of the National Athletic Center, * You can find out more about our cycle racing program at www.kcycle.or.kr. arenas, gyms, and other such facilities throughout South Korea. Enlarging welfare for athletes _ providing financial support for eight areas of athletes’ welfare, including the Sport Motorboat Racing Motorboat racing involves issuing betting tickets and providing prize money for those who have Skill Improvement Research Fund. correctly guessed the winner of each race. Since the opening of the first motorboat racetrack in Korea in 2002, it is rapidly becoming one of the most popular maritime recreational activities. The recent renovation of the main racetrack into a comprehensive complex of cultural and recreational activities has made it an attractive getaway spot for families and young people. With KSPO actively working to stabilize and consolidate its business, motorboat racing has become a major source of funds for the organization. * You can find out more about our motorboat racing program at www.kboat.or.kr. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 06 + 07 Sports Toto Sports Toto is a sports leisure game in which bets are made on the likely outcomes of various sports • Current Overview Organization Name Korea Sports Promotion Foundation (KSPO) matches, and those who have correctly guessed the outcomes win the prize money. Long loved in various European countries, such game was first introduced in Korea in 2001.Sports Toto can be enjoyed either at any of Headquarters Olympic Center, 424 Olympic-ro, Bangyi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul. the 6,500 vendors across South Korea or online. The returns generated by Sports Toto are used to support the NSPF, organizations that host football and baseball matches as well as other various public cultural and athletic Date of Establishment April 20, 1989 activities. * You can find out more about Sports Toto at www.sportstoto.co.kr. Total Assets KRW 2.4426 trillion Total Shareholders’ Equity KRW 2.0368 trillion Fostering Sports / Cultural Activities Sales Revenue KRW 4.8690 trillion In an effort to discover and demonstrate Korea's exemplary sports products to the world, KSPO has been Total Amount of Funds (cumulative) KRW 1.7325 trillion organizing its annual Seoul International Sports & Leisure Industry Show (SPOEX) since 2011. SPOEX is Korea's largest exposition on sports and related products that attracts excellent buyers from all around the world, where Total Amount of Funds Provided (cumulative) KRW 3.7887 trillion they exchange information and the latest trends in the international market so that Korean sports industry improve its international competitiveness. In addition, KSPO is leading promotion of Korea's sports and culture by operating Legal Rationale Article 36 of the National Sports Promotion Act. diverse events such as Tour de Korea, free medical examination projects, construction of eco-friendly public golf courses, KSPO Gymnastics for All, the Seoul Olympic Park, the Olympic Sports Ceter, the Seoul Olympic Museum Public Entity Type Semi-governmental (fund management) of Art (SOMA), the Seoul Olympic Museum, the Misari Regatta Course, the Korea Institute of Sports Science, No. of Employees 886 Olympic Parktel and various athletic delegations. • Organizational Chart Chairman Auditor General Public Relation and Secretary's Office Audit Department Executive Director Sports Industry Cycle & Motorboat Korea Institute of Association Racing Association Sport Science Cycle Racing Motorboat Racing Olympic Youth Hostel Operation Group Operation Group Department of Public Golf Course Management Department of Motorboat Racing Management Department of Policy Development Research Department of Sports Science & Engineering Department of Planning & Coordination Department of Performance Management Department of Commemorative Affairs Department of IT System & Broadcasting Department of Sports Teams Operation Department of Off-Track Branch Support Department of Planning & Coordination Department of Management Support Department of Fund Management Department of Construction Business Department of Customer Satisfaction Department of Sports Industry Department of Business Strategy Department of Motorboat Racing Motorboat Racer Training Center Department of Toto Business Department of Cycle Racing Cycle Racer Training Center Department of Administration 13Branches (Speezon) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 08 + 09 2011 Highlights The largest fund ever raised, 656.8 billion KRW (accumulated 3.7887 trillion KRW) Acquisition of the Highest Customer Satisfaction KSPO raised 548.5 billion KRW (accumulated 5.1131 trillion KRW) Level for Public Organizations in 2011 by improving profitability of fundraising business and business efficiency, which was funded to life sports promotion KSPO scored 90.1 from customer satisfaction study by the Ministry (195.2 billion KRW), professional sports promotion (158.6 billion of Strategy and Finance, which was the highest score ever achieved KRW), national sports promotion and exchange(276.1 billion KRW), since its foundation. KSPO will continue its best effort to carefully and disabled sports promotion(26.9 billion KRW). The support fund listen to customer’s voice and impress customers with sincere amounts to 656.8 billion KRW, which is the highest throughout promises and actions. our history and will become a reliable financial source for the * Page 40~45 development of Korean sports. * Page 28, 58~59 An Excellent Organization According to the Mutual Growth Evaluation KSPO mandatorily purchases goods from SMEs, social enterprises, and women’s enterprises to achieve mutual growth with SMEs Expanded Implementation of Sports Vouchers (95% of the purchase in 2011) and provides low interest loans, KSPO is operating a sports vouchers program for marginalized evaluation and certification for sports equipment. KSPO is also people of the society who cannot afford to participate in sports for actively engaged in various activities such as hosting the largest economic reasons. The program includes vouchers for free sports sports equipment exhibition, SPOEX. Such achievements helped lessons as well as financial support for tickets to sports events. In KSPO win the best purchase award from the Ministry of Health and 2011, KSPO strengthened its program and increased the number Welfare and was nominated as an excellent organization by the of beneficiaries by 82% (28,000 people) compared to last year. government’s evaluation on mutual growth. * Page 30~31 * Page 46~49 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 10 + 11 About KSPO Towards a healthier and more happy world KSPO’s sustainable management is concerned about the dreams of growing future generations. KSPO strives to grow a healthy and beautiful future as pure and untouched as the hearts of a young child. Promising a bright and healthy future for the leaders of tomorrow is the greatest investment for creating a better and happier society. KSPO will be there, wherever a healthy dream emerges. Vision & Strategy “To make every citizen healthy and happy.” In 2011, KSPO adopted a new vision as part of reforming and enhancing its management systems. The new vision, To become a public interest sports company that makes every citizen healthy and happy through sports. corresponds to the organization’s mission of “enhancing the public welfare through sports.” KSPO has redefined its role and future aims on the basis of the newly articulated vision. Accordingly, the organization has adopted a midto long-run management strategy entitled “By 2020,” designed to help the organization achieve its goals and tasks in a systematic manner. KSPO’s 2011 Vision To become a public interest sports company that makes every citizen healthy and happy through sports. Vision “Enjoy Sports, We Support” Providing 10 trillion KRW from the NSPF. Midto Long-run Increasing the public’s rate of participation in sports up to 50%. Management Strategy Making South Korea one of the seven most athletically competitive countries in the world. Achieving the highest rate of customer satisfaction. ▶ By 2020 Concretization of a Future-Oriented Blueprint through Improved Vision Vision (Previous) “Enjoy Sports, We Support” Strengthening of Foundation Purpose Future Blueprint Chairman’s Policy for Communication Vision Improvement · National sports promotion · Target every citizen · Easily deliver KSPO’s · Fund raising · Pursue healthy and identity · Olympics commemoration happy lifestyles · Establish brand image business · Public sports company Related Item Target Ultimate Value Means Future Image Brand ▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ ▼ Key word Public Interest Healthiness, Sports Enjoy Sports, Every Citizen Sports Happiness Company that We Support Realizes Values To become a public interest sports company that makes every citizen healthy and Vision (Improved) happy through sports. Enjoy Sports, We Support World Peace Gate Christmas Tree at the Olympic Park 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 14 + 15 • Main Tactics for Achieving the Four Major Long-term Goals Sustainable Management Goal Tactic System Ensuring the health and transparency of races Achieving a shift in the paradigm, promoting cycle racing, motorboat racing, and other such betting activities as healthy forms of recreation. Enhancing South Korea’s reputation “Sustainability management in KSPO's as a leading country of sports Making all citizens healthy and happy through sports. management strategy” Maximizing the value of the sports infrastructure Ensuring the public value and profitability of all the tangible resources and assets owned by KSPO. Strengthening the basis for Ensuring the sustainable growth of KSPO by fulfilling all the social and corporate sustainable growth responsibilities it has. As a public entity entrusted with the mission of enhancing the public welfare with sports, KSPO works ceaselessly to become a model of advanced sustainable management in Korea and abroad. At KSPO, we not only earn trust from the public with our transparent management, but also seek to ensure mutual growth with all our stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers and local communities. By leading the nationwide efforts for spreading a healthy culture of sports and developing the infrastructure for enjoying sports, we generate not only economic values, but also wider and greater social values. Reflecting such values into consideration, KSPO has included Strengthening the Basis for Sustainable Growth as one axis of KSPO's four major medium • External Achievements and Awards for Sustainable Management and long term management objectives. Also, as four major strategic directions, KSPO has set and is promoting Major Achievements ▶ preparation of sustainable CSR implementation system ▶ reinforcement of effectiveness of programs for · The NSPF provides the largest amount of money in financial assistance (totaling 656.8 billion socially responsible management ▶ expansion of internal/external communication and cooperation. Moreover, KRW) to be given in a single year. KSPO is making its best endeavors to achieve advanced sustainable management through various eco-friendly · KSPO earns the “Good” rate in a survey on customer satisfaction with public entities. management programs as a public interest company. · KSPO earns the “Good” rate in a survey on the management transparency of public entities. • Vision and Strategy for Sustainable Management at KSPO • Achievements by Sector · The NSPF provides the largest amount of money in financial assistance to be given in a single year(656.8 billion KRW for 2011; 3.7887 trillion KRW cumulative). ▶ Enhancing the public · Expansion of beneficiary access to sports vouchers (from 15,000 to 28,000 people) Mission “Enhancing the Public Welfare through Sports” welfare through sports · Implementation of Korea’s first fitness certification pilot operation · Receives the Plaque of Gratitude fozr helping to host the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang · Earns the highest rate in a survey on customer satisfaction with public entities and ▶ To become a public interest sports company services. Ethical management Vision that makes every citizen healty and happy through sports · Earns the highest rate in an anti-corruption policy evaluation for two consecutive years. “Enjoy Sports, We Support.” · Wins the Grand Prize at the Customer Satisfaction Brand Awards (Nov. 2011). · Earns the highest rate in a survey on customer satisfaction with public entities and Customer satisfaction services. management · Wins the Grand Prize at the National Customer Satisfaction Brand Awards (Nov. 2011). Core ▶ “Fair Play” “Team Play” “Dynamic Play” Values · Wins the Minister of Health and Welfare Award for setting an example in purchasing goods manufactured by people with disabilities (Apr. 2011). · Named as an exemplary institute in the Governmental Assessment of Mutual Growth Mutual growth and fair transaction Practices (Mar. 2012). Raising the public’s rate Making South Korea Achieving the highest · 2011 SPOEX achieves the largest volume of export consultation in history, equivalent to Goals ▶ Providing KRW 10 one of the seven most USD125.3 million KRW in export value. of participation in sports rate of customer for 2020 trillion in funds athletic competitive to 50% countries in the world satisfaction · Wins the first place for two years in a row in the Governmental Assessment of Efforts for Ensuring the Responsibility of the Projects of Sports Promotion Betting Tickets. Responsible leisure · Earns the GAM-GaRFD certificate for the accountability and reliability of KSPO’s products for the international market CEO’s ▶ Site-Oriented Communicative Fair Management Creative Management Emphases Management Management · Launches new teams for 6 less popular sports, including the Divers Team and the Women’s Football Team. · Korea Institute of Sports Science becomes the first entity in the Korean sports sector to be recognized as a chair institute by the UNESCO. Other · Wins the Presidential Award for promoting the use of bicycles and contributing to the Enhancing South Four Major Ensuring the health Strengthening sustainable development of South Korea (Dec. 2011). ▶ Korea’s reputation Maximizing the value of Long-term and transparency of the basis for · The Olympic Park wins the KS Service Certificate issued by the Ministry of Knowledge as a leading country the sports infrastructure Goals races sustainable growth Economy, as well as the ISO9001 / 14001 re-certificate and the TCQ 8000 certificate of sports for the quality of its restrooms 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 16 + 17 • KSRI: Key Performance Index of KSPO Sustainability Management Result of KSPO integrity evaluation 11.2 10.8 11 KSPO has developed and operated KSPO's Social Responsibility Index (KSRI) since 2008 in order to promote trust from Propagation of ethical stakeholders by diagnosing our sustainability management standard and continuously managing the results from our activities. management awareness Education on ethical management 10.7 10.9 10.9 KSRI is an independent sustainability management diagnosis tool and consists of 25 indexes over 6 sustainability management Activation of whistle-blowing system 9.9 9.9 9.9 areas where KSPO places priority in terms of implementation. The core fields of KSPO's socially responsible management are 1) Ethical Management creation of customer value, 2) enhancement of staff value, 3) activation of social contribution, 4) expansion of corporate ethics, Expansion of fair trade Increase rate of e-bidding 10.4 10.4 6.4 5) reduction of influence on the environment, and 6) creation of responsible leisure culture. KSRI is primarily managed by the Soundness of governance BOD independence index 15.3 16.2 16.2 Management Evaluation Committee from the Ethical Management Team and the results display a steady rising trend over the past three years. Compliance Legal conformity efforts in/out of company 26.4 35.2 38 Total 83.9 93.4 92.4 CO2 emission points 11.5 11.5 14.4 (Unit : Point) Increase in resource efficiency Water usage points per person 9.9 9.9 13.1 Classification Detailed Evaluation Criteria 2009 2010 2011 Paper usage per person 10.8 10.8 12.6 Protection of customer Establishment of the customers’ personal Environment 4.8 4.8 4.8 information information protection system Purchase rate of eco-friendly products 4 6 6.8 Reduction of pollutant discharges Expansion of customer Adoption rate of customer proposals 14.4 19.2 19.2 participation Maturity of waste management system 3 3 4.5 Expansion of customer Internal customer satisfaction level Promotion of environmental *Acquisition of international environmental 23.4 22.8 23.6 12.4 12.4 24.8 satisfaction management culture management awareness specification certificates Customer Value Increase in visitors Cultural facility activation performance 21 21 21 Total 51.6 53.6 76.2 Customer satisfaction level 7.8 7.4 8.1 Joy through leisure activities 8.6 8.5 9.1 VOC processing time Entertainment and pleasure VOC processing time 9 9 9 Efforts to foster multi-cultures spaces 11.5 11.5 11.5 Total 80.4 84.2 85.7 Activation level of the prevention clinic 10.8 10.8 10.8 Management of social influence Establishment of the customers’ personal 8 8 8 Supervision result on cheating 13.5 12.1 13.5 information protection system Development of capacity Responsible Leisure Culture Training investment cost per staff 6.4 8 6.4 Maturity of soundness management system 10 10 10 Propagation of responsible leisure culture awareness Adoption rate of customer proposals 10.3 10.8 10.9 Activation of level of soundness education 8 10 10 Work/life balance Maturity of family-friendly management 8.1 10.8 10.8 Employment-including effectiveness index 15 15 15 Creation of value in the local communities Staff Maturity of bias-prevention system 6.4 8 8 Sports activation index 12 12 12 Protection of human rights Balanced personnel index 4.8 3.2 3.2 Total 89.4 89.9 91.9 No. of safety accidents for athletes 2.5 2.5 2.5 Aggregated Total 78.3 81.5 85.1 Health/safety No. of accidents for staffs 2.5 2 2.5 * Major KSRI modification / complementation for 2011 · Social contribution : elimination of the ‘Continuous Social Contribution Activities’ index Communication Employee satisfaction index 28.9 29.3 30.6 · Environment : ‘Acquisition of International Environment Specification Certificates’ → ‘Maturity of Environmental Management System’ Total 77.9 82.6 82.9 Staff participation rate in love sharing fund 9.4 9.6 9.4 Propagation of social contribution Fund accumulated for love sharing fund (Unit: 9.3 4.7 7 culture KRW 1 million) Social Contribution Average volunteering hours of staffs 9.3 9.3 7 *Continuous social contribution activities 5.6 8.4 Expansion of social contribution programs Sports-related social contributions 11.2 11.2 22.4 Social contribution activities index 10.5 11.5 11.5 Improvement of Social contribution activities index social contribution Satisfaction level of beneficiaries of social 9.8 10.8 9.7 performance contribution activities evaluation system Satisfaction level of beneficiaries Activation level of communication channel 8.4 8.4 8.4 of social contribution activities with local communities Total 73.5 73.9 75.4 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 18 + 19 • Board of Directors Operation 2009 2010 2011 Governance Board Total no. of meetings held Plenary 16 11 20 11 21 9 meetings held Independent directors’ meetings* 5 9 9 “Effective Operation System for the Board of Subcommittee meetings* N/A N/A 3 Directors” Attendance rate 92.0% 90.5% 95.2% Attendance rate of independent 90.0% 88.6% 93.8% directors Total No. of agenda (voted/reported) 33 (24/9) 49 (40/9) 52 (46/6) Agendas initiated by independent The Board of Directors at KSPO consists of executive directors and independent (nonexecutive) directors directors N/A N/A 2(4.3%) appointed by virtue of their specialization and expertise in different areas of management. The Board of Statistics Pre-meeting deliberation rate 9.7% 77.6% 100% Directors reserves the final authority over deliberating and making all the decisions affecting KSPO. It also serves Revised resolution rate 8.3% 5% 8.7% as an important check on the management, while also providing assistance for the entire range of management No. of revised resolutions 2 2 4 activities. ''KSPO is working hard to activate the Board of Directors and enhance its performances through Total no. of comments 221 236 391 strengthening the professionalism and public consciousness of its Board of Directors. Especially in 2011, KSPO were able to achieve expansion of the roles and responsibilities of its independent members, 100% screening of No. of comments from independent 159 202 351 directors meeting agendas in advance and introduction of subcommittees to elevate the professionalism of deliberation, which were successfully reflected in KSPO's sustainable management policy. Also, the Board's management *Independent Directors’ Meeting of SLC(Strategy Leadership Committee), through which the management and executives examine overall management issues and share current affairs, is contributing to achieving KSPO's management objectives and Composition all independent directors, convened by a senior independent director. vision. The Committee, whose meetings are held every month, is an organization that examines annual financial conducting pre-deliberation of the agendas to be proposed at the Board meetings, Functions accomplishment performances for major businesses such as revenue or profit/loss and discusses solutions to discussing management practices and current issues, etc. deal with current affairs. *Subcommittee Meeting Management Strategy Midto long-run strategies and sustainable management. Sports Promotion Projects for promoting sports and fostering the sports industry. Budget Business plans, budgets, and account settlements. Composition : Each subcommittee consists of two independent directors and a standing director. Functions : conducting in-depth discussions of the given topics or issues. (As of 2011) • KSPO Board of Directors Organization • Subcommittee Operation Status Name Position Area of Specialty Classification Participation Rate Results and Achievements Jung, Jeong-Taek Chairman · Discussion on medium and long-term management sophistication project Business Strategy 100% : Reestablishment of KSPO vision, clear specification of deadlines for medium Executive directors ('11. 11. 4) and long-term management objectives Seong, Nam-Ki Managing Director · 2012 Corporate Accounting Business Plan and Budget Proposal Review Budget Settlement Kim, Ki-Hong Director of Sports Division, MCST Sports policy 100% : Increased social contribution budget for the marginalized people of the ('11. 11. 25) Ex-officio society (decision by Board of Directors) members Choi, Jong-Jun Secretary-General, Korea Sports Council Professional sports · Discussion on 2012 National Sports Promotion Fund Management Sports Promotion 100% : Reinforced support for unpopular sports, expansion of local communityProf. of Advertising Creation, ('11. 12. 7) Kim, Gwan-Sang Public relations oriented sports infrastructure Pyeongtaek Univ Prof. of Social Sports Studies, Kim, Sa-Yeop Daily sports Independent Korea Nat’l Sport Univ. directors Professor of Daily Sports Studies, Kim, Hong-Sik Sports industry Nominated Dongshin Univ. members Yang, Se-Yeong Director of KBSRI Ethical management • Main Decision-Making Procedure Board Review by Internal Feedback Lee, Hyeong-Oh Prof. of Business Admin, Business / economics ▶ ▶ deliberation ▶ Sookmyung Women’s Univ. the responsible Board on the and department discussion outcome Coach of the National Women’s decision Hyeon, Jeong-Hwa Professional sports Table Tennis Team 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 20 + 21 Stakeholder Participation Communication with We intend each of our Sustainability Reports to serve as one of the channels of communication, through which we can provide the internal and external stakeholders of KSPO with the information they need. The stakeholders of KSPO include local communities, central and local governments, suppliers, customers, and employees and Stakeholders the Board members, with whom KSPO exchanges various forms of influence, whether directly or indirectly. We recognize it as of paramount importance to hear and incorporate the diverse opinions and demands of all our stakeholders in identifying, deciding, and analyzing the issues and priorities of our sustainable management “Continuous Interaction for Promoting Happiness activities. with the Stakeholders” Communication with Stakeholders At KSPO, we have formed diverse channels of communication with stakeholders in order to ensure effective communication. We keep our ears open to the diverse voices of our stakeholder groups, always eager to understand and incorporate their demands and expectations of KSPO into our decisions. Just as KSPO exerts different influences on stakeholders, different groups of stakeholders also expect us to pursue different values and principles. It is therefore crucial for us to define our different stakeholder groups properly, providing each with an appropriate channel of communication specific to their needs and concerns. We divide our stakeholders among: the value-influencing customers who bear on the development and execution of our policy; the value-producing customers with whom we are in a productive, cooperative relationship; the value-purchasing customers who Process of Identifying and Selecting Material Issues purchase and use our racing and other cultural services and products; and the value-sharing customers, who, as In the following section, you will find the process in which we identified and selected the material issues concerning our employees and Board members, shape and share our values and beliefs. the sustainable management of KSPO, based on an assessment of the stakeholders’ interests in the issues and the business impact of the chosen issues. • External Stakeholders’ Interest Evaluation • Business Influence Evaluation Stakeholder Type Stakeholders Included Channels of Communication II. Global Standard I. Media Analysis III. Stakeholder Research I. Strategy Connectivity Analysis II. Internal Employee Evaluation Task reports, site briefings, National Assembly-led administrative inspections, Analysis Governments and legislatures assessments and evaluations of public entity management. Major issue search through · Measurement of interest level external stakeholder survey and · Internal sustainable management · 73 domestic issues through interview with internal/ The media and the press Meetings with journalists, official KSPO Web site. · Competitor analysis interview strategy and KPI analysis related to KSPO external stakeholders Value-influencing customers · ISO26000, GRIG3, · Client, partner, local community, · Review on KSPO’s business vision, * 2011.1.1~ 2011. · Interview with corresponding (Local communities and governments) UNGC NGO, related organizations, strategy direction, internal report 12.31 executive and the person in charge Local self-administrations and sports Meetings on the provision of financial assistance, committee meetings on the cycle · motorboat racing materials of each issue organizations provision of financial assistance and evaluation. athletes Local community Love Sharing Volunteer Organization, Online Community Cycle and motorboat racing athletes Meetings with athletes, fair play education. • 2011 Importance Evaluation 1. Improvement of National Sports Welfare Value-producing customers Contractors Visiting and holding meetings with the employees of contractors, task reports. ▲ 6 2. Ethical Management (Suppliers) 1 3. Customer Satisfaction Management high 7 4. Mutual Growth and Fair Transaction Attending management meetings at subsidiary companies, operating the 3 2 5. Social Contributions Subsidiaries and suppliers Suppliers’ Voice channel, integrity surveys, CEO’s letters on integrity, customer 8 9 6. Business Performance and Risk Management satisfaction surveys. Business Influence 4 5 7. Responsible Leisure 15 10 8. Enhancing Employee Value Integrated “Voice of Customers” (VOC) channel, customers’ advisory board, 12 9. Environmental Management Customers of cycle and motorboat company newspapers, various public contests, customer satisfaction surveys, 13 10. Labor and Management Value-purchasing customers racing and Sports Toto panel meetings of customers, CS reports 11 11. Improvement of Sports Competitiveness (Consumers of KSPO’s products and 17 16 14 12. Establishment of Effective Board of Directors System services) 13. Communication with Stakeholders Visitors to sports Integrated VOC(voice of customers), consumer satisfaction research 14. Employee Health and Safety and cultural facilities ▼ low 15. Corporate Governance 16. Local Community Development Labor-Management Solidarity Committee, Dialogue with Chairman, Complaint ◀ low Stakeholder Interest high ▶ 17. Job Creation in the Private Sector Value-sharing customers Employees and Board members Reporting Center, surveys and follow-up talks, hotlines (guaranteeing confidentiality (Employees and Board members) and anonymity), KSPO Channel, “Spring of Proposals,” “Spring of Knowledge.” Materiality Evaluation Result Through the process of materiality evaluation, we identified 17 material issues and then analyzed them in terms of their social and business impact. This report provides detailed analyses of the five most pressing, core issues, which are: improving the public welfare through sports; ethical management; customer-centered management; fair transaction and mutual growth; and social contributions. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 22 + 23 Five Core Issues of Sustainable Management at KSPO As a public entity entrusted with the mission of enhancing the public welfare with sports, KSPO works ceaselessly to become a model of advanced sustainable management in Korea and abroad. In addition to earning trust from the public by ensuring the transparency and integrity of our management activities, we also work hard to universalize the benefits and welfare of sports to all members of the Korean citizenry without excluding anyone. At the same time, we also improve and refine our services so that they can become more satisfactory to customers. Upholding our commitment to fairness and mutual growth, we implement various measures to ensure that our suppliers benefit and grow at the same time with us. By sharing our wealth and resources with various sectors of the society, we also seek to strengthen the virtuous circle of generosity and hope. In order to achieve all our core issues of sustainable management, we develop and implement systematic, specific plans, while improving our practices by engaging in open and active communications with both internal and external stakeholders. O Jang-su, Manager of the Fund Provision Team Stakeholder Interview Improvement of National Sports Welfare “KSPO enhances the public welfare with sports by ensuring systematic, efficient administration of its financial resources” We will achieve our dream of making South Korea a leading nation of sports only when we guarantee every citizen’s equal right to healthy, enjoyable life. In order to enhance the public welfare through sports, KSPO has developed a strategy of four tactics, seeking to ensure the efficient administration of the NSPF so that greater support is provided for life sports, professional sports, sports for the disabled, and enhancing the competitiveness of our athletes. These efforts KSPO has been making both in and outside South Korea have begun to pay off, bringing us closer to joining the league of advanced, leading nations of sports. Objective and Tactics for Enhancing the Public Welfare through Sports “Making South Korea a Leading Nation of Sports by Promoting Life Sports, Objective Professional Sports, and Sports for the Disabled” For life sports to become integral part of the daily leads to increasing gap between the poor and lives of our citizens, it is crucial to provide citizens the wealthy in terms of the ability to enjoy and with the facilities and infrastructure that enable play sports. Therefore, I believe that in order to I hope this sustainability report them to easily access to and participate in sports. achieve our goal of making South Korea a leading Developing a strategic system for providing the NSPF abundantly discusses KSPO’s To this end, KSPO has installed various athletic nation of sports where every citizen enjoys sports Realizing greater public welfare through sports by providing customized assistance for life sports activities and concerns toward the facilities throughout South Korea, providing local welfare,it is of paramount importance to enhance Tactics marginalized people of the society. communities with life sports instructors and insports-related support and benefits for the exStrengthening the international competitiveness of Korean athletes creasing the support from the NSPF for expandcluded and marginalized especially. Ensuring greater social inclusion through enhanced support for sports for the disabled ing life sports program. While we continue to increase the amount of Also, KSPO is actively supporting sports dead financial support, such as sports vouchers, zone by appointing sports instructors to many we provide for the underprivileged each year, Strategy Implementation System Our job in the Fund Provision Team is to ensure schools across South Korea to help reinvigorate the proportion of the underprivileged populathat the NSPF is administered in most effective the physical education curriculum and introducing tion receiving our support is less than 10%. It is and efficient manner in general. In the past, dothe Sports Voucher and the Sports Matches Auimportant for KSPO to expand and diversify the Funding Coordination Dept mestic sports policy largely focused on developdience Voucher programs to enable members of range of support and benefits it provides so that ing and supporting professional sports for the low-income households to enjoy and take sports not only the underprivileged, but other excluded KSPO athletic elite in an attempt to use sports as a tool classes. groups such as seniors, multicultural families, and Funding Provision Team Funding Evaluation Team for strengthening civic solidarity and the country's Owing to such financing efforts, more Koreans households in rural communities can come to reputation in the international society. However, now view access to sports as one of the basic enjoy sports more actively. My wish is to see our Funding distributed Funding evaluated as the general public's interest in and demand rights citizens must enjoy and sports is becoming annual Sustainability Reports to discuss KSPO's for sports continue to increase amid social, ecoan indispensable part of daily life for an increasing efforts and contributions for greater social inclu▶ ▶ nomic, and environmental changes, KSPO is now number of Koreans. The increasing wealth and sion of underprivileged people Korea Sports Council Korean Olympic Korean Sports Association Related focusing more on promoting life sports for all. class disparity in the population, however, also (KSC) Committee (KOC) for the Disabled (KOSAD) Organizations 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 26 + 27 Strategic Administration of the NSPF for Advancing Towards Providing Customized Assistance for Life Sports a Leading Nation of Sports At KSPO, we are also increasing our efforts to develop and provide an environment that Using the NSPF as the main pool of our financial resources, we lead a variety of projects enables all citizens throughout the country to access and participate in life sports with ease. designed to enhance the public welfare through sports. Accordingly, we are working hard to By developing a series of programs for providing customized sports-related assistance for develop and implement a systematic process that would ensure the most rational, efficient different regions and sectors of the Korean society, we are bringing down barriers among allocation and administration of the NSPF. people and enhancing the public welfare for all through sports. We also play a driving role in advancing sports to a higher level by allocating the Fund according to the national sports policy and actively meeting the changing social demands. “15-Minute Project” for Sports for All The 15-Minute Project embodies our desire to develop an environment in which all citizens Strategic Allocation of the NSPF • Cumulative Total of the NSPF Allocated • Trend in the Governmental Financing of can enjoy and participate in sports in just 15 minutes of leaving their doorsteps. This vision in Conformity to the National Sports guides our continued efforts for expanding the public sports facilities throughout South Sports Policy National treasury (Unit KRW 100 million) KRW 116.5 billion for the disabled 6,568 Korea. In 2011, we decided, according to rational criteria, to provide resources for the Since our inception in 1989, we have provided 3.7887 trillion KRW in total NSPF development of 226 new public sports facilities. 5,295 from the NSPF for a variety of sportsKRW 1.5380 trillion KRW 1.0085 trillion 3,860 for professional sports related organizations, activities, and for life sports KRW causes. In 2011, we provided the 3.7887 trillion 2,578 • Cumulative Number of Public Sports • History of Funding Provided for provided largest amount of financial assistance 2,367 2,389 Facilities Built with KSPO’s Support Life Sports Facilities in a single year, totaling 656.8 billion KRW 1.1257 trillion for 1,812 2,135 (Unit Number of Facilities) 1,527 1,556 5,219 226 facilities KRW, actively shaping and leading professional sports 203 facilities the national sports policy. Our main 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 4,993 objective throughout 2011 was 4,790 KRW 134.4 billion to develop an advanced sports 3,903 KRW 111.8 billion infrastructure throughout the country, 2,651 • Amounts of the NSPF Provided Yearly • The largest amount of financial assistance actively responding to the national No. of facilities 11.3% ▲ to be provided in a single year was given Amt. provided 20.2% ▲ policy aims of promoting life sports Year 2009 2010 2011 out in 2011. (Unit KRW 100million) and increasing support for athletes 2000 2006 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 competing in international events. Life sports 1,931 1,692 1,952 6,568 Professional sports 771 1,080 1,586 Sports for the 5,295 279 220 269 24.0% disabled • Overview of Funding Provided for Public Sports Facilities up Operating Systematic Processes International sports 879 2,303 2,761 for the Efficient Administration of Total 3,860 5,295 6,568 Funding Public Rural leisure School Field the Fund Criteria Gyms Facilities Sports Community sports Total Centers Centers center In an effort to increase the efficiency 2010 2011 No. of facilities 25 175 10 5 11 226 of the NSPF administration and also Local funded Preparation Conditions to facilitate the activities of the funded ▼ Amount of fund KRW13B 61B 53B 3B 4B 134B organizations, we have developed provided • Fund Administration Processes Project Significance a series of systematic processes. for National Allocation Feasibility 9.9% 45.5% 39.4% 2.2% 3.0% 100.0% Development proportion In particular, we have significantly reformed the process for evaluating • On-site evaluation made stricter. • Evaluation panel made stronger. the results of Fund allocation, • Administration instructions made stricter. • Card system introduced. consequently earning the “Good” rating on the governmental evaluation On-site of publicly funded projects in 2011. Evaluation We have also strengthened our efforts Administration to identify and prevent corruption in Fund the administration of the Fund, thereby Administration Developing an Integrated Database of Public Sports Facilities enhancing the transparency and Performance In order to ameliorate the situation where the rate of public sports facility utilization is much Evaluation integrity of the Fund’s management. lower than that of facility's space expansion, KSPO established Korea's first integrated Feedback By providing more services for the database of public sports facilities. This database, which is based on GIS(Geographic funded organizations, we also saw Information System), provides integrated information on public sports facilities. Please try a steady increase in the rate of KSPO's database to easily check information about your local sports facility's whereabouts, • For increasing or decreasing the budget. • A performance-oriented system. customers’ satisfaction with us for • For determining whether the given program should be ended. • Necessary to improve satisfaction programs and service charge through your PCs, smartphones and tablet PCs. and funding accuracy. third year in a row. PC : www.sportsmap.or.kr mobile : m.sportsmap.or.kr 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 28 + 29 Making Korea a Healthier Country, Program for Citizen's Physical Strength • Increasing Support for Excluded Groups • Overview of Support Provided for Management (Unit KRW billion) Excluded Groups According to recent research findings of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, national health 12.4%(percentage of financial assistance) Money Provided risk level has increased since the proportion of the obese population is on a steady rise, Item 25.2(amount of financial assistance) (in KRW) while the proportion of regularly exercising Koreans continues to drop. As the only public Distributing sporting goods 1.0 billion ▲ to low-income households entity in Korea possessing systematic capacities for sports science and research, KSPO has KRW 7.2 billion, Support for immigrant 10.2% 1.5 billion developed and launched a pilot test of the National Physical Strength Certification System, 18.0 40% increase families 7.1% completing the certification of 4,583 people in 2011 and the main program is to start officially Sports Vouchers 8.6 billion 5.3% 14.1 in 2012. In addition, we also provide the Medical Examination Program on Itinerary as well as Silver Sports (support for 3.9% 7.4 6.6 billion the National Health Call Center and Visiting Gymnastic Angel Group making our best efforts seniors) 6.1 Support for life sports for the to make Korea healthier and happier. disabled 7.5 billion Total 25.2 billion 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 • Changes Made to the Sports Total NSPF provided Fund matching rate Self-funded(for attending games) Voucher Programs 3.0 billon ▶ 8.6billion 50% ▶ 70% KRW 20,000 ▶ Abolished ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• Public Physical Strength Management Program Previous Now Previous Now Previous Now Program Description Number of Participants • Sports Voucher Beneficiaries • Sports Audience Voucher • Rate of Weekly Participation in · Develops the electronic system for physical health certification, as well as exercise prescriptions The number of beneficiaries increases The number of beneficiaries increases Life Sports National Physical Strength and videos. by 74.7% from the previous year. by 184.5% from the previous year. 4,583 The number of beneficiaries increases by Certification System · Strength test taken → certificate issued → exercise prescription and follow-up management 2.7% from the previous year. provided. 24,545 2,956 67.8% 65.1% 61.4% · Provides medical service from mobile clinics. 14,047 Medical Examination Von Itinerary · Conducts 13 tests for routine medical checkup, such as testing the bone density, as well as 7,090 9,247 1,039 for measuring physical strength. 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 · An online exercise clinic providing customized exercise and health tips. National Health Call Center · Provides one-on-one consultation regarding the caller’s strength and health. 284,792 · Forms a database on each individual’s health history for follow-up management. Making South Korea One of the Athletically Most Competitive Countries · Provided national health gymnastic lessons at welfare organizations, nursing homes, and the 1,144 times, Gymnastics Angel Group backwoods to help people maintain their health. 327,675 students Now that South Korea has won the bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, the expectations to see South Korea to perform at a level fit for its status as one of the G7 countries are on a rise. At KSPO, we provide a wide array of support and assistance for activities and programs intended to enhance South Korea’s athletic profile in the international community, including various international competitions, sports-related exchange among athletes worldwide, and programs for bringing the competitiveness of professional Korean athletes on a par with the world standard. Removing Social Barriers to Sports and Welfare In order to increase public participation in life sports in meaningful, constructive ways, it International Sports-Related Exchange is of utmost importance to expand and provide strong support for the inclusion of various In 2011, South Korea became the fifth country in the world to achieve the Grand Slam* record in excluded, marginalized groups into sports. At KSPO, we have been steadily increasing the history of international sporting events by winning the bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics in the amount of financial assistance we provide for improving the access of these excluded Pyeonchang. At KSPO, we welcomed this decision by launching a systematic financing plan, doing groups to sports, setting a new record in 2011. We have also significantly expanded the our best to raise the financial resources required for the successful organization of the big event. scope and range of our Sports Voucher programs. We have already experienced success in organizing the IAAF World Championships Daegu 2011, * Sports Voucher Programs supporting it with a budget of 116.4 billion KRW in total. We have also developed a thoroughgoing · Provide financial means for children and teens of low-income households (on the national welfare support system to strengthen the infrastructure for hosting other major international sporting events payroll), allowing them to take sports classes, purchase sporting goods, and / or attend sports in the future. Moreover, we are also actively supporting the Project for the Premium Brandization of games (launched in 2009). Taekwondo as well as the Project for Reclaiming “Baduk,” enhancing the international profile and · Financial makeup: 70% from the NSPF + 30% from local self-administrations. success of traditional sports of Korea. · More detailed information can be found at www.kspo.or.kr / contents / voucher * Sports Grand Slam : refers to success at hosting the Summer and Winter Olympics, the World Cup, and the IAAF World Championships. So far, only Germany, Russia, Italy, Japan, France, and South Korea achieved this record. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 30 + 31 • Support To Be Provided for the Winter Olympics at Pyeongchang • Programs Supporting Athletes’ Welfare (Total KRW 26.3billion Fund provided) (Unit KRW billion) Program / Benefit Description 8.1 Support for the Pyeongchang Olympics Hosting Committee. Provided for athletes who have contributed to the advancement of their own sports and / or the improvement of the country’s athletic profile Special Subsidy 6.7 in the international community, but who have not received the Skill Improvement Research Pension (up to 10 million KRW for each athlete). Support for the KOC activities. 5.1 Protection Allowance Allowance for paying premiums for insurances and / or medical expenses incurred by long-term hospitalization. Assistance Support for organizing international winter sporting events in Pyeongchang. 3.5 provided 2.9 Athletes eligible for the allowance for long-term hospitalization who, due to their disability or medical conditions, cannot earn their living. “SMART & Drive the Dream Project II” to promote winter sports in Korea. Disability Pension 600,000 KRW for Level 1 athletes; 375,000 KRW for Level 2 athletes; and 225,000 KRW for Level 3 athletes, provided monthly. Providing indirect assistance through official sponsorship from Sports Toto. Skill Improvement Provided either in monthly installments or in lump sum for athletes who have strengthened the country’s reputation by winning awards or 2003 2006 2007 2010 2011 Research Pension medals at international sporting events whose Athletes Evaluation score is more than 20 points. Instructor Research Provided for coaches or instructors whose teams participated in the Intense Training Program for national team players and won awards or Subsidiary medals at international sporting events. Provided for athletes who are talented at the sports of their specialization, who display exemplary attitude and conduct, and who have Sports Scholarship scored highly at sporting events. Overseas Training and • Support Provided for Major 2013 World Rowing Provided for athletes who have won medals at the Olympics and who wish to study abroad after their retirement. 2011 IAAF World 2014 Asian Games at 2015 Summer Universiade Education Recipient Championships at International Sporting Events Championships at Daegu Incheon at Gwangju Living allowances, graduate school scholarships, and short-term training allowances provided for national team players, whether currently Chungju Fringe Benefits active or retired. Organizing Committee KRW 53.8 billion KRW 500 million KRW 6.4 billion KRW 5 billion Infrastructure KRW 62.6 billion KRW 11 billion KRW 100 billion KRW 3 billion development • Overview of the Financial Support Provided for Programs Supporting Athletes’ Welfare Year 2009 2010 2011 Enhancing Athletes’ Performance and Competitiveness No. of beneficiaries 3,863 4,187 4,039 At KSPO, we support the development and advancement of professional athletes’ performance and abilities by providing a comprehensive range of assistance, including Money provided KRW 8.6 billion KRW11.1 billion KRW 9.7 billion systematic programs for athletic development and capability development programs for * Sum of pension for the disabled and non-disabled. coaches and instructors. In 2011, we supported the construction of the Jincheon Athletes Village for athletes on national teams, equipping it with various facilities and resources that resident athletes can use to enhance their performance. In addition, we seek to improve the welfare of our professional athletes by guaranteeing lifelong pension benefits for those who win awards at international games and also providing Sports Scholarships for talented athletes in the making. Korea Institute of Sports Science (KISS) As the only research organization in Korea specializing in sports and related sciences, KISS has dispatched sixteen researchers in each sports, utilized cutting-edge facilities, • Status-Differentiated Support Athlete’s Status Support Provided training records and psychotherapy data in order to maximize competitiveness of national for Athletes · Building the Sports Prodigy Center and other programs for discovering and supporting children athletes. The institute also actively analyzes international games and develops models for Sports Prodigies talented in sports. · Support currently provided for 710 children across 3 sports. benchmarking advanced training examples abroad. Based on its extensive research and · Support provided in discovering and developing potential talents, while also providing enhanced involvement in the development of sports policy and industry in Korea, KISS became the “Dream Trees” protection of their rights to study. · Support currently provided for 370 students across 8 sports. second organization in the world to be named a Chair research institute for sports by · Resources and assistance for the development of future national team players competing in Youth Representatives relatively less popular sports. UNESCO in 2011, continuously serving important roles in international sports studies and · Support currently provided for 749 athletes across 23 sports. research. · Resources for the athletes’ development into successful national team players. Candidate National Team Players · Support currently provided for 1,300 athletes across 28 sports. · Special assistance encouraging them to perform well at the upcoming London Olympics. National Team Players · Supporting the overseas training of national teams competing in 26 sports and providing medical science equipment. * UNESCO-Chaired Program Initiated by the resolution of the 26th UNESCO General Assembly in 1992. “Chairs” are provided for institutes and organizations capable of conducting in-depth research on sports, education, • Overview of the Jincheon Athletes Village nature, sciences, humanities, and social sciences necessary to realize UNESCO’s ideals. * UNESCO-Chaired Institutes for Sports Science Gwanghyewon-myeon, Jincheon-gun, 2010 KRW 26.5 billion 1. Sports Research Center at the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, Spain. Location Facilities Chungbuk. 2011 KRW 78.4 billion 2. Korea Institute of Sports Science. Indoor training facilities: indoor pools, multipurpose 2011 Phase 1 12 sports / arenas(for basketball, basketball, etc.), tennis courts, etc. Accommodating 350 athletes Financial Capacity support Outdoor training facilities rooftop arena, baseball court, 2017 Phase 2 37 sports / provided softball court, etc. Accommodating 1,150 athletes Other amenities athletes’ residence, Partner Houses, etc. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 32 + 33 Encouraging the Research and Development of Core Technology for Sports Raising the Competitiveness of Professional Athletes with Disabilities to the WorldAt KSPO, we also provide financial support for academic societies and athletic organizations class Standard conducting the research and development of strategic, core technology for the advancement of We provide various forms of support and assistance to foster and enhance the the Korean sports industry. In 2011, we provided 7 billion KRW for 16 projects in total, including competitiveness of professional athletes with disabilities who compete in international the Project for the Development of the Wheelchair Cycle for the Disabled. In 2012, we plan to sporting events. In addition to providing the Athletic Training Center for the Disabled as provide 7.2 billion KRW in such funding. well as systematic programs for training and encouraging athletes with disabilities, we are widening our international network to enhance the international profile of our athletes, Fostering the Development of Sports-Specializing Human Resources hosting the 2018 Winter Paralympics at Pyeongchang and other major international events. We are increasing our efforts to help develop the specialized, professional human resources for the expanding sports market and industry in Korea. We provide support not only for the • Athletic Training Center for the Disabled: Overview • Fund Provided for the Athletic Training development of coaches for professional, competitive sports and life sports instructors, but also Center for the Disabled (Unit KRW billion) for sports counselors, therapists, and other such workers especially serving the underprivileged 2010 2011 2012 2013 10.4 and the excluded, including seniors and the disabled. By the end of 2011, our support benefited The project of building 183,863 sports workers in total, including the 26,473 coaches of professional competitive 7.5 7.3 the first-ever general The residence and sports and 157,390 life sports instructors. Recognizing that the current human resources training complex for other amenities were 2012: Second-phase First residential training 4.9 Total athletes with disabilities center for disabled KRW 30.1 development system is inadequate to accommodate the increasing demand and potential of the expanded construction began to in Korea started athletes will be finally billion (to accommodate up to expand capacity. (accommodating 144 completed. Korean sports industry, we also provide, via KISS, eight practically oriented programs for sports athletes, with facilities 232 athletes). marketers, managers of sports facilities, and the like. for 17 sports). 2008 2009 2010 2011 * International disability sports championships hosted in Korea : International Wheelchair Table Tennis Championship('11.12), International Wheelchair Marathon('11.5), Wheelchair Tennis Public Welfare for All through Sports: Bringing Down Barriers Championship('11.5~6), World Deaf Badminton As part of our efforts to achieve greater public welfare and social inclusion through sports, we Championship('11.10), London PG Wheelchair provide a broad range of programs catering specifically to the needs of athletes with disabilities. Basketball Qualifying Round ('11.11), We have recently strengthened our support system for elite sports for the disabled, working hard Wheelchair Rugby Asian Championship('11.11) to train world-class athletes with disabilities and enhance the reputation and status of sports for the disabled. Healthy, Fun Life Sports for the Disabled “Sports NOWOW” is our special program promoting greater communication and interaction Efforts for Promoting Unpopular Sports between the able-bodied and the disabled. Our “One-Stop Service on the Go” program is also KSPO is managing various unpopular sports groups in order to fulfill its mission as a public sports interest important in improving the access of people with disabilities to athletic activities and facilities. We corporate. Beginning with establishment of cycle and marathon group in 2000, we continued to establish are also broadening the range of opportunities for people with disabilities to enjoy healthy and fencing (2003), canoe(2008) group followed by women football and diving group in 2011. Up to date, KSPO is fun sports by providing life sports programs customized to their needs and support for sports operating 6 groups and 68 athletes. Also, in October 2011,KSPO opened a handball stadium that will expand clubs serving members with disabilities. infrastructure for unpopular sports through efficient operations and we have been supporting balanced development of sports. • Supporting Life Sports for the Disabled (2011) • KSPO’s Operation of Sports Group Financial support · Sports NOWOW Project : provides sports-related information for the disabled, leads campaigns for greater participation for life sports for the and inclusion of the disabled in life sports, encourages greater attention to the sports-related needs of the disabled, and Women’s Classification Total Cycle Marathon Fencing Canoe Diving promotes more interaction among the disabled and the able-bodied. Football disabled · One-Stop Service Center on the Go : 7 new specially equipped vehicles, 83 devices and equipment, and additional Established 2000 2000 2003 2008 2011 2011 ▶ Year instructors and coaches have been assigned and 83 sporting goods for curling, yacht navigating, and other such sports No. of have been distributed in an effort to improve the access of the disabled to sports. 68 15 8 7 8 27 3 Athletes KRW 7.5 billion · Customized Life Sports Classes : 626 classes are provided, customized to the specific needs of beginners and women, teenagers, people with different disabilities, and different sports. • Efficient Management of SK Handball Stadium Classification Content SK Handball Stadium Construction • Results of Encouraging Greater Participation of the Disabled in Life Sports · Remodeling of Fencing Stadium · Privilege for handball competitions · Scale : Basement Floor 1 / Intensive support handball Instructors and coaches Number of athletes with Number of sports clubs with Disabled People’s Participation · Provide office space for the Handball Federation 3rd Floor assigned disabilities receiving coaching disabled members receiving in Life Sports Support for Unpopular · Host training and competition for unpopular sports such as fencing and · Dimension : 19,431m2 support Sports table tennis – Provide office space for unpopular sports federations · Budget : 43.5 billion 178 533,535 1,173 9.6% · Duration : '10.6 ~'11.10 139 1,022 8.3% · Stage installation with the latest technology Luxurious Medium/Large 499,075 889 7.0% · High quality sound and lighting 101 Auditorium Management · Create business lounge, skybox, moveable audience seating 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 34 + 35 Kim Seong-hun, Manager of the Social Contributions Team Stakeholder Interview Ethical Management “KSPO strives to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public entity, ensuring the transparency and integrity of its management.” Based on our thoroughgoing policy of ethical management, we seek to fulfill the social and ethical responsibilities asked of our organization as a leading public entity. Having organized the underlying system for carrying out our plan for ethical management, we also develop and implement systematic strategies, ensuring proper monitoring and feedback on our activities and results. By ensuring ethical management in a comprehensive range of our activities and enlisting every employee and stakeholder’s active participation in our efforts, we continue to pioneer and provide an advanced model of sustainable management for other public entities to emulate.Thanks to these and other efforts, we earned the “Good” rating in a governmental survey of the integrity of public entities in 2011, and saw a rise in all the scores we earned under all the indicators and criteria of ethical management. Objective and Tactics of Ethical Management “Making KSPO a transparent and trusted leader of Objective ethical management worldwide.” At the Social Contribution Team, our job is to ing the required infrastructure). In this way, we develop and update the code of ethics and conidentify the issues and concerns that require our Developing and establishing a thoroughgoing system for action. duct for the members of KSPO, sharing values greater attention and use the evaluation results KSPO’s goal is to step further Embedding ethical management and promotion of implementation. and principles across the organization for the to enhance our system and efforts for sustainTactics towards a transparent realization of ethical management. In addition, able management in general. The purpose of Strengthening of the monitoring system. and credible public interest sports we also develop and provide e-learning and ethical management at KSPO is to enable the corporate. offline programs for employees to learn about organization as a leading public sports entity ethical management. We also conduct analysis to fulfill its various responsibilities in an active of our performance and exchange feedback manner, contributing to the improvement of Action System for Ethical Management every year in order to ensure that our efforts the overall social welfare. At KSPO, we plan Strategy Development Unit for ethical management work as intended. In to continue our work on developing programs 2011, we saw the employees of KSPO particiand measures for helping all employees share SR Management Anti-Corruption Action pate in developing and shaping the new brand and internalize the management’s commitment RM Council Strategy Committee Unit for ethical management. We intend to use the to ethical management and practices. I hope brand actively so that ethical management can that you will find in this Sustainability Report Advisory organization become integral part of employees’ daily life the information you need about the efforts and SR Management Integrity Ombudsman and conduct. At KSPO, we have developed our performance KSPO has made for the cause of Advisory System own KSPO Social Responsibility Index, using ethical management. Action Unit the 25 indicators it provides to assess our performance in the six areas of socially responsible Social Contribution Team Auditing Team (supervising antiIntegrity Promotion & Integrity (supervising ethical management) corruption activities) Management Teams management (i.e., ethical management, customer values, employees and Board members, Ethical Management Integrity Protection Integrity Development Meetings Taskforce Council social contributions, promoting a culture of Business Division Business Division Clean Toto Committee responsible recreational activities, and developManaging Dept Managing Dept. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 36 + 37 Multidimensional Efforts for Ethical Management, Headed by Advanced Leadership Preventing and Catching Illegal Activities and Based on our thoroughgoing policy of ethical management, we seek to fulfill the social and ethical responsibilities Corruption in Racing Games • Real-time Monitoring Systems asked of our organization as a leading public entity. Having organized the underlying system for carrying out our The rigging of the games by professional athletes and managers that Early Warning System Sales Warning System plan for ethical management, we also develop and implement systematic strategies, ensuring proper monitoring arose to the surface in 2011 shocked and dismayed many fans and (EWS) (SWS) and feedback on our activities and results. By ensuring ethical management in a comprehensive range of our members of the public. In recognition of the grave ethical implications · Collects information and rumors · Monitors the trends in sales by activities and enlisting every employee and stakeholder’s active participation in our efforts, we continue to pioneer and consequences of rigging and other unfair activities, we have about upcoming games that vendor and product on a realbetters hear in choosing their time basis. and provide an advanced model of sustainable management for other public entities to emulate. strengthened our efforts to ensure betting ticket vendors’ compliance picks, and also · Monitors and controls · Detects and sends out alert overshooting, concentrations of Thanks to these and other efforts, we earned the “Good” rating in a governmental survey of the integrity of with the applicable laws as well as to prevent corruption in hosting signals of different levels when tickets issued for the same club, public entities in 2011, and saw a rise in all the scores we earned under all the indicators and criteria of ethical organizations. Our new real-time monitoring systems designed to detect the volume of sales per game or tickets issued at excessive or club suddenly peaks or the prices. management. anomalies in ticketing and bet distribution supports our enhanced distribution of prize money rates · Sends out alert signals and has suddenly altered. initiates investigation of the efforts for managing the processes before and after games. Our · Initiates the investigation of reported anomalies immediately. athletes who have been or are enhanced anti-corruption training programs also lead ticket vendors to involved in the reported anomalies. Faithful to the spirit of genuine sportsmanship that rewards nothing by internalize a commitment to fairness and ethical management. In 2012, honest sweat and dedication to fairness, KSPO strives to ensure ethical we opened the Clean Sports General Call Center to hear reports from management that provides the right and honest results for all. the public on various corrupt and illicit activities, hoping to lead the • Number of Illegal Web Sites Caught nationwide efforts to build a more transparent, healthier environment for Activity Concerned 2010 2011 sport. Furthermore, we have launched a special taskforce in charge of • Allbaruge: Brand for KSPO’s Ethical Management preventing illegal activities or corruption online concerning motorboat Cycle and motorboat racing 153 164 Bulletin Board & Webzine ▶ Springs of Knowledge and Proposals & ▶ Code of Conduct Counseling & Sharing racing, cycle racing, or Sports Toto, working closely with the competent Sports Toto 2,897 5,795 Discussion Rooms Encouragement and Thanks authorities in order to detect and block illegal Web sites through Channels of information Channels of sharing and spreading Channels of internalization systematic measures. Our efforts to prevent losses caused by such illegal activities also extend to warning the public and customers against • Public Channels of Reporting Corruption and Violations of Ethical Norms using such sites and to providing rewards for those who report such Channel Clean Reporting Center Internal Reporting Center Corruption Reporting Center sites and illegal activities. · Receives reports on the unfairness of · Receives reports on corruption of employees · Receives reports and returns of goods of employees and Board members. and Board members. Roles bribery. · Receives reports on the violations of the code · Receives reports on the unfairness and · Provides information on the code of ethics. of ethics. corruption of KSPO as a whole. Monitoring and Feedback Systems for Sustained From employee / Board member to employee From suppliers or customers to employees Sources Employees and Board members. / Board member. / Board members. and Effective Control * Corruption Reporting Center : KSPO website(www.kspo.or.kr) Contact Us At KSPO, we operate systematic monitoring systems and engage in the exchange of constructive, problem-solving feedback according to plans based on the analysis of our performance and activities the previous year. Thanks to these comprehensive systems of monitoring and analysis, KSPO continues to score increasingly highly on the Active Training System Facilitating Ethical Management evaluations by the Korea Ethical Practice Index (KEPI) and the KSPO Based on our accumulated experience and knowledge, we continue to develop and provide programs of ethical Social Responsibility Index (KSRI). management training for suppliers and ourselves. Our online ethical management training course and customized programs for employees of different positions or ranks help to strengthen the commitment to ethical management • Ethical Management Monitoring Systems Developed by KSPO throughout the organization. We also provide ethical training content customized to the specific needs and characteristics of our suppliers. These efforts have been recognized favorably in both internal and external System Description evaluations, helping us secure a measure of stability and reliability in our ethical management practices. Entire Organization Risk · Conducts 24 / 7 monitoring of major risk factors. Management System (ERM) · The managers and supervisors are always kept on watch. · Enables the participant to learn and be refreshed on her commitment to ethical management. Respecting the Public’s Right to Knowledge: Open Disclosure of Information Self Checklist (SCLS) · Allows the participant to check her own performance in terms of compliance with the codes of ethics and conduct. In recognizing the public’s right to knowledge and information and as part (Unit Number of Disclosures) of our efforts to enhance the transparency of our management, we provide Items of Information various types of data and information concerning our organization and Disclosed 2009 2010 2011 • Enhanced Performance in Ethical Management management on our official Web site as well as Alio (www.alio.or.kr), a Ethical Practice Index (KEPI) Social Responsibility Index (KSRI) Integrity Survey Items displayed on government-run system of information on all its agencies. In 2011, based on Alio in general 20 21 21 87.2pts 85.1pts 8.95pts feedback provided from both within and without, we disclosed 21 additional 86.0pts Items displayed on 81.5pts 8.72pts items of information on our activities. Moreover, we strengthened the 13 15 16 83.7pts 78.8pts Alio as needed guidance provided regarding our policy for information disclosure and began Voluntarily to provide alert messages for information requests processed, doing our 55 56 77 disclosed items best to ensure systematic, transparent disclosure of important information. As a result, we won the Grand Prize for the public sector at the Korea Communicative Management Awards in December 2011. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 38 + 39 Lee Ji-young, Customer Stakeholder Interview Customer-Satisfaction Management “KSPO always seeks to think from the customer’s perspective, ensuring that all its activities and services are satisfactory to customers” We seek to make KSPO a widely trusted and exemplary public corporation by ensuring customer-centered management and customers’ happiness in all we do. Our taskforces and systems enable us to enhance our capacities as a leader of sports organization for the public; to elicit greater participation from customers and hear their opinions; to identify customers’ needs better; and to maximize values and convenience for customers based on rigorous monitoring and feedback processes. Thanks to these efforts, we experienced a noticeable improvement in the score of customer satisfaction we received in the 2011 survey of public entities, winning the Grand Prize at the 2011 Customer Satisfaction Awards organized by the Dong-a Ilbo. Objective and Tactics of Customer-Centered Management “Making KSPO a Leading Organization of Customer-Centered SportsObjective Related Services” I feel honored to be interviewed as a represenI, as part of the panel and a local citizen, feel tative of KSPO's customers. I often had the regretful is that although the Olympic Park proopportunity to visit the Olympic Park of the Life vides various exhibitions, performances, rides, Refining and elaborating the bases of customer-centered management. I hope publishing the SustainabilSports Center, since I live close to KSPO. I've galleries and sports facilities, not many people Tactics Improving the customer relations and processes. ity Report will give an opportunity been always impressed by the facility's cleanare aware of it. I hope publishing the SustainEnhancing the customer service capacities of employees. for KSPO to advocate its various ness as well as employee's kindness and when ability Report will give an opportunity for KSPO sports and cultural services. I saw a notice on the website that they were to advocate its various sports and cultural serrecruiting customer panel, I applied and have vices. been participating in panel activities since last year. The panel's role is to give feedback on Action System for Customer-Centered Management whether or not KSPO has sincerely responded to various questions left by citizens or customers, in a manner easily understandable from a Chairman customer point of view, and the feedbacks are delivered to the representatives of according Social Contributions Team departments. In addition, 8 members of the (Supervising all customer-centered panel meet up every quarter to freely discuss management activities) CS ideas and suggest ideas, which seem very helpful for KSPO's decision making related to Sports Industry Sports Industry Cycle / Motorboat Motorboat Racing KISS Administration its customers. I've noticed that KSPO's service Planning Support Planning Team Racing CS Team Service Team Team Team or customer satisfaction level has continuously Sports industry, Specialized improved since I joined the panel last year. The Olympic Park, Sports commemorative Supervision of cycle services Sports science Center, concerts and average time it takes to handle a customer projects, Sports and motorboat involving cycle and instructor performances, and Toto, Youth racing services. and motorboat training venue rental. complaint has shortened. If there is one thing Hostel. racing. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 40 + 41 Principles for Customer Service of Better Quality Establishing a Customer-Centered Culture through Voluntary Efforts We have articulated and follow specific principles and rules of customer service that are necessary to ensure for Improvement customer satisfaction. Our CS Declaration guides all our CS-related efforts, while our Standard CS Operating In order to identify how satisfied our customers are with our products and services, we conduct our own service Procedure provides specific guidelines and rules of service. quality survey, using the Korea Customer Service Index (KCSI) we have developed on our own. The survey helps us identify main issues and room for improvement in customer service so that we can work on improving them better. We have also developed our own model for the survey on the satisfaction of internal customers (i.e., employees and Board members) using the ISCI, seeking to enhance the service capabilities of employees and Board members. Customer Service (CS) Declaration We pledge to think and act from the customer’s perspective, accepting customers’ opinions with humility and open-mindedness, and incorporating their demands actively into our work. • Customer Satisfaction Survey Scores (KCSI) • Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey Scores (ICSI) We pledge to provide information requested by customers as efficiently as we can, and to protect the confidentiality of the information 2009 74.4pts 2009 75.4pts they give us. We pledge to do our best to correct our mistakes and prevent their recurrence when we have caused inconvenience or 2010 75.4pts 2010 73.7pts losses to customers through our own faults. 2011 81.5pts 2011 76.0pts We pledge to submit documentations of our efforts and performance to customers for periodical review, and openly disclose and share the results of such review. Strengthening Trust by Ensuring Complete Protection of Customers’ Information Encouraging Greater Public Use of KSPO Facilities and Events Key to continued and effective communication with customers is our commitment first to the protection of Keeping pace with our effort to enhance public sports welfare, we are actively organizing cultural activities that will customers’ information and privacy. We develop and update our plan for information protection online and off-line improve life qualities of citizens. The Seoul Olympic Museum and the Seoul Olympic Museum of Arts (SOMA) are our on an annual basis, and ensure through repeated training that all employees abide by our information policy with representative facilities. We are striving to help customers spend meaningful leisure time and feel greater satisfaction strong conviction and responsibility. in life by encouraging more people to use these facilities. • Number of Visitors to KSPO’s Facilities for Culture and Arts SOMA Seoul Olympic Museum (Unit Number of Visitors) (Unit Number of Visitors) Identifying Customers’ Needs and Improving Service Based on “Voices of Customers” 184,990 258,884 The Web page for each division of KSPO provides a VOC bulletin board, on which customers can freely post and 171,983 discuss their experience with and expectations of KSPO. All customers have a right to raise issues, questions, complaints, and suggestions regarding KSPO’s services and products. We review and process customers’ 156,864 requests as quickly as we can, and actively incorporate them into the subsequent improvement of our activities. 110,635 139,231 • Average Period of Time of Processing Requests from VOC Channels 2009 163 minutes 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2010 57 minutes 2011 44 minutes Greater Customer Participation through Active Suggestions KSPO builds a strong mutual trust by supporting customer's various participation in KSPO's management activities. KSPO carefully reviews customer suggestions that are collected through different channels, such as website, the Customers Panel, the Customers Advisory Boards for Cycle and Motorboat Racing as well as Sports Toto Customer Idea Contest. Such ideas are applied to KSPO's management. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 42 + 43 • Featured at the Joy Olpark Festival Description 6 performances, including the acoustic guitar Performances competition. 8 exhibits, including the photo exhibits of amateurs’ Exhibits works, the creative writing workshop, etc. 6 other major public events, including the Youth Other Media Contest, etc.6 other major public events, including the Youth Media Contest, etc. Ensuring Safety for Customers Under the supervision and guidance provided by our Construction & Maintenance Department, we ensure the safety of customers using any of our facilities and venues, such as the Olympic Park and the Gwangmyeong Speedom Cycle Race Track, through systematic steps of management. In 2011, we put together the Disaster Safety Management Advisory Board comprised of authority figures on various types of disasters and after-effect control in order to strengthen the safety of our facilities. In addition, we expanded the number of facilities at the park that are subject to our monthly safety inspection to 63 facilities. We provided 98 situation-specific safety training sessions for 2,057 safety managers as well as employees who needed to enhance their capacity for crisis management. We also launched an online manual and guideline system for preventing disasters. As a result, we experienced zero safety-related accidents. We will continue to do our best to ensure the safety of all our facilities through continued training and other efforts for prevention. Opening Ceremony of the「Olympic Hall」, Pop Music Concert Theater (June. 2011) Third-Party Monitoring for Better Customer Service Olympic Park: A Venue for Relaxation and Diverse Recreational Programs • Number of Visitors to the Olympic Park In an effort to improve customer satisfaction and improve our customer service through for Customers more objective, accurate perspectives, we participate in the Ministry of Financial Planning’s The Olympic Park, encapsulating the memories of the 1988 Seoul Olympics, 2009 7.17 million survey of public entities (PCSI), which provides a useful third-party perspective on our is a beautiful and comfortable open space for rest in the middle of the city. We services and management. This annual survey involves a thorough review and analysis have selected nine beautiful spots of the park, including the Ecology Forest, the 2010 7.28 million of our customer service-related performance, which helps us recognize deficiencies and Olympic Sculptures, the Outdoor Sculptures, and created a specialized theme problems and thereby enabling us to plan better for continued improvement of our service space as well as tour programs that provide new spectacles and experiences 2011 7.42 million quality. In 2011, our intensified efforts to improve customer satisfaction paid off, as we saw for customers. Also, the Joy Olpark Mini Concerts (held from May to October a significant improvement in the final score we received compared to how we fared in 2010. each year) that have settled as cultural concert in life and the Joy Olpark Festival (held every October), in which performance and exhibition coexist, offer special memories to customers. • Survey of Public Entities CS (PSCI) 2009 86.3 pts * Olympics Goo Gyeong (九景) 2010 82.3 pts Goo Gyeong implies two meanings, “9 sceneries” and “to sightsee”. The Olympic Park 2011 90.1 pts offers the top 9 attractive spots recommended by the Photo Artist Society of Korea, including the renowned World Peace Gate, the Thumb, and the One Tree Hill. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 44 + 45 Kim Chang-deok, Manager of the Mutual Growth Team Stakeholder Interview Mutual Growth and Fair Transaction “True to the spirit of sportsmanship that values fairness and mutual respect, KSPO seeks to provide rational, fair management from which suppliers also benefit” In recognition of affiliated organizations and suppliers as equal partners with whom KSPO must work together toward a better future, we develop and actively carry out systematic strategies and support programs for mutual growth and fair transaction. In particular, we acknowledge it as an essential part of our commitment to sustainable management and social justice to help small and medium businesses in partnership with us to enhance their competitiveness by ensuring fair transaction with them. In 2011, we also won the Minister of Health and Welfare Award as an exemplary organization purchasing and distributing goods for people with disabilities. Objective and Tactics of Customer-Centered Management “Ensuring Mutual Growth with Small and Medium Objective Businesses” The Mutual Growth Management Team is a for small businesses Enhancing communication department that is in charge of KSPO's mutual with innovative business ideas and technology, Tactics Establishing and enforcing an order of Supporting the growth, managing performance of other departbut insufficient resources to start their projects. We will continue our effort to pioneering of new sales channels at home and abroad. ments as well as creating an atmosphere for In addition, we are providing R&D funds to supestablish mutual growth and fair employees and setting up their roles which will port small and medium businesses to produce trade as KSPO's basis for busicontribute to mutual growth. Also, as a team in new sports equipment and consistently aiding ness implementation. charge of supervising all contracts and agreethe needy in the local community by hosting ment at KSPO, we improve the policies for conspecial bazaars as well as fund raisers in coopOverview of the Organizational Structure for Mutual Growth tracting and purchasing in line with government eration with Songpa-gu District Office of Seoul. recommendations and guidelines. Recently, we Mutual growth and fair trade conform to the Role Team / Department signed an agreement with the Macheon Marpurpose of KSPO and we will continue our efket to help revitalize the traditional open-door fort to establish mutual growth and fair trade as Supervising mutual growth market where we are purchasing large quantity KSPO's basis for business implementation by Mutual Growth Team of goods in the last week of every month and continually improving our system and developpolicy and activities donating them to local nonprofit organizations ing innovative solutions. as well as social service centers. Purchasing goods The contract team at each division KSPO also supports Korean small and medium businesses to pioneer new markets and clienFunding Funding Provision Team tele overseas by providing them with financial assistance when they participate in one of the five major international expositions on sporting Industry Fostering Team goods, or in one of the road shows in the three Promoting Latin American and Eastern European counthe sports industry tries. Moreover, we provide low-interest loans Industry & Technology Promotion Team 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 46 + 47 Increasing Interaction and Practical and Substantive Assistance Supporting the Development of New Sales Opportunities Abroad • KISS Certificates Issued for Small and Medium Businesses At KSPO, we also evaluate and certify the goods and services of exemplary small and · Sporting goods tests As part of our efforts to help small and medium businesses enhance their competitiveness, medium businesses in an effort to help them become more competitive and find new we seek to provide and enlarge the amount and types of resources and support for them, business opportunities abroad. In 2011, we spent 900 million KRW in total in assisting 2009 373 including special loans, special contracts for purchasing goods and services, and research small and medium businesses acquire the domestic and international certificates they 2010 393 and development subsidiaries. We are also expanding the channels of communication needed. We are also actively promoting the use of the Korea Institute of Sports Science with those businesses, trying to hear their opinions and difficulties and incorporating their (KISS) Certificate Mark as an internationally accepted indicator of the quality of sports2011 757 demands in our plans for future activities. related goods that Korean manufacturers produce. In 2011, the certificate was provided for 36 goods in total, including bows, baseballs, baseball bats, and so forth. The range of • Eligibility Requirements for Financial Loans • Value of Purchases from Small and KISS-certified goods continues to expand from year to year. Moreover, we organize the Medium Businesses SPOEX, Korea’s largest exposition on sporting goods and equipment, every year, facilitating · Quality certification Business Type Description Item 2010 2011 international consultations over the export of goods totaling 125.3 million KRW in estimated Private-sector sports All sports facilities newly opened or installed, pursuant to the Installation and value. We also provide financial assistance for small and medium businesses seeking to 2009 17 facilities Utilization of Sports Facilities Act. Value of purchases from KRW 105.5 KRW 108.5 SMBs (A) billion billion participate in any of the five major international sporting goods expositions and international Sports equipment Sports equipment and goods manufacturers certified by the Ministry road shows. 2010 33 KRW 108.6 KRW 114.5 manufacturers of Culture, Sports, and Tourism. Total purchase budget (B) billion billion 2011 36 Sports service providers Providers of sports game services, marketing services, and information. (A) / (B) (%) 97% 95% • Loans Provided to Support Small and Medium Sports Businesses (Annual Interest Rate 4%) • SPOEX Development Overview Business Type Amount Number of Businesses No. of participating businesses No. of booths installed Value of exports discussed (1% increase) (5% increase) (29.2% increase) Total KRW 7.5 billion 28 311 item 952 item USD 125.3 million Sports equipment manufacturers KRW 1.7 billion 7 309 item 905 item Sports facilities KRW 5.5 billion 19 USD 96.99 million 264 item 820 item USD 86 million Sports service providers KRW 300 million 2 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 • Support for Participation in the Five Major International Sporting goods Expositions Expo Description The best exposition on everything related to golf, which is one of the ten most prospective sports in the world PGA Merchandise Show now. Health & Fitness Trade Show The world’s largest and best exposition on fitness International Sporting Goods Exhibition A large exposition held in China, with its potential for almost unlimited growth. Outdoor Retailer Show The best, fast growing outdoor-related exposition in the world. Sports Source Asia An exposition held in Hong Kong crucial for entering the Southeast Asian market. Seoul International Sports & Leisure Industry Show 2011 (Feb. 2011) • Participation in/Hosting of International Exposition and Road shows 6% increase in no. KRW 3 billion increase Total value of contracts secured of business participants In total value of contracts secured at international road shows Fair Practices Supporting the Stability of Small and Medium • Advance Payment Rates at international expositions KRW 2.96 billion increase Businesses 37 businesses 64 booths KRW 13.4 billion KRW 3 billion As part of our efforts to support the stability of small and medium businesses, we pay in 2009 100% 35 businesses 60 booths KRW 10.4 billion cash and in advance the entire amounts of money we owe them for the goods and services 2010 100% they provide. As for construction projects, we purchase the required materials ourselves, while also increasing the volume and value of goods and services we buy from small and KRW 0.04 billion 2011 100% medium businesses and businesses run by women. 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 48 + 49 Park So-young, Director Amsa Kkumnamu Local Children Center Stakeholder Interview Social Contributions “KSPO elongates the chains of hope and generosity, sharing its resources and wealth for the greater happiness for all” Convinced of the importance of the community and the need to sustain it by sharing hope and generosity, we continue to share the resources and wealth we generate with various sectors and groups of our society. As a leading public entity with the huge mission of promoting the greatest possible public welfare, we take delight in fulfilling our responsibility for creating and spreading as much happiness and strength as possible. The social contributions KSPO makes are supported by the resources and efforts volunteered by employees and Board members, including the Share Love Fund. The Share Love Club leads employee-organized volunteer activities in three areas of sharing: that is, sports, culture, and assistance for the needy. Internal and third-party monitoring is provided throughout all the processes of social contributions in order to ensure and improve the quality of help and resources we provide. Thanks to these efforts, we continue to score increasingly highly under the KSPO Social Responsibility Index (KSRI). Objective and Tactics of Social Contributions Objective “Making KSPO a Public Sports Entity Sharing Happiness and Hope” As the businesses expanded, KSPO decided clearly see that they are truly concerned about to expand their support for social contribution our children’s health. and approached various local child centers However, support for sports equipments take I hope that KSPO as well as welfare centers, among which was place only once every year and so is support Sharing in sports employees spend more time with our child center. The primary reason why we for watching or experiencing sports. And I wish Sharing in cultural activities the children, with whom various decided to partner with KSPO was that their these supports are expanded to a larger scale Tactics Providing assistance for the needy KSPO employees social contribution vision had a lot in common so that more children can enjoy more public continue social with our center’s motto. A lot of children from sports welfare benefits. Also, we hope that low income families are deprived of education KSPO employees spend more time with our contribution activities opportunities and our focus is on these children children through which we can continue various from low income families rather than children social contribution activities together. Organizational Structure Managing Social Contributions from normal families. KSPO supports include providing sports equipments, tickets to sports events, snacks and other supplies. It is clear Share Love Volunteers Club – Operating Committee that children with diverse experiences grow up as a confident children. Especially for children who do not have enough opportunities to exSocial Contribution perience sports, KSPO’s sports-related support Team is a unique, special and desirable social contribution activity that offers healthy lifestyle and beautiful memories for children. Once we send a list of good ingredients we need, KSPO brings Sports Promotion us everything included in the list and when I see Sports Industry Racing Business Research Team Head Chapter / Industry – them carefully check the country of origin, I can – Head Chapter – Head Chapter – Head Chapter / Subdivision Head Chapter / / Subdivision / Subdivision Subdivision Subdivision 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 50 + 51 • Support Provided to Encourage Greater Volunteer Participation • Share Love Fund Development Overview Expanding Opportunities to Play Sports with the Athletes on KSPO Sports Teams The KSPO Sports Teams also participate actively in the organization’s programs of social contributions, donating Support Provided Description From their talents and time to help extend opportunities to play and learn sports to an increasing part of the Korean Employee population. These programs especially provide access for many people to watch and play relatively less popular Share · Mileage points provided for participating in fundraising and other volunteer activities 50% Love Mileage → now incorporated into the performance assessment of teams and departments. sports, helping to improve the health and balance of the sports industry ecology. Total Fund Systematic Measures Volunteerism at Work · Recognizes the volunteer work employees have done during their work hours, up to 8 hours per employee per month. ▼ Raised KRW 100.784 million • KSPO Sports Teams Participating in Social Contributions · A small amount is automatically deduced from each volunteering employee’s Share Matched monthly paycheck to raise the fund. Love Fund · KSPO matches the fund (50-50). by KSPO Program Description No. of Participants · New employees and employees recently promoted are required to participate in Opportunities for learning volunteer programs · Cycling classes for locals and children. Cycling Class 5,475 · All employees can access the e-learning programs on volunteerism. · Lessons on eco-friendly transportation and riding experience. · Volunteerism Drive, an annual campaign conducted to promote and expand Hwang Yeong-jo’s Marathon Class · Providing lessons and coaching for locals participating in marathons. 300 volunteer work. Establishing a culture · Encourages volunteers to share their experience. · Free Aquatic Sports Class. of sharing Aquatic Sports Class 4,346 · Publishes the White Papers on Social Contributions and distributes them to partner · Helping the public get acquainted with aquatic recreational activities. organizations. Canoeing Class · Provided for talented children and members of low-income households. 240 Football Class · Provides coaching and instructions for locals and youth in Hwasun, Jeonnam. 200 Golf Class · Invites local students to the Jeongseon Golf Course for instructions. 20 • Strategic Partnership with the Private Sector for Social Contributions Area Description Outcome · Partnership with 4 organizations, including FC Seoul, on donating seats Supporting the Growth and Development of Future Professional Athletes Sports Seeking partnership on donating seats. (worth KRW 35 million in 2010 and KRW 30 million in 2011 in value). KSPO seeks to ensure the healthy growth of all children by providing them with special assistance and programs for · 8 offices of KSPO and ARKO sign an agreement for benefitting society with healthy body and mind. In addition to providing financial assistance for the athletic participation of children from lowSeeking partnership with the Arts Council athletes’ and artists’ talents freely donated. Culture income households, KSPO also invites celebrity athletes to visit various schools and provide sports lessons as well Korea(ARKO) on donating “talents.” ARKO: to provide the relevant content and programs. KSPO: to organize and provide budget for the programs. as sporting goods as gifts in the Sports for Healthy School Campaign. Seeking partnership with nonprofit Local · Providing, in partnership with 9 nonprofit organizations including Gwangmyeong organizations on providing assistance Communities CSW Hope, assistance that is customized to local needs. for eh needy. • Support for Children and Teens Program Description No. of Participants Financial Assistance for Young Athletes Opens the Jeongseon Golf Course free of charge to talented young golf players. 8 Sports-Themed Assistance Only KSPO Can Provide Future and Hope Project Provides support for children of low-income households talented in artistic and athletic activities. 2 We have developed a variety of programs and ways of providing sports-themed assistance in order to express our · Celebrity athletes visit local schools to provide special sports lessons and 90 schools / 10,000 Sports for Healthy School Project identity as a leading public institution on sports in Korea. Our distinct, innovative programs of support for various give out sporting goods as gifts. students age groups and the underprivileged throughout the Korean society bring joys and happiness to all citizens, and make us proud of working at KSPO. Sharing the Thrill and Excitement of Live Sports Games Enriching Lives by Spreading Athletic Culture and Hope One of the important purposes for which KSPO was founded is to expand the joy of watching sports matches live KSPO takes care to provide as wide a range of opportunities as possible for residents of diverse local communities and bring healthy pleasures to the public. Accordingly, we are working hard to extend the benefits and experience to enjoy and participate in a broad array of cultural, artistic, and athletic activities. The focus of our efforts in this of watching live sports games to an increasing part of the Korean population, providing Sports experience programs regard is especially on improving the quality of life for the underprivileged, who, due to financial reasons, are also for the needy and the underprivileged, and giving out sporting goods through our Lovely Sharing Basket Campaign often excluded from the reach of cultural and artistic enrichment. We develop and provide various programs of to children in low-income households. support for underprivileged teens and children to participate in diverse cultural and artistic events. • Efforts to Share the Joys of Sports (2011) Program Description No. of Beneficiaries Supporting Local Cultural Events and Programs Using the KSPO Infrastructure · Watching professional matches (volley ball, basketball, etc.) live. KSPO actively provides its facilities and venues, such as SOMA, the Olympic Park, and the cycle and motorboat Sports Experience · Watching international track and field races live. 6 sessions / 4,674 · Participating in winter sports with medal-winning athletes. racing tracks, so that greater numbers of the public can mingle with one another and participate together in various Lovely Sharing · Celebrity athletes participate to raise and distribute sporting goods by visiting social 402 social service centers / fun activities. We organize concerts and exhibits, both small and big, as well as a wide array of classes on various Basket Campaign service centers and inviting beneficiaries to participate in sports activities. 12,383 subjects throughout the year, in addition to inviting local artists to boast their talents at public festivals and events. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 52 + 53 • Cultural Support Provided Using the KSPO Infrastructure Program Description No. of Beneficiaries · Invites people with financial difficulties in accessing venues of culture and arts to SOMA Happy Visit to the Museum 12 sessions / 369 participants for special viewing and classes. Little Concert at SOMA · Features outdoor jazz concerts, classical music performance, etc. 6 concerts Inviting social service centers to · Invites members of social service centers and nonprofit organizations to the Olympic 1 session / the Olympic Museum Museum for special viewing and workshops. 763 participants · 78 free classes on a broad range of subjects, including cycle racing, motorboat racing, 781 classes / Free Classes yoga, calligraphy, sports dance, and the like, provided from 17 of KSPO’s facilities, 300,000 participants including the main racetracks. · Providing free stages and venues for musicians, in partnership with the Korea Creative Free Rental 23 sessions Content Agency. Culture Supporters · Volunteering employees and participants in free classes put together free performances 2 performances on the Go and shows. · Involves organizing exhibits of local artists’ works at the galleries of main and local cycle Supporting local artists 17 exhibits and motorboat racetracks. Bringing Hope to Teens • Cultural Support Provided for Teens Financial deprivation can pose many struggles and threats to the physical and Program Description No. of Beneficiaries psychological development of children and · Invites teens from remote rural areas, Youth Training teens. KSPO seeks to awaken them to the at the Olympic immigrant families, orphanages, etc. 29 sessions / to enjoy various programs of cultural 5,059 participants greater world of culture and sports and Youth Hostel activities and exploration. help them find hope and dreams again by · Supporting the performance of “The Melody Support for youth 4 performances / providing them with diverse programs and performance for You,” a musical targeting teens and 2,200 participants children. opportunities. 'Visiting Traditional Market' Day (Macheon Central Market) Charity Activities for a Warmer and Better World for All Restarting Hope: Social Contributions to Local Communities for Greater Solidarity As a public entity created first and foremost to promote the welfare of all, KSPO continues to engage in various We intend to provide actual and substantial help for all sectors and groups of our local communities that actually charity programs and activities to bring the light of hope and warmth to all the marginalized, excluded groups of our need our assistance, including low-income households, rural villages, and traditional open-door markets. Our society. Our efforts in this regard begin by identifying the specific needs that must be satisfied to ensure equitable ReSTART Project provided loans, 300 million KRW in total, at an interest rate of 2% per annum for fifteen lowand sustainable development of local communities, and continue into developing and providing programs and income households, supporting their economic self-sufficiency by providing them also with consultations and resources for the health and happiness of all community members. classes on running businesses. Volunteer and Charity Programs Catering to Local Needs • Programs of Support and Assistance for Greater Solidarity We actively collect opinions and voices from local communities in order to identify their needs and provide them with practical and substantive help and resources. As a strong supporter of local communities, KSPO seeks to Program Description No. of Beneficiaries provide the partnership on which local communities can rely as part if its efforts for sustainable management. · Supports the entrepreneurial efforts of low-income households by providing them 15 households / ReSTART Project for Entrepreneurs with special loans for startups. KRW 300 million · Provides specially designed vehicles and taxis to help people with disabilities travel with • Programs of Support and Assistance for Local Communities Improving living environments for the more ease. disabled · Provides job training programs to help people with disabilities find jobs (e.g., balloon art and soap craft classes). Program Description No. of Beneficiaries Support for traditional open-door · Periodically visiting local open-door markets to purchase goods and provide support for Once a month. markets small merchandisers and businesses. Share Love Life Support · Distributes free rice, kimchi, and other grocery items, as well as fuel for winters and gift certificates usable 2,210 sessions Campaign at local food markets. · Forms partnerships with rural villages to provide them with the help they need during busy Village Partnership 8 sessions seasons and help them reach urban consumers through farmers’ markets. Fire Safety Support for · Provides fire and smoke detectors for households of seniors living alone and people with disabilities 300 households Flood reconstruction efforts for · Provides repair services for farms and houses damaged by floods as well as help in Vulnerable Homes (in partnership with local fire stations). 2 sessions farming households harvesting the fallen crops. · Provides special vehicles needed to provide care for seniors. 28 beneficiaries / 22 Care for Seniors Free Bicycle Repair Shop · Cyclists volunteer to render help in this itinerary program. 2,632 sessions · Provides volunteers to help seniors with laundry (in partnership with local nonprofit organizations). sessions 130 bicycles / 2 · Freeze on Olympic Park facility fee Bicycles of Conscience · Provides free vehicles that can be rented out from local subway stations. Freeze on facility usage fee and · Reduced entrance fee for Olympic Park Ice Rink-Free entrance to the Soma Museum stations Approximately 800,000 reduction/elimination of service once every month people Do Dream: Scholarships · Provides scholarships for students enrolled in primary and secondary schools (in partnership with local 40 students / 2 charge Free entrance · Freeze on sports instructor qualification test and training for Youth boards of education). sessions · Free entrance to Olympic Memorial 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 54 + 55 KSPO's Various Sustainable Management Performance Reporting KSPO pursues a comprehensive sustainable management whose concern equally focuses on economic, social and environmental issues. Through a systematic risk management, KSPO achieves future-oriented business performance and establishment of sound sports racing business, KSPO promises a pleasant leisure culture for their important stakeholders, the customers. Also, KSPO is doing their best to help their employees who are the partners of KSPO’s sustainable management value to lead a satisfying life both at work and home. Last but not least, KSPO has implemented eco-friendly, green management to the entire business unit in order to meet the demands for sustainable development of the mankind. Items of Spending Business Performance The NSPF, organized to provide financial resources for the promotion of sports throughout the Korean society, provides assistance for professional sports, life sports, school sports, teen programs, Olympic commemoration programs, and so forth. In 2011, we provided a total of 656.8 billion KRW from the Fund. Especially noteworthy is and Risk Management the significant and steady growth in the amount of funding provided since 2006 to promote life sports for people with disabilities and under-popular professional sports. The amount of funding for professional sports has increased dramatically over the last few years as Korea hosted or will be hosting a number of major international competitions, including the IAAF World Championships at Daegu in 2011, the Asian Games at Incheon in 2014, and the Winter Olympics at Pyeongchang in 2018. KSPO will continue to ensure transparent and efficient administration of the NSPF in order to enhance Korea’s athletic profile on the international stage, promote civic solidarity and social integration, foster the nascent sports industry, and improve the public welfare through sports, especially for people with disabilities. • Items of Spending (Unit KRW 100 million) Sports for the Total Life Sports Professional Sports International Events Disabled Raising and Administering the NSPF 2011 6,568 1,952 1,586 269 2,761 The proportion of the total government budget allocated to sports and related activities is insubstantial, amounting 2012 (est.) 7,259 2,230 1,235 362 3,432 to only 0.1%.The proportion is continuously declining despite increasing demand for sports financing due to various reasons such as implementation of '5 working days per week' policy, increase of national income, marginalized group's increased demand for sports. Considering the government's limited financial capacity for sports budget increase, NSPF continues to increase the range and amount of financial assistance. In 2011, the NSPF contributed to more than 80% of the total public budget available in South Korea, playing an indispensable role in national Funding Plan for 2012 sports financing. Since its foundation in 1989, KSPO has raised a total of 5.1131 trillion KRW for its NSPF through Throughout 2012, we plan to provide 223 billion KRW for life sports, 123.5 billion KRW for professional sports, the administration of profits and surpluses earned from cycle racing, motorboat racing and Sports Toto. 3.7887 343.2 billion KRW for international sporting events and the sports industry, and 36.2 billion KRW for spots for trillion KRW of this fund has been allocated to support promotion of various sports youth athletes. people with disabilities, breaking the record of the funding to be provided in a single year with the grand total of 725.9 billion KRW. As it has become especially urgent to expand the training facilities for national team players and develop public sports infrastructure in preparation for the London Olympics and the Incheon Asian Games, we The Growth Potential of KSPO have dramatically increased the amount of funding to be provided for professional sports and international sporting The amount of money raised for the KSPO increased, on average, by 10.9% from year to year. In 2011, we raised a events. total of 548.5 billion KRW for the Fund, which is 9.7 times greater than the first ever amount of money KSPO raised in its starting year, which was 56.3 billion KRW (1989). The accumulated total of the money we have raised since our foundation is 5.1131 trillion KRW. In 2011, we provided the largest amount of funding ever to be provided in a single year. Generating and Distributing Economic Values We generate economic values and wealth through our various fundraising businesses and support programs for • Accumulated Total of the NSPF Raised other financial and economic activities. In order to make our due contributions to the sustainable development and Motorboat Additional Source Cycle racing Sports Toto Investment Other Total future of Korea, we have recently switched to a different business approach: that is, a new emphasis on realizing racing Money customer satisfaction by promoting a healthy and responsible culture of sports and recreational activities over and Amount raised (in KRW 100M) 5,653 21,469 289 11,987 6,663 5,070 51,131 beyond the focus on outward growth in sales. To this end, we are identifying various areas and issues requiring our assistance. Proportion (%) 11.1 42.2 0.6 23.4 13.0 9.9 100.0 Generating Economic Values The total amount of economic values KSPO creates is calculated by subtracting costs, expenses, and depreciation Major Sources of Fundraising costs from the revenue the organization earns, both from its core business operations and other sources. In 2011, As of the end of 2011, we raised an accumulated total of 5.1131 trillion KRW. From 1989 through 2011, we spent we created a total economic value of 1.6877 trillion KRW in total, 23.2 billion KRW greater than the 1.6645 trillion 1.538 trillion KRW of this money on promoting life sports; 1.086 trillion KRW on promoting professional sports; 1.212 KRW we created in 2010. This amounts to 34.7% of the total revenue. trillion KRW on fostering international events and the sports industry in Korea; 116.5 billion KRW on promoting sports for people with disabilities; and 104.5 billion on programs for children, teens, and Olympics commemoration. In other words, we used 3.7887 trillion KRW of the money we have raised on genuinely promoting and advancing sports in this country. During the early years of the organization starting in 1989, the biggest source of fundraising was the amount of interests and returns accrued on the investments made. With the introduction of new business models, including cycle racing, in 1994, we diversified the sources of fundraising. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 58 + 59 • Calculating the Economic Values Generated by KSPO • Economic Values Generated by Main Business Activities in 2011 Responsible Leisure (Unit KRW 100 million) (Unit KRW 100 million) 2009 2010 2011 Motorboat Cycle racing Sports Toto Other racing Revenue from core Revenue from core business 45,256 46,654 48,690 20,624 7,386 19,513 1,167 business operations operations Operating cost *1 28,962 30,481 32,209 Operating cost 15,318 5,439 10,800 652 “KSPO leads the development and spread of a healthy Revenue from other sources*2 4,835 5,527 5,386 Revenue from other sources 26 13 247 5,100 and responsible culture of sports and recreation to Non-operating cost*3 4,595 4,664 4,549 Non-operating cost 20 11 253 4,265 ensure joy, benefits, and health for the public.” Depreciation Expense 386 391 441 Depreciation 82 77 77 205 Economic value earned 16,148 16,645 16,877 Economic value generated 5,230 1,872 8,630 1,145 We operate diverse sports-related businesses in order to raise the resources for the NSPF, which stands at the forefront of the nationwide efforts for enhancing the public welfare through sports. These businesses include * 1. The “operating cost” does NOT include the wages for employees and Board members, depreciation, or the amounts of money transferred to reserve funds. cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto. While all these activities first and foremost aim at bringing * 2. The “revenue from other sources” does NOT include the income taxes refunded or the amounts of money transferred to reserve funds. * 3. The “non-operating cost” does NOT include the amounts of money transferred to reserve funds for specific businesses or the employee pension plan greater happiness and recreation to the public by enabling citizens to enjoy sports and excitement in their leisure times, they are also prone to the negative influences of corruption and manipulation. In order to fulfill its mission of promoting a healthy and responsible culture of sports and recreation throughout the Korean society, Distributing the Economic Values we have included strategic tactics and systems for ensuring such a culture as core elements of our vision for The economic values we earn go toward benefitting diverse groups of stakeholders, including our employees and sustainable management. Board members, the central and local governments, local communities, recipients of the NSPF support programs, and so forth. In 2011, 38.9% of the profit we earned went to the central and local governments; 38.9% to the NSPF support programs; 22.5% to our suppliers; 4.8% to our employees and Board members; and 5.2% to the KSPO Reserve Fund. All the economic values we generated have been distributed to stakeholders. • Details of Economic Value Distribution (Unit KRW 100 million) * 1. Calculated according to the accrual basis, the figures for this stakeholder Planning in Consideration of Stakeholders’ Needs group are the sums of all the money allocated or distributed as parts of the public finance, such as corporate income taxes, other public dues and Effective advancement and spread of a healthy and responsible culture of sports and recreation starts with Stakeholders 2009 2010 2011 charges, and so forth, from the revenue earned by cycle racing and Sports identifying and actively incorporating various stakeholder groups’ needs and expectations into our plans. Through Toto. these processes of communication we seek to mitigate social concerns about racing games and strengthen the Central and local governments*1 5,737 5,924 6,558 * 2. The figures for this stakeholder group includes the amounts of money societal basis for a more transparent culture and system of racing. provided for the Korea Sports Council and other such sports organizations NSPF support programs*2 3,860 5,295 6,568 as well as for the expansion of the life sports infrastructure, including playgrounds and other sports facilities. Suppliers*3 3,644 3,631 3,800 * 3. The figures for this stakeholder group represent the amounts of money • Identifying Stakeholders’ Needs provided for service providers entrusted with the management of KSPO’s Local communities*4 27 21 25 businesses, including Sports Toto. * 4. The figures in this category include the amounts of charity donations and Stakeholders Pressing Needs and Requirements Employees and Board members*5 813 719 810 the like provided for local communities. * 5. The figures in this category include the amounts of charity donations and National Assembly, government, Minimizing the adverse effects of sports-themed gambling activities KSPO Reserve Fund 2,067 1,055 △ 884 the like provided for local communities. Nat’l Gambling Control Commission, the media by ensuring the transparency and integrity of the involved businesses. Total 16,148 16,645 16,877 Sports Toto Expanding the market. General public Eliminating negative perceptions of racing games Customers High monetary returns Organization-Wide Risk Management System In order to protect our reputation and ensure sustainable and reliable growth of our business and other activities, it is mandatory for us to develop and implement a strategic organization-wide risk management system. We have identified 29 core risks subject to our management system, on the basis of their impact on KSPO’s activities, frequency, and the level of dangers and severe consequences they entail. In 2011, we chose three new risks in light of the tragic accident of our cyclists and other safety concerned. We maintained a stable level of competence in risk management based on our systematic monitoring activities. We also organized the Risk Management Providing Preventive Counseling and Other Support Programs Council to discuss the development of a self-checklist and measures for managing the core risks. We urge the 15 Counseling and education for the customers of our racing activities and services are provided through a systematic major departments and teams of our organization to enforce a voluntary system of control and activities for the organization and procedures. The network of intervention agencies led by the Clinic Center provides step-by-step, management of 24 core risks. level-by-level programs for counseling, educating, and treating customers 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 60 + 61 Participatory Programs for Responsible Recreation We are working hard to make racing sports not only as opportunities for betting and winning prize money, but also as healthy and enjoyable activities of recreation. The Participatory Programs for Responsible Recreation, enabling people to watch, participate, and experience the racing sports, provide ways to strengthen the ties between KSPO and customers as well as to enhance the transparency and integrity of our businesses. • Currently Provided Participatory Programs for • Participants in Programs for Responsible Recreation Responsible Recreation The number of beneficiaries increases by 14.5% from the previous year. Program Type Description 617,000 Screening of movies at the Speedom and the Misari Movie Night Regatta. Watching Performances 182 special artistic performances. 539,000 Public exhibits Exhibits on movie posters and other such themes. Participation Contests for and exhibits on the works of calligraphy by 418,000 Public contests members of KSPO’s calligraphy class, etc. Special events for children (e.g., sliding down rapid Children’s Day streams of water, rowing across river valleys, etc.). Autumn Featuring pop singers and celebrities on invitation Festival performing for local communities. Experience Ice sledding Providing an ice sledding field for children. Cycle race scene Generating electricity and running water fountains by Sports lessons riding bicycles; playing football; playing baseball; playing 3-step basketball, etc. 2009 2010 2011 Counseling and Education Provided from the Clinic Center Counseling and education for the customers of our racing activities and services are provided through a systematic organization and procedures. The network of intervention agencies led by the Clinic Center provides step-by-step, level-by-level programs for counseling, educating, and treating customers vulnerable to or are already suffering symptoms of addiction. Two new branches of the Clinic Center opened up in 2011 at Siheung and Cheonan. Our Efforts to Improve the Responsibility and Transparency of KSPO’s Businesses plan is to expand the network of Clinic Center intervention agencies until 2013. In order to ensure the responsibility and transparency of our racing sports businesses, we are making a wide array of efforts, approaching the issue from various perspectives. For example, we organize contests for on-site workers and employees to find better ideas for enhancing the health and positive social impact of our businesses. At the • Counseling System for the Prevention and Treatment of Addiction • Network of the Clinic Center and Branches Clinic Center, we also provide diverse public campaigns. We also ensure rigorous, strict monitoring and supervision of the Sports Toto vendors and sales system, providing vendors and employees with continual training and updates. Phase Agency / Organization Target Customers Location Staff Budget Customers concerned with symptoms of Phase 1 14 branches (counselors) addiction. Center at Gwangmyeong + 14 14 counselors + Programs for Enhancing the Responsibility and Transparency of Businesses Clinic Center (psychiatrists 2.45 billion KRW Phase 2 Customers classified as severely addicted. and counselors) branches 2 non-permanent doctors In order to ensure the integrity and accountability of our vendors, we have been organizing contests for our Phase 3 Medical institutes (Kangbuk Customers requiring sustained, professional employees since 2010 to suggest their innovative ideas. The Clinic Center also engages in the campaigns for UCCs Samsung Hospital) treatment and intervention. and onand off-line marketing in order to raise the public’s awareness of the healthy benefits of racing sports as well as risks of addiction. Providing Family Support for Customers Suffering Addiction • Internal Contest for Ideas for Ensuring Integrity • Public Campaigns of the Clinic Center Customers afflicted with symptoms of addiction are likely to cause grave worries in their homes and at work. Displaying banner advertisements on the Web sites of The treatment and rehabilitation of addicts fundamentally requires strong support, especially from their families. Eligibility Description Criteria Rewards major public campaigns. Accordingly, we organize overnight workshops in which the family members of addicted customers can participate Displaying news and announcements on well-known Online UCC sites. to help them seek and find solutions they need. Vendors, branches, How each branch, Originality, adequacy, KRW 1 million won Operating the Web sites of the Clinic Center itself, offices, and office, or department relevance, PR value, for the Grand PrizeKSPO, and the Racing Sport Division. departments can promote the etc. winning team; involved in onresponsibility and 1 second-place Inserting advertisements into guidebooks on public • Number of Cases Assisted • Addiction Family Workshops site monitoring integrity of the winning team; 2 campaigns and magazines. (18 branches and system. third-place winning Developing and distributing posters to major Type 2009 2010 2011 Type 2010 2011 vendors of cycle and teams. Offline universities and colleges. motorboat racing Preventive 8,721 9,708 11,908 tickets). Addiction counseling No. of workshops provided 4 6 Installing advertisement banners at public places. Intervention 2,333 4,669 3,651 Persons diagnosed with addiction 190 398 290 No. of participants 82 146 Persons transferred to the hospital 2 2 4 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 62 + 63 Managing the Sports Toto System and Vendors • Chairman-led Constant Monitoring system In a key effort to ensure the integrity and transparency of our Sports Toto business, we have strengthened the terms and rules applying to the online purchase system, and also equipped vendors generating large revenues with Online Offline surveillance cameras. Monthly meeting Weekly meeting SLC Management Chairman’s Management SLC discussion Board meeting sharing issue sharing Message performance report (monthly) (weekly) (semi-yearly) Refining and Strengthening the Rules Applying to the Sports Toto Online Purchase System Instruction review Report and discussion Clinic Center Operating Clean Toto Committee When the customer tries to bet more money than the maximum limit, the alert message pops up and Committee Advising Advising New Rules the customer is prevented once from placing bets on the given game. The system then automatically Chairman Toto Integrity Protection redirects the customer to a page forcing him to revise his betting plan. Customer Advisory Board Committee Site management Evaluation Project Execution by Working Level Division Business Performance Analysis and Evaluation 2010 2011 Increase / Decrease Rate Results Management of the New Customer Performance Rules on Business Strategy Toto Business Dept. Evaluation Committee Achievement Monthly avg. spending per person KRW 131,713 KRW 94,242 △ KRW 37,470 (or 28.4%) down. Satisfaction Dept. Management the Online Dept. (establishes (provides integrity (conducts nonof quantitative Purchase (provides integrity Dept. (analyzes integrity policy) training) quantitative targets System programs) performance) Monthly avg. number of bets per person 7.9 5.8 △ 2.2 (or 27.4%) down. institutional review) * Self Purchase System : Service system that allows member to set purchase plans and number of purchases to promote member’s deliberate and autonomous use. • Results of Installing Surveillance Cameras at Popular Sports Toto Vendors Collection of Feedback from External Stakeholders and Improvements Before Installation After Installation Increase / Decrease Rate • Regarding counseling and treatment for addiction and prevention No. of high-price bets issued (KRW 100,000 each) 1.55% 1.17% △ 0.38%p (or 24.3% points) down. Stakeholders involved / Requests made Improvements made No. of low-price bets issued (KRW 30,000 or below each) 90.5% 93.1% 2.6%p (or 2.9% points) up. National Gambling Control Committee · Recommended that KSPO operate its own addiction prevention treatment center to help · KSPO has launched its own Clinic Center, exercising its responsibility and accountability as the customers addicted with cycle and motorboat provider of sports racing services, and ensuring quality care by operating a professional standing racing. staff. ▼ · KSPO also enhanced the quality of the help provided from the Clinic Center by launching the two Training and Education for Employees and Stakeholders in Integrity main centers and linking their service to a medical institute. The media and the civil society · The number of customers seeking preventive care and treatment increased from the previous year · Requested that KSPO develop responsible As part of our efforts to ensure the integrity of our racing sports games, we also provide continued updates and measures to help prevent and decrease sports as a result, from 14,377 to 15,559. training for employees, Board members, and suppliers on measures to protect and reinforce integrity. gambling addiction. • Overview of Training and Education Provided for Employees, Board Members, and Suppliers • Requests for programs promoting responsible recreation Employees / Board Vendors Athletes / Hosting Organizations Stakeholders involved / Requests made Improvements made 2010 Customer Satisfaction Survey on Public · Enhancing capability for integrity. · Enforcing compliance with the maximum · Enhancing the professional ethics. Entities · Preventing customers’ addiction and the betting limits. · Preventing rigging and manipulation. · Recommended providing site-oriented programs Description sales of betting tickets to addicts. · Training on legal compliance and customer · Enhancing compliance with rules of fair actually favored by customers. · Enhancing the professional ethics. assistance. game. · KSPO provided immediate improvements and measures depending on the patterns and · Recommended installing additional recreational characteristics of customers. facilities at vendors. ▼ · The number of participants participating in the cultural programs for responsible recreation · 10 sessions provided in total for 2,281 · Provided for every new athlete entering · 68 sessions provided in total for 22,313 Local communities and cycle racing customers increased by 14.5% from the previous year, with 617,000 people participating in total in 2011. Training record regarding cycle and motorboat racing. KSPO. vendors. · Provided opinions and feedback on the Hope · 1 vote held among 263 employees. · 56 sessions for hosting organizations. Program. · Requested the diversification of programs. • Ensuring integrity in the Sports Toto businesses Stakeholders involved / Requests made Improvements made Promoting Responsible Recreation with Constant Monitoring and Feedback The media and the public opinion At KSPO, we believe that it is most important to develop conditions and environments promoting responsible · Increased requests to ensure the integrity and KSPO launched the new Anti-Corruption and Integrity System in order to block all possibilities of fairness of Sports Toto businesses in the recreation in order to ensure continued and sustainable development of the racing sports in Korea. To this end, we rigging and corruption. aftermath of the revelation of rigging in New programs customized to Sports Toto vendors were also developed. professional football. ▼ have developed an organic system headed by the Chairman of KSPO that conducts constant monitoring of the · Requested increased enforcement of antiThe number of vendors receiving training programs significantly increased, from 17,375 in 2010 to 22,313 in 2011. racing sports systems and facilitates the exchange of feedback with outsiders and third parties. This system, in turn, corruption measures on vendors, providing them with training. allows us to identify and address issues raised with efficiency and effectiveness. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 64 + 65 Maximizing Profits by Ensuring the Integrity of Sports and Recreation Thanks to these multidimensional efforts KSPO made throughout 2011 to promote a healthy and responsible culture of sports and recreation, KSPO scored the highest grades in its history on a number of internal and external evaluations. In addition to fulfilling our social responsibilities, we also succeeded in increasing the amount of fund Enhancing Employee Value raised from our sports businesses for the NSPF for three years in a row. These achievements continue to inspire us to work harder to achieve our goals regarding sustainable management. “Creating a Happy and Enjoyable Work Environment for Every Employee.” • Achievements in Ensuring the Integrity of the Racing Sports Businesses Achieving the highest level of integrity Improving customer satisfaction Enhancing KSPO’s reputation and brand power Sports Toto was ranked #1 in the governmental The largest customer satisfaction increase with racing Obtained the fifth highest rank of customer It is the happiness of each individual employee that provides the necessary strength with which we can evaluation of integrity for two years in a row. sports games. satisfaction, among 16 pension and fund institutions. 78.6% in 2010 → 93.1% in 2011 (14.5 points up). 75.9 points in 2010 → 93.4 points in 2011 [The only institution providing authorized betting persist in our efforts for sustainable management. Accordingly, we are doing our best to provide resources (17.5 points up). services] and capacities that all employees and Board members can use to lead satisfactory lives both at work and in * Evaluation conducted by the NGCC. * Survey conducted by the government. * Survey conducted by the government. their homes, including rational and fair rewards and efficient, substantial fringe benefits. As a widely respected public entity, we also provide a broad range of training and learning programs that help employees and Board members maximize their capabilities. Moreover, we are creating a future-oriented, exemplary organizational culture based on active communication throughout the organization and strong labor-management relations. • Amounts of Fund Raised (Unit KRW 1 million) Fund Source 2009 2010 2011 Cycle 27,924 35,649 38,557 Open Hiring Policy for Greater Diversity Racing sports In order to imbue the entire organization with new energy and vitality, and also to maintain a good balance among Motorboat 11,690 7,631 8,688 employees of different generational groups, we analyze the hiring data accumulated over many years to devise and Sports Toto 398,107 424,805 408,472 update our hiring policy, making it the best it can be. At the same time, we also seek to fulfill one of our core social responsibilities-that is, providing work for members of diverse sectors and groups of society. Total 437,721 468,085 455,717 Policy for Hiring New Employees: Revitalizing KSPO with Youthful Energy Based on a thoroughgoing analysis of the patterns and characteristics of employees hired so far, KSPO hires new and young employees on a periodical basis in order to keep the organizational culture energetic and innovative. Accordingly, we conduct periodical structural readjustment programs in order to open up vacancies for new employees. Our hiring policy is primarily focused on recruiting young, inexperienced people, giving them a chance to work with people of diverse age groups and walks of life. The minimum wage for new employees we hire is almost 230% greater than the legal minimum age. There is also no difference in the pay amount between men and women in the same career. Motorboat Race Scene Climbing Relay for Organizational Culture of Challenge and Harmony (June. 2011) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 66 + 67 Creating and Providing Jobs for Greater Diversity • Family-Oriented Fringe Benefits for Better Quality of Life At KSPO, we have developed diverse systems and programs to provide work for as many people as possible, including the Job Sharing Program and the launching of the new sports teams. We have also voluntarily adopted Benefit Type Program Description the Social Equity Hiring Quota, seeking to provide a certain proportion of the jobs we open for members of minority and excluded groups, such as women, war veterans and their descendants, people with disabilities, and people Support for unmarried men and women Holding special meetings among singles (held twice so far). to get married. · 16 women and 10 men. with high school diplomas. Encouraging · Installing breastfeeding rooms and equipment in the lounge for women employees. giving birth Breastfeeding right of mothers · 4 such facilities, found at the HQ, cycle racetracks, motorboat racetracks, and KISS. Providing baby goods · Providing a gift certificate for each employee giving birth (worth KRW 100,000 each). • Job Programs for Greater Diversity · Enabling employees with childcare responsibilities to work shorter hours or flexibly adjust their shifts Shorter work hours at work. · Childcare leaves now allowed for employees with children ages 8 and below Program Description Result Expanding eligibility for childcare leaves (formerly it was for children ages 6 and below). → 38.8% more employees are now made eligible. Hires new workers to substitute for employees on Childcare 16 full-time contract-based workers hired. Support · Expanding the daycare center class sizes (up to 8 each) so that all employees in need can have their leave. Expanding the capacities of childcare Job Sharing children admitted. facilities at work Hires short-term, part-time workers. 246 part-time workers hired. · 67 employees benefitted in 2010; 76 in 2011. · Learning important parenting tips and about the importance of father in children’s lives. Happy Family School (online) New sports teams Women’s football and divers teams Created 31 new jobs. · 330 employees participated so far. · Providing summer retreat accommodations, free of charge, for employees and their family members Provides work experience and paying jobs 8 people completed the internship program and Summer Retreats seeking to take summer holidays. Youth Internship (open all year round) for young, inexperienced people. were transferred to full-time jobs. · Open to 1,300 people (265 employees benefited so far). Family · Employees can invite their family members out to watch musicals together. Happiness Family Outing Nights · Open to 1,500 people, including employees and their family members. · Allows all employees to leave on time at least once a week (Wednesday). Family Day • Social Equity Hiring Quota Results · First introduced in 2009. Employees hired 2010 2011 • Improving Employee Satisfaction with Family-Oriented Benefit Programs Youth interns 50 47 Full-time youth 3.1% 2010 81.9pts People with disabilities 2.8% 3.0% War veterans and descendants 6.0% 6.0% Women 23.8% 26.3% 2011 85.0pts • Hiring People with High-school Diplomas Hiring Program Employees hired Retirement Benefits Special Screening for High-school Graduates 2 In order to help employees ensure financial stability even after their retirement, we provide a special training program High-school Graduates Hiring Quota 6 for soon-to-retire employees, enabling them to design their post-retirement financial plans. In an effort to allow employees to adjust with more ease to their post-retirement lives, we provide for a “transition phase,” switching employees’ status from full time to part-time contract basis before they fully retire so that they can benefit from the extended ties with KSPO. These pre-retirees are assigned to relatively less complex and burdensome tasks of ensuring administrative efficiencies. In 2011, 8 pre-retirees benefitted from this program. In 2011, we also adopted a new retirement pension plan, providing more choice for employees in designing their retirement plans. Fringe Benefits and Fair Reward System for Enhancing Capabilities We are generating good effects by running a family-oriented fringe benefit system that enables all employees • Comparing Retirement Pension Plans and Board members to achieve satisfaction and happiness by pursuing self-development and a healthy balance between work and life. Our rational, fair reward system based on performance and capability assessments also * Defined Benefit (DB) Plan: The amount Previous Policy New Policy forms a core part of our human resources management policy. of the retirement benefits that the employee will receive is defined Avg. wage (for 30 days) x no. of DB*: avg. wage Formula used years of service DC*: annual salary / 12 in advance. This plan bears much similarity to the old retirement pension Family-Oriented Support and Benefits for Employees Early retirement Provided upon employees’ request. No longer allowed. policy KSPO used (i.e., the amount of We provide a wide array of fringe benefits and support to enable employees and Board members maintain a healthy benefits retirement pension is calculated on the balance between work and family life. To this end, we provide substantial support and assistance for important Deposited Deposited in the retirement ▼ basis of the employee’s average wage). occasions and events in employees’ and Board members’ lives, including giving birth, raising children, and other outside insurance 100% deposited. Defined Contribution (DC) Plan: The KSPO (70% deposit rate). family-oriented activities. employee can now choose among Employee’s No choice provided. Now able to choose between DC and DB. choice * diverse financial products to plan for The KSPO-kept portion of the The KSPO-kept portion is now no longer regarded post-retirement life. (The amount KSPO Financial retirement fund was regarded as as debts, while the outside-KSPO portion is has to pay is determined by dividing status part of debts. regarded as operating profits. the employee’s annual salary by 12.) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 68 + 69 Fair and Rational Human Resources Management Policy • Performanceand Capability-Centered HRM System Capability-Development and Training Programs for Employees and Board Members and Reward System At KSPO, we emphasize the three ideal “players” elements of which each employee and Board member ought Our key efforts for sustainable management include earning to cultivate. Our human resources development system for developing creative and innovative employees follows all employees’ and Board members’ trust by providing strategic plans involving various programs. All our diverse capability development and other training programs are them with a fair and rational policy of human resources Evaluation Rewards designed to help us maximize the capacity of KSPO overall based on the capabilities and skills of employees. management and rewards. Exceptionally performing employees who have contributed significantly to KSPO’s growth receive bonuses and incentives, as well as • Training System Achieving the “Three Players” Ideal of KSPO promotion or transfer to desired posts, and special learning Fair HRM programs. Underperforming employees, on the other hand, System “Key Players Promoting Public Welfare through Sports” are given our one-on-one capacity development program and coaching. The Fair Player The Team Player The Dynamic Player Promotion Transfer Leadership Training Job-Specific Training Common Training · Leadership courses for different · Job Expert Course · Organizational Development levels of leader positions Course (core values, • Reward System Based on Performance Evaluation · Job Basics Course organizational structure) · Managers Course (MBA, AMP) (EL Course, Smart Learning) · CS Training-Ethics and Integrity · New Leader Course · Contract Worker Course Training (For employees of suppliers) Evaluation System Reward System Performance evaluation (PE) Basic P.E. (50%) HRM System Individual annual Capability evaluation (CE) salary C.E. (50%) Salary ReevaluaAdjusttion OrganiQuantitative evaluation ▼ ▼ PerformanceIndividual evaluation (50%) ment • Tasks and Achievements of the HRD System Commbased annual zation Non-quantitative evaluation Organization evaluation (50%) salary Committee Individually ittee HRD Objective Tasks notified Individual evaluation (50%) Internal and external Bonuses / evaluation panels Incentives Organization evaluation (50%) · Strengthening the courses on CS, ethics and integrity training. Strengthening · Improving the system for identifying and developing core elites. support for the · Introducing a program for managing underperformingemployees. realization of the · Enhancing employees’ professionalism by introducing learning organizations. management · Increasing professionalism of the HRD organization. strategies · Expanding the training infrastructure. Expanding courses · Helping employees to internalize KSPO’s core values. on organizational · Encouraging cooperation and rise to new challenges. development Systematic · Developing a KSPO capability model. improvement of · Developing the best training techniques for all courses. training effects · Reinforcing training effects with rewards. Developing new · Introducing leadership courses for different levels along the leadership pipeline. training content · Identifying the priorities of capability development and providing training accordingly based on customized the analysis of multidimensional capability evaluation results. to KSPO · Developing and providing job-specific training programs based on demand analysis. Employee Health and Safety We provide various customized health and safety programs in order to enable all our employees and Board members to enjoy work with strength and satisfaction. In 2011, we introduced a new Employee Assistance Program (EAP) in order to gauge the stress levels of individual employees and provide them with professional counseling on the issues, problems, and difficulties they struggle with. We also ensure repeated and continual training and safety CEO's Special Lecture at 2011 Unity Training (Dec. 2011) drills in preparation against possible fires and other accidents. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 70 + 71 • Customized Health Management Programs for Employees and Board Members • Providing Open Channels of Labor-Management Communication Program Description Recipients · Gauges the stress levels of employees and helps them to cope with their issues and 19 employees · Chairman’s · “Surprise!” visits · Hotline · Organization-wide EAP Top-down Bottom-up difficulties with the help of professional counselors. (26 cases) messages · Strategy Sharing · Spring of Idea Contests Channels Channels · Fun Talks Workshops Proposals · Learning groups · Periodical medical checkups are important to identify risks and prevent various diseases. Increasing the number of medical · Now employees have greater choice when it comes to choosing the medical institute where Communication All employees checkup providers they would like to receive checkup services. (Only the National Fitness Center available until with CEO 2010; now NFC and Gangnam Cha Hospital are available.) Channels of Channels of Labor· Labor-Mgmt. · Unity Workshops · Personnel list · Complaint Processing Customized checkup programs for · Providing in-depth medical checkup and examination considering risk factors and health Resolving 160 employees Management Council · Open talks · Reporting Committee different age groups patterns specific to different age groups (i.e., ages 40, 50, 53, 55 and 57). Complaints and Communication · Joint TF complaints · EAP Conflicts · A trial project preceding the official launching of the National Physical Strength Certification Employee Fitness Certification Program System. 59 employees · Provides in-depth analysis of the current state of fitness and customized exercise prescriptions Labor-Management Joint Health and Safety Committee The collective bargaining agreement effective at KSPO stipulates that the labor and the management form a joint council or committee in order to ensure the health and safety of all employees and Board members. We have accordingly developed the policy regarding Strengthening the Labor-Management Relations through Mutual Respect industry safety and health as well as workers’ compensations. In addition, we organized and Solidarity the Joint Health and Safety Committee in 2008, drawing 5 members from the management We have developed midto long-term plans to improve and strengthen our labor-management relations so that, and another 5 from the labor representatives, in order to conduct periodic monitoring and as a leading public entity, we can set up a model in this regard for other organizations to emulate. Our plans form inspection of the health and safety conditions for employees. the basis of our efforts to increase the effectiveness and openness of labor-management communication. We have also amended the terms and conditions of the collective bargaining agreement through fair and open-minded negotiation. Proportion of Employees Subject to Collective Bargaining Ensuring mutual respect and trust between the labor and the management is key to establishing a sustainable organizational culture. At KSPO, we have the Public Corporation • Achievements in Ensuring the Integrity of the Racing Sports Businesses (2011) Labor Union consisting of full-time employees, as well as the General Labor Union for administrative and semi-administrative staff members, support team workers, < 2012 Strategy > and contract workers. The PCLU, founded in 1989, has four branches and 294 members Strengthening Mutual Respect and < 2011 Strategy > Solidarity (or 86.7% of the total number of employees at KSPO, which is currently 339). The General Managing Labor-Management Relations Transition ▶ Labor Union founded in 2006 has 561 members (or 38.1% of the total number of partialLabor-Management Unity < 2010 Strategy > Refining the midto long-term management Advancing Labor-Management Relations strategies and linking them to the laborstatus employees, which is currently 1443). For 23 years since KSPO’s establishment, no Cheerleading Troupe's Cheering for ▶ Linking the labor-management strategy to the KSPO Vision 2020: management strategy single labor-management dispute has arisen. KSPO's Canoe Team (Sep. 2011) · Creating a culture of mutual respect. · Fostering an organizational culture of Strategically advancing and improving · Launching the Labor-Management rising to new challenges and solidarity. labor-management relations: Mutual Respect Committee. · Launching and operating the Joint · Advancing the labor-management Labor-Management Taskforce for Fair culture. Society. · Launching and operating the Labor• Amending the Collective Bargaining Agreement through Labor-Management Discussion Management Advancement Committee. Labor-Management Joint TF for Labor-Management Workshop Practical Negotiation Amendment of Collective Fair Society (April) (Nov.) Bargaining Agreement (Dec.) (May ~ Oct.) ▶ ▶ ▶ • Great Workplace (GWP) Programs Building consensus on the Identifying the tasks and issues Drafting and negotiating Reaching agreement earlier need to amend the collective involved in the amending proposals for amendment. than planned. agreement. process. Program Achievements (2011) Labor-Management · Cheering for the four KSPO teams (women’s football, cycling, fencing, and rowing) throughout the year. Cheerleading Troupe · 95 participants, including the 6th President of the Labor Union. Labor-Management · Walking along the Olle-gil (hiking trails) in Jeju-do. Solidarity Walkathon · 86 participants from 6 teams, including the Chairman and the President of the Labor Union. Labor-Management · All employees participating in the mini-Olympics (held 5 times so far). Unity Olympics · Participants include the Chairman and the President and other executives of the Labor Union. Stepping closer to realizing the vision of a fair society by updating and amending Labor-Management Unity Volunteer Program · Participating in sports-themed volunteer and charity activities (organized 17 times so far). over 50 terms and conditions in the collective bargaining agreement that have been subjected to complaint over the last 3years. 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 72 + 73 Environmental Management “Our efforts to ensure sustainable development for all includes developing and practicing ecofriendly management.” The central emphasis of sustainable management and development is to preserve the irreplaceable natural environment and bequeath it to the next generations to come. At KSPO, we conduct numerous organizationwide campaigns, encouraging employees and Board members to participate in the efforts to save energy and ensure eco-friendly activities throughout our businesses. Environmental management forms a key part of our commitment to promoting the public interests and sustainability. Organization-wide Efforts to Save Energy All the employees and Board members of KSPO participate actively in various measures and campaigns to ensure the protection of the natural environment and improve eco-friendliness of our business activities. We seek to minimize the wastes of energy in our office spaces, organize collective efforts for energy through the KSPO Green Day campaigns, and actively encourage greater use of the public transportation system. • Organization-wide Energy Saving Campaigns description · Urges office members to keep the indoor temperature at 28°C in the summer and 18°C in the winter. · Aims to save energy consumption by at least 10% (e.g., stopping the operation of heating and air-conditioning Zero Waste Energy systems for at least 10 minutes at every hour during the peak time; turning off at least a half of the lights in the Office Campaign building, etc.). · Involves replacing water faucets and toilets with energy-saving ones. · Designates every Wednesday as the day of intensive energy-saving efforts. KSPO Green Day · Reduces the amount of elevator operation. Campaign · Seeks to minimize the amounts of leftover food generated in the foot court. · Encourages all employees to drive only on certain days. Public Transportation · Replaces official vehicles with more eco-friendly ones (7 hybrid and 14 compact cars adopted so far). Campaign · Provides bicycles for work (8 in total). 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 74 + 75 KSPO Green Wave Campaign • Efforts to Reduce Noise Levels at the Misari Regatta Course Extending the noise-proof walls. The KSPO Green Wave Campaign forms the effective core of our efforts for eco-friendly, sustainable management Noise (to be implemented until 2014) Control Developing and applying the noise controller for the motorboat. throughout our organization. In addition to providing eco-friendly facilities for the Olympic Park and other venues Plan of ours, we also continue to reduce the environmental impact that our business sites and activities generate, Developing a noise-control forest to absorb noises. promoting greater resource recycling and improving energy efficiency based on detailed plans. We are also actively encouraging the spread of bicycle usage, drawing participation from our stakeholders in our efforts to shape and expand a greener culture throughout Korea. We even won the Presidential Award in 2011 for our environmentrelated efforts. • Eco-friendly Energy Facilities Installed 2010 2011 Providing Eco-friendly Parks · 4 street lamps running on wind energy. · ESCO-funded waste heat collector system. As part of our campaign for eco-friendly business activities, we are working on turning the Olympic Park into a · 1 solar energy plant. · 1 solar energy plant. center of ecological preservation at the heart of the city. In addition to developing and engaging in activities to improve the eco-friendliness of various facilities and amenities, we have also developed special environment-themed * ESCO (Energy Service Company): spaces throughout the park open to the public access. In 2011, we also began the development of the Cycle · A company that helps other businesses, through government-subsidized projects, to raise financial resources required to Racing Ecology Park. replace existing energy facilities with more efficient ones. • Efforts to Make the Olympic Park More Eco-Friendly Activity Description Formed or restoring ecological habitats of various species of living organisms, including wild flowers. Protecting and expanding ecological habitats Improved the soil condition and multiplying the number of species exhibiting patterns of under-growth. Installed 15 works of rose topiaries. Promoting the Rose Plaza Planed new roses, including the species native to Korea, over a vast tract of land (30,000 sq. m. in area). Installed green beltways and four new trails for hiking, including the Sansuyu-gil. Developing Beautiful Trails The trails were extended by 1 km in total, with 250 new trees planted. Installed fences separating trees from the roads and trails, as well as bicycle paths and resting spots. Tree-friendly road maintenance The roads were extended by 1.8 km in total, paved with a urethane mixture. ▼ For these efforts, KSPO won: · KS Service Certificate, granted by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. · Renewal of the ISO9001 / 14001 certificate. · TCQ8000 Certificate for the quality of restroom facilities. Business Sites Minimizing Environmental Impact We are diversifying our efforts to minimize the environmental impact of activities taking place on our various business sites. We restrict the use of pesticides, control the noise levels, protect the quality of water, and install eco-friendly and energy-saving facilities on and around our business sites. • Amounts of Pesticides Used at the Olympic Park and the Regatta Course Business Site Unit 2009 2010 2011 Olympic Park ℓ 1,710 1,274 936 Regatta Course ℓ 659 624 753 「Alone Tree」, One of the 9 Beautiful Spots of the Seoul Olympic Park 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 76 + 77 Efforts to Reduce Waste Material • KSPO’s Cycling Programs for the Public We practice thorough waste control measures in order to minimize the environmental impact our waste could cause 5th Tour de Korea, 2011 to the natural environment. We also encourage active material recycling and green purchases. Program Type Description · This international cross-country cycling championship was first · Cycling for Civic Solidarity (March). · Cross-country International Cycling Competition: Tour de Korea (April). held in 2007. Public cycling events · Riverside Grand Cycling March in Celebration of Hosting · For 11 days starting on April 25, • Efforts to Reduce Waste Material the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics (October). over 400 athletes on 21 teams, including professionals and · MTB Academy (held 8 times for 348 participants in total). · Cycling Class (held 59 times for 1,333 participants in total). amateurs alike, raced over a total 2009 52.7% Free classes and rental · Free Bicycle Parts Replacement (2,436 parts provided). distance of 2,139km. · Free Bicycle Rental (57,829 renters). · The 2011 event also elicited great 2010 80.0% public participation from locals, · Bicycle Part Performance Testing Lab. Spreading cycling knowledge · Public and international exchange, such as the Green Growth with 41,450 people volunteering or Symposium and the Sustainable Technology Forum, for exchange of watching the race in their 2011 90.5% ideas and information on fostering the cycling industry. respective areas. Continuing New Practices for Saving Energy Eco-friendly Public Golf Course Our Energy Saving Committee is in charge of devising and ensuring the implementation of annual plans for saving In an effort to foster the golf industry and make it more popular among the general public by providing much energy. These plans shape and guide our continued efforts to reduce the amounts of carbon dioxides emitted and needed facilities and infrastructure, we are developing public golf courses designed for eco-friendly management. the amounts of water used at our business sites, ensuring more efficient use of resources. In June and September, 2011, we opened two golf courses in Gwangsan-gu, Gwangju (“Ecolian Gwangsan”) and Jeongseon, Gangwon-do (“Ecolian Jeongseon”), respectively. We are also in the process of developing such golf courses, including at such locations as Keochang of Gyeongnam and Jecheon of Chungbuk. We are working hard • Resource-Efficient Energy Saving Efforts to make golf not a specialized hobby for the rich, but a genuinely enjoyable and popular pastime for all. Indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 Target (~ 2015) CO2 emissions tCO2eq 32,662 32,994 32,395 30% less than the figure for 2009 Water usage m2 1,896,342 1,586,772 1,760,812 30% less than the figure for 2010. Paper usage kg No data available. 356 283 30% less than the figure for 2010. (per person) * Total sum of public water used and volume of water in the regatta pool. Water Recycling at the Olympic Pool The Olympic Pool ensures more efficient use and recycling of the water it uses in an effort to promote the preservation of water resources. The ozone generator that is part of the Olympic Pool’s water treatment facilities filters the cooling water that has been used and feeds it into pools, recycling over 6,475 square meters of water a year. The sampling water used to test for chemical residues in the pools is also collected in entirety and recycled to help save water consumption by 4,204 square meters each year. Promoting Eco-friendly Culture throughout Korea Not satisfied with promoting environmental sustainability in our organization only, we engage in diverse activities to campaign for and promote a more eco-friendly culture throughout Korea. We organize numerous programs, using our expertise on cycling and management, to promote greater public use of bicycles as eco-friendly, alternative modes of transportation. Tour de Korea, the largest cycling-themed event to be held in Korea, has also earned us the Presidential Award as well as the Minister of Administrative Safety Award that recognized the contributions we have made to promoting cycling and sustainable growth. 「Riverside Grand Cycling March」in Celebration of Hosting the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics (Oct. 2011) 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 78 + 79 Appendix 「Rose Plaza」 One of the 9 Beautiful Spots of the Seoul Olympic Park • Employees Subject to Periodical Performance Evaluation and Capability Development Review Sustainability Data Indicator 2009 2010 2011 * Performance Evaluation : Applies to all permanent employees (Except those who are on leave of absence for more than 6 Total number of employees 818 844 886 Overview Number of employees subject to performance evaluation * 701 719 711 months) * Career Development : Applies to all employees under level 3 at the time of Number of employees subject to implementation (Except the head officer of N/A 712 736 capability development review * the assigned project) • Ethics Training for Suppliers (2011) • Employee Spent on Ethics Training (Unit hours) 34 · All vendors were given an education on the importance of fair racing. • Employee Diversity and Childcare Rights • Consistent Rise in the Amount of Online Video Training · Vendors were also given the Guideline for Ensuring Integrity in Sports Toto Sales. Training Budget and Training Hours 27 · KSPO employees visited organizations supported by KSPO to Total training budget review funding use and provide them with training. Indicator 2009 2010 2011 On-site Training (Unit KRW billion) · Legal compliance training was provided for vendors who violated norms of ethics. 1.380 Total number of employees 818 844 886 · Workshop for organizations supported by KSPO. 9 980 · Provides training on fighting corruption among professional cycle Number of contract workers 15 37 89 930 Periodical Group Training and motorboat racers. · Provides integrity training for all hosting organizations and vendors. Employment Number of interns 75 50 47 2009 2010 2011 Turnover rate (%) 5.4 2.8 2.8 Employees with disabilities (%) 2.4 2.8 3.0 • Amounts of Raw Materials and Resources Used • Motorboat Racing Stadium’s Water Treatment Facility Socially Equitable War veterans and 6 6 6 2009 2010 2011 Resource Unit 2009 2010 2011 Indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 Hiring descendants hired (%) Graduates with science / Water m3 1,896,342 1,586,772 1,760,812 Operation Time Hour 824 871 962 24.8 25.6 25.6 engineering degrees (%) • Budget spent per person Amount of Waste Total proportion of women Paper kg 300,187 253,688 ton 44.1 26.3 33.7 23 23.8 26.3 Collected employees (%) (Unit hours) 165 Women Women executives (%) 2.8 4 3.4 162 159 Newly hired women (%) 31.3 27.9 34.4 • Amounts of Energy Directly and Indirectly Consumed Maternity leaves taken (%) 100 100 100 <Amounts of Carbon Dioxide Emissions> <Amounts of Energy Directly Consumed> Number of employees who have taken Indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 22 18 19 maternity leaves Directly emitted tCO2eq 5,853 5,291 4,148 Urban gas (Unit: Nm3) 2,031,755 1,813,722 1,650,460 Number of employees returning after 7 4 2 maternity leaves 2009 2010 2011 Indirectly emitted tCO2eq 26,809 27,704 28,247 Oil (Unit: liter) 287,284 281,605 284,681 Number of women 18 29 27 who took maternity leaves Birth and Childcare Total tCO2eq 32,662 32,994 32,395 *The amounts of oil indicated here represent the amounts of fuel used for Support Women who took 131 official vehicles and motorboats. 10.3 16.7 14.8 maternity leaves (%) <Amounts of Energy Indirectly Consumed> Men who took 100 100 100 post-partum holidays (%) Indicator 2009 2010 2011 Number of men 29 35 10 Electricity (Unit: Kwh) 48,164,499 49,604,979 51,433,627 who took post-partum holidays Number of men 2 3 2 Local heating (Unit: Gcal) 20,744 21,821 20,277 who took paternity leaves 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 82 + 83 Independent Assurance Report to identify key sustainability issues. Dear Korea Sports Promotion Foundation management and stakeholders • Responsiveness Responsiveness is defined as how a reporting organization responds to stakeholder issues that have impact on its sustainability performance and is achieved through decision-making, activities & achievements and stakeholder communication. Introduction KSA believes that KSPO is proactively reporting its initiatives and achievements in addressing sustainability including its main business The Korean Standards Association (KSA, ‘the assurance provider’ hereafter) was commissioned by the Korean Sports Promotion domains and impact. Nevertheless, directions and goals regarding sustainability initiatives are rather limited to the economic sector and Foundation to perform an assurance engagement of the ‘KSP0 Sustainability Report 2011’ (the Report hereafter). main business domains. Therefore, KSPO is advised to expand their scope into other sectors including the environmental sector. KSA reviewed the evidence and validity of data, achievements and related systems that are contained in this Report that was prepared by KSPO in order to present its independent assurance opinions as follows. Recommendations (Performance/Issues) The responsibility for collating, analyzing, organizing information to create this Report and all the statements herein lies solely with KSPO. KSPO would benefit from reviewing the following recommendations in order to lay the basis to address sustainability issues continuously through the establishment of sustainability management strategies on a company-wide level. Independence As an assurance provider, KSA’s independence and autonomy is fully assured. KSA is free from any influences of KSPO and has no interest • Economic Sector in KSPO other than conducting this third-party assurance engagement. Wide-ranging initiatives are being undertaken at KSPO through the Sport Promotion Fund in order to promote daily sports, professional sports and sports for those with disabilities. Moreover, KSPO is proactive in offering precedence to eco-friendly products, SMEs and Assurance Standards and Level businesses run by individual with disabilities in making purchasing decisions in accordance with relevant government policies. KSA believes KSA followed AA1000AS 2008, GRI G3.1 guidelines and ISO 26000 guidelines in assuring this Report. Assurance standards that were used that KSPO would further benefit from raising awareness of how macro-level sustainability trends including climate change affect its financial in verifying this Report include inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as suggested by AA1000AS 2008. This assurance engagement status and developing more proactive responses. constitutes moderate level assurance regarding reliability of the information contained in the Report. • Environmental Sector Assurance Type and Scope It is highly encouraging that employees of KSPO as a public organization are willing to join energy-saving campaigns. As climate change is KSA performed Type 2 assurance engagement in accordance with AA1000AS 2008. This means that KSA assessed the reliability and gaining more importance both domestically and internationally, KSPO needs to become more proactive in addressing this issue and thus accuracy of sustainability achievements illustrated in this Report in compliance with the reporting responsibility principle under AA1000AS is advised to expand detailed environmental initiatives in addition to identifying its current status regarding energy consumption and GHG 2008. emissions as well as endeavoring to reduce GHG emissions. The scope of this assurance engagement spans the period between January 1 of 2011 and December 31 of 2011 with an emphasis on sustainability management policies & goals, projects, achievements and other systems and initiatives at KSPO. Not included in the scope of • Social Sector this assurance is financial data in a limited sense of the term other than environmental and social data as well as economic data in a wider KSPO is serving as a respectable leader as a public enterprise through its diversified social contribution initiatives both on a companysense. KSA’s involvement in stakeholder engagement was restricted to the review of the materiality test process. wide and individual employee level. Nonetheless, public interest-related operations that are inherent part of KSPO’s business domain and voluntary social contribution activities are not so clearly separated. Thus, KSA recommends that KSPO would draw a clearer line in this Assurance Methods regard and share relevant information with stakeholders through its sustainability reports. KSA used the following methods in order to compile necessary information, materials and evidence in relation to the assurance scope and performed the assurance engagement. GRI Application Level • Review of the sustainability issues that may have impact on KSPO and invoke stakeholders’ interest KSA confirmed that this Report satisfied all the requirements for the ‘A+’ Application Level in accordance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines. • Review of the process that determines material issues to be included in the Report • Interview with KSPO employees in charge of performance data in respective sectors and review of data collection systems • Review of sustainability data production processes through the physical inspection of the KSPO main office • Review of internal documents and basic materials that support key statements in the Report • Review of consistency between financial data contained in the Report and KSPO’s audit reports Sep. 2012 Chang-Ryong Kim Findings and Opinions (Assurance Principles/Processes) Chairman and CEO, Korean Standards Association KSA reviewed and offered feedback on drafts of this Report and modifications were made if deemed necessary. KSA is not aware of any significant errors or biases in the way KSPO discloses its sustainability management initiatives through this Report as a result of its assurance engagement. KSA presents the following opinions on KSPO’s sustainability report. • Inclusivity Inclusivity ensure that a reporting organization fulfills its responsibility to explain what constitutes sustainability and engages stakeholders in the way strategic responses are developed and undertaken KSA believes that appropriate engagement processes and channels are in operation at KSPO in order to ensure stakeholder engagement. Specifically, it is highly noticeable that KSPO uses adequate official and non-official engagement mechanisms to guarantee stakeholder engagement so that stakeholder communication is promoted and stakeholder issues are identified in a systemized manner for the preparation of the Report. KSA recommends that KSPO would offer more visible descriptions of how issues raised by stakeholders are The Korean Standards Association(KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization integrated in its sustainability reports through internal processes. in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of • Materiality Materiality determines the level of relevance and significance of a specific issue regarding a reporting organization and its Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, recognized GRI training body, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI(Korea Sustainability stakeholders. Index) operator, UN CDM DOE(development operational entity), and assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas KSA is not aware of any omissions or exclusions of information that is material to stakeholders on the part of KSPO. KSA also confirmed energy target management system. through stakeholder interviews, analyses of media reports and employee evaluation that KSPO used its own materiality test process in order 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 84 + 85 GRI 3.1 Guildeline Index Reported Partially Reported Not Reported Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Profile Reporting Description Page ISO 26000 EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital 14-15, 48-51, 55-56 6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 Disclosure status providers and governments. Economic Official Notice on Profiles Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate EC2 4 6.5.5 change. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 3 6.2 Strategy and EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 67 6.4.4/6.8 Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3 6.2 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. zero 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant EC5 78 Market locations of operation. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 4-5 Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 42-45 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 6 6.2 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at joint ventures. EC7 78 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 significant locations of operation. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 6 6.8.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.5/6. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 4-5, 38-40 8.6/ Indirect Economic through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 6.8.7/6.8.9 2.5 6 Impacts Organizational or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 26-35 Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6 Environmental 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 6 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 74-79 6.5/6.5.4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6 Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 74-79 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 1 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 81 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 13 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 79 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 2 Energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 74 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 75 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 2 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 74 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 2 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 81 3.5 Process for defining report content. 18-19 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 74-79 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See 3.6 2 GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 74-79 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for Report 3.7 2 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high explanation of scope). EN11 74-79 6.5/6.5.6 Parameters biodiversity value outside protected areas. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 3.8 2 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EN12 74-79 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 1 Biodiversity Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 74-79 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, 1 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 74-79 measurement methods). Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods EN15 74-79 3.11 1 operations, by level of extinction risk. applied in the report. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 81 6.5/6.5.5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 82-84 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. N/A no data 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 2 7.5.3 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 74-79 4.1 16-17 6.2 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 74-79 6.5/6.5.3 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 16 6.2 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the Emissions, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 74-79 4.3 17 6.2 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. effluents and Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest waste EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 79 4.4 17 6.2 governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 79 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and 17 6.2 environmental performance). EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. zero 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 17 6.2 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 74-79 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 16 6.2 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. EN25 74-79 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 3 6.2 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 71-75 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 Governance, Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and Products and Commitments management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and service 4.9 17 6.2 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 74-79 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Engagement principles. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to Compliance EN28 74-79 6.5 4.10 17 6.2 environmental laws and regulations. economic, environmental, and social performance. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Transport EN29 74-79 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 17 6.2 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 74-79 4.12 2 6.2 the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy Labor Practices and Decent Work organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or 4.13 85 6.2 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 80 6.4/6.4.3 committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 18-19 6.2 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 80 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 18-19 6.2 LA3 67-71 major operations. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 80 4.16 19 6.2 group. Labor/ Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization management LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 71 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/6.3.10 4.17 18 6.2 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. relations 2011 KSPO Sustainability Report 86 + 87 Labor/ management LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in 63-69 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 Statement of GRI Application Level Check relations collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 72-73 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by LA7 81 6.4/6.4.6 region and by gender. Occupational health and safety Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/ LA8 70 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 6.8.4/6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 72-73 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 78 6.4/6.4.7 Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 70 education and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 70 Diversity and equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to LA13 16 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3 opportunity gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of remuneration for LA14 63 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 operation. women and men Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses HR1 66-69 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Investment and Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human HR2 66-69 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 procurement rights screening, and actions taken. practices Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Total hours of employee training on HR3 14 6.3/6.3.5 policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. zero 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 Freedom of association Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.8/ HR5 66-69 and collective collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/6.3.7/ Child labor HR6 85 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6.3.10 Prevention of Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory forced and HR7 85 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of Security practices HR8 70-71 human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 72-73 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Assessment HR10 82-83 assessments. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Remediation HR11 zero grievance mechanisms. Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 22-27, 34-35 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ 6.8.7/6.6.7 development programs. Local communities SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 58-61 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 58-59 impacts on local communities. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. zero 6.6/6.6.3 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 15 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. zero SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. zero 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 Public policy Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SO6 zero country. Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 zero behavior outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance SO8 laws and regulations. zero 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 UN Global Compact Product responsibility UN Global Compact is an international agreement advocated by the United Nations. It aims at addressing problems Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for related to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. KSPO joined the UN Global Compact in July 2007 PR1 40-45 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ 6.7.4/6.7/5 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Customer health and declared its support for the ten principles of the Compact. Going forward, we will carry out the principles by and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 40-45 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. internalizing them in our management strategies. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ PR3 100% services subject to such information requirements. 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Human Rights Environment PR4 zero service labeling service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. zero internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 zero 6.7/6.7.3/ 6.7.6/6.7.9 and Marketing including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly PR7 zero communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the technologies. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Customer privacy PR8 zero data. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Anti-corruption Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision no case of nonCompliance PR9 6.7/6.7.6 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including and use of products and services. compliance Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and extortion and bribery. * This GRI Index is composed of key indices that serve as basis for GRI Application Level A+ occupation.
