MARCH 2012 united nations global compact and national australia bank communications OF progress Overview At the heart of our Group is a belief We are motivated: in the potential of our customers To do the right thing and communities, and in each other. To help our customers and communities We look for positive, value-creating To realise potential and sustainable relationships and solutions. This belief also places a high standard for our As a financial services organisation with over 12 million customers and over 45,000 employees, our operations interface with a number behaviours and asks all employees to be authentic of stakeholders across the industries and regions we operate in. and respectful, work together and create value We recognise that a bank has a special responsibility. Our CR Approach through excellence. outlines our approach to corporate responsibility across five focus areas: our customers, our people, the communities in which we operate, our suppliers and the environment. Examples of our activities in these areas include: People Customer Community Environment Supply-chain Diversity and inclusion,  inancial inclusion, F D  isaster response, Operational efficiency, Outsourcing, Supplier workplace relations, hardship, responsible support for indigenous environmental risk Sustainability Principles, occupational health lending/investment, fees communities, local management, project social procurement, and safety. and charges, accessibility. community partnerships financing, including fair trade. and community commitment to the Equator engagement. Principle commitments and United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative and Carbon Disclosure Project membership. Human Rights UNGC Principles GRI reference Businesses should: • DMA HR 1. 2.  • EC5 s upport and respect the protection make sure that they are • LA6-9 of internationally proclaimed not complicit in human • HR1-7 human rights. rights abuses. • S01 • PR9 commitment The framework for the protection of human rights is formed by our policies, which apply In these policies we commit ourselves to international standards of conduct including A range of initiatives and policies help us to meet the requirements of the Human Rights aspects across the Group. the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and of these commitments. Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Policies and We do not directly operate in areas considered at high risk of human rights abuses. Economic the project if there are concerns that for example environmental habitats, Indigenous peoples and international benchmarks in our own operations and requiring demonstration of operating policies Processes and social governance considerations are community rights may be at risk. and practices that support these same standards incorporated into our risk framework, from our suppliers. As at 30 September 2011, NAB Group’s project including human rights. finance portfolio did not include any lending • We are committed to upholding the OECD Our policies and business practices reflect our in low-income OECD countries. Guidelines for Multi National Enterprises commitment to creating an inclusive culture. and the UN Declaration on Human Rights. Our procurement process clearly informs potential Our work in areas such as diversity, equal suppliers of our expectations, policies and • We are a signatory to the Equator Principles and opportunity and financial inclusion help us requirements and outlines our preference to our project financing assessments incorporate achieve this within our own operations. do business with suppliers that have sound consideration of these voluntary standards for We have been signatories to the Equator Principles environmental, workplace and human rights social and environmental risk. since 2007, committing ourselves to a voluntary practices. • Our commitment to supporting Indigenous set of standards for determining, assessing and communities is described in our Reconciliation In 2009, NAB introduced a Supplier Sustainability managing social and environmental risk in Action Plan, which covers three main areas of Program in Australia to educate, influence and project financing. focus including financial inclusion, access to support our supply chain to improve their When we assess project finance opportunities sustainability performance. In 2011 BNZ also real jobs, and cultural awareness. within high-income OECD countries, we evaluate developed a Supplier Sustainability Resource It also explains what sustainability in the supplythem for compliance with the relevant domestic pack to educate suppliers. chain means for us, including understanding what regulatory requirements. products are made of, where they come from and Our Group Outsourcing Policy specifically states For projects in all other countries, we apply our commitment to supporting fair and nonhow they are made. For services this means looking International Finance Corporation (IFC) and World discriminatory employment practices and fair at who is providing the services and how the Bank safeguard policies (as a minimum). We apply workforce standards for international operations. services are managed, particularly in relation these policies regardless of the monetary value of These are encapsulated in the following to work place practices and human rights. Human Rights key actions • Continued to educate staff more broadly on environmental and social governance (ESG) • Included an ESG module in our employee compliance training compulsory for all • Commenced a review of our operations against the Business Principles for Human Rights as part in 2011 issues, including human rights. Examples of employees. of a wider social risk review. this include holding a session on human rights • Published our fourth Reconciliation Action at our Global Climate Change & Environment Plan in Australia. Conference. The three-day event in Melbourne brought together over 100 NAB Group • Recognised as an Employer of Choice for employees for presentations, panel discussions Women for the fifth year running by the Equal and interactive workshops on climate change Opportunity for Women in the Workplace related topics. Agency (EOWA). Further • Details of our approach to diversity, including our Group Gender Diversity Targets, can be information found in our 2011 Annual Review and People Dig Deeper paper here. • More information on our approach to financial inclusion can be found here. • More about our support for Indigenous communities in Australia can be found in our Reconciliation Action Plan here. • Our Australian Supplier Sustainability Principles can be found here. (New Zealand also has a set of Supplier Sustainability Principles however they are not currently published externally). Labour UNGC Principles GRI reference Businesses should UPHOLD: • DMA LA 3. 4. 5. 6. • LA4-5, LA13-14 the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of the effective abolition of the elimination of discrimination • HR1-7 effective recognition of the right forced and compulsory labour. child labour. in respect of employment and • EC7 to collective bargaining. occupation. • SO5 commitment NAB Group plays a significant role in the lives of over 45,000 employees. Our focus on leadership, An effective diversity agenda needs to be ‘owned’ and led by the business in order to fully integrate Our enterprise behaviours encourage employees to speak up and have open, honest and constructive culture and capability supports our business diversity into our culture and all elements of conversations, and encourage others to share their strategy to become a great place to work and business planning. Responsibility for this ‘business ideas and actively listen to, and respect their ideas. an organisation with which our customers led and business owned’ framework does not lie We employ an adult professional workforce in all want to do business. solely with senior leadership it is shared by NAB’s countries in which we operates and do not currently Diversity Forum, our Diversity & Inclusion team, and We take diversity seriously with an understanding operate in areas considered at high risk of forced or all our employees. that attracting and supporting a diverse workforce underage labour. We include criteria around fair is critical to our business success. In Australia we Our commitment to diversity and inclusion social and labour practices in our Supplier have a focus on gender, age and flexibility, with underpins our interaction with all our stakeholders, Sustainability Principles in Australia and New measurable group gender diversity targets and from customers, to our employees, to suppliers and Zealand and sustainability criteria in supplier we report on our progress annually. our partners. contracts in the UK. We have a number of objectives, targets and measures to enable us to create a fair and open workplace that supports freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining as aligned with regional laws and regulations. Labour Policies and NAB Group recognises the rights of employees to join and be represented by a union without We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace, one in which individual differences are From January 2012 all our preferred external recruitment suppliers will need to demonstrate Processes suffering from any form of discrimination or valued and respected, and which reflects the that they comply with NAB’s Diversity and Inclusion prejudice. The National Australia Group covering customers we support and the communities we Policy, have a written diversity policy/framework the NAG operations in Australia, United Kingdom live in. It’s good for our people, and good for the for their business, and undertake appropriate and New Zealand have signed a Global Unions business. Our Group Diversity Policy outlines our diversity training for their people. Engagement Strategy with the relevant unions approach to creating a more diverse and inclusive Furthermore, as the largest Fair Trade accredited in those constituencies, recognising employee workforce and the expectations and behaviours workplace in the world (as accredited by the rights to freedom of association and collective that drive this. Fairtrade Association of Australia and New Zealand bargaining Our commitment to Indigenous Australians is in 2011), we actively make purchasing decisions to All NAB Australian and National Wealth detailed in our fourth Reconciliation Action Plan. support better prices, decent working conditions, Management Services (NWMS) employees We continue to focus on three areas that play to local sustainability, and fair terms of trade for are covered by a collective agreement. This our strengths as an organisation and aligns with farmers and workers in the developing world. agreement recognises the right of employee union our goal to build strong, sustainable and more representatives and a reasonable entitlement to inclusive communities: paid leave to attend to their representational duties. • Provide greater access to financial products Enterprise Agreements have been set up in Australia and services to promote financial inclusion. and New Zealand that have delivered a number of • Build access to valuable, long lasting and workplace changes that will drive a flexible and meaningful employment opportunities that supportive work environment. are delivered in a sustainable way. The agreements include Off-shoring Principles in • Support greater organisational understanding line with our Group Corporate Responsibility of and respect for Indigenous Australians, Procurement Policy and commitment to Fair their culture and aspirations. International Workforce Standards. NAB Group believes it complies with all relevant freedom of We also continue to leverage the experience we association legislation, regulatory requirements have in other community focussed programs such and ILO Conventions 87 and 98. as microfinance, and pilot each program before progressing further. This ensures we can continually Our Group Outsourcing Policy highlights our refine how we deliver in the early stages. support for fair and non-discriminatory employment practices and Fair Workforce Standards encapsulated Our African Australian Inclusion Program is a joint in the following international benchmarks in our initiative between NAB, Jesuit Social Services (JSS)*, own operations and requiring the demonstration and Adult Multicultural Education Service (AMES). of operating policies and practices that support Lack of work experience in the Australian business these same standards from our suppliers: sector is the single largest barrier for qualified African-Australians to gain employment, The AAIP • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational seeks to address this by providing commercial Enterprises; and experience and opportunities for qualified African• The UN Declaration of Human Rights. Australians, with a view to increasing the chances of becoming and remaining sustainably employed in a chosen field in the Australian workforce. Labour key actions • Reviewed our Enterprise Agreements in Australia and New Zealand. • Launch of Women’s networking Group and external ‘Pearls’ program in the UK and in 2011 • Review and update the Global Unions ‘WiNA’ Women’s networking Group in Asia. Engagement Agreement. • Took part in the annual Stonewall Workplace Equality Index in the UK which benchmarks • Recognised as the largest Fair Trade accredited public and private sector organisations to workplace in the world by Fairtrade Australia. achieve a place in the top 100 employers. • Published Group Gender Diversity targets. In 2011 we reached 87 and in 2012 we • Continued to expand our African Australian were ranked 67. Inclusion Program. Further • More information about our industrial relations can be found here. • Information on our Fair Trade accreditation can be found here. information • More information on our commitment to • Details of our Social Procurement Panel diversity, including our Group Gender Diversity can be found here. targets can be found in our 2011 Annual Financial Report here. • Information on our Supply-chain practices can be found in our 2011 Annual Review and Supply-chain Dig Deeper Paper here. Environment UNGC Principles GRI reference Businesses should: • 4.11 7. 8. 9. • EN1 to EN23 support a precautionary approach undertake initiatives to promote encourage the development • EN26-28 to environmental challenges. greater environmental responsibility. and diffusion of environmentally • So5 friendly technologies. commitment We are committed to managing the impact of our business on the environment. We have a role to Becoming Carbon Neutral is just one example of our commitment to tackling environmental challenges. Additionally, we have continued to increase our focus on sustainable supply chain management. play in the long-term sustainability of our planet We were the first major Australian corporate to As a provider of capital, we recognise the important and its natural resources by reducing the direct be certified carbon neutral under the Australian role we have to play in helping our customers to and indirect environmental effects of our government’s National Carbon Offset Standard. move towards a lower carbon way of doing operations. A sustainable approach to managing We have also published Greenhouse Gas Reduction business. We have expanded our range of our business is important not only for the and ‘Beyond Carbon Neutral’ targets. These outline environmental finance products and services environment but also for the long-term how we hope to continue reducing our resource use and continued our support of renewable energy growth and resilience of our business. and waste through to 2013. Our Beyond Carbon development through project finance. Our environmental agenda incorporates Neutral Report for the Australian region, identifies NAB embeds risk management as part of our strategies covering: future areas of focus for us that include leveraging day-to-day business practices. These are described our experience to support our customers and • Climate Change on our Group website. Where environmental suppliers as they address their environmental • Resource Efficiency: Beyond Carbon Neutral challenges are identified and viewed as material impacts, and monitoring the impact of our because they are likely to impact on our operations • Natural Value operations on biodiversity and ecosystems. or our credit risk processes, wherever practicable, Our operational focus in the Australian region has we undertake a risk assessment and may modify also expanded in Beyond Carbon Neutral to more our policies, processes and procedures to account explicitly include initiatives targeted at reducing for these risks. resource consumption and waste. This is supported by reduction targets we have put in place to date in Australia and the UK. Environment Policies and NAB Group considers that responding to the risks and opportunities of climate change through our We recognise that in addition to reducing our own environmental footprint, significant opportunities Business opportunities, such as the provision of environmental products and services, are identified Processes Climate Change Strategy is part of sound business exist to help our customers as they transition to a and prioritised through the strategic planning management. lower carbon way of operating, and adapt to, and process both at the Group and business line level. manage, the risks of climate impacts, natural Our Group-wide Climate Change Strategy has More information on our new product initiatives resource constraints, biodiversity losses and five key elements: can be found here. changing environmental policy and regulatory • Developing products and services to help our requirements. Our environmental product and advisory teams customers respond to, and manage the impacts in Australia and New Zealand are also providing: We are committed to: of, climate change; • advisory and financing work around Clean • being a leading financier of renewable energy • Understanding and management of climate risks Development Mechanism (CDM) and Carbon development; and opportunities – including consideration Farming Initiative projects; of the impact of climate change in our lending • building capability in servicing carbon • Kauri bond issues; and investment decisions, as well as other areas markets; and of relevant operational policy, including • through BNZ, directly providing debt on the back • offering new financial products and services building design; of carbon revenues from forestry; to help our customers, where they are • Advocacy, communication and third party responding to environmental challenges • Environmental Upgrade Agreements (building validation; and/or regulatory changes. retrofits to make residential and commercial properties more efficient). • Leadership through our own actions – reducing our own carbon footprint and sharing our experience with others; and • Engaging and assisting our people. Environment key actions • Launched new Greenhouse reduction targets. • Completed the design phase for our new building at 700 Bourke Street, Melbourne. • National Australia Bank’s UK operations placed 362 out of over 2000 companies in the CRC in 2011 • Launched our Beyond Carbon Neutral resource efficiency program in Australia. Some of the sustainable design features for Energy Efficiency Scheme league table published the new building are: by the UK’s Environment Agency. • Launched energy efficiency financing for − A central atrium that will distribute air flow • Retained our ISO 14001 certification at Merrion commercial buildings in the form of and daylight throughout the building Way, Leeds, UK. environmental upgrade agreements, in collaboration with Low Carbon Australia − High performance façade design to assist • Centralised our office and paper supplier in the and Eureka Funds Management. with heat load and glare US so 100% of paper products purchased by Great Western Bank have recycled content. • BNZ has co-developed green lease guidelines − 6 star green star base building energy rating for all new leases and lease renewals for • Established an Asia Environmental Sustainability − Blackwater treatment plant existing buildings in conjunction with Working Group to lead on environmental NZ Property Council. − Rainwater harvesting sustainability matters in Asia. • Signed the UNEP FI Natural Capital Declaration • Launched our new Green Action Program • Continued developing our regional PaperCuts a statement by global financial institutions that champion network with our employees in and Green IT programs for Asia. recognises natural value as an issue that may Australia. bring risks and opportunities. • Implemented new carbon management • Attained our first National Australian Built software in New Zealand. Environment Rating System (NABERS) Energy certificate for our office at 100 St Georges Terrace, Perth. Further • Details of our initiatives to reduce our environmental impact and promote sustainable • Information on our environment and risk governance can be found at here. • Our Beyond Carbon Neutral targets can be found at here. information practices can be found in our 2011 Annual Review • Information on our understanding of Natural and Environment Dig Deeper paper here. Value can be found here. Anti-Corruption UNGC Principles GRI reference Businesses should: • DMA So 10. • So2-8 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. commitment NAB Group is committed to providing a professional environment managing financial The Financial Services Industry is vulnerable to financial crime including internal and external fraud. The Board and Executive Management Committees monitor and oversee the Group’s risk management crime (such as money-laundering and counterAs such, the Group is committed to ensuring that framework and application, which include the terrorism; bribery & corruption; and trading the risk of, and opportunities for financial crime financial crime risks facing the Group. with sanctions/embargoed countries and are reduced. entities) in addition to meeting regulatory Effective risk management is a key capability of requirements in these areas. a successful financial services provider. NAB Group’s Good corporate governance is a fundamental part approach is based on three lines of defence, and of the culture and business practices of NAB Group the principle that, to be effective, risk management in the prevention of financial crime. Our corporate must be embedded in front line teams and governance framework along with our financial supported by objective insight, appetite crime program, policies and procedures provides and oversight. for effective decision making about the affairs of the Group and our customers. Anti-Corruption Policies and NAB Group’s Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing, Anti-Fraud, Corruption and Key documents that outline our significant commitment to corporate governance include our The Group’s Enterprise Behaviours together with the Company’s Code of Conduct take into account Processes Bribery Policies detail management strategies to Corporate Governance Statement and Principal the Company’s legal obligations and the reasonable minimise the risk of opportunities for financial Board Charter. expectations of the Group’s stakeholders, and crime within the Group. These policies are owned emphasise the practices necessary to maintain External commitments and activities in Financial by the Group AML, Bribery & Sanctions confidence in the Company’s integrity. A copy of the Crime Prevention include: Compliance Team. Group’s Enterprise Behaviours and Code of Conduct • Adoption and commitment to the Financial can be found here. The policies outline employee’s responsibilities to Action Task Force (FATF) 40 +9 Recommendations, act honestly and adhere to internal controls and We have a range of training, awareness-raising, a set of recommended policies and processes procedures designed to prevent any form of monitoring and review activities to support to combat money laundering and terrorism financial crime and to report such acts should adherence to the Code. Reflecting our commitment financing. they be identified. to upholding these enterprise behaviours, reward • Adoption and commitment to the Wolfsberg and performance for all NAB employees is directly The Group’s Policies on Financial Crime are Group AML Principles. linked to demonstrating these enterprise supported by a range of policies and guidelines • Adhering to international Sanctions & Embargoes behaviours. as outlined below: notices and Counter-Terrorism SDN lists on an NAB invests in sophisticated monitoring, • Group Whistleblower Policy; Group Securities ongoing basis. surveillance, prevention and detection systems Trading Policy Mitigation of reputational and operational risk is and techniques to ensure that the risk of, and • Group Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and opportunities for, fraud and corruption are an integral part of our risk management processes. Counter-Terrorism Financing (CTF) Policy minimized. A summary of the Group’s risk processes can • Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counterbe found here. Terrorism Financing Guidelines Serious breaches in Group Policy and Compliance • Group Operational Risk Framework can result in adverse performance outcomes and/or • Group External Auditor Independence Policy termination of employment. • Group Government Contact & Political Across the Group, our Code of Conduct and Donations Policy enterprise behaviours outline expected standards • Group Compliance Risk Framework for all NAB employees. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees and directors of the Group, with • Group Procurement & Outsourcing Policy the conduct of the Board and each director also • Group Conflicts of Interest Policy; governed by the Board charter. • Gifts and Conflicts of Interest Register; The Code of Conduct covers: • Code of Conduct • personal conduct; • Group Disclosure and External • honesty; Communication Policy • relations with customers; • Group Sanctions & Embargoes Policy • financial advice to customers; • conflict of interest; and • disclosure. Anti-Corruption key actions • Updating the Group Anti-Fraud and Corruption Policy to incorporate Bribery and consider the in 2011 requirements of the UK Bribery Act (2010). • Running community workshops aimed at educating the elderly on financial scams and fraud to prevent financial abuse of the elderly in BNZ. Further • Our Corporate Governance Statement can be found here. • Our fourth Reconciliation Action Plan can be found here. information • Our Principal Board Charter can be • Our 2011 Annual Review suite of reporting found at here. documents can be found here. • A summary of our Group Risk processes • Our Group Corporate Responsibility can be found here. Procurement Policy can be found here. • Our Code of Conduct can be found here. • Our Beyond Carbon Neutral Report 2011 for the Australian region can be found here. • Information on our Supplier Sustainability Program can be found here. • Our Group Environment Policy can be found here. • Our Supplier Sustainability Principles can be found here. NOTES: References to ‘nab’, ‘NAB’, the ‘National’, ‘National Australia Bank’ or the ‘Company’ are to National Australia Bank Limited ABN 12 004 044 937. The ‘Group’ refers to the National Australia Bank Limited and its controlled entities. All data in this Communication on Progress is as at 30 September 2011 (NAB’s financial year end) except where stated otherwise.
